Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 22b (Anthropology)
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 (Note: Category A staff names are in bold throughout)

 Highlights over this REF period
     Publication of over 15 monographs, 30 edited collections, 130 articles in peer-
       reviewed journals, and 100 book chapters
     80 keynote lectures, over 400 papers presented in conferences, workshops and
       seminars, and over 80 panels and workshops organised
     Big increase in PGR completions (79 FTE, up from 44 in REF2014), with
       outstanding success in PGR awards (see Section 2)
     Four senior research fellowships (Leverhulme Major RF for Henley; Leverhulme RF
       for Green; British Academy Wolfson Research Professorship for Wade;
       BA/Leverhulme Senior RF for Obeid) (see Section 3)
     150% increase in grant award value from REF2014, including awards from the
       ESRC, AHRC and ERC for large-scale projects, with funds for doctoral and post-
       doctoral researchers (see Section 3)
     12 ECR fellowships (see Section 3)
     High-profile annual Debate in Anthropological Theory (GDAT), with international
       speakers and 100+ attendance, published in Critique of Anthropology and JRAI
     Five permanent appointments of new staff: Ferrarini, K. Smith, Ulturgasheva,
       Watanabe, and Parker (University Presidential Fellow)
     Expanding network of collaborations, many interdisciplinary, including 9 University-
       funded Visiting Professors and 12 visiting Honorary Research Fellows (see Sections
       3 and 4)

 Unit context
 Manchester Anthropology (est. 1949) undertakes ground-breaking work on conflict,
 inequality and social change, in the tradition of the “Manchester School” and aligned to the
 University’s Research Beacon on global inequalities. Our research environment is
 characterised by intellectually diverse and socially-committed ethnographic research, which
 generates exceptionally strong links to wider society, especially to marginalised groups.
 Our researchers engage in interdisciplinary work with sociology, arts, science, business
 studies and geography; such collaborations are facilitated by our location in the School of
 Social Sciences (SoSS, comprising eight departments) and the Faculty of Humanities
 (where SoSS is one of four Schools). Internal and external collaborations (see section 4)
 are a key component in the ability of our research to contribute insights into key challenges
 of the 21st century, such as climate change, migration, and political and economic
 marginalisation - building on our strengths in audio-visual methods.

 The vitality, sustainability and cohesion of our research environment are fostered by
 multiple forums for collaborative participation among our 25 staff, and between staff and
 our large and well-funded PGR body (currently over 50, working in dedicated PGR work-
 spaces co-located with staff offices). These fora include a well-attended seminar series,
 regular research away-days, the Group for Debates in Anthropological Theory, and regular
 PGR conferences and workshops with staff participation. The vitality of the department
 attracts many international research students and visitors.
 These strong networks of peer support and collaborative participation generate innovation
 and excellence and are part of an inclusive ethos, which is evident in the good gender
 balance across staff and students, who are very diverse in terms of nationality and
 ethnicity.

                                                                                      Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 The vitality and quality of our research environment is sustained by an outstanding
 research infrastructure at School and Faculty levels that supports grant bidding, project
 management and the delivery of impact, including for temporary staff.

 Unit Structure
 The department is renowned for its focus on political economy and social transformation,
 as well as methodological innovation in the field of visual and sensory anthropology.
 Manchester Anthropology’s core research areas are inclusive networks bringing staff
 together to generate substantial funding, high-quality outputs and impact:

       Critical Political and Moral Economy. This includes cutting-edge research on
        class difference; moral economy, value(s) and ethics; racism and anti-racism;
        infrastructure, materiality and political economy; international development and
        humanitarianism; climate change and community resilience.

       States, Cities, Borders and Mobilities. Leading topics include urban gentrification
        neighbourhood development; mega-event legacy planning; migration, urban
        informality and bureaucratic governance; post-conflict nostalgia and senses of
        home.

       The Anthropology of Science, Technology and Medicine. Key research themes
        include plastic surgery and bodily modification; nuclear power and decommissioning;
        genomics and race; post-war trauma and memory; coping with deafness; addiction,
        illness and death.

       Visual, Sensory and Material Anthropology. Key research themes include
        soundscapes of memory; filmmaking and community activism and resilience;
        enactive filmmaking; the history of ethnographic film.

 We have research strengths covering the UK (8 Category A staff), Latin America (8), Asia
 (7, including India, Japan, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Papua New Guinea, Russia and
 Vietnam), Africa (4) and mainland Europe (3). These concentrations are reflected in staff
 contributions to national and international research infrastructure (see Section 4).

 Achievement of strategic research aims
 After REF2014, our aim was to develop world-leading, interdisciplinary, funded and
 impactful research in our four core areas, including increased focus on: experimental
 methods in visual and sensory anthropology; a critical political and moral economic
 approach to cities and class, infrastructures and transnational change (with an increasing
 focus on the anthropology of the UK); the ethnography of new sites of science and
 technology (e.g. roads, genomes, waste, nuclear energy).

 Since 2014, we have strengthened our position in the anthropology of the UK, with
 pioneering work by K. Smith, Evans, and Edwards (reinforced by Harvey, Venkatesan,
 Obeid, C. Smith and Wheeler) and with 20% of our PhD students working on the UK. We
 have consolidated our international leadership in visual anthropology, with innovative
 research by the staff of the Granada Centre for Visual Anthropology (GCVA), the largest
 concentration of visual anthropologists in Europe, supported by recently upgraded state-of-
 the-art infrastructure, which also services the 23% of our students who do the PhD in
 Social Anthropology with Visual Media.

 Achievements in our core research areas include the following, supported by a doubling in
 the value of research awards (see Section 3):

                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Research in Critical Political and Moral Economy:
       Our growing UK focus was strengthened by the appointment in 2014 of K.
          Smith, whose work on fairness and values in the UK links with Evans’ and
          Edwards’s work on class, kinship and morality in the UK. Projects include an
          ESRC-funded study of Brexit (2018-19, PI, Edwards; COIs, K. Smith and
          Evans); Venkatesan’s research on libertarianism in the UK, developing her work
          on ethics and moral values; and Obeid’s study of Palestinian migrants in
          London. Outcomes include publications by Evans on London’s Olympics, a
          forum for American Ethnologist (2017) on Brexit and Trump edited by Edwards,
          and Edwards’s Douglass Distinguished Lecture (2019).
       Transnationally, this theme was strengthened by the appointments in 2014 of
          Watanabe and Ulturgasheva, working in Asia; Prentice (an anthropologist in
          the Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research) added to the Asianist cluster with
          his research on Korean corporation culture. A stand-out new project is
          Ulturgasheva’s €6m five-year ERC Synergy grant (awarded 2019) on climate
          change. 28 outputs from these researchers over the period include Watanabe’s
          2019 book on religion, development and environmentalism.
       Contributing to the international dimension were: two major ESRC and AHRC
          research projects, led by Wade, on anti-racism in Latin America (edited volume
          in press); Sykes’s work on the domestic moral economy in the Pacific (outputs
          include a special issue of Oceania); Green’s research on civil society
          organisations and social transformation in East Africa (outcomes include her
          2014 book The Development State and a 2018 Leverhulme Fellowship for
          research on social cash transfers).

 Research on States, Cities, Borders and Mobilities:
       C. Smith joined the department with a Hallsworth Research Fellowship and then
          won a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship for her work on urban Kenya (outputs: 1
          book, a journal special issue, 3 articles);
       Casagrande held a Marie Curie Fellowship to research indigenous people in
          urban space in Chile (outcomes: two journal articles and a 2020 ESRC New
          Investigator Grant application);
       Jansen’s work on Eastern European states resulted in two books, 7 articles and
          a GCRF Fellowship for a postdoctoral visitor;
       Reeves’s research on mobilities and borders in Central Asia was funded by
          Wenner-Gren and a GCRF Fellowship for a postdoctoral visitor. It resulted in a
          triple-prize-winning book, a journal special issue, 8 articles, and the Rivers Medal
          recognising “a body of work”. In 2020, she was awarded a British Academy
          Fellowship;
       Evans’s work on city regeneration in the UK resulted in one book and 3 articles;
       Obeid’s research on border lives in Lebanon resulted in a book; her project on
          Palestinian immigrants in London was supported by a BA/Leverhulme Senior
          RF;
       Torresan, working on urban Brazil, produced 3 articles and 8 short films.

Research in the Anthropology of Science, Technology and Medicine was developed through
interdisciplinary research projects led by:
         Harvey on waste management (ESRC funded); road infrastructure; and nuclear
             energy (funded by British Nuclear Fuels, including money for a PhD and for
             Kalshoven’s research fellowship). Wade on genomics and race in Latin America
             (funded by ESRC, Leverhulme and a Wolfson Research Professorship). Outputs
             from these projects included four books and two journal special issues.


                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           Research in medical anthropology was strengthened by the 2019 permanent
            appointment of Parker, who works on opioid addiction and its management and
            on HIV/AIDS and sexuality; and by Wade’s Newton Advanced Fellowship on
            genomics and obesity (2015-17); Edwards’s work on cosmetic surgery (see her
            Impact Case Study); and Green’s participation in a large-scale stillbirth-
            prevention project in Africa.

 Visual, Sensory and Material Anthropology was consolidated by:
         the appointment of Ferrarini, who is developing the aural dimensions of
           ethnographic film;
         Cox’s innovative work on soundscapes in Japan, funded by Japan Society for
           the Promotion of Science, Toyota Foundation, and Leverhulme Trust;
         Irving’s MRC/AHRC-funded project on deaf youth in South Africa (involving
           Ferrarini);
         Henley’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2014-17), leading to a book
           and a ground-breaking web-based resource for the study of early ethnographic
           film;
         Torresan’s website (https://www.angelatorresan.com/) and special issue of
           Anthrovision;
         The investment of £500K by the University to upgrade the GCVA’s infrastructure.

 Future Research Plans
 Our core areas have high intellectual and/or social significance that have improved our
 performance in grant-getting, high-quality publication and PGR recruitment, generating
 impact in non-academic sectors. Our strategies encourage collaborations across
 disciplines and provide a framework that allows agile and innovative responses to
 changing conditions - e.g. our research on Brexit, climate change, and migration. This solid
 foundation underpins future plans.

 Our ambitions are to strengthen vitality, sustainability and international profile by:

       developing our four core areas, including boosting our growing strength in the
        anthropology of the UK and in audio-visual anthropology;
       increasing large grant capture and high-quality outputs, encouraging their even
        distribution across the unit;
       diversifying grant income, especially international
       increasing ECR research fellowship awards;
       ensuring a through-put of high-quality visiting academics;
       integrating impact and engagement more thoroughly into project design and
        execution.

 Our strategies for achieving these aims include:

       strategically targeting recruitment around the core areas and inclusively managing
        all our staff to strengthen cohesion, collaboration and impact;
       drawing more on the outstanding School research infrastructure (see Section 2), to
        prioritise large and international funding bids, including by ECRs, and to integrate
        impact through the research process;
       drawing on the GCVA’s excellent facilities;
       early recruitment and mentoring of strong candidates for ECR fellowships;
       ensuring appointments, grant-writing, fieldwork and publications generate new
        collaborations and/or strengthen existing ones;
       competing for funded senior visiting academics and actively seeking junior visitors;


                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       using regular sabbaticals, collective peer-review in bi-annual away-days and
        targeted departmental funds to support grant-writing, publications and high-profile
        activities;
       maximising synergies between research and teaching, so staff teach on their
        specialist areas where possible and ‘churn’ in the number of new courses for staff is
        reduced;
       ensuring collaboration between PGR applicants and potential supervisors, and
        encouraging visiting PGR students.

 Impact: achievements and plans
 We aim to provide expertise that enhances understanding of and sensitivity to cultural
 diversity, informs policy-making with grass-roots perspectives, and suggests alternative
 approaches that are normally marginalised by policy orthodoxies. We have built on the
 relationships and knowledge developed during ethnographic fieldwork to ensure impact on
 beneficiaries such as social movement organisations, identity-based groups, local
 communities, NGOs and government bodies, with the provision of expert advice and
 knowledge (e.g. in contracted consultancy and expert reports, invited briefings and
 presentations, and training courses) and dissemination of knowledge in media and non-
 academic outlets (see Section 4 for examples).

 This focus on the importance for impact of grass-roots perspectives is reflected across our
 research and in our choice of Impact Case Studies (ICS). Cox’s case, building on our
 strengths in audio-visual anthropology, demonstrates how his innovative approach to
 soundscapes reveals people’s sonic relations to war memories and the natural landscape
 in Japan, changing the terms of the public conversation about post-conflict trauma and
 cultural heritage. Sykes’s ICS, drawing on her work in moral economy, showcases how an
 ethnographic analysis of kinship relations informed the delivery of social services to
 migrant families, while Edwards’s case, drawing on our UK focus and her research in
 bioethics, shows how her sensitivity to the UK’s cultural diversity shaped the Nuffield
 Council’s report on the uptake of cosmetic surgery by various social groups and classes.

 Impact potential factored strongly into recent appointment decisions (Ulturgasheva, K.
 Smith, Watanabe, Parker, Ferrarini, see Section 4). It is also integral to our research
 design strategies and this has been facilitated by growth in institutional support for impact:
 new School appointments included an Impact Officer, a Grant Writer and a Research
 Promotion Manager to help staff develop the engagement and impact dimensions of their
 grant bids and research (see Sections 2 and 3).

 In the future, impact will be further integrated into projects from the outset by:

       ensuring all staff are fully aware that Knowledge Exchange is an integral aspect of
        promotions criteria;
       increasing project peer review’s emphasis on impact;
       ensuring staff always consult with the School’s Impact Officer when developing bids
        and implementing impact activities;
       increasing applications for the School and Faculty budgets that support impact and
        engagement activities (see Section 3 for details).

 Interdisciplinarity
 We encourage interdisciplinarity as a strategy to foster projects leading to funding bids,
 high-quality research and impact. Many of the collaborations described in Sections 3 and 4
 are cross-disciplinary, involving history of science, sociology, museum studies,
 development studies, drama, urban planning, business studies, biological anthropology
 and area studies.

                                                                                         Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Several staff have leadership roles in University interdisciplinary research institutes and
 centres that support collaborations (see Section 4), and which also have good impact
 potential. For example: Wade co-directs the Centre of Latin American and Caribbean
 Studies, collaborating with Arts-based colleagues on Cultures of Anti-Racism (edited book
 and AHRC grant); in 2006-2014 Harvey directed the Centre for Research in Socio-
 Cultural Change (CRESC) and she now works with colleagues in Science and the
 Business School to direct the Nuclear and Society research theme in the Dalton Nuclear
 Institute, where Kalshoven also works; Sykes sits on the Steering Committee of the
 Political Economy Centre (which also involves Green and Jansen), nourishing her
 interests in moral economy. Several GCVA staff enhance the sustainability of our research
 environment by promoting audio-visual ethnographic approaches in
 methods@manchester, a University-wide network promoting methodological training,
 expertise and innovation.

 Open and ethical research (see also Section 2.5 Institutional Statement)
 The Manchester Pure repository allows researchers to meet open access requirements for
 their outputs (subject to copyright). A dedicated OA team in the University of Manchester
 Library (UML) enables and encourages researchers to go beyond these requirements in
 OA publishing and data sharing. UML provides an OA Gateway with fully-mediated deposit
 service, while an Institutional OA Fund provides additional resource to that included in
 external research awards. This allows researchers to publish outputs as Gold OA (Henley
 and Ferrarini have had OA monographs funded this way).

 Research integrity is ensured through peer review of research proposals at School level
 (compulsory) and in the department (structured but informal) and through the oversight of
 the department’s Research Committee. All projects go through ethical approval by the
 University Research Ethics Committee (UREC). Torresan and Sykes have sat on UREC,
 supporting ethnographic methods in this forum. With the School of Social Sciences, we
 undergo a full review in the University’s Annual Performance Review Cycle in which our
 research practices are assessed against institutional standards. Training on research
 integrity and GDPR is mandatory for all staff. Supervisors teach and advise PGR students
 about ethics and integrity and maintain regular contact with them during fieldwork.

Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff profile: Of the 25 Category A staff, 16 are women and 9 men, with a gender-
 balanced professoriate. Twenty staff have permanent posts, of which two are part-time,
 and five (2 women, 3 men) are on fixed-term contracts as research fellows. Staff
 comprise 8 Professors, 6 SLs, 4 Lecturers and 7 Research Fellows; there are eight ECRs
 This profile shows a strong senior base and a vibrant and strengthening early career
 cohort, as in 2014, but now with a slightly bigger mid-career cohort than before - due to
 seven promotions to SL and two to professor - which enhances our collective experience.
 Succession planning includes prioritising the support of early and early-mid career staff as
 they embrace more ambitious research, PGR supervision and management roles; this will
 be crucial to sustainability as the demographic profile of the department changes.

 Our overall staffing strategy is to hire the most intellectually dynamic scholars, with a
 preference for our core research areas, but flexible with regard to specific thematic and
 regional constraints. This accords with the space we give to innovation. We place great
 value on visiting professors and compete successfully for University funds to support


                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 these (see Section 4).

 Staff mobility since REF2014: Five permanent new appointments strengthened our profile
 in our core areas: Ferrarini (audio-visual anthropology), Ulturgasheva (political
 economy, science), Watanabe (development, moral economy), K. Smith (anthropology
 of UK, class), and Parker (medical anthropology). We have been very successful in
 attracting early-career fellows (Casagrande, Del Nido, Prentice, C. Smith, Wheeler,
 Grill, Saldaña-Tejeda, Erasaari, Kremer, O’Hare, Bahovadinova, Čengić), who are linked
 to the interests of a staff member who mentors them.

 Among permanent staff there was one retirement (Gledhill), one professor moving to a
 department headship in Helsinki (Sarah Green) and one lecturer moving up to a
 permanent job in University of Oslo (Martin left May 2014).

 Staff development is based on measures that comprehensively support the vitality and
 sustainability of the research environment:

      1-in-7 sabbatical system (including fixed-term and part-time staff) that generated
       30 semesters of leave, 2014-2020
      personal Research Support Allowances (RSA) for attending conferences, etc.
       (increased in 2015 to £2,000/year for research-active staff; £1,000 for teaching-
       focused staff)
      dedicated policy for Research Contract Staff to facilitate their integration and equal
       treatment (they have a £1,000 RSA)
      formal School system of peer review of grant applications
      regular mentoring in the unit for early-career staff
      Performance and Development Reviews (PDRs) for all staff to enhance career
       development
      University training provision covering a range of skills, such as project
       management and research methods (supported by methods@manchester and the
       University of Manchester Library); all new academic staff are required to complete
       a HEA-accredited New Academics and Fellows Programme
      School policy of 50% reduction of teaching for new permanent R&T staff in year 1
       and 25% reduction in year 2
      School policy of teaching reduction for major leadership roles in School, to allow
       leaders to remain research active
      transparent work allocation models, to foster equity in time for research
      sharing and shadowing mechanisms to prepare for departmental admin roles to
       reduce disruption to research momentum, especially for less experienced staff

 Our support of early career and temporary researchers creates sustainability for our unit
 and for the profession. We ensure they are fully integrated into the research environment,
 providing them with the same support as for permanent members of staff (plus additional
 mentoring), and involving them in research away-days and strategy development.
 Alongside our eight Category A ECR staff, we have hosted (2014-2020) 12 ECR
 independent fellows (see Section 3), plus three more attached to the Centre for Research
 in Socio-Cultural Change (CRESC), and 11 post-doctoral Research Assistants attached
 to funded projects. These researchers benefit from mentorship within the department and
 School support for academic promotions, which includes a guidance workshop and
 feedback on draft applications. They can access University training (e.g. “Researchers
 into Management”), developed to meet the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. All this enhances career progression. Among Category A
 staff: C. Smith was supported for a successful UKRI Future Leaders bid; Del Nido for a
 Leverhulme post-doc application and Casagrande for a UoM fellowship and an ESRC

                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 New Investigator bid; Prentice became a lecturer at the University of Sheffield. Among
 other staff: O’Hare won a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship and a UKRI Future Leaders award;
 Grill took up a permanent post in a Colombian university. CRESC researchers Knox,
 Lewis and Kallianos became, respectively, a permanent lecturer in UCL, PI on an ESRC-
 funded project in Manchester, and a post-doctoral researcher at Amsterdam Free
 University.

 Staff’s work to generate impact is recognised in promotions criteria and supported by the
 School Research Office and by dedicated School and Faculty funding (see Section 3).
 The School has funded a network and activities focusing on impact for Research Contract
 staff, supported by a Research Contract Staff Network Coordinator.

 The research environment is supported by a robust infrastructure, described in Section 3.

 Research Students
 PGR recruitment and progress has been excellent with 79 FTE completions (up from 44
 in REF2014). We attract candidates who compete exceptionally well for funding, assisted
 by detailed feedback from prospective supervisors; all candidates are interviewed, usually
 by Skype to maximise inclusiveness. For 2014-20, of 83 new starters (of which 35% were
 overseas), 76% were funded by: 22 ESRC/AHRC studentships (including 3 CASE
 studentships), 28 School studentships, and 7 University-funded awards. Six students
 were funded by the governments of Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Finland and Turkey.
 Manchester Anthropology participates actively in the North West Social Science Doctoral
 Training Partnership, which awards over 65 studentships a year, each worth £21K.
 Funding for studentships is available from the School (42 studentships a year, funded at
 RCUK levels) and the President’s Doctoral Scholar Award (150 studentships/year across
 the University).

 The rising number and international mix of PhD students working in many parts of the
 world enhances the vitality of our research environment. The majority of these students
 attend the weekly departmental seminar and the informal drinks and discussion with
 speakers afterwards. There have been many PGR student-led events, involving staff,
 including an annual Showcase event (funded by the department), four major conferences
 (5th RAI PG Conference, 2015; ‘Everyday Revolutions in Southern and Eastern Europe’,
 2017; the Visual Research Network’s Residency + Conference, 2018 and 2019). The
 NWSSDTP funds an annual PGR Workshop and training workshops (e.g. on publishing),
 also attended by students from Liverpool and Lancaster. Our research students arrange
 their own master classes and workshops with Simon Visiting Professors (visitor details in
 Section 3, Research Income). The quality of our PhD students is reflected in prizes such
 as Sutasoma Award, Arthur M. Hocart Prize, Eric R. Wolf Prize, Elsie Clews Parsons
 Prize, and Harold Blakemore Prize; our PhD students in visual anthropology have
 received multiple awards (see Section 4).

 Formal training
 Our core programme includes training on methods, ethics and research integrity. Our
 students have access to world-class training in visual anthropology, via the GCVA, and
 many take the specialist PhD with Visual Media. Methods@manchester provides a huge
 range of social science methods training, with department staff ensuring that all social
 science students can access anthropological methods training (including specialised
 visual and aural methods).

 Our training uses a supervisory team and involves staff other than supervisors in progress
 review and feedback. Our PGRs often support our teaching as GTAs. They receive
 training at School, unit and individual module levels, including in E&D, and they have


                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 representation on relevant School T&L committees.

 The NWSSDTP funds co-supervision and training between Manchester, Liverpool and
 Lancaster (with 3 students supervised cross-institutionally since 2014). It has also funded
 Overseas Institutional Visits for students to visit Harvard and Copenhagen. Other funded
 PGR secondments have been to the Scottish Government and the Lithuanian Institute of
 History and CASE PhD studentships have involved collaboration with public sector
 organisations such as Leeds Advocacy Support, the National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL)
 and Sellafield Ltd.

 All submitted staff are involved in doctoral supervision, assessment and training. The New
 Academics training programme provides the foundation for effective PGR supervision,
 and early career and temporary staff develop skills in doctoral supervision and
 examination through close mentoring by and shadowing of senior staff. PGR supervision
 is supported by the University’s on-line monitoring and progress review system, eProg. A
 School-level completion support scheme provides closely-monitored support for students
 who are facing challenges with submission.

 Employability skills
 The University provides PGR training on writing CVs, preparing for interviews and other
 relevant skills and career development. Within the unit we provide opportunities for PGR
 students to organise and lead academic events, to attend conferences and present
 papers (having had practice in the PGR seminar). PhD students in visual anthropology
 make links with our alumni who work in media and retain connections with the GCVA. All
 research students have the opportunity to work as GTAs, which may include collaborating
 with course leaders on module content; their teaching is evaluated in student
 questionnaires and by their supervisor, who gives feedback and records information for
 the student's CV and references. Our graduates’ employability is evident from the fact
 that, of the 65 PGR students who completed 2014-2020, 65% went on to work in the
 university sector: 12 in permanent lecturing jobs, 11 in temporary teaching jobs and 20 in
 post-doc positions; 31 work overseas (including in the universities of Amsterdam, Lisbon,
 Stanford, Tübingen, Vienna and Waseda [Japan]). Beyond academia, destinations
 include: DEFRA, Forest People’s Programme, La Française Investments, Andersson-
 Effers-Felix Consultancy, Colombia’s Museum of Memory, and Chatham House.


 Facilities and support for PGR students
 PGR students and post-doctoral researchers have a large purpose-built area, adjacent to
 staff offices, with 38 dedicated workstations, shelves and lockers, accessible 24/7,
 creating a vibrant intellectual community. We dedicate an amount from our departmental
 budget to the Gluckman Fund which allocates small awards (up to £100) for graduate
 student expenses such as books and travel to conferences. Students funded by the
 School have a Research Training Support Grant of £1,000/year and the School funds a
 fieldwork bursary scheme, which allocates amounts up to £3,000 for fieldwork expenses
 for non-UKRI students. The School has a PGR Student Enhancement Budget (£40k in
 2018-19) to support PGR events. PRG students have access to the GCVA (see Section
 3, Infrastructure).

 Equality and diversity
 We are a diverse unit in which many staff research issues of race and gender inequality.
 This fosters an open atmosphere in which any staff member or PGR student can raise
 concerns with the Head of Social Anthropology, including issues around support needs
 relating to parental leave, ill health and caring responsibilities. All staff, including fixed-
 term, enjoy the staff support listed above and in Section 3 (although sabbatical leave is


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 not available for fixed-term staff), including access to the Research Support Office.
 Women outnumber men in the department (2:1), but not at professorial level (1:1); the
 PGR body is about 50/50 male/female. Of staff who declare an ethnic category,
 seventeen identify as “white” and four as other than white (two Lecturers, two Senior
 Lecturers, indicating this diversity is well established). The PGR body is about one third
 each UK, Other EU, and ROW.

 The School was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in 2017. The department is overseen by
 the School E&D Committee (established in 2014, with representation from ECRs since
 2016), which receives annual reports on E&D from each department and centre and to
 which the School Director of Social Responsibility makes an annual report on E&D in staff
 and PGR recruitment, promotions, and the gender pay gap. A School ‘caring costs fund’
 was introduced in 2018; this helps all academic staff (including fixed-term) and PGRs to
 cover the costs of caring for dependents while away from home on university business
 outside working hours.

 Considerations of E&D have been embedded in the REF preparation. Training in E&D
 and in unconscious bias is available for all staff and is mandatory for those involved in
 recruiting staff and students, and selecting outputs for REF. The selection of outputs for
 REF was undertaken by a panel with majority women at senior and junior levels. The
 School made funds available in 2017-2018 to buy in small amounts of teaching relief to
 support individuals’ publication strategies: of nine departmental awards, five went to
 Lecturers (four women, of which one was BAME), three to SLs (two women, of which one
 was BAME) and one to a Professor (female).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Strategies for generating research income have prioritised supporting grant-writing
 through regular sabbaticals, using our Research Committee and bi-annual away-days to
 support bids through detailed peer review, and applying for School and Faculty seed-corn
 funding to support the development of bids for research and impact.

 These strategies have resulted in a 150% increase in award value from REF2014. In
 2014-20, there were over 115 bids, which generated 42 awards worth £5.3m from 20
 funders. (Figures for REF2014 were 61 bids, 24 awards, value £2.1m, from 15 funders).
 Because over £3m of this was in 15 awards made in 2018-20, the increase is not
 reflected in research spend, which is about £2.8m, similar to REF2014.

 Notably, these grants involved collaborations and impact activities; they included ECRs
 (C. Smith and Watanabe), alongside mid-career (Obeid, Cox, Evans, Reeves,
 Ulturgasheva) and senior scholars (Edwards, Green, Harvey, Irving, Sykes, and
 Wade).

 Funding highlights.

 1. Ulturgasheva is co-PI for a €6m ERC Synergy grant (awarded 2019) on “Shamans,
 Scientists, and Climate Change at the Ethnic Borderlands of China and Russia”; this built
 on her previous £275K National Science Foundation award for a project on community
 resilience and environmental change in Alaska and Siberia. Both grants involve
 interdisciplinary academic collaborations (first, with University of Alaska Fairbanks and
 University of Cambridge; then, King’s College London) and extensive engagement and
 impact activities with local communities in Asia.


                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. Wade won funding for two projects on anti-racism in Latin America, which both involve
 extensive collaborations. The first, on anti-racist organisations (ESRC, £380K, 2017-18),
 was co-directed with a colleague at the University of Cambridge and involved
 international Co-Is in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Mexico. The second, on arts and
 anti-racism (AHRC, £1m, 2020-2022), is with two Co-Is in the School of Arts and
 international Co-Is in Argentina, Brazil and Colombia. The ESRC project generated many
 impact-oriented activities with community organisations and human-rights defenders in
 Latin America.

 3. Harvey won awards from BNFL Endowment Fund (£460K, 2017-22) for her project on
 nuclear decommissioning (note: endowment money is not counted as “research income”
 by Manchester University). This funding underwrote the foundation of Manchester’s
 BEAM research network, in collaboration with colleagues from Manchester’s Dalton
 Nuclear Institute and the Business School. It also funded a CASE PhD studentship and
 Kalshoven’s Dalton Research Fellowship (2017-22), involving an ethnography of the
 decommissioning of Sellafield nuclear site, which has been the basis for Kalshoven’s
 role as Co-I on a 2019 UKERC grant on “Sellafield Site Futures”. Harvey also obtained
 ESRC IAA funds (£36K) for work with Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority,
 which produced impact and linked to her mentoring of O’Hare’s ESRC post-doctoral
 project on “Recycling Economies in Latin America”.

 4. Edwards obtained £200K of ESRC funding as PI (with Evans and K. Smith as Co-Is,
 and a department doctoral graduate as Research Associate) for a project to explore “left
 behind places” in terms of residents’ hopes and fears post-Brexit (2018-19).

 5. Irving won funding from the MRC and AHRC (£192K) and impact funds from the
 GCRF-GIAA (£27K) for his project on “Enhancing Resilient Deaf Youth in South Africa”
 (2017-19), which involved Ferrarini and collaboration with the University of
 Witwatersrand and UoM health researchers (Social Research with Deaf People group).

 6. Reeves drew in £21K (Wenner-Gren International Collaborative Research Grant,
 2014-15) for her research on migration in Central Asia, in collaboration with a Kyrgyzstani
 colleague, obtained £45K from the University of Konstanz for a project on “Labour, Law
 and Hope in Migrant Moscow” (2014-16), and in 2020 was awarded a BA Mid-Career
 Fellowship on irregular migration in post-Soviet regions (£96K).

 7. Sykes’s ESRC-funded four-year project on the domestic moral economy in the Asia-
 Pacific region (£450K) continued until 2015, involved collaboration with scholars at ANU
 and Queens University Belfast, included two PhD studentships, and underpinned her
 ICS.

 Further grants supporting core research areas

 1. Green took a share (£99K) of a £2m grant from the National Institute of Health
 Research for her work with the project “Stillbirth Prevention and Management in Sub-
 Saharan Africa” (2017-19), collaborating with Manchester’s Centre for Global Women’s
 Health and The Lugina Africa Midwives Research Network.

 2. Watanabe received £75K (British Academy, British Red Cross and Toyota Foundation)
 for impact-oriented research on the exchange of knowledge about disaster preparedness
 between Japan and Chile (2016-present), collaborating with academics in Tsukuba
 University (Japan) and University of Chile.

 3. Sykes was Co-I on an Australian Research Council project on ageing amongst


                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 migrants from PNG to Australia (AUD $350K, 2014-19, in collaboration with colleagues
 from James Cook University), research that underpinned her impact case study.

 Other grants
 Supporting our aim to diversify funding were smaller grants, including:

       Wenner-Gren Foundation (workshop grants for Obeid, in collaboration with
        Lebanese American University; and for Venkatesan)
       University of Bielefeld (Edwards)
       University of London (Wade)
       Society of Latin American Studies (Wade)
       Critique of Anthropology (to support the Group for Debates in Anthropological
        Theory, coordinated by Venkatesan).

 University funding
 The Faculty’s Strategic Investment Fund and the UoM Research Institute provided:

       Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF institutional award) pump-priming grant
        (£22K) to Cox for a “Network for developing post-conflict forest biodiversity
        through ‘open-classroom’” in Colombia
       research development award to Cox (£9K) for his work on soundscapes in Japan
        in collaboration with the University of Kyoto, Okinawa College of Technology and
        University of the Arts London
       pump-priming award to Watanabe (£13K), collaborating with a colleague in
        Japanese Studies
       pump-priming award to Harvey (£3.5K), collaborating with colleagues in UoM
        around nuclear waste disposal

 The School Small Grants Fund gave 10 awards worth £20K (£16K for grant preparation,
 £4K for networking) to Evans, Venkatesan, Watanabe, Irving, Reeves, Obeid and Del
 Nido.

 We have successfully competed for the University’s substantial Simon and Hallsworth
 endowment funds, which support the annual appointment of prestigious three-year post-
 doc fellows (Grill and C. Smith, see “Fellowships”, below), and eminent Visiting
 Professors. Since 2013 we have hosted nine Visiting Professors: Janet Roitman, Veena
 Das, Susana Narotzky, Paul Stoller, Niko Besnier, Peter Redfield, Douglas Holmes,
 Bruce Grant, and Shane Greene. These scholars were funded to spend 2 to 8 weeks in
 our department, where they were integrated into our research environment and gave
 seminars, public lectures, master classes and workshops, and had group and one-to-one
 meetings with research students and post-doctoral researchers.

 Impact-related funding
 Impact is integral to our projects - prominent examples are Ulturgasheva’s work on
 climate change, Watanabe’s research on disaster preparedness and Edwards’ research
 on biotechnology and bioethics, which underpinned her ICS.
 Other staff who have also benefited from funds dedicated to enhancing impact include:

       Evans: two ESRC IAA awards (£11K, 2017-18 and 2018-19) to support her work
        transferring lessons from London’s Olympic legacy experiences to future Olympic
        hosts in Paris
       Irving: GCRF-GIAA (£27K, 2019) for his project on deaf youth in South Africa
       Harvey: IAA funding for her project on Big Data and Urban Waste Management


                                                                                    Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       (£23K, 2014).
      The School Small Grants Fund gave £5K for impact activities to Henley and Wade
       and £1,500 to Cox to support the development of his ICS.

 Fellowships
 Fellowships have allowed six established staff to advance projects and/or publications.
 Henley’s 3-year Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2014-17) allowed him to
 develop a ground-breaking on-line archive of ethnographic film ("The silent time machine:
 recovering early ethnographic film") and produce a book on the history of ethnographic
 film (2020). Wade’s 3-year Wolfson Research Professorship (2013-16) resulted in a book
 on genomics and race in Latin America (2017) and a special issue of Social Studies of
 Science (2015). Green’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2018-20) allowed her to
 undertake extended fieldwork on how social cash transfers change ideas of poverty in
 Tanzania. Obeid received a one-year BA/Leverhulme Senior Fellowship for her work on
 Palestinians in London (2017-18), which is leading to a book. Reeves’s one-year BA Mid-
 Career Fellowship (awarded 2020) will facilitate a book and 10 podcasts on the politics of
 migration. Kalshoven’s Dalton Fellowship supported and was funded by Harvey’s
 nuclear project and BNFL award.

 Fellowships are also a major opportunity for ECR development and in 2014-20 twelve
 fellowships were secured to support 11 post-doctoral scholars:

   1. Wenner-Gren Fejos Postdoctoral Fellowship (Kremer, 2016-17);
   2. Simon Research Fellowship (Grill, 2013-16);
   3. Marie Curie Research Fellowship (Casagrande, 2017-20, with Irving as
       institutional mentor);
   4. Newton Advanced Fellowship (Saldaña-Tejeda, Wade was UK partner, 2015-17);
   5. Newton International Fellowship (Erasaari, 2016-17, Sykes acted as mentor);
   6. Hallsworth Research Fellowship (C. Smith, 2017-2020);
   7. UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (C. Smith, 2019-23);
   8. ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship (O’Hare, 2018-19; Del Nido, 2019-20);
   9. Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Wheeler, 2018-22; the School provides
       matched funding annually for two Leverhulme ECR Fellowships);
   10. Research fellowship in Digital Trust & Security (Prentice, 2019-20);
   11. Two GCRF Visiting Postdoctoral Fellowships: Malika Bahovadinova (hosted by
       Reeves) and Nuna Čengić (hosted by Jansen).

 Infrastructure and facilities
 As Manchester Anthropology was founded in 1949, the UML has outstanding collections
 in the field, including the Max Gluckman papers, an invaluable resource for the twentieth-
 century history of social anthropology. The UML has a specialist librarian for social
 sciences. (Detail on UML in Section 4.2 Institutional Statement.)

 Research strategy is overseen by our Research Committee (RC), which meets five times
 a year and reports to our Head of Department and to the School Research Director, and
 ensures a balance between individual, Departmental, School and University strategies.
 The RC defines strategic direction and advises on and peer reviews bids; it encourages
 and advises on ECR fellowship applications (Leverhulme, ESRC, University, etc.); it
 organises bi-annual research away-days and encourages theme-specific reading groups.
 With the School, we undergo a review in the University’s Annual Performance Review
 Cycle in which senior management assesses our research practices against institutional
 strategies and performance indicators.

 Infrastructure that supports our Department’s research environment includes:


                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



       Granada Centre for Visual Anthropology, which in 2018 moved into new
        accommodation, with a University investment of £500K improving its facilities (six
        Edit Suites and six Edit Stations with custom-built professional iMac Pros, loaded
        with state-of-the-art software; plus a 24-seat state-of-the-art Screening Hub); it has
        the largest library of ethnographic film in Europe, and a dedicated full-time
        technician
       School Research Support Office, with 16 FTE Professional Service staff, who
        include a Research Promotion Manager, a Grant Management and Administration
        Team, an External Relations Team and a Grant Writer, who regularly circulate data
        about funding opportunities and provide outstanding support for developing bids
        and managing projects (logistics, finance, personnel, etc.)
       the School’s Small Grants scheme for research, pump-priming and networking
        projects (£64K in 2018-19) and Faculty’s Strategic Investment Fund; see above for
        details of specific grants
       School funding for targeted teaching relief, which in 2017 and 2018 awarded £13K
        to nine Department staff to support the production of high-quality publications
       a Faculty-funded Professorial Enhanced Research Leave competition (which
        awarded leave for Wade, 2019)
       funding from the Department for initiating small projects (workshops, seminars,
        etc.)
       the 2007 purpose-built Arthur Lewis Building, which provides excellent
        accommodation, with staff offices close to PGR and post-doctoral researcher
        workstations. Everyone has up-to-date networked computers, linked to nearby
        networked printers/scanners/copiers.

 Infrastructure dedicated to supporting impact and engagement:

       The Research Support Office has a Grant Writer (since 2016), an Impact Officer
        (since 2011) and an External Relations Team, who help staff develop and integrate
        impact and engagement at all stages of projects, pre- and post-award
       Faculty’s Strategic Investment Fund and the School’s Small Grants scheme fund
        impact-related activities; see above for details of specific grants
       University ESRC Impact Accelerator Award, round 1 (£1m, 2014-19), round 2
        (£1m, 2019-23)
       The School’s Social Responsibility budget (£20K in 2019-20) includes support for
        impact and engagement activities
       ESRC Social Science Festival (since 2016 with Manchester Metropolitan
        University and Salford University); funding from ESRC and the University is over
        £20K/year and has supported 92 events (2014-2019), reaching an estimated
        10,000 participants/visitors

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 Collaboration is a key strategy to drive high-quality research and has played a key role in
 virtually every one of the funded projects described in Section 3.

 Other external collaborations include:

       Infrastructures: Harvey collaborated with Johns Hopkins University, independent


                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        researchers in Peru, the James Hutton Institute (Scotland) and University of Oslo.
       Class and Governance: K. Smith has forged links with UoM’s Institute of Education
        and UCL’s Centre for Sociology of Education and Equity, and with university
        networks involving Utrecht, Copenhagen and Aarhus.
       Kinship and Reproduction: Edwards’s research has forged links with the Baltic
        Anthropology Graduate School (where she is on the Advisory Board), Pontificia
        Universidad Católica (Chile) and the universities of Sussex and Helsinki.
       Urbanism: C. Smith has links with the Institute of Global Prosperity (UCL) and
        Torresan with UCL and several universities in Brazil. Casagrande’s research on
        urban indigeneity forged links with Pontificia Universidad Católica (Chile).

 International links are enhanced through the Simon and Hallsworth Visiting Professorships
 (see above). The Honorary Research Fellow scheme, which gives researchers access to
 departmental research facilities and desk space, appointed 12 Fellows (2014-2020),
 including from Mexico, Brazil, Honduras, Finland, Tanzania, Norway, Switzerland, USA.

 Research Centres and institutes strengthen interdisciplinary collaborations. Wade’s AHRC
 anti-racism project draws in colleagues in Arts who are members of CLACS (Centre for
 Latin American and Caribbean Studies) of which Wade is co-director. CLACS is a
 cross-school centre that supports our Latin Americanist researchers (8 staff, 10 PhDs).
 Green’s work on poverty in Africa involves collaborations with the Global Development
 Institute. Torresan, Evans and C. Smith are affiliated to the Manchester Urban
 Institute, which links 100+ Manchester academics.

 The ESRC-funded Centre for Research in Socio-Cultural Change was directed by
 Harvey (2006-2014) and its 65+ members benefited from three years of extended
 institutional support (2014-17). Our participation (Harvey, Reeves, Evans, Wade and
 several anthropology post-doctoral researchers) strengthened links with Sociology and the
 Business School in Manchester, with the Open University, and internationally (e.g. Spain’s
 national research academy, CISC).

 Relationships with non-academic sectors
 Recent appointments (three of them ECR) have strengthened such relationships through
 research co-production and impact activities: Watanabe’s work on disaster preparedness
 gives insight into how to effectively translate expert knowledge across cultural differences
 between Japan and Chile; Ulturgasheva’s work across communities in Alaska, Siberia
 and China facilitates the productive exchange of knowledge about youth resilience in the
 context of rapid climate change. In Irving’s Deaf Camera South Africa project, Ferrarini
 uses collaborative filmmaking to forge relationships with local communities, promoting
 inclusion and resilience of young deaf people and changing social attitudes to deafness.
 Parker’s research into opioid use in the USA informs debates about policies for managing
 addiction (e.g. the therapeutic value for addicts of doing unpaid work).

 Our strengths in audio-visual anthropology help us engage with non-academics. Cox’s
 work uses innovative films and installations to mobilise sonic memories of war and engage
 Japanese people in issues around the impact of US military presence (see his ICS). His
 film Zawawa was given national TV news coverage in Japan and his audio-visual
 installations (Ki-atsu, Cave Mouth, Giant Voice and Zawawa) have been exhibited in
 Japan, USA, UK, France and Germany.

 Torresan’s work in a Brazilian favela uses film to engage with local residents, who co-
 produced videos highlighting the impact on them of gentrification and government
 pacification policies. Irving’s research on people’s experience of living with HIV/AIDS in
 Africa used performance-based methods, inspiring theatre director Josh Azouz to


                                                                                      Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 collaborate with him on a stage-play, The Man Who Almost Killed Himself (2014), which
 was screened by BBC Arts, BBC iPlayer, Edinburgh Festival and Odeon Cinemas,
 disseminating culturally sensitive approaches to HIV/AIDS.

 Our researchers use exhibitions as pathways to impact: Casagrande collaborated in an
 art exhibition and a theatre performance in Santiago de Chile, which highlighted the urban
 presence of Mapuche. Irving’s work on how visual media can help build resilience for deaf
 youth contributed to an exhibition for Children’s Museum of the Arts (New York), while his
 experimental work on people’s interior experiences of urban landscapes was showcased
 in the Osterreichisches Museum fur Volkskunde (Vienna) and The New School (New
 York).

 Our PhD students in Visual Media use non-textual methods to engage with non-academic
 sectors. For example, Dietrich’s film about the 1980-2000 civil conflict in Peru was
 screened in the official museum founded to help heal the rifts of the war. Our PhD films
 form part of Alexander Street Press’s Ethnographic Video Online collection, subscribed to
 by libraries worldwide.

 In terms of influencing policy, stakeholders in the Paris and Tokyo Olympics have
 attended workshops to learn from Evans about London’s experience of managing its
 Olympic legacy. Sykes’s ICS shows her research influenced Catholic Church policy about
 how to reach a hard-to-access group of migrants. Green’s report for DFID Tanzania
 (2017) highlighted the weakness of policy around urban land governance in Tanzania.
 Coordinating a four-person research team, Reeves has advised DFID on the importance
 of migrant remittances for Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.

 Engagement with non-academic sectors is evidenced by the diversity of civic and
 governmental organisations with which staff are linked: two South African NGOs working
 with deaf children, Department of Health and Department of Education (South Africa),
 Tanzania’s leading policy think-tank (REPOA), China International Development Research
 Network, UNICEF Kyrgyzstan, United Nations Economic and Social Commission for
 Western Asia, OSCE Secretariat (Border Security and Management Unit), Centre Yunus
 (a Paris Olympics legacy planning organisation), DFID, FCO, Hope not Hate (UK anti-
 fascist organisation), Manchester City of Sanctuary, Greater Manchester Coalition for
 Change, Victoria & Albert Museum, The Fair Education Alliance, Nuffield Council of
 Bioethics.

 This list is not exhaustive. For example, Wade’s anti-racism project forged relationships
 with many community groups and helped them publicise racism in Latin America via 17
 engagement events involving 400+ people, and the collaborative production of short
 videos. The project was recognised for “Outstanding international engagement” by UoM’s
 Office for Social Responsibility.

 Some staff have developed links with industry: Harvey advised Greater Manchester
 Waste Disposal Authority on the implications of using big data in their systems; Harvey
 and Kalshoven are funded by British Nuclear Fuels to study how people in the industry
 and local communities understand the decommissioning of nuclear facilities. Green is
 advising a leading energy company (NDA signed).

 Research is central to our participation in the University’s "Widening Participation”
 initiatives, as staff use their own research to engage and build relationships with schools
 and FE colleges in the region and nationally.

 Communication with wider publics. Many staff appeared in the media (including blogs).


                                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Examples include:

      In the UK: Manchester Evening News, Guardian, Mirror, Telegraph, Channel 4 UK,
       BBC TV and radio, Radio London, Radio Scotland, Reuters, The Conversation,
       OpenDemocracy.
      In mainland Europe: National Swedish Radio, VPRO (Netherlands national
       broadcaster), oneworld.nl magazine, Finnish National Television News, Danish
       Broadcasting Corporation, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, AllegraLaboratory.net,
       ostranula.org (digital news site, BiH), Slododna Bosna magazine, BalkanInsight
       portal.
      In the USA: NPR, Huffington Post, Project on Middle East Democracy,
       Anthrodendum (formerly Savage Minds), Cultural Anthropology’s ‘Hot Spots’ and
       ‘Fieldsights’ series.
      In ROW: BBC Kyrgyz service, Semana magazine (Colombia), El Espectador
       (Colombian daily), Ecuadorian state TV, Bidayat magazine, Eurasianet.org.

 Contributions to and recognition by the discipline

 Journal Editorships. Visual Anthropology Review (Cox, co-editor, 2016-19); Latin
 American and Caribbean Ethnic Studies (Wade, co-editor, 2004-present); Anthropology
 Matters (Ferrarini, visual editor, 2014-present); Contemporary Levant (Obeid, founding
 editor-in-chief, 2015-present); Critique of Anthropology (Green, managing editor, 2019-
 present); Central Asian Survey (Reeves, 2014-2019); American Ethnologist (Edwards,
 associate editor, 2015-19). JRAI (Watanabe, co-editor, 2020-). Harvey is co-editor of the
 Routledge book series, Culture, Economy and the Social, with 41 titles.

 Editorial Boards. Fourteen staff have sat on an internationally-diverse range of over 50
 journal and book series boards. Major journals in the discipline include: American
 Ethnologist, Anthropological Theory, Critique of Anthropology, Ethnos, HAU, JRAI, Social
 Analysis. Middle-ranking ones include Cambridge Journal of Anthropology and TAJA.

 Area Studies journals include ones in Latin American studies (e.g. Journal of Latin
 American and Caribbean Anthropology, Journal of Latin American Studies, Latin American
 Research Review); European studies (e.g. Südosteuropa); and Asian studies
 (International Quarterly for Asian Studies).

 Thematic journals include Ethnic and Racial Studies, Conflict and Society, Journal of
 Organisational Ethnography, Problems of Post-Communism.

 Seminars and conferences. Our long-standing seminar series regularly attracts 35-50 staff
 and research students, with visitors from other Schools. They are renowned for being
 lively and intellectually rigorous events. The Centre for Latin American and Caribbean
 Studies holds regular seminars and workshops. The department hosts the Group for
 Debates in Anthropological Theory (GDAT; run by Venkatesan): the debates draw
 around 120 participants from the UK and Europe; GDAT is funded and published by
 Critique of Anthropology.

 Staff organised over 80 panels and presented over 400 papers in seminars, workshops
 and conferences. They gave 80 keynotes, including: Jansen for the German Association
 for Cultural Anthropology (2018) at a two-day conference on his book, Yearnings; Reeves’
 Distinguished Annual Lecture in Anthropology of Europe (UMass Amherst, 2018) and the
 Frederik Barth Memorial lecture (University of Bergen, 2017); Harvey for the ASA annual
 conference (2017); Edwards for the National Aesthetic Nursing Conference (2018) and
 the William Douglass Distinguished Lecture (2019).

                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Professional associations and support for the profession. Staff have been appointed as
 committee/board members in professional associations based in the UK, USA and
 continental Europe, including: Association of Social Anthropologists, Royal
 Anthropological Institute (including the RAI Council and various committees), Society for
 Visual Anthropology, Society for Economic Anthropology, Latin American Studies
 Association, Association for Slavic, East European and Eurasian Studies, Association for
 the Study of Nationalities, Oriental Institute of the Czech Academy of Sciences.

 Staff have advised many organisations. Prominent examples include:
     UK: University of Cambridge Research Review of Social Anthropology; Institute of
        Advanced Study (Durham University); LSE Anthropology Promotions Committee;
        University of Sussex External Research Advisor for Anthropology
     EU: Funding Council of Portugal (Chair of Social Sciences Panel), Norwegian
        Professional Promotion Committee in Social Anthropology, Danish Council for
        Independent Research
     ROW: Arab Council for the Social Sciences

 Staff reviewed funding proposals for some 75 organisations. Prominent examples include:
     In the UK: AHRC, British Academy, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, National Institute for
        Medical Research, Newton Foundation, Wellcome Trust
     North America: Canadian SSHRC, NSF, Wenner-Gren Foundation
     Mainland Europe: ANEP (Spanish funding council), Austrian Science Fund, Czech
        Science Foundation, Danish Research Council, ERC, Estonian Research Council,
        European Science Foundation, German Research Foundation, Icelandic Research
        Council, Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research, Norwegian Research
        Council, Research Foundation - Flanders, Serbian Ministry of Science and
        Education, Slovenian Research Agency, Swiss National Science Foundation
     ROW: CNPq (Brazilian funding council), Japan Society for the Promotion of
        Science

 Staff have sat on juries for the RAI Film Festival, Ethnocineca International Film Festival,
 Recife Ethnographic Film Festival, Espiello Ethnographic Film Festival, Sardinia
 International Ethnographic Film Festival, Jean Rouch International Festival.

 Support for the profession has included activity around PGR training. Staff have externally
 examined over 120 PhDs since 2014. Staff have supervised visiting doctoral students
 coming from these universities: Aarhus, Barcelona, Rio de Janeiro State, Verona, Vienna,
 Vilnius, and Wisconsin Madison.

 Staff have participated in training workshops for PGR students in consortia such as
 Scottish Consortium of Social Anthropology and the Baltic Anthropology Graduate School;
 in European universities, including in Aarhus/Copenhagen, Barcelona, Helsinki, Oslo,
 Radboud (Netherlands), Sarajevo, Tartu (Estonia), and Trento; and beyond, in Montreal,
 Ningbo (China), and Rio de Janeiro. Reeves has been on PhD committees in University of
 Wisconsin-Madison, Stanford University, and Australian National University; Sykes has
 supervised for ANU and James Cook University.

 Research fellowships. See Section 3 for details of 18 fellowships awarded to department
 staff.

 Invited fellowships are evidence of our collaborative networks. Examples include: Cox:
 Kyoto University; Edwards: Bielefeld University; Harvey: University of Oslo, University of
 Durham; Irving: Jagiellonian University, University of Yunnan, University of

                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Witwatersrand, Aarhus University, RMIT University (Melbourne); Jansen: University of
 Sarajevo, University of Beograd, University of Regensburg; Kalshoven: McGill University;
 Obeid: American University of Beirut; Reeves: University of Konstanz, University of
 Helsinki; Ulturgasheva: Princeton.

 In 2019, Harvey was elected to the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. Wade
 and Harvey are fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.

 Prizes. Reeves won the RAI’s Rivers Memorial Medal 2018 and her book, Border Work
 won the Alec Nove Prize, the Past Presidents’ Gold Book Award (Association of
 Borderland Studies), and the Joseph Rothschild Prize in Nationalism and Ethnic Studies.
 Irving’s book The Art of Life and Death won the 2017 Malinowski Monograph Competition
 and an Honourable Mention for the 2018 American Ethnological Society’s Senior Book
 Prize. Ferrarini won the RAI’s Richard Werbner Award for Visual Anthropology in 2015
 (as did a PhD student in 2017). In 2019, our PhD students got 3 commendations in the
 RAI film festival and 2 awards in the Society for Visual Anthropology festival. Wade was
 awarded Faculty of Humanities Researcher of the Year (2020).




                                                                                  Page 19
