Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Manchester
Unit of assessment: 27 (English Language and Literature)
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Overview
English, American Studies and Creative Writing (EAC) is a large, ambitious
department with 48 members (41.35 FTE). Distinctive in spanning the full
chronological and thematic ranges of its three disciplines, it is part of the School of
Arts, Languages and Cultures (SALC) within the Faculty of Humanities (FoH), one
of the largest concentrations of humanities researchers in the UK.
The Unit has expanded by 25% since REF 2014 with 12 new appointments to full
and fractional posts, including four University Presidential Fellows. EAC engages
with theoretical and methodological innovations to advance its disciplines, and is
committed to producing socially-beneficial research which confronts inequality,
promotes social justice and engages diverse communities. Looking outward and
forging collaborations with cultural partners - from the United Nations to festivals,
libraries, theatre companies, galleries and local community groups- has been
central to our research culture during the survey period. Since REF2014 EAC
researchers have:
      Led the city’s successful 2017 bid for UNESCO City of Literature status,
       which links EAC and the city of Manchester with 120 Creative Cities globally
       through UNESCO structures, funding and staff.
      Guest edited the Today programme, co-written the ten-year strategy of the
       Irish Arts Council, had a prize-winning novel adapted into a BBC mini-series,
       and shaped eight exhibitions at galleries including Tate Britain (combined
       audience over 500,000).
      Published over 60 books and won 17 international prizes including the 2018
       Women’s Prize for Fiction.
      Doubled external competitive grant capture, including nine AHRC Awards
       over £100,000.
      Supervised 107 PGR students to PhD completion (some jointly with other
       UoAs – representing a 28% increase in recorded completions from the
       previous REF cycle) and supported 18 of these into academic posts.
      Examined over 50 doctoral theses in the UK and internationally.
      Served as peer reviewers for over 20 international funding bodies including
       the AHRC Peer-Review College (seven members).
      Performed leading academic service for the major international journals and
       publishers in our disciplines and fields.
      Continued to shape critical and creative agendas, presenting more than 350
       keynotes, seminar papers and public talks and organising over 70
       conferences, workshops, public lectures and symposia.
Research Strategy and Structure
At REF 2014 we set three key objectives: to invest in Early Career Researchers
(ECRs) as a means to secure a vital and sustainable research culture; to increase
grant capture to support long-term impact; and to deepen our coverage and
interdisciplinary outlook. These objectives were achieved through a combination of
appointments, mentoring and improved planning (see Sections 2 and 3). An


                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


overhaul of EAC’s research structures was undertaken to create a new
configuration of aligned and fully resourced Research Groups (Department based,
rooted in periods and subfields) and interdisciplinary Research Centres (led by EAC
but SALC or University wide). These developments in turn supported the
sharpened focus on increasing the distinctiveness and social benefit of our
research by facilitating improved and mutually beneficial collaborations with
international, national and local cultural and heritage partners, institutions, libraries,
archives, and communities.
Five Research Groups have replaced the previous informal clusters. These drive
the vitality of our research culture, engaging with and shaping debates and
methodologies and consolidating and deepening our period coverage. They provide
an intellectual home for all researchers and PGRs, and for the individual
scholarship that remains important in EAC. Groups provide support through
feedback on work in progress, review funding applications, run seminars, symposia
and reading groups, and pool expertise to build collaborations with cultural
partners. Resourced by an annual budget (£1,000 per group), they also run fully-
funded annual lectures (six across the groups) and elect and host EAC’s two
annual John Edward Taylor Fellows (JETFs), internationally distinguished
researchers who present their research to staff, students and the public in week-
long visits to the department. JETFs since REF 2014 have included Jahan
Ramazani, George Lipsitz, Michael and Edna Longley, Patricia Ingham and Michael
Denning. The Research Groups’ work is shared across the department via the
fortnightly EAC research seminar and research away days.
The Research Groups comprise:
American Studies (Brown, Coghlan, Fearnley, Field, Fraser, Geidel, Knight,
Pearl, Quinn, Raymundo, Scott, Zacek);
Eighteenth and Nineteenth-Century Studies (Dawson, Gallagher, Gladfelder,
Rawes, Rohrbach, Sanders, Taylor);
Medieval and Early Modern Studies (Bernau, Baker, de Groot, Matthews,
Schurink, Paz);
Modernism (Booth, Caselli, Christou, Harker, Spencer);
Postcolonial and Irish Studies (Booth, Harte, McAuliffe, Spencer,
Valassopoulos, Walther).
Highlights of Research Group activities since REF 2014 include:
      hosting international conferences and the meetings of professional
       associations including ‘Middle Ages in the Modern World’ (2017), the
       International Conference on Romanticism (2019), and the Postcolonial
       Studies Association (2019);
      launching a new high-profile modernist studies lecture series, the Dora
       Marsden Lecture, in honour of the Manchester modernist and suffragist,
       presented by Professor Laura Marcus (2016), Professor Morag Shiach
       (2017), Dr Catherine Clay (2018) and Dr Rashmi Varma (2019).
      developing collaborative projects with international partners that integrate
       research, creative writing and social engagement, including the Curiosity



                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Project, run with former Taylor Fellow Patricia C. Ingham of Indiana
       University;
      producing field-defining books including Spencer and Valassopoulos,
       Postcolonial Locations: New Issues and Directions in Postcolonial Studies
       (2021) and Harte (ed), The Oxford Handbook of Modern Irish Fiction (2020);
      producing and guest editing journal special issues around Research Group’s
       national and international networks, including the special issue of the
       European Journal of American Studies (2019) based on the ‘Spectacle and
       Spectatorship in American History’ conference hosted by the American
       Studies Research Group (May 2017).
Research Centres
EAC Research Groups underpin and support three EAC-led Research Centres.
These promote interdisciplinarity within the School and University, and involve
colleagues from all Research Groups. Research Centres benefit from additional
SALC funding and are outward-facing in their promotion of research and creative
activity.
The radical, socially-oriented work of the Centre for the Study of Sexuality and
Culture (CSSC) (Alderson, Caselli, Doan, Pearl, Stacey) has broadened and
intensified since REF2014. Directed by Stacey, CSSC is now a globally recognised
destination for leading scholars (including JETF Elizabeth Freeman, 2019), and
integrates queer and feminist scholarship and LBGTQ activism. Partnerships with
cultural organizations, health professionals and client groups have been especially
important during the current REF period. At the centre of CSSC work is the annual
Sexuality Summer School. One CSSC highlight since REF2014 was Doan’s
research shaping the arguments of Queer British Art, 1861-1967 (2017) at Tate
Britain (110,000 visitors).
The Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (CMEMS) was established
by EAC in 2017 to reinforce period breadth and consolidate Manchester as an
international centre for the interdisciplinary analysis of the Medieval and Early
Modern periods. Directed by Matthews, with its hub of EAC researchers from the
departmental Research Group (Bernau, Baker, de Groot, Schurink, Paz),
CMEMS involves colleagues from ten other University departments, shaping a
community of researchers around shared critical agendas in collaboration with
international partners. CMEMS works to develop and promote the city’s archive
holdings, including the special collections of the John Rylands Library (JRL). It
hosts events and projects including the archive-focussed ‘Connecting Collections’,
run in collaboration with the University of Melbourne (2017), and an annual
interdisciplinary research forum (since 2018). In 2020 CMEMS secured a Simon
Visiting Professorship to bring Janet Marquardt (Eastern Illinois University) to
Manchester in 2021.
Formed in 2007, directed by McAuliffe and Mitchell, and expanded since REF
2014 with new premises and six more staff, the Centre for New Writing (CNW;
Brown, Clare, Gavin, Groarke, Leviston, McAuliffe, McGuire, Mitchell, Schmidt,
Shamsie, Underdown, Winterson) is at the forefront of debates on new writing,
broadening the reach and enjoyment of contemporary literature, promoting new
writers and shaping arts policy. CNW’s development since REF2014 has focussed
on building and deepening links with partner institutions and the creative industries.


                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


It is a driving force behind both the UNESCO City of Literature initiatives and
Creative Manchester (CM). The latter is a new University project supported by
endowment investment (£3,300,000) and run from SALC. It promotes exchange and
co-production between university researchers and cultural industry and community
partners.
SALC’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in the Arts and Languages
(CIDRAL), established by EAC in 2005, is a major forum for researchers and PGRs
from across the humanities. EAC researchers continue to lead and shape
CIDRAL’s interdisciplinary identity and work, with Stacey directing between 2010-
2015 and Alderson since 2018. Both have built collaborations with external bodies
to raise CIDRAL’s profile across its multiple formats (public lectures, masterclasses,
Theory Intensive symposia, Key Ideas seminars, book launches), to which EAC
researchers regularly contribute.
Impact
EAC has significantly increased the social benefit of its research since REF2014.
Groups and Centres have been used to create partnerships with external
organisations. We have increased and targeted resources: two thirds of the EAC’s
internal research support budget is now ring-fenced to support impact.
We have invested in longstanding projects, sustaining them to develop in new
directions. Quinn’s REF2014 impact case study, ‘Setting a Legal Precedent
Through Research into Gangsta Rap’, has been developed through her work with
defence counsels in 12 UK legal cases. Her research on rap has directly influenced
verdicts when prosecutors have attempted to use defendants’ rap lyrics and videos
as evidence of confession, bad character and ‘joint enterprise’. The social benefit of
the research, recently supported by an AHRC Leadership Fellowship, ‘Prosecuting
Rap: Criminal Justice and UK Black Youth Expressive Culture’ (£201,168, 2019-
2020), has become transatlantic. Quinn was a co-signee of amicus briefs
submitted to the US Supreme Court in two cases involving rap lyrics (Taylor Bell,
2015; Jamal Knox, 2019) and acted as advisor on the development of a new ‘rap
on trial’ manual for US defence lawyers.
Other projects have been developed as part of larger, multi-partner consortia.
Sanders’ REF2014 impact case study, ‘Impact on the Public’s Understanding of
Nineteenth-century Poetry and Politics’ has been developed through Co-I work on
the AHRC-funded ‘Piston, Pen and Press’ project (2018-2021, £660,000), led by
the University of Strathclyde, run in collaboration with the National Railway
Museum, York and also involving Quarry Bank Mill and the Working Class
Movement Library. Valassopoulos is a Co-I on a Global Challenges Research
Fund project, ‘Maghreb Action on Displacement and Rights’ (2020-2024,
£1,872,000), which pursues a regional, interdisciplinary approach to respond to the
complex protection needs of refugees and other displaced people in the region.
The new research structures have built critical mass for impact work; this is evident
in the four impact case studies we have selected for this REF. Two case studies
track the impact of our expanded Research Centres, ‘Queer Arts as Activism’
(CSSC), and ‘The Centre for New Writing: Developing New Writers and Audiences
and Enriching Public Debate and Informing Arts Policy’ (CNW). The other two case
studies crystallize expertise of two Research Groups: Harte’s ‘Changing Public



                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Perception and Creative Practice Around the Migrant Experience in Britain’
showcases the Postcolonial and Irish Studies Research Group’s analysis of
migration and identity; Knight’s ‘Show Me the Money: Improving Public and
Professional Understandings of Economics and Finance’, foregrounds questions of
capitalism and culture analysed by the American Studies Research Group. These
two case studies also reflect and benefit from our increase in grant capture, having
attracted eight awards in total. This portfolio marks collaborative progression from
our REF2014 submission, where all four of EAC’s impact case studies centred upon
the work of individuals, and only one was supported by significant grant capture.
New systems of EAC research mentoring (Section 3) have enabled the early
identification of projects for support, notably de Groot’s AHRC-funded project
(£167,556, 2017-19), ‘Double Helix History: DNA and Understanding the Past.’ This
project exemplifies new EAC priorities in integrating partnership-building (National
Archives, community groups, businesses including Ancestry.com), knowledge
transfer (findings communicated through formats including the open access blog,
The Conversation, with its monthly readership of 10.7 million), and direct social
engagement. Facing outwards, the project challenges and enriches the ways in
which ‘amateur’ historians think about their relationship to their past, to their
genetics, to archives and libraries, and to local, national and international history.
Other projects with the potential for significant impact currently in development cover
the meanings of mourning (Baker); medical humanities (Gallagher); trans identities
and science fiction (Gavin); craft and curiosity (Paz, Bernau); and Ecocriticism and
the Digital Humanities (Taylor, Dawson).
Research and Impact Objectives
Over the coming period we will continue to develop our Research Groups as central
hubs through which EAC researchers are supported to engage with and challenge
their disciplines, periods and subfields. We will make replacement and (resources
permitting) expansion appointments to nurture our period coverage and our
particular strength in gender and sexuality studies. To increase the resource and
social impact of our research, we will increase the number of our researchers
engaged with the more public-facing interdisciplinary work of school-wide Research
Centres and engagement with the University’s SALC-led Creative Manchester
platform. One strategy here, following the example of our Medieval and Early
Modern researchers, will be to assess the viability of upscaling the activity of some
of our Research Groups into School-wide interdisciplinary centres, a process
underway in the case of the Modernism Research Group. Another strategy is
targeting EAC resources to nurture new fields of interest that cut across disciplines
and periods with a view to the creation of new, socially-engaged collaborative
projects and the structures to support them. Promising fields currently being
developed through symposia and day-schools include the environmental
humanities (Bernau, Christou, Dawson, de Groot, Geidel, Spencer, Taylor,
Quinn, Paz, Walther) and the analysis of world-systems, capital and class
(Alderson, Fraser, Harker, Knight, Sanders, Spencer, Quinn).
Embedding Research in the Region
Developing outward-facing work and embedding our research in the region’s
cultural infrastructure is one of our major achievements in this REF cycle. We
intend to extend and deepen this work, with the overarching goal of supporting and


                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


enhancing mutually beneficial, sustainable collaborations with diverse cultural
partners in order to consolidate and develop the UNESCO-recognised status of the
city as a cultural global leader. More targeted work will be undertaken to develop
and lead multi-partner funded projects based in the holdings of the John Rylands
Library, especially the Modern Literature Archive (Section 3). Recent and ongoing
work with existing partner libraries, archives and community groups will be
intensified and new collaborations developed through large scale grant
applications. EAC will also continue to extend the international reach of its research
culture, drawing on UNESCO structures and resources and continuing to forge
connections with global scholars, libraries and archives through our Research
Centres, Research Groups and JETF scheme. Building on the success of the
Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies and the American Studies Research
Group, we will seek to scale up our collaborations with Universities of Toronto and
Melbourne, strategic institutional partnerships which the University is supporting
through pump-prime funding. We will seek low carbon modes of collaboration to
offset the potential environmental impact of such work.
Open Access
The re-thinking of the structure, resourcing and coordination of our Research
Groups and Centres since REF2014 has enabled a more pro-active approach to
opening public access to creative work and research outputs. The editorial work of
EAC researchers across Research Groups has driven open access publishing
initiatives and shared good practice: for instance, James Baldwin Review, co-
founded by Field in 2015, is published open-access by Manchester University
Press; Manchester Review, the online journal founded by CNW in 2008, brings free-
to-view texts from authors including John Banville, Jennifer Egan, Paul Muldoon, Ali
Smith and Jeanette Winterson to 5000 readers per issue. EAC staff have made
public interventions into debates about open access research, with Zacek outlining
strategies for connecting academic research with public activism in the Times Higher
(5/7/18) and Harte sharing his experience of collaboration with creative partners in
‘Transforming Research into Art’ (2017) in Irish Studies Review.
EAC has collaborated with cultural partners - especially heritage organisations,
public libraries and cultural institutions in Manchester and beyond - to advise on and
promote collections for the benefit of diverse communities. Coghlan is an academic
advisor for the Musée Franco-Americaine in Blérancourt, France. Researchers from
the Eighteenth and Nineteenth-Century Studies and Modernist Research Groups
support key libraries and archives in the city and nationally facilitating acquisitions
and shaping public-facing initiatives to increase collection use. Sanders and Harker
work closely with Salford’s Working Class Movement Library (WCML), raising funds
and increasing public engagement, and helping to acquire and promote new
collections, recently including material from the estate of Ewan MacColl (2018). Both
also work closely with the People’s History Museum (PHM), Sanders through his
convening, consultancy and teaching work with the General Federation of Trade
Unions Educational Trust (GFTUET), while Harker’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship
(2016-17) enabled the cataloguing and opening to the public of 60 boxes of archive
material held by the PHM’s Labour History Archive and Study Centre, whose 1300
visitors per year include school-children and local historians. A free day-school
(2016) showcased and contextualised the newly catalogued material for 60
academics, activists, amateur historians and the general public. Newer EAC


                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


partners include Stockport’s Art for Recovery in the Community (ARC), a creative
arts organisation in an economically deprived neighbourhood for which Bernau ran
a series of free-to-access workshops (2018), sharing and shaping her research into
the historical meanings of curiosity with ARC participants. The creative work
produced in response was exhibited online and in the ARC Community Gallery.
EAC’s development of these relationships is ongoing: Caselli (Modernist Research
Group) was recently awarded for an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award project
with the PHM (2021-2024) and will form part of an EAC team leading an application
for a consortium of the city’s archives and libraries to achieve AHRC Collaborative
Doctoral Partnership status in the next round (2023-2026).


Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy

A dynamic research culture relies on a flow of excellent researchers; EAC has seen
significant, well-managed change in its staff since 2014. This has been the result of
strategic recruitment of new staff facilitated by considerable investment by the
University in our subject area. In total, 17 appointments have been made, including
12 new full and fractional posts to expand the unit: three in English Literature, three
in American Studies and six in Creative Writing. This expansion has included four
University of Manchester Presidential Fellowships (three-year research posts that
lead to permanent lectureships). All posts were strategically designed to map onto
emerging research priorities, and to deepen or extend our chronological coverage
and theoretical scope. Recruitment decisions have been consultative, with Research
Centres, Research Groups, staff away days and departmental meetings identifying
priorities and shaping job descriptions.

To ensure vitality and sustainability, EAC has continued to prioritise ECR
appointments, thereby balancing the department’s composition (31 department staff
are either Professors or SLs). The department has sustained its broad gender-
balance at all levels (56% women, 44 % men): four of our eleven professors, ten of
the new seventeen appointments and eight of the twenty colleagues promoted since
2014 are women. In line with our post REF2014 strategy, recruitment has also
extended the department’s international profile, ten of new appointees being from
outside the UK. The department’s historic BAME under-representation is being
urgently addressed: two of the new CNW hires and two of the four Presidential
Fellows are BAME women. These priorities have also changed the process of
selecting JETFs, who are nominated by EAC research staff and selected through
an annual poll. 50% of those now invited will be scholars of colour. Though initially
teaching-focused, our ‘decolonising the curriculum’ initiatives, led by Booth, are
conceived to engage more BAME students in research from undergraduate level
onwards, and ultimately to foster a more inclusive research culture.


Investment in the CNW in the survey period has consolidated the distinctiveness
and social benefit of our international creative work. Winterson’s visiting
professorship was made permanent in 2016. Several new appointments were



                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


geared towards deepening areas of EAC strength (poetry, historical fiction), and to
enhancing the dialogue between critical and creative practice-based research.
Others were driven to support expansion into new areas (playwriting, screen writing,
creative non-fiction) and to strengthen links with cultural partners. For instance,
CNW hired poet Michael Schmidt (OBE), founder and Editorial Director of Carcanet
Press whose archive is now held at the John Rylands Library’s Modern Literature
Archive Special Collection (MLASC), of which he is a co-director. This resource has
attracted new PGRs and poetry scholars, including Florence Impens, a Leverhulme
Trust Early Career Fellow (2016-19) and CNW affiliate. EAC and CNW’s
commitment to poetry (McAuliffe, Groarke, Dawson, Field, Paz, Rawes, Sanders,
Taylor) was strengthened by the appointment of Leviston (promoted to SL 2020), a
poet and critic whose second collection, Disinformation (2015), was shortlisted for
the International Dylan Thomas Prize. Novelist Underdown enhances EAC’s
strength in historical fiction. Her debut novel, The Witchfinder’s Sister (2017),
complements the award-winning fiction of McGuire and the critical expertise of de
Groot in the field. Expansion appointment Shamsie, adds to our strength in post-
colonial fiction (Booth, Spencer, Valassopoulos, Walther). The hiring of travel and
nature writer and broadcaster Clare reflects the strategic priority of augmenting
CNW’s strength in creative non-fiction and media work. The hiring of Gavin, an
experimental novelist (Midland, 2014; shortlisted for the Gordon Burn Prize) and
critic (Literature and Film, Dispositioned, 2014), demonstrates CNW’s dual
commitment to creative and critical modes.

A commitment to sharpening CNW’s industry focus led to the hiring of former Tindal
Street Press commissioning editor and Granta deputy editor and novelist Luke
Brown, author of My Biggest Lie (2014) and Theft (2020, shortlisted for the Gordon
Burn Prize), who organises a programme of visiting speakers from the book world,
strengthening CNW links with the publishing industry. To improve knowledge
transfer and industry links for the benefit of its practice-based research environment,
CNW also appointed additional new colleagues in a range of capacities. An
emerging focus since REF2014 has been in drama and screenwriting, a
development signalled by the launch of the Screenwriting MA (2015) and, jointly
with Drama (UoA33A), a Playwriting MA (2020). To support these programmes and
enable staff to keep their research rooted in externally-facing professional practice,
CNW made fractional appointments of playwright and screenwriter Tim Price
(winner of the 2018 James Tait Black Award), Emma Clarke (producer of films by
Andrea Arnold, Jane Campion and Shane Meadows), playwrights Anders
Lustgarten (winner of the 2011 Harold Pinter Playwriting Award), and Chloe Moss
(winner of the 2009 Susan Smith Blackburn Prize). To strengthen links with key
cultural partners, CNW appointed actor, writer and Associate Artist at the Royal
Exchange Theatre, Manchester, Maxine Peake as Honorary Professor of Literature
and Ellah Wakatama Allfrey (OBE), editor-at-Large at Canongate Books and a
former Man Booker judge, as CNW Senior Research Fellow. Central to Allfrey’s
role is the further development of EAC collaboration with Manchester’s leading
cultural centre HOME, established in 2015 with a cross-arts focus.

In English Literature EAC made four Lecturer appointments (Dawson, Schurink,
Paz, Rohrbach) to replace retiring professors (Duncker, Pearson, Owen-Crocker,
Tambling). Dawson brings the expertise in poetic form and nineteenth-century
cultural networks demonstrated in her OUP monograph, Victorian Poetry and the


                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Culture of Evaluation (2020). Schurink links existing strengths in late medieval and
seventeenth-century literature, and contributes the expertise in manuscript studies,
book history, translation and classical reception displayed in his two-volume, 750-
page scholarly edition, Plutarch in English, 1528-1603 (2020). Paz, a specialist in
early medieval literature, adds the expertise in early science fiction, material history
and the history of sound demonstrated in his open access Nonhuman Voices in
Anglo-Saxon Literature and Material Culture (2017), nominated for the University
English Book Prize and for the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists’ best first
monograph prize. Rohrbach brings new expertise in British Romanticism,
comparative Gothic literature and the voice, publishing in the survey period her
debut monograph, Modernity’s Mist: British Romanticism and the Poetics of
Anticipation (2015). Harker strengthens connections with the region’s cultural
organisations. His AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2016-17), run in collaboration with
the People’s History Museum, supported the completion of his University of Toronto
Press monograph, The Chronology of Revolution: Communism, Culture, and Civil
Society in Twentieth-century Britain (2021). Two of the four new Presidential Fellows
were also appointed to further diversify and strengthen our work in modern and
contemporary literature. Christou adds the expertise in critical theory, modernism
and postmodernism demonstrated in her CUP book, Eating Otherwise: The
Philosophy of Food in Twentieth-century Literature (2017), runner up in the 2018
University English prize for first monograph. Mentored by colleagues in the
Modernist Research Group, in 2020 she was awarded British Academy funding for
‘The Art and Artifice of Prediction,’ a project that brings together researchers from
City University, London, and Monash University, Melbourne. Walther contributes
expertise in Indian writing from the late colonial period to the present day, and
particular knowledge of contemporary South Asia and multispecies interactions in
postcolonial literature. Taylor, Presidential Fellow in Digital Humanities based in the
Department of Art History and Cultural Practices, is an active member of EAC’s
research culture, complementing our work in Romanticism and Victorian culture
with expertise in literary geographies of the long nineteenth century, spatial poetics,
and environmental humanities.

An EAC expansion appointment in American Studies, Geidel added the expertise in
Cold War cultural politics demonstrated in her University of Minnesota Press
monograph Peace Corps Fantasies: How Development Shaped the Global Sixties
(2015). She was subsequently awarded the Warren Centre Faculty Fellowship at
Harvard (2018-19). Two of the Presidential Fellows extend American Studies’
cultural and historical breadth. Fraser adds specialism in nineteenth-century
literature, print culture, and the history of science. His first book, Star Territory:
Printing the Universe in Nineteenth-Century America, is under contract with the
University of Pennsylvania Press. Raymundo brings expertise in Asian-American
culture within the racial and gendered formations of multiculturalism and is currently
completing her first monograph, ‘Asian America at the End of Multiculturalism.’

ECRs
Having recruited several early career colleagues during this REF cycle, EAC takes
its responsibilities toward them seriously. New lecturers benefit from a reduced
teaching and administration load (these duties are reduced by 25% in year one,
tapering to 15% in year three) which supports their ability to publish, while


                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Presidential Fellows’ research time is set at 100%, 75% and 50% respectively in
their first three years. ECRS are assigned an experienced colleague as a mentor
with whom to discuss strategic planning of their research career and to identify the
most suitable training and development opportunities from the many offered by the
University. They are guided through a four-year probation structured around the
FoH’s New Academics Programme (HNAP) - accredited by the Higher Education
Academy (HEA) - which includes research training and career planning advice. A
portfolio covering research, teaching and administrative strategies is drawn up at
the end of the programme, in consultation with the mentor.

All Researchers
Research time is protected; all nominate a weekly ‘research day’, accommodated in
the department’s ‘workload allocation model’ (WAM). All staff in receipt of external,
and in some cases internal research funding, are given commensurate relief from
teaching and administrative duties as part of their annual WAM allocation. EAC
researchers at all career stages benefit from voluntary annual Professional and
Development Reviews (P&DRs), which identify objectives for progression and
promotion. All are supported through the annual Personal Research Expectations
and Plans (PREP) process, during which priorities are identified through one-to-one
meetings with the Research Coordinator or another senior colleague. Newly
published outputs are peer-reviewed and graded by the University’s annual
Research Review Exercise (RRE), a rolling process which assists colleagues to
plan their REF submission. All academics are entitled to apply for a semester of
Institutional Research Leave (IRL) every seventh semester. The FoH and SALC
offered supplementary research leave and seed-corn funding during the current
REF cycle to support the completion of grant applications, outputs and impact work
(sixteen EAC staff benefitted). Staff can apply for up to an additional £6000 per
annum to fund research and impact activity from the SALC Research Office. All
research active staff receive a Personal Research Allowance (PRA) of £1000 per
year (increased from £600 since REF2014) for conference attendance and
research trips. The SALC Carer Support Scheme provides financial assistance for
eligible staff to attend conferences, research seminars and to conduct archive and
library visits.

Research Students
107 EAC PGRs have been awarded doctorates since REF2014, a 35% increase on
the previous REF cycle. Students are fully supported at every stage. Prospective
doctoral students are guided through the application process, receiving detailed
feedback on proposals and being interviewed by their prospective supervisors.
PGRs are assigned a panel of three academics (two supervisors and an
Independent Reviewer) and attend fortnightly supervisory meetings. Formal
progression panels convene twice a year, where supervisors and Independent
Reviewers assess work-in-progress. Students are also supported through the
University’s online system, eProg, which maps and measures progress on the route
to PhD completion.

PGRs are supported in professional development by interlocking Faculty, School
and Department structures. FoH PGR Support Services and Researcher



                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Development activities emphasise developing work for publication, employability and
knowledge transfer, and are complemented by FoH’s Developing Intellectual
Leaders Programme. Faculty also hosts and administers the AHRC North West
Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership, for which de Groot is director (from 2020;
deputy director in 2016-17).

SALC’s Associate Director of Research, PGR (Valassopoulos from 2019),
manages research development and training in coordination with
Artsmethods@manchester, which focusses on technical and theoretical training,
providing 20 seminars per year taught by academics. Funds are available in £500
blocks to support conference organisation and other student-led initiatives. SALC’s
Graduate School provides PGRs with equipment, a dedicated conference suite,
seminar rooms, a viva suite and social area, and runs events geared around
publication and impact strategy, raising and supporting PGR participation in
conferences and workshops, CV building, and job and funding applications. A
dedicated budget of up to £400 per student per annum supports these activities.
Each student has a free interlibrary loan and printing allowance.

Training in academic skills is embedded into EAC’s graduate research culture.
EAC’s annual autumn Postgraduate Welcome Symposium, initiated in 2017,
features presentations by advanced PhD students, with responses from an
academic. PGRs also present their work in the weekly EAC Seminar Series
(alongside more senior colleagues and in designated PGR sessions). Groups and
Centres regularly hire PGRs as Research Assistants, enhancing employability by
providing experience in editing, conference organization and data collection.

SALC’s PGR Carers’ Network supports students with caring responsibilities.
Students with long-term illnesses or disabilities are supported by the University’s
Disability Advisory and Support Service (DASS) and Counselling Services, with its
dedicated PGR Coordinator. SALC has a designated lead for wellbeing and runs
weekly workshops and activities. The EACW PGR coordinator offers pastoral
support to students in the capacity of Academic Advisor.

The quality of support and development that EAC PGRS receive before, during and
after their programmes is reflected in their achievements:

      18 have been hired in academic posts since REF 2014 including Doyle and
       Smith at Royal Holloway, Imsir at City University, Istanbul, Kilburn at the
       University of Notre Dame, Kim at Birkbeck, Moore at the University of
       Amsterdam, Kinnear at Cardiff and Yablokov at Leeds University.
      11 have secured fellowships including Bhanot (Leverhulme Early Career
       Fellowship, Leicester), Bradbury-Rance (Liberal Arts Early Career
       Development Fellowship, King’s College, London), Bride (British Research
       Council Fellowship, Library of Congress), Coluzzi (Irish Research Council
       Postdoctoral Fellowship, University of Cork; Leverhulme Early Career
       Fellowship, Warwick), Jones (ESRC Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship,
       University of Manchester), Stallard (Jacob M. Price Visiting Research
       Fellowship, University of Michigan) and West (Leverhulme Early Career


                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Fellow, Northumbria University).
      At least five have published books: Bradbury-Rance’s Lesbian Cinema After
       Queer Theory (2019) and Pountney’s The Literary Afterlife of Raymond
       Carver (2020) were published by Edinburgh University Press, O’Brien’s The
       Working Class and Twenty-First Century British Fiction (2019) by Routledge,
       West’s Ebony Magazine, Lerone Bennett Jr., and Popular Black History
       (2020) by the University of Illinois Press and Yablokov’s Fortress Russia:
       Conspiracy Theory in the Post-Soviet World (2018) by Polity.
      EAC PGRs have published articles in leading journals and won prizes. These
       include Journal of Postcolonial Writing (Saeed), Textual Practice and
       Literature & History (O’Brien), Key Words: A Journal of Cultural Materialism
       (Rushton, Vardy), Journal of American Studies and The Black Scholar (West)
       and Feminist Media Studies (Jones). Redfern won the Society for the Study of
       Medieval Languages and Literature Essay Prize (2018), Hoshino the British
       Association of Modernist Studies postgraduate essay prize (2018) and Jones
       the International Network for Social Analysis prize for Best Student Paper
       (2020).

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Creating a more outward-facing research environment supported by grant capture
has been a core priority for EAC post REF2014. Our progress is reflected in
significantly increased research income (more than 40% higher) and a doubling in
the value of research awards within the REF period. Colleagues have been more
actively matched by EAC’s Research Co-ordinator to suitable funding opportunities
and given resources to help them prepare applications (seedcorn money, access to
the grant-writing support team, research time). The focus on better embedding our
research in the region, supported by our new research structures (Research
Centres, Research Groups), has underpinned another key shift: before REF2014
the majority of EAC researchers applied for individual fellowship grants, with
diminishing returns. Our new strategy encourages researchers to develop projects
suited to collaborative and team-based grants, with particular emphasis on
partnership with the region’s and University’s libraries, archives and cultural
institutions. The success of these strategies is reflected in the upward trajectory of
grant capture, with a 100% increase in income between 2016 and 2017, and
sustained increase since then.
University Infrastructure
To support grant capture, knowledge transfer and impact work, EAC has made
more systematic and strategic use of the University’s resources, especially the
John Rylands Library, the largest non-legal deposit library in the UK and the only
National Research Library in the north of England (Section 4.2 Institutional
Statement). Key has been building activities and applications around Special
Collections (1.4 million items, 250,000 printed volumes), in particular the Modern
Literature Archive Special Collection (MLASC), co-directed by Schmidt, with
McAuliffe as an advisor. MLASC holdings, for instance, were used to structure
‘Archival Afterlives: Post-war Poetry in English’ (2017) a conference which brought
together international poets, critics and publishers including EAC’s Field,
McAuliffe, Groarke and Schmidt into dialogue around the collection’s significance.



                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


McAuliffe is currently developing an AHRC Research Grant application based on
the MLASC Carcanet archive.
MLASC has also formed the basis of EAC research projects run in conjunction with
the John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI). Baker, Caselli, Field, Schurink and
Rohrbach have received JRRI seed-corn funding to support outputs, events and
grant applications since REF2014. Open to the general public, Baker’s workshop
‘Good Grief: Historical Perspectives on the Regulation of Mourning’ (2018), for
instance, brought together 30 researchers from five academic disciplines, raising
awareness of archive holdings through talks and a display. EAC also collaborated
with the JRRI to co-host the interdisciplinary Lives and Afterlives of Letters Network
(2017-18), which in turn shaped the new Manchester Centre for Correspondence
Studies (MCCS), co-founded and co-directed by Field. Another JRRI / MLASC
collaboration led by Field has extended and raised the profile of MLASC’s holdings
of avant-garde and counter-cultural archives. Field advised on the expansion of the
Jeff Nuttall Collection, suggesting key items for purchase and was part of a team
that also secured the papers of Nuttall’s associate Dave Cunliffe for the MLASC.
Field subsequently co-curated two exhibitions based on this material including ‘Off
Beat: Jeff Nuttall and the International Underground’ at the John Rylands Library
(2017) and created an innovative digital map of Nuttall’s networks hosted by the
library (120,000 visitors). This JRRI-funded project demonstrates EAC research
shaping and developing new archive resources, raising public awareness of
collections and promoting the region’s cultural resources.
Other researchers in the American Studies Research Group have collaborated with
the Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Race Archives and Cultural Engagement Centre (RACE), an
open-access resource and community centre managed by the University and
accommodated in Manchester Central Library specialising in the study of race,
ethnicity and migration and dedicated to encouraging ‘confidence and pride in
BAME people.’ Supported by two SALC Social Responsibility and Engagement
awards, Quinn partnered with the centre to establish their Hip Hop Collection
(2017), a resource for researchers, teachers and the public. American Studies
colleagues also collaborated with the centre in planning public events as part of the
2016 Taylor Fellow visit of Black Studies professor and activist, George Lipsitz.
The further development of EAC’s work with the city’s cultural archive holdings will
be the focus of our research away day in Autumn 2021.
Research Income
The more coordinated impact and income-capture strategy which has defined
EAC’s work post REF2014 has been supported by improved SALC processes.
Introduced in 2015, the Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP) (see Section
2) has improved processes for identifying and supporting new projects likely to
attract competitive funding. Projects are now tracked via an Intent to Apply form
(introduced 2018) through which researchers are assigned targeted assistance
from the SALC research office and grant writing support team. This structured
support in grant writing is underpinned with feedback by senior researchers through
SALC Peer Review College, a body created in 2015 to improve the quality of grant
applications.




                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We have more systematically targeted internal funds to support key priorities. Since
2014 Harker, Harte, Knight and Quinn have benefitted from combinations of FoH
and SALC seed-corn schemes to support their successful AHRC applications while
Harte, Knight, McAuliffe and Stacey have been awarded funds for ICS
development.
We have improved our targeting of Research Council schemes geared around
supporting impact, notably the AHRC Leadership Fellowship Scheme initiated in
May 2014. Representing the work of three of the five Groups, de Groot (£167,556,
2017-2019), Harker (£143,026, 2016-17) and Quinn (£201,168, 2019-20) made
successful applications.
We have also prioritised projects that have captured small or medium sized grants
for developing research into more substantial applications, a successful strategy
illustrated in the work of three EAC researchers. Valassopoulos, the recipient of a
British Academy Research Grant in the last REF cycle (2011-2014, £30,000),
followed with a British Academy/Leverhulme Senior Fellowship (£46,838, 2017-18)
for ‘Palestine in the Popular Imagination’. This in turn laid the ground for her
collaboration with an international and interdisciplinary consortium as CI on a
Global Challenges Research Fund award for Maghreb Action on Displacement and
Rights (total £1,872,000). Harte secured AHRC Follow on Funding (£79,067, 2014-
15) and an AHRC Connected Communities Grant (£4998, 2015) to develop the
collaborations described in the impact case study ‘Changing Public Perception and
Creative Practice Around the Migrant Experience in Britain’, followed up with an
AHRC Standard Grant (£808,831, 2019-2021), ‘Conflict, Memory and Migration:
Northern Irish Migrants and the Troubles in Great Britain.’ Knight was awarded two
AHRC grants for his interdisciplinary work on the history of capitalism (£37,298,
2009-2011; £87,248, 2013-14), a project subsequently supported by two further
awards, from the Arts Council (£13,500, 2014) and the AHRC
(£362,320; Knight CoI, £57,000 to UoM, 2016-19). This pattern of cumulative grant
capture and international, interdisciplinary research leadership supports not only
the impact case study, ‘Show Me the Money: Improving Public and Professional
Understanding of Economics and Finance’, but also Knight’s €650,000 EU COST
Action for the Comparative Analysis of Conspiracy Theories (COMPACT) (2016-
20). With its network of 150 researchers from 35 countries, COMPACT organised
12 events between 2016 and 2020, including workshops involving stakeholders
from government, NGOs and journalism.
In addition to academic publications (including the Routledge Handbook
of Conspiracy Theories), new collaborative research projects, grant applications
and the mentoring of ECRs (two went on to Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships),
COMPACT also produced a podcast series and accompanying articles in
collaboration with The Conversation (70,000 downloads of the podcast, 1 million
readers of the articles). The collaborations created through this network enabled
Knight to bid through the UKRI Covid-19 Rapid Response scheme, receiving an
award (£277,000 total; £128,000 to UoM, 2020), in conjunction with researchers
from King’s College London and the University of Amsterdam, to analyse and
combat the spread of coronavirus conspiracy theories on social media. He will now
be extending his collaborative, interdisciplinary research on conspiracy theories as
PI on a recently funded AHRC Research Grant project, ‘Everything is Connected’
(£922,000, 2020).


                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The success of these development reflects the increased ambition of EAC’s
collaboration-based, grant-supported impact work since REF2014. Continuing to
increase grant capture remains a central objective. Key strategies here include
intensified mentoring for ECRs, including Presidential Fellows, to ensure that
researchers apply to the most appropriate early career schemes. Building on the
2020 success of Harker (£95,426), we will target AHRC Follow-on Funding for
Impact and Engagement Applications to sustain funded projects. Colleagues with
experience as Co-Is will be supported to develop new applications as PIs. More use
will be made of the AHRC Networking Scheme to germinate collaborative
international projects. Large grant applications will be developed by the Research
Groups and Research Centres. Senior colleagues with strong records of grant
capture will mentor mid-career colleagues, especially those recently successful in
the AHRC Leadership Fellow Scheme, to develop larger applications for awards -
including AHRC Research Grants, Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships and
UKRI cross-council calls with an arts and humanities component.
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
society

Three mutually reinforcing objectives shaped our collaborative work in the current
review period:

      embedding our research in Greater Manchester’s infrastructure to support the
       development of the city and region as a cultural centre;
      raising the distinctiveness and profile of our research through improved,
       intensified and mutually beneficial engagement with cultural partners
       including galleries, museums, theatre companies and the media;
      continuing to develop leadership of our disciplines, shaping socially-engaged
       intellectual agendas and emerging methodologies through learned societies,
       publishers, journals, associations and conferences.

City and Region

As McAuliffe wrote of the UNESCO City of Literature designation, ‘it felt as if the
city’s fragmented history and current disparate networks of writers, publishers and
readers could be seen for the first time’ (Manchester Review, December 2017).
Integral to the University’s Creative Manchester project, the application built upon
and developed EAC’s leading role in the annual Manchester Literature Festival
(MLF, founded 2006), which runs over eighty events per year. De Groot was MLF
Chair of the Board of the Trustees (2008-2019) and Mitchell shapes the programme
as CNW co-director. Reflecting these roles, de Groot was lead and chair, and
McAuliffe and Mitchell members of the UNESCO bid steering group, assisted by
University resources including £7,500 from the Investing in Success scheme. The
three-year core UNESCO funding, secured in partnership with Manchester City
Council and Manchester Metropolitan University, supports three project managers
across the city to promote the City of Literature. Key schemes include the ‘Other
Place’ publishing hub, which works to consolidate Manchester as a publishing
centre; with additional funding from Arts Council England (£10,000k) and Penguin
Random House (£10,000k), the project supports the MLF and independent
publishers in the city (Comma Press, Carcanet). ‘Read Manchester’, run in


                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


partnership with Manchester City Council, confronts illiteracy, supporting local
communities to make reading a priority in everyday lives. EAC’s ongoing work with
local archives and libraries, meanwhile, is reflected in two UNESCO-supported
cultural festivals, the Manchester Libraries Festival and the International Mother
Language Day. The latter celebrates language diversity and is run with SALC’s
Multilingual Manchester initiative (led by Modern Languages), and cultural partners
including the Manchester Deaf Centre and the city’s public libraries.

Intensified work with Manchester museums and galleries has further enriched EAC
research and embedded it within the region’s culture. Knight’s AHRC-funded
research on capitalism and the need for higher levels of economic literacy shaped
‘Show Me the Money’, a major exhibition which toured five venues in the UK
including Manchester’s People's History Museum, attracting a combined audience of
55,000. Harker’s AHRC-funded project ‘Wars of Position: Communism and Civil
Society’ created and funded a new archivist post at the same venue, shaped a four-
month long pop-up exhibition (10,000 visitors) in 2017 and resourced and managed
the redesign of sections of the museum’s permanent display (80,000 visitors per
year). Stacey’s research on the queerness of the genetic imaginary in cinema
informed the installation of ‘The Agent Ruby Files’ as part of The Imitation Game
exhibition at the Manchester Art Gallery in 2016 (178,000 visitors). Zacek’s research
enabled the Portico Library’s ‘Bittersweet: Legacies of Slavery and Abolition in
Manchester’ (2017), an exhibition committed to educating the public about
Abolitionism, and featuring the work of Turner Prize winning artist Lubaina Himid.
Performance and Media
EAC researchers shape programmes at many venues across the city, notably
Manchester’s HOME. Pearl’s research formed the basis of a collaboration to bring
Avram Finkelstein of New York ACT UP to the UK to launch at HOME, After Silence:
A History of Aids Through Its Images (2018); Sanders co-curated a season of films
about women and trade unionism (2020); Valassopoulos co-curated the Middle
Eastern sequence of the Celebrating Women in Global Cinema season (2019-20).
EAC is increasingly bringing its research and creativity to new audiences through
theatre and performance. Harte’s research on Irish identity was dramatized in Martin
Lynch’s play My English Tongue, My Irish Heart, seen by 2073 people across 16
venues in the UK and Ireland in 2015. Stacey’s research informed the productions
of lesbian theatre company Split Britches between 2014 and 2019 and Sanders’ the
work of Townsend Theatre Productions, notably On the Road to Freedom (2015).
Harker’s research fed into the same company’s Daredevil Rides to Jarama (2016)
and will form the basis of the company’s next play, which deals with the Upper Clyde
Shipbuilders’ 1971-72 work-in, and will tour the UK in 2021-22. Booth collaborated
with Opera North, giving a public lecture in the series of events around their
production of Benjamin Britten’s Billy Budd and wrote an essay for the programme
(2016).

Film, television and radio have also been increasingly important for communicating
our research since REF2014. McGuire’s multiple prize-winning novel The North
Water is being adapted as a mini-series for BBC television (2021). Winterson wrote
and presented the BBC Radio Four series, Manchester: Alchemical City (2014). Her
BBC Richard Dimbleby Lecture was broadcast twice on BBC One and once on BBC


                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Two, and she appeared on BBC Radio 4’s flagship Today programme to discuss its
arguments (2018). Shamsie guest-edited Today (2018), interviewing then Home
Secretary Sajid Javid MP. Scott wrote, edited and featured in Projections of
America (2015) which was screened at eighteen US film festivals and was the
Guardian critic’s choice on its UK television transmission. He was subsequently
hired as consultant for the ten-part Radio 4 documentary, ‘The Californian Century’
(2020). Clare works extensively on BBC radio, recently writing and presenting three
documentaries for Radio 3 and five for Radio 4. Leviston wrote and presented the
Radio 3 Essay, ‘An Ode to John Keats: To Autumn’ (2019) and collaborated with
composer Martin Suckling for ‘Memento’ / ‘Emily Electrical Absence’ also transmitted
on Radio 3 (2017).

EAC researchers have also shaped programmes through prominent consultancy
roles. Field was a consultant on Raoul Peck’s Oscar-nominated and BAFTA-award
winning documentary I Am Not Your Negro (2016). David Brown and Booth have
been consultants and interviewees for BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time: Booth on
Rudyard Kipling (2014), Brown on the Lancashire Cotton Famine (2015). Brown
and Field have been advisors and discussants on BBC Radio 4’s Great Lives for
the episodes on George Washington Williams (2015) and James Baldwin (2015)
respectively. Brown was also an historical advisor for the BBC Two Documentary,
Black and British: A Forgotten History (2016). Harker was a consultant and
interviewee for ‘The Real MacColl’ (Radio 4, 2015, repeated on Radio 2; Radio
Times pick of the week) and ‘Soul Music: The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face’
(BBC Radio 4, 2016; Radio Times pick of the day). Zacek was a consultant and
interviewee for BBC Four’s Lost Masterpieces (2018), and an interviewee for
Turkey’s TRT World news channel (25/6/20) and Cornelia Street Productions’
series Enslaved (Epix, CBC and BBC Two). Schurink gave a pre-concert talk with
the Director of the BBC Philharmonic at the Bridgewater Hall (2019).

Research Base

Committed to shaping debates about our disciplines’ futures, EAC researchers
have been appointed to leading international committees and funding bodies.
Colleagues serve on the AHRC Peer Review college: Field (2016-), Caselli (2009-
18), Doan (2012-15), Harte (2016-), Matthews (2017-), Valassopoulos (2019-)
and Zacek (2019-). McAuliffe was appointed to the Irish Arts Council in 2013,
where he co-wrote the Council’s ten-year strategy. EAC researchers peer review
for international funding bodies, including Doan (Netherlands Organisation for
Scientific Research, 2018), Coghlan (US-UK Fulbright Commission Grant Assessor
2014-18), Caselli (Research Foundation, Flanders, 2016; Academy of Finland,
2018) and Mitchell (Research Foundation, Flanders, 2015). Groarke was on the
judging panels of the International Dublin Literary Award (2018) and the Montreal
International Poetry Prize (2017), and a selector for the Poetry Book Society (2015-
17).
EAC researchers shape critical agendas by leading a range of learned societies.
Caselli is President of the International Beckett Society, overseeing its international
events, conferences, media work and publications. Harker is the Chair of the
Raymond Williams Society, an organisation committed to advancing adult
education, and Alderson an Executive Committee member. Rawes is an Executive



                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Committee member of the London Byron Society and Joint President of the
International Association of Byron Societies. Sanders is on the Executive
Committees of the Society for the Study of Labour History and the European
Labour History Network. Taylor is on the Executive Committee of the British
Association for Victorian Studies and Quinn on the Executive Committee of the
British Association for American Studies, with an environment and sustainability
remit. Pearl is on the Advisory Board of the Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick Foundation and
on the Advisory Board for the Cultural Legacy of AIDS in Denmark research project.
Coghlan served as an elected member of the steering committee of the British
Association of Nineteenth-Century Americanists (2014-17).
The international profiles of EAC researchers have been reflected in fellowships
and visiting lectureships in many countries. Visiting chairs include Alderson
(Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2014-15), Caselli (Universities of Tokyo 2017,
Rome 2018), Field (Minsk Linguistic University, Belarus 2018), Scott (Central
Washington University, 2016-17), Stacey (Gothenburg University, 2014) and Zacek
(Minsk Linguistic University, Belarus 2019). Baker was Visiting Academic at the
University of Queensland (2019), Mitchell was awarded an Experienced
Researcher Fellowship by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (2014-15),
Dawson was an Affiliated Fellow at the Central European University, Budapest
(2017), Geidel secured a Research Award at the Rockefeller Archive Centre in
2017, and Groarke was Cullman Fellow at New York Public Library (2018-19) and
Visiting Fellow of the Bogliasco Foundation, Italy (2019).
Colleagues at all levels have delivered keynote addresses in many countries.
Professorial keynotes include Caselli at the ICA (2018), the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem (2017) and the University of Leuven (2016); Doan at the British
Academy (2014) and Wellcome Trust (2014); Gladfelder at the University of
Toronto (2016); and Schmidt at the Robert Graves Conference, Majorca (2018).
Stacey gave the Film Studies Lecture at Cambridge (2017) and the keynote at ‘The
Cultural Politics of DNA’ conference, University of Calgary (2019). Senior Lecturer
keynotes include Alderson (Chuo University, Tokyo, 2015), Booth (D.H. Lawrence
Society Birthday Lecture, 2015; ‘Kipling and Europe’, Bologna, 2016), Gallagher
(Edinburgh’s Royal College of Physicians, 2019), Rawes (‘Between Worlds,
Between Works: Byron in 1817’, 2017) and Zacek (‘Ireland, the British Empire, and
the Caribbean’ conference at University College, Dublin, 2017). Groarke gave a
reading at the Irish Embassy, Tanzania (2016) and at Columbia University (2019),
the latter introduced by the Irish Ambassador to the US. Lecturer keynotes include
Clare (British Council Nature Writing Conference, Munich 2018), Pearl (ACT UP
30th anniversary conference, 2017), Rohrbach (Keats Foundation conference,
2019) and Presidential Fellow Taylor gave the keynote at the HistFest
Postgraduate Conference, Lancaster (2019).
EAC researchers shape their fields through work for major journals. This includes
founding important publications: Schmidt founded and edits PN Review. Field,
who has published over 25 reviews and articles in the TLS since REF2014, co-
founded and edits the James Baldwin Review. McAuliffe founded and edits
Manchester Review.
Colleagues edit leading publications. Groarke was editor of Poetry Ireland Review
(2014-17), Bernau is editor of Exemplaria: Medieval / Early Modern / Theory,
Mitchell is UK editor of Contemporary Women’s Writing and Zacek editor-in-chief


                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


of American Nineteenth Century History. Alderson is an editor of Key Words: A
Journal of Cultural Materialism and Baker of Literature and Theology, Caselli an
editor of the Journal of Beckett Studies, Knight of Finance & Society, Harker of
Twentieth Century Communism, and Harte of Irish Studies Review. Mitchell is an
editorial board member of Open Gender and C21, Rawes of The Byron Journal,
Rohrbach of the Keats-Shelley review, Schurink of Renaissance Studies and
Spencer of the Journal of Postcolonial Writing and the Journal of Commonwealth
Literature. Stacey is a co-editor of Screen and on the editorial boards of GLQ: A
Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies and Feminist Media Studies. Taylor co-edits
the Journal of Victorian Culture’s digital forum. David Brown was reviews editor for
American Nineteenth Century History (2005-16), and Valassopoulos is an editor of
the Journal of Postcolonial Writing and an associate editor of The Contemporary
Levant.
Colleagues peer-review submissions for international journals and academic
publishers and edit book series. Bernau, Paz and Matthews edit the Manchester
Medieval Literature and Culture series for MUP; Bernau, de Groot and Field are
on the MUP editorial committee, as was Caselli (2009-18). Knight is co-editor of
the Literature, Culture, Economics book series at Palgrave and the Conspiracy
Theories series at Routledge. McAuliffe is a board member at Carcanet and was
appointed as Associate Publisher in July 2020. Rawes is a series editor for
Liverpool University Press’s Romanticism: English Texts and Studies series and an
advisory board member for OUP’s Complete Works of Robert Burns. Spencer is a
series editor for Palgrave’s New Comparisons in World Literature book series, and
Mitchell for Bloomsbury’s Contemporary Critical Perspectives. Scott is on the
editorial board of Bloomsbury’s War, Culture and Society series, Schurink is an
editor of the MHRA Tudor & Stuart Translations, and Zacek is a series editor for a
monograph series run by the Royal Historical Society (New Historical Perspectives)
and the European Association for American Studies.

EAC writers and researchers have won seventeen international prizes between
them during this REF period. Clare won the Stanford Dolman Travel Book of the
Year Prize (2015) and the Branford Boase Best Debut Children’s Book (2016),
Coghlan the Arthur Miller Institute First Book Prize (2017), Knight and Quinn the
British Association of American Studies Book Prize (2017, 2020). Fraser won the
William Riley Parker Prize (2015) and the 1921 Prize in American Literature (2019).
Leviston won the Andrew J. Kappel Prize (2015). Groarke won the Pigott Prize
(2017) and was the 2017 inductee into the Irish Literary Hall of Fame. McAuliffe
won the Michael Hartnett Award for the best poetry collection (2016), McGuire won
the RSL Encore Award (2016), the HWA Golden Crown Award (2016), the Prix des
gens de Mer-Etonnants Voyageurs (2017) and the Costa Smeralda Prize (2019).
Underdown won the Historical Writers’ Association Debut Crown (2017) and
Shamsie the 2018 Women’s Prize for Fiction. Scott won the Dallas VideoFest’s
award for Best Documentary.

EAC researchers have led the organization of over a dozen major international
conferences since REF 2014. Alderson organised the first annual Raymond
Williams Society Conference (2019), Coghlan was on the organizing committee of
the second and third biennial symposia of the British Association of Nineteenth-
century Americanists (2015,2017), Fearnley co-organized ‘Race Capital?: Harlem



                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


as a Place and Symbol Since 1900’ (2015). Mitchell co-organised ‘Writing Affect’ at
the Humboldt University, Berlin (2015), Paz brought to Manchester the Teachers of
Old English in Britain and Ireland conference (2019), Rawes has co-organised
international conferences on Byron in Manchester (2014), Bath (2015) and Genova
(2017). Schurink co-organised the conference ‘Sir John Cheke and the Cambridge
Connection in Tudor England’ (2014) and ‘Editing Tudor Literature’ (2014). De
Groot is the University lead for the ‘English: Shared Futures 2020’ conference, co-
organised with Manchester Metropolitan University and the University of Salford.
Postponed until 2021, this event will bring 750+ delegates to the city. Its concerns
with defining the discipline, interdisciplinarity, collegiality, period coverage,
knowledge transfer, social benefit and securing the vitality and sustainability of
English studies reflect the core concerns of EAC’s research culture since REF2014.

In sum, EAC is an intellectually vibrant unit, which makes significant and often
internationally leading contributions across its three disciplines. Through
collaborations with its regional, national and international cultural partners and
networks its research confronts inequality, promotes social justice and engages
diverse communities.




                                                                               Page 20
