Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of Assessment: 8 (Chemistry)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 The core mission of the Department of Chemistry is to advance chemical knowledge, and to use
 that knowledge to overcome challenges facing society. Underpinning this mission is the strategic
 aim to sustain world-class ability in fundamental chemical research, including: nurturing brilliant
 early career researchers (ECRs); encouraging a culture of openness and diversity; provision of
 cutting-edge infrastructure; reaching out to other disciplines, industry, public services, policy
 makers and the general public.
 The Unit is within the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE). Research is based in four
 buildings: the Chemistry Building, Manchester Institute of Biotechnology (MIB), Dalton Cumbrian
 Facility (DCF) and the Photon Science Institute (PSI). The Department is one of the largest in the
 world with >70 permanent academic staff, >360 PhD students, >160 postdoctoral researchers,
 >50 M.Sc. researchers and >120 M.Chem project students every year. We host >80 international
 visitors every year at senior and ECR level.
 Highlights since REF2014 include:
   Open research awards from UKRI as PI >£76 million(M) on 31/07/2020.
   A Royal Society Research Professorship to Leigh (2016-).
   Seven ERC Advanced Grant Holders (Flitsch, Larrosa, Leigh, Leys, Schröder, N.Turner and
    Winpenny); this is the largest accumulation of ERC AdGs in Europe.
   Election of Morris, Scrutton and N.Turner as Fellows of the Royal Society (FRS), joining Leigh.
   Queens Anniversary Prize award (2019) to MIB for pioneering expertise in industrial
    biotechnology (IB).
   Award of thirty-two RSC prizes, including nine in 2020.
   Thirty-two appointments have been made, ten at professorial level. Eleven of these new
    colleagues hold externally funded fellowships.
   A £55M investment in refurbishing the Chemistry building, including a new Centre for
    Radiochemistry Research (CRR) that will host a National Nuclear User Facility (NNUF2)
    enabling synthetic transuranic chemistry in the UK.
   Leadership of multiple multi-institute initiatives in engineering biology/biotechnology including
    BBSRC/EPSRC SYNBIOCHEM Centre (£10.2M) and the EPSRC Future Biomanufacturing
    Research Hub (FBRH, £10M from UKRI and £5.7M from industry).
   Multiple UKRI equipment awards giving world-leading capability in X-ray diffraction, NMR and
    EPR spectroscopy, mass spectrometry (MS), magnetic characterisation, and radiochemistry.
    Industry has invested in new mass spectrometers and The University of Manchester (UoM)
    has invested in a characterisation suite for porous materials.
   Access to new multidisciplinary facilities within the National Graphene Institute (NGI, opened
    2015), the Graphene Engineering Innovation Centre (GEIC, opened 2018) and the Henry
    Royce Institute (Royce, operational since 2020).
   >2200 outputs including >80 papers in Science or Nature group.
 All statements in this document refer to the assessment period (01/08/2013 – 31/07/2020) unless
 otherwise stated.
 Research structure
 The Head of Department (HoD) delegates research strategy to a Director of Research and line
 management to six heads of research groupings: Analytical methods and physical chemistry
 (AMP), Chemical biology and biological chemistry (CBBC), Computational and theoretical
 chemistry (CAT), Inorganic chemistry (INO), Materials chemistry (MAT), and Organic chemistry
 (ORG). Staff are encouraged to work across groupings. Colleagues who work closely together,
 have on occasion, been placed in different groupings to increase cross-fertilisation of ideas.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research strategy
 After REF2014 we reviewed and simplified our strategy under a new Head of Department. We:
        adopted a new structure to integrate staff joining us from the Faculty of Life Science;
        adopted a structure that maintains strengths in core chemistry (e.g. INO and ORG) while
         growing activity at the interfaces (e.g. with CBBC and MAT) and that attracts new staff and
         that enables all staff to develop their own disruptive ideas;
        promoted a diverse portfolio of research grants ranging from fellowships to large
         collaborative grants;
        internally peer-reviewed submission of manuscripts to increase the quality of outputs;
        embedded EDI (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion), e.g. strong participation in the FSE
         Dame Kathleen OIlerenshaw Fellowships;
        identified opportunities for impact and supported these through sabbaticals and targeted
         funding;
        used UKRI strategic equipment funds, industry and Royce to improve infrastructure.
 We believe research leadership must let researchers flourish by letting them pursue their own
 goals and develop their own collaborations. Where close collaborations build a powerful team we
 encourage such teams to grow, for example in biotechnology, molecular magnetism, catalysis.
 Implementation details are given in Section 3. We have moved out of some areas or transferred
 elsewhere (e.g. environmental radiochemistry is now within the Department of Earth and
 Environmental Sciences).
 Our research strategy is not driven by statistics, which never capture the whole picture, however
 the indicators in Table 1 reflect the success of our staff over the REF2021 period. On 31/07/2020
 researchers in the Department of Chemistry held >£76M in open peer reviewed UKRI grants as
 PIs (Table 1). These numbers place us first among UK Chemistry departments for EPSRC,
 BBSRC and overall UKRI grants. At REF2014 we reported £43M in open grants, which included
 European and industrial funding.
  Table 1. Open UKRI research awards,a ERC awards and Nature index on 31/07/2020 for
  the Unit
  Institution      Value           Value            Total   UKRIb ERC awards        Nature Indexc
                   EPSRC/£         BBSRC/£          /£
  Manchester       52,838,994      22,219,003       76,577,522      12              3
 a. Data from https://gtr.ukri.org on 24/02/21; the numbers exclude eleven EPSRC, five BBSRC
 and one NERC awards totalling £5,839,100, £2,473,485 and £5,966 respectively with start-dates
 post 31/07/20.
 b. Also includes NERC and STFC.
 Manchester was third in the UK in the 2020 Nature index for Chemistry, based on outputs in
 leading journals (https://www.natureindex.com). For Unit papers assigned to the Chemistry
 subject category by SciVal (1594 papers), 20.5% are in the top 10% most cited.
 Progress since REF2014 and how our plans have been implemented
 Shortly after REF2014 a university restructure added twelve colleagues in biological chemistry;
 we restructured internally to bring together strengths in biological chemistry and revised our
 strategy under a new Head of School. Refurbishment of the Chemistry Building was an objective
 in REF2014. This is underway (completion 2024) and will provide expanded synthetic laboratory
 space and a brand new CRR, able to handle trans-uranic elements; this will form a NNUF2.
 We targeted increasing our involvement with industry and our success is noted below.
  AMP: We have grown three strategic areas, where we are either unique or world-leading. We
 have discontinued gas phase physical chemistry as we were no longer competitive.
 In NMR, methodological developments include “pure shift”, which increases chemical resolution
 by almost an order of magnitude, and further increases the power of DOSY for mixture analysis.
 An open-source software package for data analysis has been downloaded >1000 times to date.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New methods have been developed for identifying low-level impurities in pharmaceuticals, and for
 quantitation and for mixture analysis. NMR research in life processes has advanced understanding
 in protein conformation changes, enzyme catalysis of phosphate and methyl group transfer, and
 aggregation and amyloid formation. Biotherapeutics that remove amyloids have been studied. A
 700 MHz NMR spectrometer with unique reaction monitoring capabilities was obtained as EPSRC
 strategic equipment.
 Within MS, new methods have been developed for biology and medicine, including early-stage
 diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease (PD). We have established facilities for massive data storage
 and manipulation for synthetic biology. Use of TOF-MS for surface imaging is being developed
 within the Royce, funded by the EPSRC Strategic Equipment Fund. WatersTM (www.waters.com)
 fund our Chair of MS.
 The DCF is a unique £28M facility for radiation chemistry research geographically near the nuclear
 industry; this delivers impact within the UK’s nuclear programme. Researchers from >30
 universities and >30 companies collaborate with DCF, with >100 international visitors in 2019.
 DCF-based researchers have measured and modelled pressurisation of storage cans by
 hydrogen. Other studies have examined radiolytic formation of hydrogen in storage ponds
 containing sludges derived from Magnox cladding. Additional funding of £2.2M (largely from
 Royce) has been obtained to upgrade the analytical facilities in DCF.
 Published highlights: development of ultra-high-resolution pure shift NMR and its extension into
 DOSY and TOCSY (Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 6990; J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 11867);
 discovery of volatile biomarkers of PD (ACS Cent. Sci. 2019, 5, 599); enhanced ion yields from
 TOF-MS (Anal. Chem. 2015, 87, 2367).
  CAT: After retirements (Hillier, Connor) we are building around three areas: electronic structure,
 especially of heavy elements; biological processes; advanced materials. We recruited:
 Kaltsoyannis as a leader in electronic structure of heavy elements, linked to the nuclear industry
 for example through the multi-disciplinary DISTINCTIVE and TRANSCEND consortia, both involve
 universities and industry working on decommissioning and waste management; Skelton (UKRI
 FLF) studies lattice dynamics in advanced materials, linking to Royce; Chilton (RS URF and ERC
 StG) provides theoretical insight into molecular magnetism. These new appointments add to
 existing strengths modelling biological processes and method development (Popelier).
 CAT maximises impact by making software available: detection of key atoms governing chemical
 processes (Popelier); <PHI> downloaded by ~9,000 users in 88 countries to model magnetic data
 (Chilton); tools and workflows for studying heat transport (Skelton).
 Published highlights: enzyme catalysis (Nature 2019, 574, 722; J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142,
 10240), understanding of U-M bonding (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 3333), phonon mapping in
 Bi2Sn2O7 (Chem. Sci. 2020, 11, 7904), high blocking temperatures in molecular magnets (Nature
 2017, 548, 439).
  CBBC: This group integrates world-leading activity in biocatalysis, protein engineering,
 synthetic biology and biomanufacturing, and fundamental interdisciplinary biosciences. The main
 focus is on IB. We have uniquely established:
    1) a fully integrated and operational foundry for microbial production of fine and speciality
       chemicals through the SYNBIOCHEM Centre (£10.2M, Scrutton, Takano, N.Turner 2014-
       21);
    2) the EPSRC Future Biomanufacturing Research Hub (FBRH, £10M UKRI and £5.7M
       industry, Scrutton, 2019-27) coordinating UK academic, High Value Manufacturing
       catapult, and industrial capabilities to enable the complete biomanufacturing innovation
       pipeline in pharmaceuticals, value-added chemicals, engineering materials, and advanced
       biofuels;
    3) four networks in the UK biotechnology and bioenergy sector through BioCatNet
       (N.Turner), IBCarb (Flitsch and Field), NPRONET (Micklefield) and the EU-funded network
       CarboMet (Flitsch) (BBSRC funded, 2014-19).
 We have been awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education (to MIB,
 2020) and three ERC Advanced Grants. Scrutton and N.Turner were elected FRS in 2020. Notable

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recent grants include the Wellcome Director’s award (£10M total, £3.3M to Manchester, Cai) and
 a Royce award for rapid protein evolution (£2.1M, Green and Scrutton). We network with 115
 industrial partners (international pharmaceutical, chemical and energy companies), such as GSK,
 AstraZeneca, BASF, DSM, Codexis, Dr Reddys, Merck, Syngenta, Shell, and Prozomix. From
 these we have secured significant industrial investment, e.g. FBRH (£5.7M), CoEBio3 (£3.2M),
 Shell partnership (£2.5M), and Prosperity Partnership (£3M). Since REF2014, our research has
 also led to spin-out companies, including BioShape (Flitsch/Barran), C3 Biotech (Scrutton) and
 Iceni Diagnostics (Field).
 Published highlights: Enzyme catalysis (Nature 2015, 522, 497; Nature 2016, 539, 593; Nature
 2019, 574, 219; Nature Catalyst 2018, 1, 977); structural biology (Nature Chemical Biology 2017,
 13, 975); protein engineering (Nature 2019, 570, 219); and synthetic biology (Science 2017 355,
 1040; Science 2016 353, 126; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 2017 114, 1470).
  INO: Liddle was recruited to lead, and to strengthen f-block chemistry and molecular magnetism.
 2020 appointments (Mehta and Willcox) will build activity in homogenous catalysis, linking to ORG.
 Yang was appointed, alongside Schröder (in MAT), to refresh activity in porous materials.
 Research on radiochemistry led to an NNUF2 award (£4.2M) to establish a capability to make and
 to study complexes of the trans-uranics. Research on porous materials has been highlighted in
 the “UK Research and Development Roadmap” (1/7/2020, p47) as an example of UK ground-
 breaking technology impact. The EPSRC National EPR Facility and Service was renewed in 2014
 and has been used to study science from polysaccharide cleavage to actinide covalency. The
 molecular magnetism group published reports of the highest blocking temperatures and energy
 barriers in single-molecule magnets (SMMs).
 Published highlights: a paradigm-challenging study of --back-bonding between uranium and a
 poor -acceptor (Nature Chem. 2019, 11, 806); isolation of metallocene anions (Nature Chem.
 2020, doi.org/10.1038/s41557-020-00595-w); a direct measurement of covalency in actinides
 (Nature Chem. 2017, 9, 578); new selective biomass conversions (Nature Mater. 2020, 19, 86);
 new zeolites with active sites to purify ethylene (Science 2020, 368, 1002); metal-organic
 frameworks (MOFs) that can uniquely and reversibly adsorb highly corrosive NO 2 (Nature Mater.
 2018, 17, 691).
  MAT: We have refreshed the area in porous materials, appointing Schröder, and built on
 strengths in 2D-materials (Keerthi, linked to NGI/GEIC). We are developing sustainable materials
 linking to Royce. Collaborations are strong with the BP International Centre for Advanced
 Materials (BP-ICAM). One BP-ICAM project helped reduce wear in automotive engine
 components with a direct impact to BP of $1-10M (ICAM 2018 annual report). A collaborative
 project (ICAM15 and ICAM24) with Cambridge, Imperial and Illinois universities contributed to the
 development of a new fuel additive (Active Technology) for BP Ultimate Fuels.
 A multi-user “energy lab” has been set-up within the NGI (Dryfe), capable of small-scale battery
 and supercapacitor cell fabrication; this supports both internal and external industrial users. Dryfe
 also designed a dry room and facilities for larger-scale device fabrication within the GEIC.
 The Organic Materials Innovation Centre (OMIC, led by M.Turner) has built strong links in
 sustainable materials to Shaver (new appointment, Materials) and new staff are being recruited in
 organic electronics. New membrane science has been developed collaborating with Newcastle,
 Imperial, Edinburgh and Bath. We have extensive industrial collaborations on: graphene-based
 barrier materials with TWI Ltd; graphene-based coatings with Hempel; composites with Petronas.
 Molymen (based in GEIC) has been spun out from Dryfe’s lab, to develop water filtration
 membranes based on 2D-materials. Chromition and SciTron as spin-outs have arisen since 2014
 and polymers of intrinsic microporosity (PIMs) have been licensed to 3M.
 The materials activity at DCF has studied radiation effects in spent nuclear fuel recycling within
 the ATLANTIC consortium (involving 12 UK universities), and the BEIS Advanced Fuel Cycle
 Programme.
 Published highlights include: ballistic transport through 2D-channels (Nature, 2018, 558, 420);
 water-based biocompatible 2D-crystal inks for ink-jet printing (Nature Nanotech., 2017, 12, 343);
 a unified kinetic three-dimensional partition model to predict crystal growth (Nature, 2017, 544,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 456); separation of hydrocarbons in a functionalised MOF (Nature Chem. 2015, 7, 121); sieving
 hydrogen isotopes through 2D-crystals (Science, 2016, 351, 68).
  ORG: has built on strengths in three areas: homogeneous catalysis (recruiting Larrosa, Leonori);
 mechanistic study of reactions (Bures); supramolecular chemistry by developing
 mechanochemistry (De Bo). Our excellence led in 2018 to an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training
 (CDT) in Integrated Catalysis (https://www.icat.manchester.ac.uk, ca. £5.94M from EPSRC with
 further support from Arcinova, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Concept Life Sciences,
 GSK, and others), and links to bio-catalysis within CBBC and chemical engineers from
 Manchester.
 Supramolecular chemistry and molecular robotics are led by Leigh (Royal Society Research
 Professorship and EPSRC programme grant). Major progress has been made in designing
 programmable machines, and using knots to interlock complex structures.
 Published highlights include: a programmable molecular machine that can build molecules
 stereoselectively (Nature 2017, 549, 374); the 2D weaving of polymer chains (Nature, 2020, 588,
 429); the use of visible light to drive sustainable catalytic processes (Science 2020, 367, 1021);
 catalytic methods for late-stage modification of pharmaceuticals (Nature Chem. 2018,10, 724); the
 taming of highly reactive free-radicals for complex molecule synthesis (Nature Chem. 2017, 9,
 1198); development of a new mathematical treatment for the analysis of reaction kinetics (Angew.
 Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 2028).
 Future strategy 2021 - 2026
 Building on 2014 - 2020 our departmental strategic aims are:
    1. Complete the Chemistry building renovation (cost £55M, delivery date 2024). This will
       provide new synthetic space for our >200 synthetic researchers in addition to the CRR.
    2. Achieve ever greater translation of our world-leading biotechnology into biomanufacturing;
       the new EPSRC FBRH is core to this ambition.
    3. Bring together research in catalysis, integrating bio- and small molecule catalysis within
       the Department, and heterogenous catalysis (e.g. Hardacre, Chemical Engineering and
       Analytical Science (CEAS); Haigh, Materials).
    4. Establish the CRR and DCF as linked NNUFs contributing to our fundamental
       understanding of trans-uranic chemistry and impacting the nuclear industry.
    5. Demonstrate the potential of molecular robotics and molecular weaving to provide
       revolutionary nanotechnologies and materials.
 Plans for each of our research groupings are:
  AMP: We will target ultraclean high-resolution NMR spectra at high dynamic range, with
 applications in pharmaceuticals. This includes real-time reaction monitoring, including
 heterogeneous reactions; improved tools for 19F NMR; new approaches to quantitation in
 mixtures.
 Novel MS instrumentation will be developed for monitoring reactions, mapping soft and hard
 materials and determining the structure and dynamics of large molecules. We will increase the
 throughput and sensitivity of multi-omics MS, incorporating microfluidics and machine learning.
 We will establish a centre for MS diagnostics and prognostics focussing on neurodegenerative
 and infectious disease, and work with the industry led Community of Analytical and Measurement
 Science (CAMS) to train new mass spectrometrists.
 Automation will increase at DCF, leading to greater sample throughput, and strengthening links to
 nuclear industry partners, including reactor chemistry, spent fuel recycling and
 synthesis/modification of materials by radiation. New capability in modelling radiation chemistry
 will be developed for application in the nuclear and healthcare industries.
  CAT: Further recruitment will target three areas: development of quantum methods; molecular
 dynamics at larger scales (with CBBC and MAT); calculations of catalytic processes (with ORG,
 CBBC and INO). CAT will expand The University of Manchester’s (UoM) flagship computer CSF3

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and invest in cloud computing and in a new massively-accelerated GPU system (with the N8 HPC
 Consortium). Scientific ambitions include multiscale structure-stability methods for solvated
 macromolecular assemblies; a flexible, multipolar polarisable, fully quantum-based protein force
 field; control of vibronic coupling in SMMs, qubits and phosphors; detailed understanding of
 transuranic chemistry; study of enzymatic reaction mechanisms; predictions concerning
 thermoelectric materials, polymorphism in molecular crystals, thermal control in battery electrodes
 (with Faraday Institute).
  CBBC: We aim to become the national centre for Biocatalytic Pharmaceutical Manufacturing
 with further industrial collaborations. This strategy aligns with the government’s agenda to develop
 and reshore pharmaceutical manufacturing, and to ‘build a Northern Powerhouse’. Our current
 partnership with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and our strong existing links with the national
 Centre for Process Innovation and The Medicines Manufacturing Innovation Centre places us to
 lead these initiatives.
 In Synthetic Biology, we will diversify and scale-up biosynthetic methods and metabolic
 engineering by connecting fundamental research in microbial genetics, directed evolution and
 enzyme engineering through synthetic biology, engineering biology, robot-enabled genetic
 manipulation, flow catalysis and industrial scale-up. This will link with the FBRH. Our overarching
 ambition is to build partnerships across the energy, materials, personal and health care,
 pharmaceuticals, and bulk chemicals sectors, to maximise the impact of biotechnology,
 biocatalysis and synthetic biology.
  INO: We will develop major transuranic capabilities in the new CRR using an integrated suite of
 gloveboxes and characterisation equipment. We will target neptunium and plutonium analogues
 of established thorium and uranium complexes, with two principal strands: (i) covalency of actinide
 bonding using metal-ligand multiple bonds as exemplars; (ii) with the National Nuclear Laboratory
 (NNL) study speciation of coordination complexes relevant to the nuclear fuel cycle and
 environmental behaviour.
 We aim to renew the EPSRC National Research Facility (NRF) for EPR Spectroscopy (ca. £5M
 due 2021). EPR will be used to study actinide covalency. The molecular magnetism group will use
 EPR to study potential qubits with European collaborations targeting performance of 2- and 3-
 qubit gates and develop strategies using nuclear spin to perform error correction. We will also
 study relaxation within SMMs and behaviour on surfaces using advanced X-ray spectroscopies
 (with Baker, AMP). A major aim is to build SMM-based devices using established European
 collaborations.
 We will grow activity in catalysis, including: use of heterobimetallic complexes; main group cages;
 low coordinate f-block complexes. This will involve strong collaboration with ORG.
  MAT: We will recruit new staff to replace key staff (O’Brien, Yeates). The first, Romanov (RS
 URF) with expertise in OLEDs arrived after 31/07/2020. Strong interactions will be built with
 Royce; e.g. investment (£3.6M) in sustainable materials involves M.Turner, and further posts will
 be recruited in 2021. Sustainable materials will also link to FBRH. Dryfe will occupy new tailored
 “dry rooms” to develop energy storage technology in Royce.
 New inks based on 2D-materials will be made (Casiraghi). New photoactive materials will be
 developed (M.Turner, Romanov) and integrated with devices. New resist materials for
 nanofabrication will be exploited (Winpenny). We will study the new chemistry that can emerge
 from reactions in confined spaces (Keerthi).
 The OLED and resist work will be translated through spin-outs, Chromition and Sci-Tron, both
 supported by Innovate UK. The digital histopathology screen platform developed by the former,
 offers the potential to detect cancer in a single biopsy and is being developed with the Greater
 Manchester Academic Health Science Network. Resists licensed to Sci-Tron are being studied by
 US industrial partners.
  ORG: “Molecular robotics will be one of the next major scientific areas” was predicted in The
 Scientific Report issued around the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2016. Through the Leigh group
 we aim to remain at the forefront of this field, developing scientific tools and strategies to provide
 revolutionary molecular nanotechnologies. Over the next decade we aim to: use molecular robots

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to move and build things; programme the robots for specific tasks, including tasks impossible with
 conventional technology. We plan to build on recent breakthroughs in molecular knotting and
 weaving to lead a new area of woven molecular materials.
 Within catalysis, we will become a centre of excellence for radical and photo-catalysis (Greaney,
 Leonori, Procter) and aim to become world leaders in understanding of catalytic reaction
 mechanism (Larrosa, Bures). We will use mechanical control to initiate catalytic processes (De
 Bo). This activity underpins the CDT in Integrated Catalysis and involves strong collaboration with
 CBBC and INO.
 Enabling impact
 Working towards impact is integral to our research, aligned with the University strategy given in
 the Institutional Statement (IS) section 2.iv:
      Research group leads are challenged to produce plans and show impact for their
         groupings, and this challenge is passed down to individual academics.
      PhD studentships with significant industrial co-funding are supported.
      Knowledge transfer is one of four promotion criteria, with equal esteem to research (section
         2.iv, IS).
      Sabbaticals are awarded that allow spin-outs to develop.
      Our Workload Allocation Model (WAM) recognises industrial engagement.
      We encourage staff to bring industrial partners into grant applications.
      Departmental services are available to local industries, especially SMEs, building links.
      The Unit works with the University’s Knowledge Exchange team obtaining EPSRC Impact
         Accelerator Awards, Impact Fellowships and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships; 10, 1 and
         6 were awarded respectively between 2014 and 2020.
      Visiting professorships from significant industrial partners are supported, e.g. Kai Baidenus
         (BASF), Joe Adams (GSK).
      Invention disclosures are discussed with the University of Manchester Innovation Factory
         (UMIF), which provides proof-of-concept funding and supports patent applications.
 In AMP all three major sub-groupings, NMR, MS and DCF interact with >60 industrial partners.
 This ranges from supporting a Chair (Barran) and buying equipment (Allergan, MS) to fully funding
 projects (typically in DCF) and PhD studentships (all). Analysis software is made available through
 an industrial partner (NMR).
 In CAT we have strong impact through freeware. Direct involvement with the nuclear industry
 (NNL, NDA, Sellafield Ltd, Cavenish Nuclear, AWE, TÜV SÜD) is achieved by Kaltsoyannis’
 involvement in major consortia.
 In CBBC industrial involvement includes multiple large grants with substantial industrial
 contributions, and networks with industrial partners. PhD studentships are funded by industry
 through UKRI Case studentships, CDT programmes, CoEBio3 industry club. A Director of
 Commercialisation drives industry engagement.
 In INO there are major interactions with the nuclear industry (NNL, NDA). The EPR NRF supports
 a range of industrial partners, ranging from brewers to bulk chemicals.
 In MAT there are multiple spin-outs and licensing agreements. OMIC was founded specifically to
 develop and translate novel organic materials in partnership with local industries.
 In ORG our CDT in Integrated Catalysis is supported by multiple industrial partners. PhD
 studentships are partly or wholly industry supported. Training courses are delivered to industry.
 Our selected six impact case studies demonstrate the value of our approach:
  C4X Discovery: generating market-leading drug candidates from cutting-edge technology –
 Almond was granted a secondment (80% to C4XDiscovery, 2010-2015) and a reduced teaching
 load to facilitate impact.
  Enabling radioactive effluent treatment and high hazard reduction at Sellafield and the
 management of plutonium (2 cases): the Unit hosts facilities for working with radioactive materials
 that during the assessment period were unique in UK academia. These enabled experimental

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work in support of the effluents impact case, and preparatory work for experiments with gram
 quantities of plutonium that were carried out in NNL’s Central Laboratory, and contribution to the
 plutonium impact case. Both impact cases were supported by the provision of PhD studentships.
  New paradigms for 3D materials analysis using polyatomic projectiles: changing capacity and
 industrial practice. Lockyer was granted sabbaticals (2 x 6 months, 2014 and 2015) to visit groups
 in Japan to drive impact. Two PhD studentships were awarded in support.
  DOSY and Pure Shift NMR: changing practice and performance in the chemical industry. Use
 of an EPSRC Impact Accelerator Award to support a fellowship (ca. £74k) was vital. Reduced
 teaching loads enabled external training courses to facilitate impact: 2017 Pureshift workshop;
 2018 DOSY NMR workshop (Campinas, Brazil); 2018 Advanced Practical NMR Methods course
 (Stockholm University).
  Sustainable chemical manufacturing through enzyme discovery, biocatalyst engineering and
 education in IB: N.Turner was granted a sabbatical (2017-18) and a reduced teaching load (2013-
 2020) to develop industrial partnerships. UMIF led negotiations on licensing, including a license
 with Prozomix to make all CoEBio3 biocatalysts commercially available.
 There are other strong examples of impact: e.g. the use of PIMS in respiratory masks, technology
 that is now licensed to 3M; diagnosis of PD by MS; exploitation of quantum dots via Nanoco.
 Interdisciplinary research
 Much of our research spans boundaries, reflecting the research interests of our (see above). For
 example, interdisciplinary collaborations with materials scientists (Nature 2020, 588, 429) or
 biologists (Science 2017, 355, 1049) or physicists (Science 2016, 351, 68) have produced
 exceptional publications. SciVal classifies our outputs as: chemistry, 1594(70%); chemical
 engineering 757(33.5%); biochemistry, 700(30%); materials science, 520(23%). Many outputs are
 included in >1 category.
 Departmental staff lead one of the University’s interdisciplinary research institutes, the MIB, and
 are strongly involved in the Dalton Nuclear Institute, NGI, the PSI and Royce. The unit’s
 research in MIB inspired UoM to chose IB as one of only five research beacons. Staff in the MIB
 have won the RSC interdisciplinary prize in two of the last six years.
 Explicit calls for PhD studentships exist between the Department of Chemistry and CEAS to build
 links. We consider multidisciplinary candidates for all posts (e.g. Cai, Casiraghi, Takano). We
 support appointments of chemists to other departments, including: Hardacre, Lee and Sarkisov
 (all CEAS), Shaver and Lewis (both Materials). We have offered advice, allowed access to facilities
 and supported grant applications from these chemists. Our appointment strategy builds strong
 interdisciplinary links.
 Specific interdisciplinary research was discussed above, and more details are given in Section 4.
 Open research environment
 We have closely followed the University’s policy (section 2.v, IS). For Open Access (OA) we also
 support submission to the ChemRxiv for pre-prints. The department encourages sharing of
 downloadable freeware.
 The Library seeks to improve the discoverability of chemistry research, tweeting about open
 access papers via its @UoMOpenAccess account. The University’s OA Innovation Fund covers
 article processing charges (e.g. £19k in 2018/2019 alone). The Library provides research data
 management support to researchers, completing outline checks and full reviews of data
 management plans (section 2.v, IS).
 Research integrity
 We have closely followed the University’s policy (section 2.v, IS). All staff and PDRAs in the
 Department undertake mandatory ethics training and online courses organised by the University.
 As part of our PhD training programme, all postgraduate students must complete a bespoke,
 chemistry-specific 5-hour online course on Research Integrity as provided by Epigeum. This
 ensures our ECRs understand their professional responsibilities and promotes principles of Good
 Research Conduct.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT:
 A commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) underpins our strategy; we have held an
 Athena Swan Silver Award since 2013. The EDI profile of the Unit is given in Table 2. Twenty-
 one staff have left since REF2014, including three to other units. We have increased the gender
 and ethnic diversity of the staff.
  Table 2. Comparative EDI statistics between REF2014 and REF2021
  Category (Number)                       Female/%         BAME/%                International/%
  The Unit REF2021 (75.3)                     18             10                         36
  The Unit REF2014 (54)                       13              4                         13
  % change in period                          +5             +7                        +23
  Senior appointments in period (10)          10             20                         40
  ECR appointments in period (22)             32             18                         50

 Recruitment: Recruitment has EDI at its core. The language of all adverts is checked to ensure
 it is not subconsciously biasing applications. All shortlists are required to have male and female
 candidates represented unless impossible. All interview panels have male and female members.
 All new posts are considered carefully, taking into account recent departures of staff, and the need
 to grow or maintain strategically important areas. Since REF2014, we have decided against
 appointments in specific areas (see AMP above) and moved staff resource to shape research.
 The success of our policy can be seen in staff recruited. Senior appointments: Breitling, Cai,
 Currell, Field, Pitt, Kaltsoyannis, Larrosa, Liddle, Schröder, Takano. ECRs: Adams, Baidak,
 Baker, Birmingham, Bowen, Bures, Castanar, Chilton, De Bo, Green, Keerthi, Leonori, Lovelock,
 Mehta, Palmer, Riddell, Skelton, Tripedi, van Munster, Walton, Willcox, Yang.
 Our recruitment strategy delivers excellence, e.g. new recruits hold 17 fellowships between them.
 Currell, Field and Liddle were recruited to lead DCF, MIB and INO, respectively. Kaltsoyannis
 replaced Hillier in CAT. Larrosa replaced Clayden within ORG. We are recruiting in MAT to replace
 staff that have departed since REF2014.
 The demographics of the department remain good. In strategic areas, proleptic appointments are
 made, e.g. NMR (Castanar), EPR (Bowen), porous materials/MOFs (Yang).
 Staff development: Newly appointed staff are set challenging probationary objectives by line
 managers for the three year probation period; fairness of objectives across the Department is
 ensured by a Senior Mentor and the HoD. Progress is monitored by an annual Probation
 Committee chaired by the HoD. New staff have a mentor (not the line manager) who provides
 informal advice and assistance. All attend a New Academics Programme (NAP) at Faculty level
 that provides training and leads to membership of the Higher Education Academy (section 3.3,
 IS).
 Researchers on five-year fellowships are also set probationary objectives and are transferred to
 long-term positions at the end of their fellowships, subject to meeting these objectives.
 On the rare occasion (~8% of cases) a probationary staff member makes insufficient progress
 against objectives, this is discussed with the individual, line manager and mentor and further
 training and mentoring immediately put in place.
 Training: Training is discussed at an annual Personal and Development Review (P&DR). Funds
 are provided for external management training events including Entrepreneurship training. We use
 BBSRC funded Future Talent Mobility accounts to develop international collaborations. Equal
 percentages of female and male staff take such training.
 Once through probation, staff are trained for leadership roles by acting as “deputies” to research
 group leaders or other senior management roles. We find “training through doing” works better
 than just training courses; this approach is supported by academic research (e.g. Evans, “Implicit
 and informal professional development”, https://doi.org/10.1080/19415257.2018.1441172).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for ECRs
 We build from the university policy (section 3.3, IS). The University has received the HR
 Excellence in Research Award from the European Commission.
 The Unit provides ECRs with mentors, PhD studentships (typically two each since 2014), start-up
 for small equipment, and travel funds for conferences and to establish collaborations (70% of
 travel fund awards made have gone to female ECRs). ECRs have free access to departmental
 analytical services such as NMR, X-ray, MS.
 ECRs have a reduced teaching load (typically 50%) during probation. The University’s New
 Academics Programme (NAP) provides training on writing research proposals. The Department
 provides access to a database of successful proposals. All proposals are internally peer-reviewed
 and mock interviews are mandatory for all fellowship applicants: a policy that is particularly
 pertinent to ECRs.
 There is an excellent programme of courses available from the Faculty (see PGR section below),
 and all PDRAs have annual P&DRs at which training needs are identified. The award-winning
 website, “An Academic Career”, was developed by the University of Manchester Careers Service
 and provides outstanding support to ECRs. The Department established a Postdoc Committee in
 2012, run by postdocs, with a budget and guidance from the Director of Research. The Postdoc
 Committee is largely autonomous and organises activities, e.g. regular coffee mornings, events to
 support PDRAs with fellowship applications.
 The quality of support offered is evidenced by >100 PDRAs from the Unit moving to academic
 positions world-wide since 2014.
 Sabbatical leave and fellowships
 We value opportunities for staff to spend a period of time concentrating on research and strongly
 encourage applications for external fellowships.
 Sabbatical leave is considered annually for all eligible staff; a detailed plan is required, which can
 be developing new research or teaching ideas, or developing impact. A family-friendly approach
 is adopted, and sabbaticals may be taken locally. The Department’s sabbatical policy has
 contributed to impact case studies. During the REF period, we have had at all times an average 4
 FTE permanent staff on external research fellowships and 1.8 FTE on sabbatical.
 External roles
 The Department encourages staff to take external roles in academia, industry, and the public
 sector. Flexible working, reduced workloads, sabbatical leave, and the provision of administrative
 support are used to support such roles. 29 staff have held visiting professorships and influential
 external roles including: the REF2014 and REF2021 panels (Flitsch; sabbatical leave) and ERC
 starting grant review panel (Takano/Barran).
 The Department welcomes visitors from academia and industry. For example, the strategic
 appointment of Joe Adams (GlaxoSmithKline; Visiting Professor) played a key role in the
 Department’s CDT bid in Integrated Catalysis. Vernon Gibson FRS is a Visiting Professor building
 links to BP-ICAM. Since REF2014, the Department has hosted >100 senior academics from all
 over the world.
 Recognition and reward for research and impact
 Promotion: Line managers proactively encourage applications and consider all staff for
 promotion. The Personnel Committee helps develop paperwork before forwarding to Faculty. If
 applications fail, feedback is given, and actions planned. During the REF period, there were 7
 promotions to Professor, 13 to Reader, and 13 to Senior Lecturer level. Since REF2014, two staff
 (both female) were promoted directly from Research Fellow/Lecturer to Reader.
 Promotion considers career-breaks and part-time working. The Personnel Committee monitors
 sabbatical applications and cases for additional increments. Women are as likely to hold senior
 roles as men in the Department: in our 2017 Athena Swan return, 55% of female academics, cf.
 52% of male, were Professors. All female staff employed prior to 2016 hold promoted positions.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s promotion criteria explicitly include ‘Academic Enterprise and Knowledge
 Transfer’ with parity to research. Major impact is rewarded by accelerated promotion and the
 provision of resource, including PhD studentships.
 Workload: Research income and supervision are recognised in our WAM. For our leading
 researchers this means a light teaching load. We balance this through teaching-focused staff on
 open-ended contracts who are tasked with developing our teaching, not just delivering it. Our
 teaching is highly rated (>90% satisfaction at NSS for >10 years to 2019).
 Prizes: Senior members of each research grouping are tasked with nominating colleagues for
 external prizes and this is discussed at P&DRs. This is particularly important for female and BAME
 staff to redress under representation in prize-winning.
 RESEARCH STUDENTS:
 Our procedures follow the University policy (section 3.3, IS).
 PGR recruitment and funding
 Recruitment follows University admissions policy.
 Programmes and positions are advertised making clear
 that we welcome applicants regardless of gender,
 ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation and transgender
 status. PGRs mostly approach supervisors directly
 based on the reputation of the researcher. All
 appointments are made on merit. All applicants are
 interviewed by at least two academic members of staff
 before appointment.
 President’s and Dean’s Scholarships provide
 outstanding international and national UGs the chance
 to pursue a PhD in Manchester. The Unit has hosted          Figure 1. Breakdown of funding for PGR
 19 of these Scholarships since REF2014.                                    students
 The Unit was home to 344 PGRs on 31/07/2020.
 Chemistry’s PGR students are funded from a variety of sources, including 41% supported by UKRI
 funding (see Figure 1) including multiple CDTs (see Section 4). “Other” includes A*STAR, alumni,
 Royal Society, and MRC funded. PGR students hail from 46 countries, with 50% UK, 18%
 EU/Europe, 10% China, 7% Saudi Arabia, 11% other Asia, and 4% from the Americas, Australia
 and Africa.
 Our Director of Internationalisation works with the Faculty and University to design and implement
 an internationalisation strategy. A Faculty Summer School (4 weeks, started in 2019) promotes
 Manchester and the postgraduate opportunities to overseas students. The University has targeted
 recruitment in China, India, Hong Kong, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Malaysia and Mexico. This has led
 to funded links, for example 2+2 programmes such as the Singapore A*STAR (12 Chemistry PhDs
 to date) and Tsinghua 2+2 launched in 2020.
 Monitoring and support mechanisms
 PGRs are assigned a supervisory team consisting of a main and second supervisor, and a mentor
 to offer pastoral support. Annual progression reviews ensure students are making adequate
 progress; personalised training packages are devised for all PGRs. Our rigorous progression
 threshold after year 1, assessed by an academic outside the supervisory team, ensures that PGRs
 unlikely to complete a PhD, withdraw at an early stage.
 PGRs present their research at the Department’s Annual PGR Conference twice: posters in
 second year and talks in third year. Every year students also present posters on their research
 and take part in a ‘3-minute thesis talk’ competition during the University Postgraduate Summer
 Research Showcase.
 Our Director for Postgraduate Studies is assisted by 1.5 administrators and chairs our
 Postgraduate Committee with PGR representation. A web-based system records progression
 milestones for each PGR. Disabled students receive additional support through the Disability

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advisory Support Service (DASS). Our Student Support Services give counselling, careers and
 academic support. PGRs have access to the on-line PGRLife, that brings together all the
 information a PGR needs.
 Since REF2014, 271 PhD students have graduated (a 19% increase on REF2014) of which ca.
 92% have entered employment or further study within 6 months of graduating. Completion rates
 (within 5 years) have risen from 84% (2010 cohort) to 88% (2014 cohort).
 Skills development and preparation for future careers for PGRs
 The Unit engages with the Faculty’s Researcher Development programme. In 2019 128 PGRs
 attended, mainly first year, averaging 2.6 courses each. A Graduate Teaching Assistant training
 course is compulsory and most attend the course on Research Essentials and engage in one or
 more other courses, including in Impact and Engagement, Career Management, and Wellbeing
 and Personal Effectiveness. Courses on research integrity and export control are given on-line
 and are compulsory.
 The Unit is involved in multiple CDTs (see section 4) which provide training in interdisciplinary
 working and additional training in transferable skills.
 The University Careers service provides specialist postgraduate support for Chemists and
 Biological Scientists. This support continues after graduation.
 Recognition
 Outstanding Achievement Awards (OAAs) are presented during biannual staff symposia to PGRs
 and PDRAs who have made a major contribution: winners give presentations to the whole
 Department. For EDI we ensure at least 33% representation among OAA winners from each
 gender per symposium; BAME researchers win more OAAs than might be expected given the
 ethnic profile of the unit.
 Chemistry PGRs have also received Manchester Doctoral College Excellence Awards: Recent
 winners include ‘Best PGR Output 2019’ (Zhang) and ‘PGR of the Year 2018’ (Kassem). Fifteen
 PGRs have been awarded EPSRC Doctoral Prizes to transition into independent research.
 The Unit proactively supports its PGRs in applying for external awards. For example, since
 REF2014, Reaxys International Prize 2019 Finalist (Zhang), Salter’s Award 2017 (Thomas),
 Dalton Emerging Researcher 2015 (Chilton) and 2018 (Goodwin).
 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 A commitment to EDI is embedded in our culture with supporting structures and policies; all staff
 and students are treated with respect and dignity to enable them to realise their potential. Training
 courses “Unconscious Bias” and “Diversity in The Workplace” are compulsory for all staff and
 attendance is monitored. The Unit holds an Athena SWAN silver award. The University has been
 awarded the Race Equality Charter (section 3.2, IS).
 The Department EDI Committee coordinates and monitors our progress on EDI. The Chair is a
 member of the Departmental leadership team (where EDI is a standing agenda item). The
 Committee includes academic and support staff, PDRAs, PG and UG students and is diverse in
 terms of gender and ethnicity. We also use a biennial survey of staff to monitor attitudes and
 awareness of EDI. An action plan for EDI initiatives arose from our Athena Swan renewal, which
 is reviewed by both the EDI Committee and the Leadership Team regularly. We run regular events
 to highlight the contributions of women and gender-diverse people to STEM.
 The DASS assists staff and students in applications for Disabled Student Allowance and Access
 to Work to fund specific equipment and/or reasonable adjustments required to conduct research.
 DASS provides a personal plan for each individual, which the Department implements.
 There are staff networks across the University, including the LGBT, BAME and Disabled Staff
 Networks, which directly support staff with protected characteristics.
 The main processes for sabbatical leave and secondment were described above. These are
 monitored in terms of gender and, aggregated over several years, there is an indication that
 women are less likely to apply. We are discussing with staff the barriers to applying for leave and


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are actively seeking applications from women for sabbaticals from 2020 onwards.
 The Unit has a strong commitment to flexible working and opportunities for this, along with other
 University policies, are advertised to staff annually. Many academics use informal flexible working
 agreements, but formal commitments are increasing to ensure fairness and account for caring
 responsibilities. Flexible working is advertised in new roles unless impossible. Engagement with
 UoM peer support groups for new parents is encouraged. We have quiet rooms, where mothers
 can express milk. We go beyond University policy and offer 12 months PDRA funding to staff on
 parental leave to help them run their research groups.
 Staff and research students returning from leave, including parental leave, review workload with
 their line manager, to ensure they are supported in the transition back to work. We also support
 “Keeping In Touch” days so staff do not feel isolated from work whilst they are on leave. We
 consider and support any flexible arrangements that are necessary for returning staff, responding
 if their situation changes. Where staff are managing ill health, an on-going review to make
 necessary accommodations is undertaken with the line manager informed by expert advice from
 the University’s occupational health service.
 We monitor gender in promotion and progression; in the period 2014-2019, 12% of promotions
 were women; this is disappointing but may be due to demographics: we had four female professors
 at REF2014, as now, and in period we have appointed ECRs who will be promoted from 2021
 onwards (see Table 2). This will be monitored closely. Promotion is available to full-time and part-
 time staff. Circumstances such as maternity leave or illness can be shared by the applicant and
 are taken into account by the promotion panels. The additional training course “Recruiting Staff at
 Manchester” is mandatory for appointment/promotion panels. The HoD and Deputy (a gender-
 mixed team over the past few years) review staff lists to identify candidates for promotion and pay
 review to encourage those who might not put themselves forward.
 In preparation of our REF submission we followed university procedures for selecting outputs
 (section 3.4, IS). The submitted outputs have been reviewed through a Equality Impact
 Assessment and no statistically significant discrepancies could be identified between the
 submission and the gender and ethnicity profile of our staff.
 Support for staff with protected characteristics: Support is embedded in our policies: we
 employ a Disability Confident scheme in job advertising; have gender-neutral toilets; provide
 overseas travel guidance; run promotion workshops targeted at underrepresented groups; run
 Staff Network Groups (ethnicity, religion, ability, parental/caring, gender); have same-sex partner
 leave for new parents; analyse student questionnaire returns for bias; involve Occupational
 Health on work conditions; have zero-tolerance “Report & Support” procedures on harassment.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research funding and strategies for generating research income:
 Our strategy is to give creative researchers as much time and support as possible. We have not
 favoured research that is core chemistry or interdisciplinary: our only consideration is quality. We
 targeted a culture that is supportive and ambitious. We have minimized unproductive activity as
 far as possible. Actions during the period include:
   We hired outstanding ECRs and supported them with PhD studentships (two each), start-up
    funds (typically £20k, but where needed up to £50k) and free access to departmental services.
    In parallel we set ambitious probationary targets and mentored them to meet these targets.
    Almost all ECRs (>70%) that started since 2014 have received significant external funding
    and have published in world-leading journals. Six have won external prizes.
   We made ten Chair appointments to lead in key areas.
   We introduced a detailed WAM to free time for world-leading researchers; typically, they will
    only offer one lecture course and take final year masters students for research projects. To
    maintain excellent teaching, we hired outstanding teaching focused staff and we offer them
    career progression, including promotion to chair.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   We share timely intelligence on external funding opportunities and pro-actively encourage
    applications to prestigious schemes (e.g. ERC or UKRI Fellowships).
   We support significant external proposals (>3 years PDRA funding) with matching funds or
    posts (e.g. PhD studentships).
   We have a rigorous internal peer review process.
   We have upgraded all departmental facilities through EPSRC and BBSRC awards providing
    state-of-the-art equipment for X-ray diffraction, MS, NMR and EPR spectroscopy, magnetic
    characterisation and synthetic biology. Services are supported by dedicated research staff to
    deliver the best possible experiments and training.
   We share successful grant proposals across the Department.
   We run in-house training for grant writing for ECRs.
   We provide excellent administrative support for costing grant proposals and senior
    administrators to support major funding bids.
   Department studentships and equipment funding are used to generate preliminary results for
    grant applications. We prioritise the support of ECRs.
   We encourage staff to share manuscripts prior to submission, especially with colleagues with
    a track record of publishing in high impact journals; high profile papers are a major factor in
    obtaining external funding.
   Annual P&DRs set ambitious objectives and monitor progress for all staff.
   If a colleague is regularly unsuccessful with funding applications, we assign a mentor, and
    encourage collaborative proposals to build confidence and expertise.
  On 31/07/2020 the Department had the largest EPSRC grant portfolio (£52.8M) and the largest
  portfolio of active BBSRC grants (£22.2M) of any UK Chemistry department. The Department
  has also enjoyed a near 3-fold increase in European funding (£44.4M) since REF2014 (£16.5M).
  This is associated with ERC fellowships. The Brexit agreement should allow high levels of
  European funding to continue.
 Major and prestigious grant awards and links to outputs
 During the REF2021 period, the Unit has been awarded multiple prestigious fellowships and
 grants. Given the high number, Table 3 illustrates one major award per PI in (many hold more
 than one), and one output per award.
 There is a strong link with research outputs. For example, SYNBIOCHEM has produced >460
 outputs and Leigh’s programme grant “Molecular Robotics” has produced >40 research articles.


  Table 3. Illustrative outputs for major and prestigious grants in REF2021 period
  PI            Award             Example high quality research output
  Flitsch      ERC Advanced       Real-time screening of biocatalysts in live bacterial colonies
                                  J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2017, 139, 1408.
  Larrosa      ERC Advanced       Cyclometalated Ruthenium Catalyst Enables Ortho-Selective
                                  C-H Alkylation with Secondary Alkyl Bromides
                                  Chem 2020, 6, 1459
  Leigh        ERC Advanced       Rotary and linear molecular motors driven by pulses of a
                                  chemical fuel. Science 2017, 358, 340.
  Leys         ERC Advanced       Structures of carboxylic acid reductase reveal domain
                                  dynamics underlying catalysis.
                                  Nature Chem. Biol. 2017, 13, 975.
  Schröder     ERC Advanced       Reversible coordinative binding and separation of sulphur
                                  dioxide in a robust metal-organic framework with open copper
                                  sites.
                                  Nature Materials 2019, 18, 1358.
  N.Turner     ERC Advanced       A reductive aminase from Aspergillus oryzae.
                                  Nature Chem. 2017, 9, 961.
  Winpenny     ERC Advanced       Conformational flexibility of hybrid [3]- and [4]-rotaxanes,
                                  J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2020, 142, 15941.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Casiraghi     ERC                 Water-based and Biocompatible 2D Crystal Inks for All-Inkjet
                Consolidator        Printed Heterostructures.
                                    Nature Nanotech. 2017, 12, 343.
  Liddle        ERC                 Back-bonding between an electron-poor, high-oxidation-state
                Consolidator        metal and poor π-acceptor ligand in a uranium(V)–dinitrogen
                                    complex. Nature Chem. 2019, 11, 806.
  Mills         ERC                 Isolation and electronic structures of derivatized
                Consolidator        manganocene, ferrocene and cobaltocene anions.
                                    Nature Chem. 2020, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41557-020-
                                    00595-w
  Green         ERC Starter         Design and evolution of an enzyme with a non-canonical
                                    organocatalytic mechanism.
                                    Nature 2019, 570, 219.
  Leonori       ERC Starter         A Photochemical Dehydrogenative Strategy for Aniline
                                    Synthesis
                                    Nature 2020, 584, 75.
  Procter       EPSRC ECF           Metal-Free CHCH-Type Cross-Coupling of Arenes and
                                    Alkynes Directed by a Multifunctional Sulfoxide Group.
                                    J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 790.
  Scrutton      SYNBIOCHEM          Conversion of alcohols to enantiopure amines through dual-
                                    enzyme hydrogen-borrowing cascades.
                                    Science 2015, 349, 1525.

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 A major refurbishment of the Chemistry building is underway (£55M, 2019-2024). Six floors will
 have new laboratory layouts. An initial phase has provided a new nitrogen generation facility,
 loading bay, solvent store and new electrical transformers for the building. The building will remain
 fully operational throughout.
 Support infrastructure
 The NMR service runs >200,000 experiments p.a. on 15 high field spectrometers, supporting >50
 research groups from across the University. NMR access is provided for external users including
 local universities and SMEs (e.g. Nanoco, Synthite, BWA, Chromition, C4X, Sci-Tron).
 The MS Facility provides an analytical service for >100 research groups and runs >30,000
 samples per year. The facility has over 20 instruments to cover most requirements, including one
 of the best accurate mass instruments available, and regularly analyses samples from other N8
 Universities and industry (e.g. BP, Rolls-Royce, AstraZeneca, Allergan Biologics, Thermo
 Scientific, and Waters).
 The X-ray Facility is equipped with the highest performance single crystal diffractometer in the
 world outside central facilities, in addition to 3 other high-quality single crystal diffractometers, 2
 powder XRD instruments and 1 SAXS instrument. >1500 single crystal structures and >7000
 powder samples are analysed p.a. XRD analysis is also provided to other universities and to
 industry (e.g. C4X, Econic Technologies, Hexcel, Nanoco, AstraZeneca).
 The facilities and expertise in the Organic Materials Innovation Centre are available to all SMEs,
 helped by links to the Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry. OMIC is currently supported by
 18 grants from industry and boasts 162 interactions. Building on a foundation in polymer science,
 OMIC now also embraces 2D materials.
 The Department also maintains an Analytical and Separations Suite (Polarimetry, UV-VIS-NIR,
 FTIR, HPLC, GC), Microanalysis Service (CHNS, ICP-OES, Halide, DSC, TGA), and
 Glassblowing (two scientific glassblowers), Electronic and Mechanical Workshops. Nineteen
 technical staff are associated with Analytical and Research activities, and eight work in the
 Mechanical and Electronic Workshops. Staff in the MIB enjoy further support from a pool of 44
 technical staff. The Unit is actively involved in a technician apprentice programme training ca. eight
 apprentices p.a.


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoM has extensive High Performance Computing (HPC), which is extensively used by the CAT
 research grouping. This includes the flagship, c. 14,000-core Computational Shared Facility, and
 the c. 4,000-core HPC Pool. This hardware is well-supported by excellent Research IT staff, who
 also provide chemistry-specific software support, Research Data Storage and Management,
 Research Software Engineering, and Research IT training. Standard services such as email,
 cybersecurity and IT purchasing are provided to all University staff and students
 Chemistry researchers enjoy strong support from the UoM Library through sector-leading research
 services, including research data management and research metrics (section 4.2, IS). The
 Library’s ‘OA gateway’ has been instrumental in maximising compliance with the REF OA policy.
 Metrics-driven reports enable benchmarking of chemistry research.
 Equality and diversity
 We follow university guidance on EDI in all training activities (section 4.1, IS). For example, we
 offer targeted training and mentoring in fellowship and funding applications to under-represented
 groups. We have a strong collaborative ethos, with collaborative grants accounting for 75% of
 open grants by value. 32% of our grants have a female PI or Co-I.
 All laboratories have disabled access.
 Specialist research infrastructure
 The EPSRC UK National Research Facility for EPR Spectroscopy (£4M, renewed in April 2016;
 led by Collison and McInnes) offers state-of-the-art experimental techniques to >200 users p.a.
 for multi-frequency continuous-wave and pulsed EPR spectroscopy, and associated data
 modelling. We have a world-leading capability in handling sensitive and radioactive materials,
 leading to many international collaborations (e.g. UC Irvine; EPFL; MIT).
 The DCF (led by Currell) has capabilities in ion beam and gamma irradiation, material modification
 and characterisation; these facilities are used by >60 academic and industrial users p.a. Dedicated
 on-site expert experimentalists help users design, develop and deliver experiments and to
 interpret data and outcomes. Funding (Royce, ~£2.2M), has provided new irradiation sources,
 dissolved gas probes, a TOF-SIMS, a differential centrifuge, and an electron energy loss
 spectrometer, and a new biolab to facilitate work at the biology interface.
 The Michael Barber Centre for Collaborative MS (MBCCMS; led by Barran and Lockyer)
 develops and uses MS, particularly ion mobility MS. The MBCCMS has two SEOs, an EO and
 four technicians and supports >60 industrial and academic groups. We host 21 mass
 spectrometers funded by BBSRC, EPSRC, the university and industry. Waters support the
 MBCCMS Chair (£0.8M) six CASE students and makes in-kind contributions to instrument
 development (>£1M). Allergan have donated two mass spectrometers to the MBCCMS (£0.7M)
 as well as two other mass spectrometers to the MS Facility. Industrial users include AstraZeneca,
 Covance, Allergan, Bristol Myers Squibb, UCB Pharma, Fujifilm: all have funded CASE
 studentships.
 The CRR recruited Kaltsoyannis and Liddle to lead, repositioning itself to focus on understanding
 actinide chemistry rather than environmental radiochemistry. It is now being rebuilt (cost of £8.5M)
 and will host a NNUF2. Since REF2014 the CRR has continued to train radiochemists and nuclear
 scientists, repairing a key skills pipeline in a skills-shortage area.
 Further specialist infrastructure funded with £3.5M from SYNBIOCHEM and £2.2M Royce
 includes: liquid handling robots for high throughput directed evolution and synthetic biology
 protocols; next generation sequencing; automated colony picking; and analytical instrumentation
 (5 mass spectrometers and HPLC/SFC).
 Collaborative use of research infrastructure including major facilities
 For diffraction: macromolecular crystallography was allocated over 900 hours of beamtime at
 Diamond Light Source (DLS). For small molecule crystallography, 42 days was allocated since
 2014, including 6 days for high pressure studies.
 For X-ray spectroscopies at DLS: 116 days have been awarded to study MOFs, and a further 74
 days to investigate actinide bonding and molecular magnetism. The MOF group also has


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 beamtime at European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ca. 8 days/year) Oakridge National
 Laboratory (ca. 10 days/years) and Advanced Light Source (ca. 8 days/year).
 Neutron spectroscopy from the MOF team: 30 days/years split roughly 50:30:20 at ISIS Neutron
 and Muon source (on TOSCA, IRIS and WISH). For molecular magnetism around 20 days have
 been awarded on ISIS and at the Institute Laue-Langevin.
 Radiochemistry work has been supported at the U EXAFS beamline (at DLS), by one month at
 the Helmzholz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf for Np and Cm chemistry, and eight weeks at the
 Central Laser Facility.
 The CAT section makes extensive use of ARCHER, the UK’s National Supercomputer with >380M
 allocation units (nominal value ~£200,000),
 Benefits-in-kind
 The Unit has had around 40 industrial funded studentships either in full, or in part as CASE or as
 part of CDTs. In addition, industrial partners are involved in multiple research projects as listed
 elsewhere. Allergan have formed a fruitful partnership with the MBCCMS, and have donated two
 mass spectrometers including a Bruker Rapiflex and Waters Xevo QToF (worth ca. £0.7M) to the
 unit.
 Industry make extensive use of our research facilities (>20 companies in 2019-20), and these
 contacts help build impact.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships and how they deliver impact
 The Unit has filed >50 patents and launched 7 spinouts since REF2014.
 Within MIB there are over 80 funded cross-campus collaborations and ongoing national and
 international collaborations with over 500 different research institutions worldwide. The MIB led 4
 of the 13 National BBSRC networks in IB and bioenergy (NPRONET, IBCARB, BIOCATNET and
 BIOPRONET). MIB leads the Biocatalysis & Biotransformation Theme for the UK Catalysis Hub
 (£3.1M; N.Turner).
 There is a major collaboration with Shell Global Solutions (Leys lead, £2.4M from Shell, 2016-
 2021) to develop new biocatalysts to derive novel green production routes to commodity
 chemicals. Two patents have been filed by Shell (Leys co-inventor) with key papers in Nature,
 Nature Chem. and Nature Chem. Biol. Several awards co-funded by DSTL and ONRG (over
 £1.5M) are driving the emerging field of synthetic biological materials.
 The research centre CoEBio3 uses an ‘industry club’ model to engage with research users and
 beneficiaries. This model is in its 4th round of funding and typically raises £0.75-1M from 8-10
 companies per phase (e.g. GSK, AZ, Merck, Pfizer, BAS, Novartis, Syngenta, Dr Reddy’s, from a
 total of 20 over the four phases). This model allows beneficiaries to shape the Centre’s research
 agenda and has led to the impact underpinning the CoEBio3 impact case, ‘Sustainable Chemical
 Manufacturing Through Enzyme Discovery, Biocatalyst Engineering and Education in IB’.
 The DCF and CRR together link the nuclear industry directly and via a CDT Nuclear Energy –
 GREEN. DCF facilities are used by: NNL Sellafield Ltd; EDF Energy; Wood; UKAEA; Rolls-Royce;
 Createc; Lein Applied Diagnostics; Canberra; Rovtech; Ionix Advanced Technologies; Forth
 Engineering; ABSL Space Products; Ostara Biomedical; Royston Lead; Applied Photonics Ltd;
 Croda International; MTA-Atomki; VFE; Precision Acoustics; Mirion Technologies; Christie
 Hospital; Precision Polymer Engineering; CIEMAT; Monitran; Helix Technologies; 30 universities.
 Kaltsoyannis has contributed as Co-I and management board member to two multi-disciplinary
 nuclear consortia. DISTINCTIVE (2014-2018, total £8.3M with £4.9M from EPSRC) involved 10
 universities and 3 industry partners; winner RSC Industry-Academia Collaboration Award 2020.
 TRANSCEND (2018-2022, total £9.4M with £4.6M from EPSRC) involves 11 universities and 8
 industry partners.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These interactions are part of a long-term relationship with the nuclear industry.
 OMIC had 162 funded interactions with industry in the period. Industrial collaborators include: BP;
 ARM; Unilever; Pragmatic Printing; CPI; NeuDrive; Novalia; KDX Ltd; NTU; DataLase Ltd; BEKO
 plc; International Paint; Solvay; Peptisyntha; 3M; Merck; Airbus; United Technologies; Petronas;
 Pervatech; Green Biologics; Crown Packaging; Akzo-Nobel; ITM Power; C-Tech Innovation;
 ACAL Energy; DSTL; Saudi-Aramco. Academic partners include 9 UK and 5 overseas institutions.
 OMIC strongly contributes to the development of Advanced Materials in the Royce through the
 Chemical Materials Discovery, 2D Materials and Nuclear Materials themes. Development of more
 sustainable materials is supported by infrastructure investment (Royce, £3.6M). OMIC is involved
 in the Knowledge Centre in Materials Chemistry (with Liverpool, Bristol, Southampton, Bolton,
 STFC and CPI). KCMC has delivered £23.4M in collaborative grant income since 2014 with £5.0M
 in Manchester.
 SYNBIOCHEM (2014-21, £10M from BBSRC and EPSRC) involves >30 academic staff spanning
 Manchester’s Chemistry and 5 further departments, and it involves 3 other UK Universities.
 Industrial partners include: Syngenta; GSK; LifeTech; Agilent; Croda; BioFocus; Peakdale
 Molecular; Key Organics; P&G; UCB; Dr Reddy’s; Firmenich; UCB; Shell; BioSyntha; Hypha
 Discovery; Abolis Biotechnologies; Sphere Fluidics; Waters; Unilever; Prozomix/Twist, BDS
 Biofuels, Waters, C3 Biotech Ltd; Aeirtec; Allergan; AkzoNobel; Bio-Shape; Demuris; DSTL;
 Fujifilm Diosynth; Genentech; Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBIOIC); Pfizer. 157
 PhD students were trained in the Centre. 10 patents have been filed and 2 spin-out companies
 (C3 Biotech Ltd and Manchester BioFactory) have resulted. The Centre is a founding member of
 the Global BioFoundry Alliance uniting worldwide capabilities in synthetic biology.
 The FBRH (established 2019, £10.3M, EPSRC and BBSRC; £5.7M, industry; £5M UoM) and
 involves industrial partners including core members: Allergan, Almac, Arcinova, Biocatalysts, BDS
 Fuels, Bio-propane producers, BP, Britest, C3Biotechnologies, Calysta, CoEBio3 consortium (8
 companies), Croda, GSK, Ingenza, Johnson Matthey, Prozomix, Quorn, Shell, Singer, Sphere
 Fluidics, Unilever, and Victrex; and associate members: BAE Systems, BPE, Cambridge
 Consultants, Cogent Skills, DSTL, Dupont LGC, NML, Teijin Films, LabGenius, and Syngenta.
 Spokes reach out to UCL, Imperial College, Nottingham, UK Catalysis Hub, ICBIOC, and the
 Centre for Process Innovation.
 International partnerships include a UK-Brazil (BBSRC-FAPESP) multi-centre five-year project
 (2017-2022), total value of £3.2M with £1.1M UoM (Dixon, N.Turner). These connections have led
 to ‘strategic global partnerships’ with LATAM research institutions through a cross-disciplinary
 BEIS/UUKi award, supporting ECRs.
 The EPSRC National Research Facility for EPR collaborates with scientists worldwide, including
 EPSRC Programme Grant and Fellowship holders (Briggs, Cronin, Rosseinsky, Skabara), ERC
 grant holders (Arnold, Bogani, Grey, Ingleson, Levitt, Lloyd-Jones, Manners, Morton, Nitschke,
 Rosseinsky). This has led to ca. 250 collaborative publications since 2014, including papers in:
 Science (with Raven, Bristol), Nature (with Gray, Cambridge), Nat. Chem. Biol. (with Walton,
 York), J. Am. Chem. Soc. (with Parker, Durham; Timmel and Anderson, Oxford; Dincă, MIT).
 The Molecular Magnetism Group is world-leading and collaborates with groups in the UK, Italy,
 Spain, the USA, China, Japan, Denmark and Australia. These collaborations are supported by
 EPSRC Quantera, COST and H2020 FET-FLAG funding.
 The Unit is also involved in the EPSRC-funded Centre in Advanced Fluid Engineering for
 Digital Manufacturing (£3.1M) led by Unilever, and also involving Manchester’s engineering
 departments.
 The CDT in Integrated Catalysis (iCAT, £5M, 2019) is funded by EPSRC and industry. Industry
 partners include those in the UK (e.g. AstraZeneca, and GlaxoSmithKline) and abroad (Bayer,
 Germany). iCAT unites experts in biocatalysis and chemocatalysis, and groups with chemical and
 process engineering expertise.
 We are strongly involved in two further CDTs (2019-27) based in Manchester. Growing Skills for
 Reliable Economic Energy from Nuclear (£6.3M), which will train the next generation of
 researchers for the nuclear industry, and Advanced Biomedical Materials (£6.7M), which has

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strong links to biomedical industries. Both show our commitment to interdisciplinary training of
 PhD students.
 We partner in a CDT in BioDesign Engineering (£7M, 2019) led by Imperial with UCL and
 industrial partners, which provides integrated training covering experimentation, automation,
 coding, data science and entrepreneurship applied to the design, realisation, and optimisation of
 novel biological systems for diverse synthetic biology/engineering biology applications.
 BP-International Centre for Advanced Materials (BP-ICAM) with chemistry-led research
 (Quayle, Yeates, O’Brien) delivered reduction of wear in automotive engine components. The
 project was an IChemE Global Awards Oil and Gas Category Finalist, 2017. Another project with
 Cambridge, Imperial and Illinois Universities contributed to the development of a new fuel additive
 (Active Technology) for BP Ultimate Fuels.
 EPSRC programme grants: ‘Molecular Robotics’ (£2.95M, led by Leigh; with Cambridge and
 Bristol), ‘Heteroprint’ (£5.42M, led by Skabara, Glasgow; involving Yeates and Winpenny, with
 Sheffield, Cambridge and Strathclyde), and ‘SynFabFun’ (£4.51M, led by Metcalfe, Newcastle;
 involving Budd, with Imperial, Bath, Edinburgh, and 11 industrial project partners).
 The International Synthetic Yeast 2.0 consortium (led by Cai) aims to build the world's first
 synthetic eukaryotic genome. The consortium involving world-leading groups from Johns Hopkins
 University, New York University, National University of Singapore, Tsinghua University.
 The Department is involved in three EPSRC Manufacturing awards: ‘Engineering van der Waals
 heterostructures’ (Co-Is: Yeates, Casiraghi) with seven industrial partners; ‘Manufacturing at the
 7 nm node and beyond enabled by novel resist technology’ (PI: Winpenny) with the California
 Institute of Technology and an industrial partner; ‘Formulating and Manufacturing Low Profile
 Integrated Batteries for Wireless Sensing Labels’, (Co-I: Yeates) involving four industrial partners.
 Leigh is funded by a H2020-FETOPEN project (2017-2021) “Mechanics with Molecules”; this
 collaborative project involves the Universities of Dresden (Germany), Graz (Austria), Liège
 (Belgium) and research institutes CNRS (France) and CSIC (Spain) to develop single-molecule
 machines and test their operation on surfaces.
 Consultancies and training
 In addition to major industrial collaborations listed above, staff have consulted across many
 sectors, including pharmaceuticals (AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novartis, Boehringer
 Ingelheim), crop protection (ADAMA), energy (BP), general science (DSM), fine chemicals and
 custom synthesis (Syntor, MOF Technologies), biopharmaceuticals (Gilead Sciences, Lonza,
 Antabio), genomics (BGI), and instrument developers (Oxford Instruments).
 Staff have also provided training courses in industry, e.g. Leonori (Syngenta), Procter
 (GlaxoSmithKline).
 Contributions to economy and society and engagement with diverse communities and
 publics
 Our largest contribution is in IB (see impact case for greater detail). CoEBio3 researchers created
 training courses in IB including ‘Biocatalytic Retrosynthesis’, delivered as continuous professional
 development to chemists at AstraZeneca, GSK, Gilead, Novartis and Lonza. To accompany, they
 produced a book, “Biocatalysis in Organic Synthesis: The Retrosynthesis Approach.” (2018, >500
 sold) and a computational tool (RetroBioCat: www.retrobiocat.com) downloaded >550 and read
 >1600 times on chemrxiv.org (on 23/10/20).
 Researchers from CoEBio3 are members of the IB Leadership Forum and co-authored parts of
 the report “Growing the UK Industrial Biotechnology Base” (2018), which is now the guiding
 document for UK Bioeconomy policy – with a goal of the 2030 bioeconomy being double the size
 from 2018.
 An “Advanced Materials from Synthetic Biology” roadmap was commissioned from Scrutton by
 the Office of Naval Research (Syst. Synth. Biotech. 2018, 3, 105) and is used in the USA.




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are founding members of CAMS an industry-led initiative to promote world-class analytical
 science training, research and innovation by bringing together 12 industrial and 8 academic
 partners.
 Barran’s group detects biomarkers for PD, funded by Parkinson’s UK and the Michael J. Fox
 Foundation. Their clinical trial is the largest metabolomics study of PD (>1800 samples). The first
 results (ACS Cent. Sci. 2019, 5, 599) attracted great media attention (e.g. a Canadian and three
 BBC documentaries, and future National Geographic film).
 Since 2017 our MS facility has worked with the Department of Food and Environmental Protection
 Section of International Atomic Energy Agency and the UN on implementation of the UN
 programme of MS measurements of food samples from developing countries.
 Since 2017 we have communicated our research directly via a YouTube channel:
 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCXf3CFkyGpa2eIeT5wz_Prw. The videos have been viewed
 >148,000 times.
 We have a strong culture of schools’ liaison, including hosting >20 Nuffield students. We created
 outstanding MOOCs in Physical Chemistry (60,300 enrolled, winner RSC Higher Education Prize
 2015) and Molecular Spectroscopy (30,214 enrolled) and IB (>44,000 enrolled). >800 A level
 students attended MIB Open days, whilst our multilingual science program provides interactive IB
 science sessions to language schools in Manchester.
 Presentations were made at the Royal Society Exhibition (Complex Life of Sugars, 2016, Flitsch
 and Field) and New Scientist Live (2016-18) and at the European Open Science Forum
 (Manchester 2016). Annual events collectively reaching >8,000 participants include: Great British
 Bioscience Festival; National Science and Engineering week; Manchester Science Festival;
 Birmingham Big Bang Fair (Micklefield); and #ScienceX (Trafford shopping centre). Casiraghi
 worked with composer Sara Lowes to create “the Graphene Suite” and MIB has worked with artists
 in residence (Karen Barber and Lynne Chapman 2016) to create science-based art works
 displayed at outreach events nationally and in local exhibitions.
 Contribution to sustainability of discipline
 Significant roles in learned societies include leading contributions to the RSC:
 RSC Council 2014-2019 (Flitsch), Faraday Division Council (McInnes, Dryfe), RSC Organic
 Division Awards Committee (Leigh, Procter), RSC Faraday Division Awards Committee
 (Casiraghi), Chair of RSC Organic Division Poster Symposium (Procter), RSC Chemical Biology
 Bioorganic Group (Webb and Wong), Chair of RSC ESR Group (McInnes), Chair of RSC
 Electrochemistry Group (Dryfe), RSC Radiochemistry Group (Natrajan), and the RSC Nucleic Acid
 Group (Micklefield).
 Members of Academia Europaea (Leigh, Schröder), Liddle (Vice-president of the European Rare
 Earth and Actinide Society); Anderson (International Zeolite Structure Commission), Leigh
 (Honorary Membership of the Israel Chemical Society).
 Since REF2014 the Unit trained ca. 8% of the UK’s PhD chemists on average p.a., and >100 of
 our PDRAs have moved into academic positions worldwide. This is a major contribution to the
 discipline.
 Influence, contribution and recognition
 Fellowships:
 Since REF2014, Unit staff have been awarded an RS Research Professorship (Leigh) and 33
 Fellowships: ERC AdGs (Flitsch, Larrosa, Leigh x 2, Leys, Schroder, N.Turner, Winpenny), ERC
 CoGs (Casiraghi, Ingleson, Layfield, Liddle, Mills), ERC StGs (Green, Leonori, Mutti), EPSRC
 Established Career (Liddle, Popelier, Procter, Winpenny), EPSRC Early Career (Leonori), RS
 University Research (Chilton, De Bo, Riddell), RS Dorothy Hodgkin (Bowen), BBSRC David
 Phillips (Dixon, Green), EPSRC Foresight Fellowship in Manufacturing (Webb), Human Frontiers
 Science Program Cross-Disciplinary (Baker), SCI Ramsay Memorial (Chilton, Keerthi), BBSRC
 Future Leader (Van Munster), UKRI Innovation (Lovelock), and Leverhulme Trust Research
 (Tuna).


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prizes
 Since REF2014, we have received many accolades including election to FRS (Morris, 2014;
 Scrutton 2020; N.Turner 2020) and FREng (O’Brien, 2016), and the award of a CBE (O’Brien,
 2016). Manchester Chemistry won more RSC prizes than any other institution in 2019 (6 prizes)
 and 2020 (8 prizes); in addition, Kaltsoyannis was part of the DISTINCTIVE consortium, awarded
 the RSC 2020 Industry-Academia Collaboration prize. Table 4 lists the 32 RSC awards won by 26
 different academics since REF2014. Table 5 lists further prizes.
  Table 4. Manchester Chemistry-based RSC Prize Winners
                          2020                                            2017
  Bures               Hickinbottom                    Greaney           Bader
  Casiraghi           Gibson-Fawcett                  Leigh             Perkin
  Flitsch             Bioorganic                      N.Turner          Stereochemistry
  Green               Harrison-Meldola                                    2016
  Liddle              Tilden                          Chilton           Dalton Young Researcher
  Procter             Charles Rees                    Denecke           Becquerel
  Schröder            Nyholm                          O’Brien           Longstaff
  Yang                Harrison-Meldola                Winpenny          Ludwig Mond
                          2019                        Yeates &          Emerging Technologies
                                                      Winpenny
  Barran              Theophilus Redwood                                  2015
  Larrosa             Corday-Morgan                   Liddle            Corday-Morgan
  McInnes             Tilden                          Natrajan          Bill Newton
  Micklefield         Bader                           O’Malley          Higher Education
  Mills               Bill Newton                     Procter           Bader
  Scrutton            Interdisciplinary                                   2014
                          2018                        Casiraghi         Marlow
  Leonori             Harrison-Meldola                Flitsch           Interdisciplinary
  Mills               Harrison-Meldola                Leigh             Pedler
  Goodwin             Dalton Young Researcher


  Table 5. Further major prizes
                Cai                  Wellcome Trust, Frontier Innovator Award
                Faulon               Scientific Excellence award from the French National University
                                     Council

    2015        Leys                 RS Wolfson Merit Award
                McInnes              International EPR Society Medal for Chemistry
                Morris               James N Shoolery Prize
                Procter              Liebig Lectureship, German Chemical Society
                Casiraghi            Philip Leverhulme Prize
    2016
                Leonori              European Young Chemist Award, Silver Medal


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
              Leonori           UNESCO/IUPAC/ PhosAgro Green Chemistry Award
              Schröder          Honorary Doctorate from the Nikolaev Institute of Inorganic
    2017
                                Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences
              Adams             BRSG - NMR DG Annual Prize for Excellent Contribution to
                                Magnetic Resonance by an ECR.
    2018
              Popelier          Inaugural Richard FW Bader International Prize for Excellence in
                                Electron Density Research
              Bures             Young Researcher Award from the Spanish RSC
              Chilton           Olivier Kahn International Award, The European Institute of
                                Molecular Magnetism
              Larrosa           Blavatnik Award Finalist
              Leigh             Nanoscience Prize, International Society for Nanoscale Science,
                                Computation and Engineering
    2019
              Leonori           Philip Leverhulme Prize
              Leonori           AstraZeneca Award for Outstanding Achievements in Organic
                                Synthesis
              Liddle            Alexander von Humboldt Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research
                                Award
              Yang              CCDC Chemical Crystallography Prize for Younger Scientists

    2020      Collison          Bruker Prize for EPR Spectroscopy


 17 Unit staff have held Visiting Professorships at top overseas institutions.
 Chemistry staff have delivered over 1200 lectures since REF2014 at universities (>660) and
 conferences (>560). Staff have chaired the organising committees of >30 international
 conferences and symposia.
 24 Unit staff are members of the EPSRC College, 5 have sat on BBSRC funding panels and 20
 on EPSRC funding panels and have served as Panel Chair 4 times. Staff referee for funding
 organisations in >30 countries, with 27 refereeing for the ERC.
 Unit staff have served as Editors for journals including; Chemical Science (Leigh); FEBS J
 (Scrutton); Progress in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (Morris); Beilstein Journal of Organic
 Chemistry (Flitsch); Natural Products Review (Takano); ACS Omega (Takano); Springer Nature’s
 Cancer Nanotechnology (Currell); ACS Biomaterials Science and Engineering (Takano);
 Metabolomics (Goodacre).
 A further 24 staff have served on journal Editorial Advisory Boards or as Guest Editor of special
 issues.
 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 We lead a CDT in Integrated Catalysis and are involved in three further CDTs running on
 31/07/2020 (see p19). We were also involved in CDTs in Materials for Demanding
 Environments, Next Generation Nuclear and Nanoscience in Manchester since REF2014.
 We have an established 2+2 programme with Singapore and have established a Flagship 5-year
 (2020-2029) 2+2 Programme with Tsinghua (see section 2).
 Flitsch led the GlycoBioM consortium (finished 2015) and is Co-I on Chem21 within the Innovate
 Medicines Initiative (2012-2017). Scrutton led a Marie Curie ECR ITN training Centre ‘MAGIC’
 (2014-2018), training 12 PhD students. Membership of Marie Curie ITNs: PoliMer (Field); Sweet
 Crosstalk (Field); GlycoVax (Flitsch); TINTIN (Flitsch); Immunoshape (Flitsch); PIPPI


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Golovanov); SASSYPOL (Leigh); EURO-SEQUENCES (Leigh); BIOMOLMACS (Leigh);
 PhotoReact (Leonori); Masstrplan (Pitt).
 Liddle chaired a COST Action (CM1006 – EUFEN, >120 groups from 22 countries) providing 4
 training schools/conferences in f-element chemistry (2012-2015). Larrosa is a member of the
 Management Committee of an EU COST Action on C-H activation in Organic Synthesis (CHAOS)
 (2015 – 2020). We are members of COST actions in molecular magnetism (several groups) and
 mechanochemistry (De Bo).
 The EPSRC EPR NRF trains 30-50 PGRs per year, including week-long residential courses.
 This has also been delivered in Brazil and Australia.




                                                                                     Page 23
