Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA14: Geography and Environmental Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and Structure

Research in Geography and Environmental Studies has undergone significant change since REF
2014. At that time, Coventry University (CU) submitted physical geographers and environmental
scientists to UoA7 Earth Systems and Environmental Science (10.4 FTE), whilst human
geographers/social scientists were included in submissions to UoA21 Politics and International
Studies (18.7 FTE) and UoA19 Business and Management Studies (17 FTE). In 2014 CU launched
its ‘Excellence with Impact’ strategy, marking a major new investment in research and establishing
several new challenge-led research centres. One of these is the Centre for Agroecology, Water and
Resilience (CAWR), launched in 2014, whose staff form the largest part of our submission to UoA14
Geography and Environmental Studies (Table 1.1). CAWR aims to combine natural science, social
science and lay knowledge to deliver high-impact research for the understanding and development
of resilient food and water systems throughout the world.

Our submission to UoA14 has been made possible through significant investment in staff and
infrastructure at CAWR, which enabled us to build on existing strengths in hydrology,
geomorphology, local/community food systems and agroecology. New staff have been appointed to
extend our specialisms to fulfil CAWR’s objectives (Section 1.2). This means we are now able to
submit researchers whose work falls into a range of areas as outlined in the UoA14 Panel Descriptor
for Geography (including: biogeography and ecosystem science; environmental and climate change;
geomorphology; hydrology and water science; Quaternary science; environmental geography;
cultural, development, health, historical, political, rural, social, urban geographies; geographical
information sciences; socio-ecological systems; natural resource governance) and Environmental
Studies (including: ecosystem services, governance, sustainable development, conservation,
ecology, environmental pollution, resource management, environmental assessment). Ranging from
science-based to humanistic approaches, our work features numerical, theoretical, experimental,
model-based and field-based strategies as well as a strong emphasis on participatory methods.

Included in our submission are ten associate members of CAWR. These are based in the Faculty of
Engineering, Environment and Computing (EEC) and seconded to the Research Centre for a
minimum of three years with protected time for research and access to the same resources as Centre
staff. Also included are three FTEs at the University Research Centre for Peace, Trust and Social
Relations (CTPSR), plus one FTE from the Faculty Research Centre for Fluid and Complex Systems
(CFCS), whose research complements that of CAWR and sits within the scope of UoA14.

Table 1.1: Composition of CU submission to UoA14
                                                                                        FTE
 CAWR                                                                                   40.2
 EEC (Associate Members of CAWR)                                                        10.0
 CTPSR                                                                                  3.0
 CFCS                                                                                   1.0
 Total                                                                                  54.2


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As 93% of staff in our submission are members of CAWR, this statement describes the research
environment at CAWR. Research is organised into four complementary themes which together
facilitate the development of interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary approaches to understanding and
improving the resilience of food and water systems. By interdisciplinarity, we refer to the combination
of two or more disciplines to achieve outcomes not achievable by a single discipline. We use the
term transdisciplinarity to refer to the co-construction of knowledge involving scientific and non-
scientific sources or practices (including lay and traditional knowledge, for example). Each of the
themes is convened by a professor or senior academic and staff align themselves with themes most
appropriate to their interests. Theme membership is fluid; staff can move freely between them and
participate in more than one theme.

The Fundamental Processes and Resilience theme (Leader Van De Wiel) advances knowledge
on the underlying processes that promote resilience in food and water systems. Resilient Food and
Water Systems in Practice (Leaders Charlesworth and Schmutz) focuses on the development of
practical techniques and technologies for resilience, as well as the resilience potential of whole food
and water systems and their communities in rural and urban settings. Community Self-
Organisation for Resilience (Leaders Kneafsey and Franklin) develops insights into the complex
and contested ways in which communities self-organise to manage the food and water resources
they depend on and seeks to progress critical understanding of the concept of community resilience.
Policies and Institutions for Resilient Food and Water Systems (Leader Pimbert) critically
explores the progressive thinking and action needed to challenge and transform unsustainable
structures and hold powerful actors and networks to account.

Our research environment is dynamic and evolving, aiming to create an adaptive culture which is
responsive to our internal needs as well as those of our partners, collaborators and the externally
changing environment. An example of this is the unique People’s Knowledge and
Transdisciplinary Working Group, initiated in 2015, which aims to build a community of practice
of transdisciplinary scholars within CAWR and externally.

CAWR is housed in a grass-roofed eco-building at Ryton Gardens, a semi-rural location south-east
of Coventry. The facility has the rare and distinctive advantage of being set in nine hectares of
organic certified agricultural land with access to growing space, greenhouses, polytunnels and a
range of bespoke laboratories (Figure 1.1).




                                                       Administration, offices and
                                                       laboratories
                                                                              Outdoor
                                                                              research space

 Offices, visitor
 space and gardens
 of Garden Organic
                                       Five Acres Farm (Community
                                       Supported Agriculture)


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1.1: CAWR’s research buildings, outdoor space and greenhouses

1.2 Research Objectives
CAWR was launched with the ambition of ‘becoming an uncontested world leader known for its
innovative transdisciplinary research on agroecology and water, as well as for its contributions to
understanding and developing equitable and resilient food and water systems’. We define
agroecology as an approach to agriculture and food systems based on ecological principles, which
recognises the importance of local knowledge and the agency of food producers and citizens. Table
1.2 sets out the broad objectives achieved by CAWR during the current assessment period, which
correspond closely to the plans laid out in our UoA7 submission in 2014:

Table 1.2: Objectives achieved 2014–20, with selected illustrative outputs
 1. Enriched resilience science: Our research has contributed to the understanding of
 hydroclimatic and hydrological systems, particularly on rainfall variability over multiple timescales
 (Dieppois et al., Jnl of Geophys Res – Atmospheres, 2016; Intl Jnl Climatology, 2016), attribution
 of extreme rainfall events (Eden, in Christiansen et al., Jnl of Climate, 2018) and teleconnections
 in hydroclimate systems (Eden et al., Jnl of Geophys Res – Atmospheres, 2014; Dieppois et al.,
 Climate Dynamics, 2015). It has also improved understanding of biodiversity responses to natural
 and anthropogenic environmental change, especially for invertebrates (Wilkes et al., Global
 Change Biology, 2020), macrophytes (Kennedy et al., 2015; Murphy et al., 2019), pollinators
 (Smith et al., Front. Sustain. Food Syst, 2020; Smith in Holland et al., Biological Conservation,
 2015) and invasive plants (Dehnen-Schmutz in Touza et al., Ecological Economics, 2014).
 Warne et al. have assessed water quality and endocrine activity in Australian rivers and
 implications for the Great Barrier Reef (Environmental Pollution, 2020). Our research also
 contributed to understanding resilience in catchment geomorphology, notably in relation to
 riverbank erosion (Van De Wiel, in Rousseau et al., Geomorphology, 2017) and catchment
 sediment connectivity (Coulthard and Van De Wiel, Geomorphology, 2017).

 2. Developed practical techniques and practices for resilient food and water systems:
 Significant achievements here can be found in our internationally recognised work on sustainable
 drainage systems (SuDS). Charlesworth and Coupe (Renewable and Sust. Energy Reviews,
 2017), Lashford et al. (Water, 2020) and Rubinato et al. (Hydroinformatics, 2018) have published
 on the role of SuDS in minimising flood risk and water pollution. Dehnen-Schmutz and Bennett
 have developed new insights on weed management, biodiversity and yields (in Maclaren et al.,
 Weed Research 2019; Jnl Applied Ecology, 2018).

 3. Extended research into how community self-organisation contributes to the resilience
 of socio-ecological systems: A body of work has been developed around alternative food
 networks (Owen and Bos, Jnl of Rural Studies, 2016), local food systems (Anderson in Laforge
 et al., Agric. Hum. Values, 2015), urban agriculture and short food supply chains (Kneafsey and
 Schmutz in Zasada et al., City, Culture and Society, 2019; Chang and Morel, Agron. Sustain.
 Dev, 2018; Tornaghi, Antipode, 2016), gardening activism and food justice (Kneafsey et al., Local
 Environment, 2017; Tornaghi and van Dyck, Local Environment, 2014). We have also developed
 socio-ecological perspectives on food security, biodiversity conservation and community
 resilience in India (Saxena, Sustainability, 2020) and Brazil, including Chappell’s (2018) critically
 acclaimed interdisciplinary analysis of food security policies in Belo Horizonte – Beginning to End
 Hunger. Other work has focused on natural resource management, sustainable livelihoods and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to healthcare in South Africa (Lemke and van Rensbury, Dvlpmt S. Africa, 2014; Fried et
 al., Qual. Health Care Res., 2015).

 4. Delivered insights into policies and institutions for resilience: Key achievements include
 Brem-Wilson’s unique insights into non-elite participation in food and agricultural policy
 processes in the United Nations (UN) Committee on World Food Security (Jnl of Peasant Studies,
 2015; Rev Intl Studies, 2016) and Tilzey’s critical theoretical perspectives on food sovereignty (Jnl
 Rur Studies, 2017; Pols & Governance, 2019), including his ground-breaking monograph Political
 Ecology, Food Regimes and Food Sovereignty, 2018. Anderson, Maughan, Pimbert developed
 a new theory of transformative agroecology learning (Agric. Hum. Values, 2018). With others, they
 co-edited special issues on Learning for Transformation in Food Movements (Agric. Hum. Values,
 2019) and Agroecology Transformations (Agroecol & Sust. Food Syst, 2020). MacKinnon
 published original analysis of legacies of internal colonialism in Scotland and imperialism in India,
 tracing their impacts on local populations and environmental resource management (Northern
 Scotland, 2017; Intl Jnl of the Commons, 2018; Scottish Hist. Rev., 2019; Env. & Planning E,
 2020).


Of cross-cutting relevance to these objectives, staff have also made methodological contributions
notably in the field of participatory and collaborative research methods and scholar activism – Brem-
Wilson (Socialist Studies, 2014), Brown (with Brady, Methodological Innovations, 2020), Denning
(Social & Cultural Geography, 2019), van Dyck et al. (Agroecologia, 2018).

This suggests CAWR is developing into a world leader in the fields of agroecology and resilient food
and water systems. In addition to these outputs, evidence of this can be seen in the external income
we have generated. During 2014-20 staff have been awarded funded projects (as principal
investigator or collaborator) worth a combined total value of £33.5m. Evidence of our strong
international reputation is also provided by Scival data (10.03.21) showing that 53% of CU affiliated
papers between 2014-20 were internationally co-authored; 42.6% were published in the top 10% of
journals (using Source Normalised Impact Per Paper, SNIP), and our outputs have been cited 54%
more than the world average for their field. Using topics in SciVal to analyse our contributions, we
stand out as a world leader in agroecology, permaculture and peasant movements. We are also a
top contributor on concrete pavements, stormwater and asphalt mixtures which forms part of our
work on SuDS.

1.2.1 Research objectives 2020–25
As food and water security, climate change and biodiversity move to centre stage of local and global
policy discourse, CAWR is exceptionally well positioned to continue its trajectory and also contribute
to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Discussions with partners (academics, farmers,
educators, policy makers and social movements) in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe have also
enabled us to prioritise research going forward. Our high-level research objectives 2020–25 are:

1. Respond to socio-environmental crises: research will focus on reducing carbon and ecological
footprints through food system transformation, including the development of low external input
circular systems that link food and energy production with water and waste management along the
rural-urban continuum in diverse contexts. We will deepen understanding of the relationship between
agroecology and ecosystem services, notably soil regeneration and biodiversity restoration, and
develop practices and technologies to support climate resilient food and farming systems, including
processing and value chains. We will build on our strengths in water science to deliver cutting-edge

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research on new and emerging pollutants such as micro-plastics and expand our research on climate
and hydro-ecological modelling.

2. Enhance socio-economic sustainability: research will examine how, and under what
conditions, community self-organising processes can support sustainable livelihoods, health and
wellbeing, dignity and cultural diversity as well as economic organisations that can re-localise food
and water systems. This will include further work responding to the Covid-19 crisis, which has
highlighted the problems of industrialised agriculture, environmental destruction and increased
vulnerabilities to global pandemics.

3. Boost political sustainability and good governance: We will continue and extend our research
on methodological and institutional innovations that can expand citizen participation, social inclusion,
subsidiarity and democracy in the co-production of knowledge, policies and institutional choices for
food and farming systems, land, seeds, energy and water. We will explore forms of adaptive
governance and institutional arrangements that best support transitions/transformations to
sustainable and just food and water systems. The mutual constitution of political, economic and
social power will be critically analysed in different settings to identify the changes in power relations
needed to secure the right to food and other human rights as well as enable community and socio-
ecological resilience in the face of rapid and uncertain change.

We will build on our strengths to deliver high quality applied research which delivers impacts locally
and globally. Several projects have already been secured which will ensure progress towards our
objectives (see Figure 3.2). Additionally, demonstrating the long-term vision and expectations for
CAWR, CU in 2019 invested £2.4 million to purchase the 9-hectare site at Ryton. This signalled an
exciting new step to enhance research capacity over the next ten years. The vision is to develop a
multifunctional living laboratory and hub for high-impact, transdisciplinary research, education and
enterprise, around a decarbonised, circular economy based on the ethos of One Planet Living. The
acquisition of the site has already supported successful bids for several H2020 projects.
UNDERTREES (€1.2m, 2020–23), AGROMIX (€7m, 2020–24) and AE4EU (€2m, 2021–23) have
the Ryton site written into their grant agreements and provide the foundations for achieving our
objectives into 2025. The AE4EU project, for example, will position the Ryton site as the UK node of
a European living lab network of agroecology.

1.3 Impact Strategy
CAWR’s impact strategy aims to generate benefits for communities, institutions and businesses
operating from local to global scales, as illustrated in our submitted case studies (Table 1.3).

Table 1.3: Impact Case Studies
 ICS1 Developing Sustainable Drainage Systems for Better Water Management, Pollution
        Reduction and Ecological Water Treatment
 ICS2 Participatory Policy-Making on Global Food Insecurity
 ICS3 Effective Prison and Community-Based Interventions: Building Humanising Rehabilitative
        Environments
 ICS4 Supporting Rural Development through Short Food Chains and Local Food Systems
 ICS5 Supporting Native Biodiversity Through Garden-based Citizen Science

We have created an impact-supporting environment through four inter-linked activities:


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1. Developing strong collaborations, partnerships and participatory approaches: engagement
with partners nationally and internationally ensures our research adaptively evolves in the light of
new knowledge, constraints and opportunities. Moreover, our participatory research approach, with
its emphasis on co-production and reflexive learning, often delivers disproportionately high impacts.
For example, ICS1 illustrates how long-term partnerships with industry have delivered practical
innovations which have reduced flooding and water pollution. ICS2 shows how our researchers
successfully collaborated with the Civil Society and Indigenous People’s Mechanism of the UN
Committee on World Food Security to reinforce the participation of rural youth and under-
represented regions in policy making on global food security. ICS5 illustrates how peoples’ gardening
knowledge and skills can be combined and enhanced through citizen science to support native
biodiversity.

2. Building on diverse funding sources: a wide portfolio of small, medium and large-scale projects
is important because it enables interaction with a range of different partners and includes those likely
to benefit most from the research. A proportion of research is funded at CU’s institutional charitable
rates. This reinforces CU’s Corporate Social Responsibility agenda, but crucially it helps to amplify
the voices of smaller-scale, often locally based initiatives that would otherwise be unable to afford
evaluations or have the capacity to undertake research and collaborations. ICS3 illustrates how
several smaller projects generated cumulative and significant impacts for the commissioning, design
and delivery of land-based and faith-based rehabilitative programmes in prisons, contributing to
health and wellbeing benefits for criminalised men and women. A key benefit of this work was that it
enabled smaller charities to acquire independent evidence of the impacts of their work, which then
strengthened their capacity to access further funding. ICS3 again highlights how our participatory
approach encourages reflexive learning and growth in the organisations involved, leading to
improved practices.

3. Undertaking policy relevant research: conducting policy relevant research is embedded in the
overall aims of CAWR. The significance of this is underlined by having an entire research theme
devoted to policies and institutions, plus a ‘knowledge mobilisation strategy’ (Section 1.5). ICS2, 4
and 5 illustrate how policy and strategy-relevant research leads to impacts, highlighting the
importance of active dissemination and outreach and reinforcing the role of collaborative networks.

4. Developing impact skills and capabilities: Events organised by the Peoples’ Knowledge
Working Group, as well as external trainers, provide regular opportunities for researchers to critically
reflect on the concept of impact in relation to CAWR’s agenda for ‘transformative’ research. In
practical terms, they are encouraged to develop processes to track and evidence impact through
training and support provided by a dedicated Research Impact Officer affiliated to CAWR (staff in
CTPSR and CFCS have equivalent support).

Researchers can also access internal funding to undertake necessary travel and engagement to
build effective pathways to impact. In the next REF period, we will continue to implement these
activities, with the following new initiatives planned:

1. Documenting the impacts of new site developments at Ryton Gardens: the plans have impact
at their heart, including measures for fully integrated monitoring processes using relevant social,
economic and environmental performance indicators.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. Launching a new series of policy briefings: aimed at government policy makers and other
social actors, each policy brief presents key policy recommendations or implications from our
research. The first set of policy briefs will aim to influence discussions at the UN Food Systems
Summit and the COP on Climate Change, 2021.

3. Enhancing the accessibility of our research: we will increase the proportion of our research
that is open access and improve accessibility to a wider range of publics through a variety of
languages, formats and multi-media communications.

Staff will continue to be supported by CU’s research impact team. We will continue to generate
impacts locally and globally; for example, CAWR has developed a strong agenda for locally based
participatory research, with three fully funded PhD studentships (starting from September 2020)
focusing on aspects of community food resilience and urban agroecology in Coventry, plus a PhD
investigating the use of Nature Based Solutions to address environmental degradation by New and
Emerging Pollutants which will provide small-scale demonstrator test beds open to the public,
students, stakeholders and for use in teaching and CPD.

1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
Interdisciplinarity was built into the fabric of CAWR from its outset and is a defining quality that has
underpinned our success. Indeed, CU’s research centres were set up to address societal issues,
rather than disciplinary ones, and thus their objectives are addressed using interdisciplinary
perspectives. Our aim is not only to support interdisciplinarity but also to develop trans-disciplinarity
and our themes and cross-cutting working group provide the practical platforms for organising this.
Several mutually reinforcing actions support our approach to interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
research:
▪   recruiting a mix of researchers from the natural sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities;
▪   recruiting researchers with a strong track record and commitment to inter- and transdisciplinary
    scholarship to act as catalysts and role models;
▪   prioritising problem-focused research rather than pure disciplinary-based research – CAWR
    encourages undertaking fundamental research in an applied way;
▪   supporting the co-construction of knowledge by collectives of natural and social scientists, artists
    and citizens (including farmers and indigenous peoples).
The combined effects of these actions have enhanced the vitality and sustainability of our research
environment. Many of CAWR’s major projects exemplify our inter- and/or transdisciplinary approach.
Urbanising in Place, for example (Sustainable Urbanisation Global Initiative – Belmont Forum and
Joint Programming Initiative Urban Europe, €1.5m, Co-I: Tornaghi, 2018–21), brings together
academics from geography, rural and urban sociology, architecture, planning, design, agronomy,
hydrology, engineering and physics. Together they work with ‘communities of practice’ – each with
specific and valuable knowledge – in Rosario, Riga, Brussels and London to identify the building
blocks of an ‘agroecological urbanism’.

1.5 Open Research
CAWR creates an open research environment in three key ways. First, our emphasis on participatory
methods means research agendas, projects and outputs are co-developed through trust in which
the needs and aspirations of partners, beneficiaries and users are foregrounded and built into
research design.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Second, we are committed to participation in open data initiatives and comply with CU’s Policy on
Research Data Management and Sharing, which states that data (that underpin/validate research
findings) should always be made available unless there are ethical or legal reasons why they cannot.

Third, we make our research outputs as openly available as possible. Since 2016, CU has developed
a comprehensive Open Access (OA) strategy with a minimum standard of green OA being a baseline
for all our outputs. Going further than this, 39% of all our published outputs are available via gold
OA, funded from a variety of sources, including CAWR, collaborating institutions and project funds.
We have several OA books, such as Everyday Experts, edited by the Peoples’ Knowledge Collective
and part of CAWR’s own series, ‘Reclaiming Diversity and Citizenship’ (edited by Pimbert), including
authors from both CAWR and our wider networks.

Our OA strategy is intertwined with our approach to impact; we have invested in a ‘knowledge
mobilisation strategy’ that translates our research into a range of different media so it can be
mobilised for public good. Our work on agroecology transformations, for example, is communicated
using videos, research briefs, journal articles and a monograph (Agroecology Now! Transformations
to More Just and Sustainable Food Systems, available online December 2020. All of the outcomes
are cross-linked and presented dynamically on the Agroecology Now! website. The platform links to
a body of 75 freely downloadable OA publications from CAWR.

1.6 Research Integrity
Research is governed by the principles of research ethics and integrity which are set out in CU’s
Group Research Ethics and Conduct Policy. In common with the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity (Universities UK), the underpinning principles of research ethics and integrity include:
culture, honesty, rigour, integrity, co-operation, accountability, transparency, training and
development, and care, respect and safety. In addition to these principles, and in keeping with our
impact agenda, we pay special attention to how we work with marginalised communities and
individuals (for example, migrants and refugees, criminalised men and women, Indigenous people,
small-scale peasant farmers). At the heart of our interactions with all our collaborators is continual
learning about how to build research relationships which are non-extractive, equitable, respectful
and mutually beneficial.

Ethics requests are handled using the university’s online ethics approval system. Senior academics
undertake the role of Ethics and Governance Lead. They attend the University Group Ethics
Committee and hold the position on a two-year rotating basis, with two co-leads in support, at least
one of whom is a mid-career researcher. The rotation of staff in this role strengthens capacity. It
means levels of understanding of CU’s ethics procedures are high and continually refreshed across
the research community, as well as ensuring that the administrative burden associated with ethics
reviews and decision making is shared. It also provides an opportunity for mid-career researchers to
take on a role of leadership and responsibility with the support of more experienced peers. The ethics
team includes at least one social scientist and one natural scientist. They have responsibility for
ensuring that staff and postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are trained in the principles of ethics and
integrity so that research projects comply with the highest standards.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
In total, 50 new academics have been appointed to CAWR during the assessment period (this refers
to all staff, including Early Career Researchers (ECRs) not eligible for REF). Two of the staff from
CTPSR were also new appointments (Harris, Denning). The research opportunities identified via
internal discussions at the end of REF2014 ensured that staff were recruited to 1) fill gaps in our
expertise, 2) create an inter and transdisciplinary team capable of addressing ‘wicked’ problems
associated with water, agroecology and resilience and 3) ensure all the research themes have grown
at a roughly even pace (Table 2.1).

Table 2.1: Development of research specialisms, 2014–20
                  Specialisms present in 2014        New specialisms developed since
                                                     2014
 Fundamental      Urban hydrology, fluvial dynamics  Fluid mechanics, coastal
 processes and and geomorphology,                    geomorphology, Dale, Rubinato;
 resilience       Charlesworth, Lawler (retired);    Fluvial geomorphology and
                  Environmental GIS and remote       computational modelling, Van de Wiel;
                  sensing, Anifowose, Blackett       Modelling of hydrological and climate
                                                     systems, Dieppois, Eden; Human-
                                                     environment relationships during the
                                                     Holocene, Farrell; Behaviour of
                                                     pollutants in aquatic and terrestrial
                                                     ecosystems, Bogush, Hart,
                                                     Kourtchev, Warne; Applied freshwater
                                                     ecology and hydroecology, Kennedy,
                                                     Wilkes
 Resilient food   Agroecology, organic horticulture, Agroforestry, stabilisation agriculture
 and water        stabilisation agriculture, Wright, and peace building, McAllister,
 systems in       Schmutz; Citizen science and       Felix; urban and vegan horticulture,
 practice         stakeholder engagement in the      Rayns, Lennartsson-Turner;
                  management of invasive species,    Participatory approaches to plant
                  Dehnen-Schmutz, Bennett,           breeding, biodiversity restoration, and
                  Trenchard; Sustainable drainage    climate change mitigation, Labrada,
                  systems, environmental             Smith, Burbi, Rayns; Cost-effective
                  remediation, Charlesworth,         technologies for environmental
                  Coupe, Ifelebuegu                  remediation, Bogush, Lashford




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Community          Short food supply chains, local and    Short food supply chains and
 self-              community food systems, food           community food enterprises, Owen;
 organisation       poverty, food justice, Kneafsey;       Health benefits of gardening,
 for resilience     Urban agriculture, social farming,     Lennarttson-Turner; Urban
                    gardening and micro-farming,           agroecology, Tornaghi, Chang;
                    Schmutz, Kneafsey                      Community organising, environmental
                                                           activism, Anderson (left), Maughan,
                                                           Tornaghi, Chang; Socio-ecological
                                                           perspectives on food security,
                                                           biodiversity conservation and
                                                           community resilience, Chappell (left),
                                                           Saxena; Land and community-based
                                                           rehabilitation, Brown; Sustainable
                                                           livelihoods and place making, Lemke,
                                                           Franklin; Gender, nutrition and rights
                                                           to food and healthcare, Lemke, Fried;
                                                           Ethics and sustainability of
                                                           consumption, Evans, Martin-
                                                           Woodhead; Human-animal relations,
                                                           Abell, Evans, Franklin
  Policies and       Food sovereignty, agroecological      The politics of land and knowledge and
  institutions for transitions, democratisation of         natural resource management,
  resilient food     agricultural knowledge, Pimbert;      including legacies of colonialism,
  and water          Governance of natural resources,      MacKinnon, Singh, Milgroom,
  systems            Bennett                               Lemke; The funding, financing and
                                                           politics of agroecological transition,
                                                           Anderson, Moeller, Hilmi; Social
                                                           movement and non-elite participation in
                                                           formal agricultural policy processes,
                                                           Brem-Wilson; International political
                                                           economy and ecology of food systems
                                                           and food sovereignty, Tilzey,
                                                           Chappell; Socio-technical transitions,
                                                           van Dyck
Note: Table represents staff whose outputs are included in our submission; a small number of staff
who were appointed and left within the assessment period are not represented. New specialisms
have been developed as a result of 34 new appointments in CAWR and six in EEC, plus staff
transferring into CAWR from elsewhere in CU during the assessment period (Abell, Brown). Also
illustrates where staff are active in more than one research theme.

Our submission is boosted by the inclusion of Shariatipour’s research from the Centre for Fluid and
Complex Systems, developing numerical simulation of CO2 storage in deep saline formations and
depleted hydrocarbon reservoirs. Additionally, the research from CTPSR synergises with that of
CAWR. Denning’s work on faith-based responses to food poverty and Harris’s critical scholarship
on structural inequality and encounters with difference add new dimensions to CAWR’s work on food
justice and community responses to food insecurity (Kneafsey, Tornaghi, Saxena). Neculai’s
interdisciplinary monograph on Urban Space and Late 20thC New York Literature complements


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Maughan’s work on environmental change in science fiction literature/culture and Tornaghi’s
agenda-setting research on agroecological urbanism.

Recruitment has been driven by a strategic decision to recruit international talent from multiple career
stages. As a result, approximately 45% of staff are international, strengthening the diversity of our
team and the global reach of our research and collaborations. Crucially, and in keeping with CU’s
overall recruitment approach, CAWR has appointed several practitioners from community
development, advocacy and business sectors who have transitioned into academia (for example,
Singh is an experienced youth worker and advocate for environmental and social justice in the UK
and internationally; McAllister worked in international non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and
Hilmi held several roles at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation; Schmutz, Rayns
and Lennartsson-Turner worked for national horticultural charity Garden Organic). This strategy
has brought a wealth of applied knowledge, professional networks and expertise to enhance the
ability of CAWR to achieve real-world impact and develop transdisciplinary research approaches.

We recruited rapidly during 2014–16, with 22 appointments, and subsequently averaged six per
year. Between 2017–20, CAWR doubled the number of ECRs compared to 2014–16, largely due to
success in attracting larger externally funded projects. More experienced researchers have been
appointed on Fellowships funded by the H2020 MSCA scheme (Table 2.2).

Table 2.2: Externally funded posts
 ECRs                       Project title                Dates            Funding
 Marandure                  TOCASA: Trade-offs           2019–21          Biotechnology and
                            in communal areas in                          Biological Sciences
                            South Africa                                  Research Council
                                                                          (BBSRC)/Global
                                                                          Challenges Research
                                                                          Fund (GCRF): £789,256
 Conroy, van Kesteren,         Organic Plus: phasing     2018–22          H2020: €4.1m
 Touliatos                     out contentious inputs
                               from organic
                               agriculture
 Ruiz Cayuela, De La           RECOMS: resourceful       2018–22          Marie Curie International
 Rosa, Abbas                   and resilient                              Training Network: €3.9m
                               communities
 Green                         HOMED: holistic           2018–22          H2020: €5m
                               management of
                               emerging forest pests
                               and diseases
 Fathollahi                    SAFERUP:                  2018–22          H2020: €3.9m
                               Sustainable,
                               Accessible, Safe,
                               Resilient and Smart
                               Urban Pavements
 Maughan                       Growing and               2018–21          British Academy
                               Spreading Innovation                       Postdoctoral Fellowship:
                               in Community                               £258k
                               Economies:

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                    Agroecology and
                                    Sustainable Food
                                    Systems

 Mid-career staff funded on fellowships
 Milgroom                   WILDRICE                         2020–23           H2020, MSCA: €337k
                            International
                            Fellowship
 Labrada                    ECO-BROKER                       2019–21           H2020, MSCA: €225k
                            International
                            Fellowship

The split of staff at different career stages is evidence of a sustainable research environment. Figure
2.1 shows there is a concentration of mid-career researchers who will have opportunities to progress
to more senior levels during the next REF phase, which should also support an increase in the
number of professors over the next five-ten years. It is anticipated the ECR pool will grow as we
continue to increase the number of postdoctoral researchers employed by large grants. Our policy
of establishing a core team of researchers with permanent employment contracts, supplemented by
a smaller number of project-funded and fellowship staff on fixed term contracts, promotes stability
and long-term thinking which will ensure the sustainability and vitality of the research environment.

Figure 2.1: Gender distribution of UoA14 REF eligible staff at each career stage
Note: AL = Assistant lecturer; L = Lecturer; RF = Research Fellow.

                    30
                                                                           female

                                                                           male
                                      10
  number of staff




                    20

                                                       13

                    10
                                      16

                           2                           8
                                                                       2
                           3                                           2
                    0
                         AL/L/RF   Asst Prof    Assoc Prof         Prof

Source: Coventry University UoA14 data, Coventry University People Team, 31st July 2020.

2.2 Staff Development
We develop talent by creating a research culture which encourages disruptive thinking, creative
dissent, reflexivity, as well as thinking and working outside established paradigms. A culture of
‘accountable autonomy’ creates conditions of relative freedom in which researchers can thrive and
generate impacts. It enables self-organising dynamics, a culture of trust and a safe space for
researchers to push the boundaries of existing knowledge.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Regular theme meetings provide an important opportunity for staff at different career stages to
develop their leadership skills and capabilities and to benefit from informal mentoring and peer group
support. Themes are convened by an academic lead and co-lead(s) on a rotational basis and include
opportunities to share news about current or new projects and publications, discuss mental health
and wellbeing, celebrate achievements and practically support colleagues with research ideas and
‘papers in progress’. Meetings also provide a valuable opportunity for social interaction, thus helping
individuals to keep connected with each other – a function which has proved especially important
during the COVID-19 pandemic and the increase in remote working.

We have been building the skills and capacities of researchers by creating different opportunities for
them to gain experience, for example in academic leadership and project management. Regular
training opportunities are provided on research ethics, grant writing and impact. All staff have an
annual Personal Development Fund ranging from £500–£1,000, which can be used for conference
attendance, training, networking and relevant purchases.

Additionally, staff can access QR funding to support their development in a variety of ways
(distributed via internal competitive process at CU). Collectively, staff at CAWR acquired over £300k
to fund a range of activities to support skills, develop networks and pilot projects (Table 2.3).

Table 2.3: Funded staff development
 QR funding scheme        Value (GBP)         Illustrative examples of contribution to staff
                                              development
 ▪   Pump Prime             110,795           This funding has enabled staff to: 1) make links with
     funding                                  stakeholders for the development of new
 ▪   International and                        collaborations; 2) conduct pilot tests. For example,
     Interdisciplinary                        funding enabled preliminary trials by Rayns and
     Pilot Projects                           Smith to evaluate the potential of heritage bean
                                              varieties for human and beneficial insect nutrition.
                                              This contributed to the development of the TRUE
                                              project (led by James Hutton Institute).

 ▪   Impact accelerator     49,039            Dehnen-Schmutz et al. created a web-based citizen
     funding                                  science platform (Plant Alert) to report potentially
 ▪   Networking and                           invasive ornamental garden plants. Since its launch
     skills development                       in 2019, the platform, hosted by the Botanical
 ▪   Enterprise and                           Society of Britain and Ireland, has received 480
     engagement                               records; results have been used in Defra horizon
     activities                               scanning and risk assessments for future invasive
                                              species.

 ▪   Research               151,521           Lashford received funding for the installation of a
     equipment and                            long-term monitoring system at the Heart of England
     infrastructure                           Spernal Site to enable a better understanding of the
                                              role of tree-planting on reducing runoff by increasing
                                              interception and infiltration rates.
 Total                      311,355



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Research Students
CAWR is developing its reputation as a high-quality provider and has grown its PGR community
during the current assessment period, with 54 students currently enrolled and 37 having successfully
completed (Table 2.4), an average of two completions per Director of Studies.

Table 2.4: PhD completions August 2013 to July 2020
 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18                       2018–19      2019–20     Total
     9          1         2         2           7                 5           11         37

CU supports engagement with external partners by providing matched funding opportunities for
studentships. CAWR has secured a number of these, enabling six students to start PhDs during the
current REF period, supported by funding from the Welsh Government, Severn Rivers Trust, the
Waste FEW-ULL project funded by the Sustainable Urbanisation Global Initiative, Lobs Charity,
Ruskin Mill and Warwickshire County Council. Two members of staff are engaged in part-time PhD
study with their fees paid by CAWR. Additional smaller sums have been provided in sponsorship by
the Zimbabwe Institute of Permaculture, the Ghana Education Trust, the Niger Delta Development
Commission and Kogi State University, Nigeria.

CAWR also supports co-tutelle arrangements with the Universities of Zimbabwe, Cantabria in Spain,
Stellenbosch, South Africa, and Santa Catarina, Brazil. We are working to develop further co-tutelles
with the University of Concepcion, Chile, and University of Indonesia.

CAWR runs a Doctoral Training Programme which is versatile and flexible, allowing PGRs to choose
creditable development activities that fit with their academic needs, skills requirements and research
schedules. Activities are wide-ranging and include seminars and workshops, annual summer
schools, peer-to-peer presentations and discussions, as well as various social activities to foster
internal and external networking opportunities (Box 2.1). We encourage and facilitate PGR-led
activities to complement this programme.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Box 2.1: PGR Events organised in CAWR and CU

    ▪    CAWR Annual Summer School: a week-long series of workshops, seminars and panel
         discussions culminating in a social/networking event. PGRs design the programme so that it
         reflects their needs and interests, and are assisted by staff to develop and resource it.
    ▪    Weekly Research Seminar Series: internal and external speakers on a wide range of
         topics.
    ▪    Cross-centre Student Seminar series self-organised by PGRs: facilitates networking and
         knowledge exchange across Centres.
    ▪    Doctoral college poster symposia with a competitive element: our students took first and
         second prize in 2016 and 2017 respectively.
    ▪    Three Minute Thesis (3MT®): CAWR’s PGR Udall won this competition in 2016 and went
         on to represent CU nationally, where she placed within the top 5. In 2019 Sidibe was
         selected for the final round of this competition and in 2020 Giambartolomei placed third in
         the Three Minute thesis competition, won the People's Choice Award and received a Special
         Commendation in the PGR of the Year competition.
    ▪    CU Doctoral College, Research Hootenanny: in 2018/19 McKenzie won the ‘Research
         Student of the Year’ award and in 2019/20 Emeana was shortlisted for the same award.
    ▪    The inaugural ‘Outstanding Supervisory Team of the Year’ competition: organised by
         CU Doctoral College and judged by an external panel of experts, was won by CAWR
         supervisors Bennett and Burbi in 2019. Another supervisory team from CAWR (Franklin,
         Fried) was shortlisted in 2020.


PGRs can access all the facilities described in Section 3 plus their own dedicated working area with
a mix of PCs and iMacs. The physical layout of the offices, which are largely open plan, is conducive
to students having easy access to staff and contributes to the collegiate atmosphere. PGRs
participate in theme meetings, seminars and general staff meetings, thereby having access to
research expertise and mentoring beyond their immediate supervisory team. PGRs have
opportunities to participate in projects and are encouraged to co-publish papers where appropriate.
Examples include Maclaren et al.’s paper published in Crop Science, which was selected as one of
the inaugural 2020 Outstanding Papers in Crop Ecology, Management and Quality.

CAWR provides the following dedicated services for its PGRs:
▪       Administrative support: includes a Postgraduate Programmes Co-ordinator and a Senior
        Administrative Officer providing support throughout the student lifecycle from application,
        induction, to graduation and alumni relations.
▪       PGR Student Support Group: includes student and staff representatives and meets bi-monthly
        to consider all student needs from academic support, training and development to practical and
        personal needs.
▪       Pastoral care: provided by two experienced academics; a monthly hour-long surgery is also held
        by the PGR Director, Pastoral Representatives and PGR Programmes Coordinator.
▪       Student allowance: an annual development allowance of £500 each in their first two years of
        study, and £750 in their final year. Further needs such as additional conference travel, specialist
        training or software requirements are considered on a case-by-case basis. An internal
        budget/hardship fund has been used to support students as needed.
▪       Development activities: offered across CU, such as academic writing workshops (at the Centre
        for Academic Writing) and careers advice and guidance (offered by the Talent Team). CAWR



                                                                                                  Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   also provides opportunities for students to access teaching opportunities through our taught MSc
   programme.
Former students have secured employment in line with their academic interests. Five currently work
at CAWR, two in permanent posts, the others in project-related positions. Four have secured
teaching and academic positions elsewhere in CU; others have taken up employment at various
institutions, including University College London, Rothamsted Research, NIAB East Malling, NGOs
and the private sector.

2.4 Equality and Diversity
CAWR has an open and inclusive culture with a balanced mix of male and female staff and PGRs.
The proportion of female staff and students is above the average for the sector (Figure 2.2).

Figure 2.2: Gender ratios for staff and research students in this submission compared with
UK-wide sector (Geography and Environmental Studies)




 100%
                                                                                female
                                                                                male
   80%                            40%
                       48%                              51%        54%

   60%


   40%
                                  60%
                       52%                              49%
   20%                                                             46%


    0%
                    CU-UoA14 sector                  CU-UoA14 sector
                          Staff                            PGR
Source: Coventry University UoA14 data, Coventry University People Team, 31st July 2020,
Advance HE 2018/19 data.

There has been a focus on encouraging female staff to take on leadership roles, with more females
than males in senior roles, including the Senior Leadership Team of CAWR. CU policies enable
flexible and remote working to support all staff with caring and/or parental responsibilities. All
requests for flexible working have been approved and several staff have had the opportunity to
alternate between full-time and part-time work to accommodate caring roles. Remote working is
enabled through provision of laptops, tablet computers and mobile phones. Online participation in
meetings has been frequent, even before Covid-19. Staff managing long-term illness have been
supported to vary their working patterns as needed, and to undertake phased return to work if
required. Through CU’s annual progression opportunity, nine of our staff have achieved promotion
during the current REF period (five female, four male).




                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CAWR has a higher than average proportion of black and minority ethnic (BAME) staff and students
(Figure 2.3). We are committed to ongoing work to continuously improve the representation and
participation of scholars from BAME backgrounds, and during the reporting period, have begun an
internal process to develop further practical pathways towards increasing diversity, strengthening
equality and advancing decolonising practices in research and education. We have also created a
new leadership role with a standing portfolio on equality, diversity and decolonising research for the
period 2021–25.

Figure 2.3: Ethnic ratios for staff and research students in this UoA14 submission compared
to UK-wide sector (Geography & Environmental Studies)


  100%                                 5%                                                BAME
                          17%                                             20%
                                                                                         White
   80%
                                                              54%

   60%

                                      95%
   40%                    83%                                             80%


   20%                                                        46%


    0%
                      CU-UoA14 sector                      CU-UoA14 sector
                            Staff                                PGR
Source: Coventry University UoA14 data, Coventry University People Team, 31st July 2020,
Advance HE 2018/19 data.

CAWR is keen to do more to encourage and enable participation from people with disabilities. Our
current data (5% of staff and 2% of students) reflect similar trends to those in the sector for staff (5%)
but below average for PGRs (12%) and this is an aspect in which we will seek to make
improvements.




                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Income
CAWR has benefitted from initial investment of around £5 million, followed by annual investment of
£3.4 million (2014–20), primarily for staffing costs and overheads but also in capital expenditure at
the Ryton site. All staff have annual bidding and income targets, tailored to reflect their career stage
and other workload if appropriate (for example, project delivery, MSc teaching and PhD supervision).
CU Research Services provides support at the pre- and post-award stages, with a dedicated
Research Development Executive (RDE) responsible for signposting researchers to opportunities,
providing support on bid writing and managing internal peer review processes, and a Research
Delivery Support Partner who supports researchers with a range of aspects including grant
agreement, financial management and reporting.

Staff have submitted 273 proposals with an overall success rate of around 34%. As a result, we have
demonstrated annual growth in externally generated research income during the assessment period
(Table 3.1).

Table 3.1: Externally generated research income by year (£million)
 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19                              2019–20       Total
   0.16        0.25        0.56       0.55      0.74       0.98                 1.35        4.59

We have particularly focused on European Union (EU) funding sources and benefit from the support
of a specialist RDE with expertise in EU programmes. Indeed, a notable highlight of our bidding
strategy has been our success in winning grants from the EU (Figure 3.1). These accounted for just
over 50% of research income, with 14 awards in total, eight as co-ordinator. Our success rate as
beneficiary was 27.6% and as co-ordinator was 25%. For comparison, the success rate for H2020
between 2014–16 was 12.6% (source: H2020 Key Facts and Figures 2014–16, European
Commission). The remainder of our external income consists of almost 20% from Research Councils
and British Academy, around 10% from UK Central Government and the rest from UK private sector,
charities and non-EU sources.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 3.1: Breakdown of top five funding sources


                       1
                      0.9
                      0.8
                      0.7
                      0.6
 Income (£ million)




                      0.5
                      0.4
                      0.3
                      0.2
                      0.1
                       0
                            2013-14    2014-15    2015-16     2016-17      2017-18    2018-19    2019-20
                       UKRI Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal Society of
                       Edinburgh
                       EU research bodies

                       UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital authorities

                       UK-based charities (open competitive process)

                       Other (UK, EU and non-EU charities, industry commerce and public corporations)

Source: Coventry University HESA research income 2013/14 – 2019/20 aligned to UoA14.

Our aim is to increase our funding per FTE by continuing to target EU sources, where we have had
considerable success, but also by maintaining our wide portfolio of funding sources and seeking to
improve our success rate with UK research councils.

The sustainability of our research going forward is illustrated by Figure 3.2, which illustrates our track
record of successful projects and new funding already secured for 2021 and beyond.

Figure 3.2: Some of CAWR’s larger awards
Note: Projects co-ordinated by staff in CAWR are in bold; asterisk shows female PIs; figure shows
value to CU (and total grant value in brackets; currency as indicated and numbers rounded). Actual
income will vary according to exchange rates. Box sizes are not to scale, projects are two–four
years and involve several members across the themes.




                                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
External funding has supported the sustainability and vitality of the research environment as follows:
▪   Funding for 12 research posts: several project managers and professional services staff are
    also either fully or co-funded through external project income, which has enhanced our capacity
    to deliver high quality research and impact.
▪   Enhancing researcher mobility: Several mobility and knowledge exchange projects have
    contributed to the dynamic and lively research culture in CAWR. For example, Wilkes co-
    ordinated KEEPFISH (Marie Sklodowska-Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange, 2016–
    19, €126k) bringing together biologists, engineers and stakeholders from Europe and the
    southern hemisphere to exchange knowledge on mitigating the impact of hydropower schemes
    on fish migration routes (Wilkes et al., 2018, Fish and Fisheries). Wright co-ordinated ECODRY
    (EU IRSES FP7, 2014–17; €567k) funding international knowledge exchange on best
    agroecological practices in dryland and drought conditions (other examples are RECOMS and
    SAFERUP).
▪   Outputs and impact: Our impact case studies are primarily based on externally funded projects
    from a range of sources including the European Commission, industrial partners, charities and
    NGOs.
3.2 Organisational and Operational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
Staff and PGRs benefit from a specialist operations team based at Ryton. The team handles day-to-
day functions including organising and filming events, seminars, conferences and workshops; IT
support; marketing and communications; alumni relations; internships; REF support; processing
contracts with external suppliers; liaising with Honorary Research Fellows and visiting scholars; and
induction for new staff and students. Additionally, researchers benefit from the specialist support of
an International Research Engagement and Liaison Officer – a multi-lingual communications and
knowledge-brokerage professional with expertise in facilitating the development of proposals
involving multi-actor networks that bridge academia and civil society.

Staff have access to general facilities located on the main University Campus (labs, library) and
those at Ryton (the site is serviced by a regular free minibus to enable transfer to and from the main
campus twice daily). The Ryton Site includes generous multi-purpose and specialised spaces in
which staff, visitors and PGRs can work, including open-plan spaces, small offices, quiet rooms,
meeting rooms, a library, video-editing suite (including photography and film cameras for staff to
borrow), a communal kitchen, and indoor and outdoor social spaces.

An area of significant investment is the Analytical Hub consisting of five dedicated laboratories,
greenhouses and outdoor experimental spaces. Overseen by a Head Laboratory Technician, these
cover Pollution Dynamics, Environmental Monitoring, Microbiology, Soil and Sample Preparation.
This facilitates analysis of inorganic and organic compounds, microbiological assessment, and field
and glasshouse experiments. The Hub is equipped with instrumentation capable of analysing
virtually any matrix combined with advanced data analysis software (Box 3.1).




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Box 3.1: Instrumentation available at the Analytical Hub

 ▪   LC-MS instrument (comprising a Thermo Scientific uHPLC Vanquish Flex + HRAMS Q-
     Exactive Focus)
 ▪   Automated dual on-line solid phase extraction/injection system (Thermo Equan Max Plus)
 ▪   Off-line solid phase extraction (Gilson ASPEC 271)
 ▪   Thermo Scientific GC TRACE 1310 with ECD, TCD and FID detectors
 ▪   FTIR and Raman microscopes (Thermo Scientific Nicolet iN10MX FT-IR and DXR3 Raman)
 ▪   Accelerated Solvent Extractor (Thermo ASE 350)
 ▪   Ion Chromatography (Thermo Scientific Integrion)
 ▪   Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry (Agilent 8900)
 ▪   Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (Perkin Elmer 5300 DV)
 ▪   Dumas Analyser (Skalar Primac SNC 100)
 ▪   Microwave digester (Milestone Ethos UP)
 ▪   Nikon high magnification microbiological fluorescence microscope


Investment in the high-performance Hub will enable CAWR to further its research investigating
environmental degradation due to contamination with New and Emerging Pollutants. Staff have
widened their research areas, attracted new PhD students and won large-scale funding grants. For
example, the Organic-PLUS project, co-ordinated by Schmutz, Evans and Rayns is using the
equipment to quantify the release of potential pollutants from biodegradable plastics used as
mulches for weed control. The TRUE project includes Case Studies led by Smith and Rayns,
comparing the mineral nutrient content in samples of heritage and modern varieties of broad, French
and runner beans. The SAFERUP! Marie Curie ITN connects 15 universities in a study on the future
of urban roads and pavements. Coupe and Fathollahi are testing the environmental safety of new
paving materials (Fathollahi et al., 2020, papers in Science of the Total Environment, Chemosphere
and forthcoming in Jnl of Environmental Management).

The state-of-the-art laboratory equipment has also helped secure three COVID-19 fully funded and
GCRF funded PhD studentships starting in 2021: 1) Portable Hand-washing Facility using Bio-based
Materials […]; 2) Towards the Circular ‘Plastics’ Economy: Understanding the Impacts of Bio-plastics
[…]; 3) Developing an innovative inkjet printing technique to fabricate a cost-effective electrode for
renewable hydrogen production via ammonia electrolysis.

In addition to the analytical instrumentation two shipping containers were installed in 2018 to provide
a facility for SuDS research. These provide 60 m2 of floor space and have supported the work of
three PhD projects: 1) Pervious Pavement Systems (CAWR fully funded studentship, 2015–19); 2)
the removal of detergent characteristics from grey water using natural geo or waste materials (self-
funded, 2016 to date) and 3) treating new and emerging pollutants associated with slums in
developing countries using SuDS (GCRF fully funded doctoral studentship, 2020–24). Continuing
research first begun as part of a £130k Knowledge Transfer between CAWR and SEL Environmental
(2016–19), Coupe and Trenchard are using the containers to investigate how to grow and monitor
ecologically beneficial green roofs. In addition to the shipping containers, the external space provides
opportunities to design and carry out small-scale field experiments on SuDS interventions using
nature-based solutions.

The Ryton site is also equipped with two glasshouses fitted with environmental control and lighting
systems. These enable work on growing media (for example, the development of peat alternatives
and sustainably sourced plant feeds in Organic-PLUS). The space is also used to carry out controlled

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
experiments using bioremediation to treat greywater. Recycled stillages were installed in a
glasshouse in 2019 under a Royal Society funded project (Charlesworth, £200k), where it was
possible to exert experimental control using different kinds of aggregate and plants. Volumes and
applications of artificial greywater were controlled and chemical analysis carried out on the effluent.
Two polytunnels have been constructed to provide 250 m2 of growing space, specifically to facilitate
work on soil nutrient dynamics in protected cropping systems. These are supporting the work of a
PhD on vegan organic crop production (CU Trailblazer studentship, 2020-23).

CAWR also has a close working relationship with Five Acres Farm, a community supported
agriculture scheme based onsite. This collaboration enables us to conduct field trials under realistic
commercial farming conditions, particularly regarding field vegetable production (for example, for
research projects concerned with crop rotations, crop varieties, soil amendments and weed control
measures).

The Ryton Site recently acquired a new high-performance computing facility with the aim of
increasing its capability and potential for state-of-the-art climate modelling. The facility consists of
128 CPU cores and 83TB storage capacity. In addition, the numerical computation suite has three
high-performance workstations, with 28 CPU cores and over 2,400 GPU cores each, for numerical
modelling and spatial data analysis. Finally, researchers also have access to CU’s central computing
clusters which offer up to 3,600 CPU cores. These facilities have enabled the development of two
new research clusters on climate modelling and hydro-ecological modelling.




                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

CAWR demonstrates effective research collaborations which enrich the research environment and
enable it to engage with diverse communities, audiences and beneficiaries leading to societal impact.
Its staff contribute to sustaining the disciplines of Geography and Environmental Studies, plus the
many others with which we engage through our interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research.

4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
CAWR supports strategic partnerships with other institutions nationally and internationally to extend
the quality, significance and reach of our research and impact. CAWR has Memoranda of
Understanding (MOU) with the following universities: Andes Pluriversity (Peru), British Columbia
(Canada), Catalunya (Spain), Hohenheim (Germany), Pisa (Italy), Santa Catarina (Brazil),
Stellenbosch (S. Africa) and Vermont (USA). Each of these has created opportunities for new
research and knowledge exchange. For example, the partnership with Stellenbosch enabled
Bennett (funded by ECODRY) to work with colleagues from the Department of Animal Science. The
main outcomes have been a British Academy-Newton Fund Mobility grant (DARA, 2015–16, £8k)
enabling knowledge exchange between smallholder livestock farmers in Eastern Cape, South Africa;
the TOCASA project (PI: Bennett, 2019–21), plus co-supervision of a PGR who has since won a
post-doc position on the TOCASA project. Bennett and colleagues from Stellenbosch co-wrote five
peer-reviewed journal papers. Additionally, CAWR’s PGR McLaren was seconded to the
Department of Agronomy at Stellenbosch for data collection. Dehnen-Schmutz has also
successfully collaborated with colleagues from the world-leading Centre for Invasion Biology at
Stellenbosch resulting in eight peer-reviewed journal papers. The MOU with Hohenheim, signed in
2015, has resulted in six peer-reviewed journal papers co-authored by staff and students from CAWR
and Hohenheim, and contributed to successful H2020 grants (for example, Organic-PLUS, TRUE).
Lemke also undertook collaborative supervision of three PhD students (two at CAWR; one at
Hohenheim).

CAWR’s honorary research programme also enhances the vitality of our research environment. Our
30 honorary research fellows are from France, Germany, India, Mali, Switzerland, the United States
and the UK and they provide seminars, co-author publications and participate in the life of CAWR.
CAWR’s transdisciplinary practice is enhanced by collaboration with two ‘artist research associates’
in residence (Touchstones Earth). We also have an active internship programme with 20 interns
hosted since June 2016 from a range of countries.

Our publications reflect our collaborative approach. We have co-authored publications with
academic co-authors in 19 different UK universities, plus 22 different countries in Europe and
Australasia as well as South Africa, the United States, Canada, China and India, plus government
departments in Australia, France, South Africa, Germany and the UK (Source: Scopus).

4.2 Multi-Scale Engagement with Diverse Communities, Publics and Beneficiaries
As demonstrated in our impact strategy, engagement with communities, publics and beneficiaries is
integral to our research approach, and takes a wide variety of forms. The Centre’s media and
communications strategy ensures our activities are disseminated to the general public, as well as
specific constituencies through our monthly newsletter with circulation of over 1,300 subscribers,
plus social media campaigns and maintenance of the CAWR YouTube library with 255 videos of our
regular research seminars freely available.

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our engagement operates at multiple scales, from local to global. Locally, staff have been co-
developing a shared food vision for Coventry. In 2016 they organised a workshop funded by CU,
attended by 48 local stakeholders to discuss a long-term strategy for tackling food poverty. Later that
year, they co-organised the Coventry Food Poverty conference, attended by 148 local
representatives of food charities and the local authority, with a keynote by world authority on urban
agriculture, Marielle Dubbeling. These events helped to catalyse the development of Feeding
Coventry and the Coventry Food Charter (launched 2017). Tornaghi and Saxena are Trustees of
Feeding Coventry, contributing their expertise to the strategic direction taken by the network and the
operational processes. Saxena and Tornaghi’s British Academy (£9k, 2018) funded research into
social supermarkets developed the first systematic analysis of the different models of social
supermarkets evolving in the British foodscape. They shared this knowledge locally, helping to shape
plans for Coventry’s own social supermarket, which was designed to overcome limitations identified
in the research and move towards a more progressive model of enabling communities to build food
resilience, by accessing healthy, sustainable and culturally appropriate food.

Nationally, staff are active in many networks supporting knowledge exchange and innovation in
agroecological practices. These include Innovative Farmers, a not-for-profit membership network
for farmers and growers running on-farm trials or ‘field labs’. We have been involved with two field
labs concerned with the use of biochar in cattle feed and alternatives to plastic mulches in
horticulture. Staff are also regular contributors to Organic Growers Alliance, a membership
organisation for professional growers. Activities include writing articles for their magazine and
conducting on-farm trials. Since 1985 there has been a long-standing relationship between CU and
Garden Organic, an organisation of approximately 20,000 members that promotes sustainable
horticulture and food production. CAWR has worked closely with them on a number of projects such
as a retrospective review of their ‘Members’ Experiments’ citizen science programme. CAWR is also
a member of SUSTAIN, an alliance of organisations and communities working together for better
systems of food, farming and fishing. We have partnered with them on several projects, for example
FOODMETRES, Organic-PLUS, AE4EU.

Internationally, staff are active in several influential networks and organisations. A high impact
example is Pimbert’s membership of the steering committee of the High-Level Panel of Experts
(HLPE) of the United Nations Committee on World Food Security (CFS) (2013–17). Pimbert was
co-author of five internationally peer-reviewed policy reports (Sustainable Fisheries and Aquaculture
for Food Security and Nutrition (2014); Food Losses and Waste in the Context of Sustainable Food
Systems (2014); Water for Food Security and Nutrition (2015); Sustainable Forestry for Food
Security and Nutrition (2017); and Nutrition and Food Systems (2017) all published by the
Committee on World Food Security, UN Food and Agriculture Organisation). His participation has
allowed CAWR to directly use its research to influence global policy making and norm-setting for
food and agriculture. CAWR continues to have a privileged relationship with government members
of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation and the CFS.

We excel at collaborative projects which draw together multi-actor networks to deliver impacts. Three
examples illustrate this. First, Hilmi, developed a pilot project to test a new self-managed credit
system for small-scale farmers (funded from CU Innovation Fund, £10k, 2015; More and Better
Network, £18k, 2015-17). Working closely with Mozambique’s National Farmer Organisation and the
Alfredo Namitete Farmer Association, Hilmi trialled the new system, which led to increased local
autonomy and improvements in agricultural output, biodiversity, nutrition and farmers’ incomes.

                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Money was reinvested into local infrastructure such as a borehole for drinking water and irrigation
and communal gardens (Sustainability, 2019). As a result of this success, the scheme was extended
to 17 other farmer associations, and in 2020 work began to roll it out nationally. This pioneering credit
model was awarded for Outstanding Practice in Agroecology by the World Future Council, and
subsequently adopted by international funding bodies including the Norwegian Society for
Development and SIDI (French Social Investor). In 2020 the model was introduced to Brazil, Mexico
and Costa Rica.

Second, Charlesworth et al. have demonstrated how multi-stakeholder collaboration and co-design
with communities can be used to implement SuDS in refugee camps, to provide management of
surface and greywater in addition to WASH. Funded by the Humanitarian Innovation Fund (£150k
2016-19), Charlesworth et al. (Jnl of Refugee Studies, 2019; New Water Policy and Practice Jnl,
2018) introduced the concept of SuDS to the NGOs responsible for the construction and
management of camps in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. This influenced a change in their normal
practice of hard infrastructure (pipes, drainage ditches, V-shaped concrete channels) to consider the
use of soft interventions (ponds, swales, trickle trenches). The CU team co-designed and built a
SuDS demonstration site with the community at Gawilan refugee camp, KRI, believed to be the first
of its kind.

A third example illustrates how we mobilise collaborations to ignite new debates and research
questions. Moeller and Pimbert’s (Sustainability, 2018) paper demonstrated that less than 0.5% of
total UK Aid funding was directed towards agroecology 2010–17. This research attracted attention
from NGOs and government agencies and the methodology was replicated/adapted in Switzerland,
Germany, France, Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands. Moeller was then commissioned by the
EU and International Cooperation for Development and Solidarity (£11k, 2019) to analyse the extent
to which funding has been directed to agroecology via EU development assistance through the UN’s
Rome-based agencies and via the Green Climate Fund (GCF). The findings informed policy makers
at the European Commission’s Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development
and were used to improve the GCF Agriculture and Food Security sectoral guide, developing
strategic priorities for GCF funding.

Individuals also engage with diverse audiences to promote agendas around sustainability, health,
equity and social justice through their public roles. Examples include:

▪   Brown: Academic Expert on Birmingham and Lewisham Health Inequalities Review Academic
    Boards.
▪   Dehnen-Schmutz: member of the European Food Safety Authority Plant Health Panel (2015–
    21, two terms of three years), selection by competitive international call. Lead author in the
    IPBES invasive species assessment 2019–23 (competitive international call with nominations for
    final selection by national governments). Member of the working group on Invasive Alien Species
    (DG Environment, EU Commission and the working group on Developing an Invasive Non-Native
    Species Pathway Action Plan for Horticulture in the UK (Defra, by invitation, 2021–23).
▪   Lennartsson-Turner: member of the Pool of the Expert Group for Technical Advice on Organic
    Production, EU Commission 2010–15 and the Soil Association Certification Scrutiny Committee
    2003–13; currently a member of the Benchmarking Committee of the Responsible Sourcing of
    Growing Media Initiative, the Health & Horticulture Forum, a sub-group of the Defra Horticulture
    Round Table Group and Green Care Coalition Management Group.
▪   Pimbert: Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Forest Peoples Program, UK.

                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
▪     Singh: Trustee for Race on the Agenda, a national NGO tackling racism and promoting equality,
      and the Anne Matthews Trust, an NGO providing residential centre and support for young asylum
      seekers.
▪     Wright: member of the Advisory, Research and Training Committee of the Biodynamic
      Federation and Chair of the Council of the Biodynamic Agriculture Association UK; member of
      the Permaculture Association Research Advisory Board, 2014–16; Council member of Writtle
      Agricultural College, 2013–16.

4.3 Contributions to the Sustainability of Geography, Environmental Studies, and
Interdisciplinary and Transdisciplinary Research
Our staff review papers for over 100 journals including the major Q1 Geography and Environment
journals (such as Antipode; Geoforum; Gender, Place and Culture; Journal of Cleaner Production;
Journal of Environmental Management; Ecology Letters; Nature Ecology and Evolution; Journal of
Hydrology; Journal of Rural Studies; Earth Surface Processes and Landforms; Progress in
Human/Physical Geography; Geomorphology; Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers;
Urban Geography; Science of the Total Environment), through to more specialised journals such as
Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems and the Journal of Agriculture, Food Systems and
Community Development. The latter is the world’s only peer-reviewed transdisciplinary journal
focused solely on food and farming-related community development and also the world’s first
community-supported journal. This reflects our impact strategy and commitment to communicate
with diverse audiences.

Staff serve on the editorial boards of a wide range of journals (Box 4.1). Lennartsson-Turner is
Editor-in-Chief of Biological Agriculture and Horticulture. First established in 1982, it is the longest
established international journal dedicated to organic farming and food systems. The Impact Factor
(JCR, Citation Reports®) of BAH has increased steadily from 0.765 in 2015 to 1.674 in 2019 (most
recent data) and it is now (2019 data) ranked 14/36 in Horticulture and 42/89 in Agronomy.

    Box 4.1: Journal Editorial Boards/Advisory Boards (editors, associate editors)

    Acta Horticulturae: The International Society for Horticultural Science; Action Research; African
    Journal of Range and Forage Science; ARCPLAN; Biological Agriculture & Horticulture; British
    Journal of Social Psychology; Earth; Frontiers in Plant Sciences; Frontiers in Sustainable Food
    Systems; Frontiers in Sustainable Cities; International Journal of Cuban Studies; Journal of
    Agriculture, Food Systems and Community Development (USA); Journal of Agroecology and
    Sustainable Food Systems; Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health; Journal of
    Insect Conservation; Journal of Plant Diseases and Protection; Journal of Political Ecology;
    Rethinking Ecology; Sociologia Ruralis; Sociological Research Online; Sustainability.


Staff have also (co)guest edited a number of special issues in Journal of Agroecology and
Sustainable Food Systems; Agriculture and Human Values; Journal of Agriculture, Food Systems
and Community Development; Sustainability; Environmental Science and Pollution Research;
International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health; Water; Internet Archaeology.

Staff have reviewed book proposals and manuscripts for Routledge, Earthscan, Bloomsbury, Pluto
Press, University of California Press, CABI, CRC Press (Agroecology series).




                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff are members and fellows of numerous professional bodies that contribute to the sustainability
of their various sub-disciplines within Geography and Environmental Studies. The following list is
illustrative:

▪   British Ecological Society peer review college (Farrell, Bennett); Smith leads the Agricultural
    Ecology Special Interest Group
▪   Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) Peer Review College (Charlesworth, Van De
    Wiel)
▪   The African Lion Working Group (international), British Psychological Association, International
    Union for the Conservation of Nature (specialist group: Conservation Planning) (Abell)
▪   Royal Geographical Society, including Participatory Geography Research Group committee
    (Denning), Food Geographies Research Group committee (Saxena, Kneafsey)
▪   Higher Education Academy (Farrell, Brown, Blackett, Dehnen-Schmutz)
▪   Society of Antiquaries of London and Scotland (Farrell)
▪   Society for Environmental Geochemistry and Health (Charlesworth)
▪   Associate Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society (Eden)
▪   British Hydrological Society (Eden)
▪   European Geosciences Union (Eden, Dieppois, Van De Wiel – also Science Officer)
▪   American Geophysical Union (Eden, Dieppois)
▪   Vice-Chair (Research) of the British Society for Geomorphology (Van De Wiel)
▪   European Representative on the Continuing Committee of International Rangelands Congress;
    Member of European Steering Group for UN International Year of Rangelands and Pastoralists
    2026 (Bennett)
▪   International Society for Horticultural Science, Commission on Agroecology and Organic
    Farming Systems (Schmutz)

As well as convening numerous international conference sessions and providing keynotes, we have
also hosted the following international conferences:

AESOP Sustainable Food Planning Group Annual Conference 2017 ‘Re-imagining
sustainable food planning, building resourcefulness: food movements, insurgent planning
and heterodox economics’: Tornaghi convened the conference, as Chair of the sub-group (2016,
ongoing). The conference held in Coventry aimed to introduce the sustainable food planning
community to the themes of agroecology and food commoning. About 145 people attended; 30% of
the participants were planners, with the rest from public health, environmental science, political
science, geography and agronomy. About 20% of participants were non-academics and 15% were
resident outside Europe. A peer-reviewed book is forthcoming (Tornaghi, C. and Dehaene, M. (eds)
(2021) Resourcing an Agroecological Urbanism: Political, Transformational and Territorial
Dimensions, Routledge Studies in Food, Society and the Environment).

SuDSnet International conference 2018: Co-ordinated by Charlesworth and Lashford this two-
day event was held at CU and attracted academics, practitioners and stakeholders from Australia,
the United States, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Norway as well as the UK. It included a special session on
integrating SuDS into challenging environments such as refugee camps. Charlesworth is the joint
co-ordinator of SuDSnet, an international network for researchers and practitioners with over 1,000
members.




                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff have evaluated PhD, grant proposals and competitions for UK national funding bodies including
Arts and Humanities Research Council, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council,
British Council, Engineering and Physical Sciences Council, Economic and Social Research Council,
Medical Research Council, Natural Environment Research Council, Royal Society, Strategic
Priorities Fund, UK Climate Resilience (UKRI), and international funders including:

▪   Belgium: Science Policy Office, National Fund for Scientific Research, Research Foundation
    Flanders
▪   Denmark: State Organic Research Programme (ICROFS)
▪   European Union: European Research Area Networks (ERA-NET) Cofund, H2020 (various calls),
    Marie Sklodowska Curie Individual Fellowship
▪   Germany: Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, German Research
    Foundation, Federal Office of Agriculture and Food (Bundesamt für Land und Ernährung (BLE)
▪   Global: LUSH Spring Prize for social and environmental regeneration
▪   Ireland: Research Council
▪   Netherlands: Organisation for Scientific Research
▪   Mozambique: SIDI Social and Environmental Investor – Grants Africa
▪   South Africa: National Research Foundation
▪   Sweden: Research Council for Sustainable Development
▪   USA: Agroecology Fund, National Science Foundation, National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (NASA) Earth Surface and Interior Peer Review Panel

Prizes:
Chappell: 2018 Gerald L. Young Book Award of the Society for Human Ecology (‘exemplifying the
highest standards of scholarly work in the field of human ecology’) for Beginning to End Hunger.

Dieppois: 2016 Stanley Jackson Award (greatest contribution of the year in atmospheric and ocean
sciences in southern Africa) for ‘Interannual to interdecadal variability of winter and summer southern
African rainfall, and their teleconnections’, Jnl GPR-Atmosphere.

Farrell: 2018 Don Brothwell prize for best paper published in the journal Environmental Archaeology,
for Bunting, M.J. and Farrell, M. ‘Seeing the wood for the trees: recent advances in the reconstruction
of woodland in archaeological landscapes using pollen data’, Environmental Archaeology.




                                                                                              Page 29
