Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 12: Engineering

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 COVID-19 has caused significant disruption to the Department and University. The plans
 outlined in this document are accurate at the time of writing and are expected to be realised
 unless the duration or effects of the pandemic exceed current assumptions. Further details are
 available in the Institutional-level statement on COVID-19.

 Context
 Durham University has a long and distinguished history of delivering high quality research and
 teaching across the broad discipline of Engineering. It was the first UK university to run an
 Engineering degree programme, in 1838. Engineering research at Durham is delivered by staff
 and researchers housed in the Department of Engineering and is supported by two in-house
 technical workshops (electronic and mechanical) and a local administrative team.

 General Engineering
 The Department is one of eight departments within the Faculty of Science at Durham. Our
 strength is as a “General Engineering” department, where we pursue research and generate
 impact that spans across the traditional engineering disciplines and beyond into policy and
 industry. We work closely with several University Research Institutes to develop an
 interdisciplinary culture enabling environmentally, socially and economically sustainable
 research that addresses key global challenges.

 Staffing
 Within the sector we are a small department, with an academic staff headcount of 30% of the
 median for Russell Group Engineering Departments for the majority of the REF assessment
 period. The Department has 47 academic staff (45.25 FTE), including 17 Professors, 13
 Associate Professors and 17 Assistant Professors.

 Our staff have a broad range of discipline expertise covering the traditional Engineering
 disciplines as well as Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics, and they come from diverse
 backgrounds, e.g. with just over 40% of Category A staff identifying as BAME. Although our
 structure has allowed us to maintain a high level of collegiality which enhances our ability to
 undertake innovative research beyond the traditional discipline boundaries, our present size is
 susceptible to the effects of staff movement when trying to maintain the critical mass required
 for world leading research. In response to this, the Department is now in the early stages of a
 period of strategic growth increasing our academic staff numbers to 80 FTE by 2024 including
 taking positive action to make a step change in our gender balance.

 Facilities Investment
 Engineering staff have shared space with Durham’s Department of Computer Science
 throughout the REF period. At the last REF, we were a joint School of Engineering and
 Computing Sciences. Durham University carried out a Meta-Review of its Science Faculty in
 2016 in order to identify opportunities for restructuring and growth. The Meta-Review was
 strongly informed by the REF2014 outcomes which identified the need to focus our attention on
 producing world-leading publications and also to take action to strengthen the research
 environment supporting the production of these outputs. This included substantial investment

                                                                                                   1
in facilities, significant engagement with external partners such as Nature publishing group as
well as actions to increase grant capture and PGR student numbers to bring these metrics in
line with our competitors. This has been achieved; during this REF assessment period, the
Department has received over GBP11M of direct infrastructure and facilities investment from
the University which has supported our well-resourced laboratories and provided a vibrant
working environment, where all staff have engaged with our research culture of “quality rather
than quantity” in publishing.

Restructuring
A key outcome of the Meta-Review was the recommendation to split the School, forming a
separate Department of Engineering. The split from Computing Sciences was completed in
2017 and included a split in administrative support. Leadership roles that were previously
shared across disciplines, for example the Director of Research and Head of Department,
became Engineering specific. This provided an opportunity for the Department to develop a
new Engineering-focused structure and vision as part of a 10-year plan for growth and
investment.

The restructure provided the platform for the Department to develop a research portfolio which
moved away from our traditional teaching-led groupings outlined at REF2014, i.e. Electronics,
Mechanics and Energy, to become Global Challenge focussed: Sustainable Infrastructure
(SI), Advanced Materials, Electronics and Communications (AMEC) and Future Energy
Systems (FES), as below.




Figure 1 – Durham Engineering Research Challenges and affiliated staff (many staff are
members of more than one Challenge).

This change has enabled us to maintain our multidisciplinary General Engineering ethos, but
our research has become more clearly aligned with the key global challenges represented in
both the UK’s Industrial strategy and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals agenda. This
has allowed us to better showcase our areas of strength. This problem-focused approach helps
to promote collaborative research, both within the Department and also as part of large
research consortia, with external partners from academia and industry. Strong multi-
                                                                                                  2
departmental links to industry and policymakers often facilitated by our University Research
Institutes, are our bridge to impact and have been maintained by establishing the Department’s
Strategic Advisory Board.

Expansion
A 10-year expansion programme is now underway, and the Department is undergoing
substantial headcount growth, ultimately aiming for 80 FTE compared to just 34 FTE Category
A staff returned in REF 2014. One of the first steps taken to deliver this strategic growth has
been to recruit Professor Tony Roskilly (former Director of the Joseph Swan Institute at
Newcastle University) and colleagues and students from his wide research team. They joined
the Department in 2019.

This new team includes four other academic/research track permanent staff hires, plus
approximately 20 research assistants, technicians, and PhD students, which has resulted in an
additional six Category A staff. The research team has brought new expertise in the
decarbonisation of heat, hydrogen as an energy vector, energy storage and biomass
combustion to the Department, along with significant new laboratory facilities, which are
described in Section 3. Several active research grants were transferred from Newcastle with
Roskilly’s team. During the 12 months following their transfer, the team were successful in
securing an additional GBP5.5M of new external research grant awards, of which over GBP3M
will be spent at Durham on research that will be carried out within the Department.

Structure
As a relatively small department, we have to be highly strategic and focussed in order to
maintain the critical mass required to consistently deliver world-leading research on top of our
major commitments to teaching a range of undergraduate and postgraduate courses. Delivery
of the Department's research agenda is led by the Director of Research (Johnson) supported
by a dedicated Senior Research Administrator (Schindler). The key strategic aims over this
REF period have been: globally, to increase our impact on society; and locally, to improve the
research culture within the Department.

We have used both strategic staff recruitment and development as a way of focussing these
efforts in four main ways through:

 i) Increasing the number of outputs that can be classified as world leading as well as
    publishing with more international colleagues. We have achieved this by holding regular
    workshops both within Engineering and the Faculty of Science, three of which were with
    Nature publishing group to deliver our key message to research active staff and students
    of “quality over quantity”. This message has been reinforced by the University assessing
    only four outputs for promotion.

 ii) Increasing PGR numbers through the identification of new funding streams to make our
     research environment more vibrant. We have spent time building PGR opportunities that
     are interdisciplinary and aligned with UK’s Industrial Strategy and the UN’s 17 SDGs.

 iii) Enhancing the Department's international visibility through securing and leading major
      collaborative grants. We have achieved this by working closely with both the Durham
      Energy Institute and Institute for Hazard and Risk and Resilience, so that we bring not only
      engineering expertise but also strong links with national and international policymakers.



                                                                                                     3
 iv) Targeting recruitment at individuals, and groups, that not only fit in well with an existing
     Research Challenge but, importantly, build strength in the other challenges and in other
     departments at Durham to deliver interdisciplinary, environmentally, socially and
     economically sustainable research.

These strategic aims are fully supported by the University and align with many of the
recommendations from the Meta-Review mentioned above. In fact, with our DoR, Johnson as
Chair of the University SDG Group, we have been working closely with the PVC-Global on
delivering the University’s Global Strategy. Our Research Challenge structure ensures that the
Department's core strengths and strong links with social science departments and our research
institutes can better contribute to global challenges, and more accurately represent the
interdisciplinary nature of much of our key work.

The Challenges, as shown earlier in Figure 1, are designed to clearly show the alignment of
the Department's research portfolio with the UK's Industrial Strategy as well as with the UN’s
17 SDGs which are an important part of Durham University’s Global Strategy. The Research
Challenges cover the five “Foundations” of the UK’s Industrial Strategy, with specific foci on
“Infrastructure” and “Clean Growth”. They also reflect our developing track record in winning
and executing research programmes funded through UKRI’s Global Challenges Research
Fund. Areas of research excellence highlighted in REF2014 (Energy, Cleanroom Activities and
Computational Mechanics) have been successfully absorbed into the Challenge structure via
FES, AMEC and SI respectively.

This structure has facilitated an environment that encourages interdisciplinary research
conversations to take place. These involve academic staff from different engineering and many
other disciplines on common research themes, often including academic colleagues,
policymakers and industrialists who are visiting us from across the globe. An important feature
of the Challenge structure is that each academic staff member can belong to one or more
Challenges. This ensures that staff whose research spans across the Challenge remits are
supported. As an example, Horsfall (Associate Professor, joined in 2018), has research
activity in both solid state transformer technology and microfabricated harsh environment
devices (leading to a recently formed spin-out company, Nascent Semiconductor). These are
areas which span the AMEC and FES Challenges. Sun is another example of one of our
cross-cutting academics. He carries out research which ranges from Electric Vehicle charging
(FES) to Smart Grid communication infrastructure (AMEC).
Our Senior Research Administrator, Schindler, produces a tailored weekly research digest
which often features interviews with our staff and highlights upcoming social events. Each
Challenge uses Departmental funds to host interdisciplinary research events, planning
meetings and research seminars with external speakers from policy, industry and academia.
These funds are accessible to research staff as well as academic staff in the interest of
developing and supporting future independent researchers as well as existing and future
collaborations.

Challenge leadership
The Challenges are led by Directors (Zeze, Toll and Gaskell) all of whom are recognised
international experts in their areas of research, with support from Deputies (Gallant, Osman
and Horsfall). The Challenge Directors and their Deputies report to the Department's
Research Committee which meets once a term and is chaired by the Director of Research. A
Research Challenge progress report and plan is developed annually with input from all


                                                                                                    4
members who feed into it using Personal Research Plans, which encapsulate their 5-year
vision for their research as well as research environment and training needs.


Research and impact strategy
The Department has a strong track record in leading and participating in large, collaborative,
multi-partner research consortia (see Section 3 for examples). The Research Challenges have
allowed us to strengthen and grow this activity.

The ongoing growth of the Department enables a strengthening of the existing Challenges
where, for example, the Roskilly team have joined the FES Challenge. The Department’s close
links with industry as well as engagement with external partners through international research
consortia and the University Research Institutes and Centres and funded PhD studentships, all
contribute to dissemination and impact creation from the outputs of our research. To help guide
development of our future research strategy, during the REF period, the Department of
Engineering formed a Strategic Advisory Board which acts as a critical friend to help guide us
going forward. The Chair is Professor Brent Cheshire CBE, the founder of Ørsted’s UK
operations and their Country Chairman and Managing Director up until his retirement in 2017.
The Board membership includes Clark Macfarlane, Managing Director of Siemens Gamesa
Renewable Energy Ltd, Ashley Ibbett, Acting Director General for Trade, Europe and Analysis,
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and Professor Sarah Hainsworth PVC
& Executive Dean, School of Engineering & Applied Sciences at Aston University.

Impact
In REF 2014, the Department was ranked fourth out of 62 submissions to the General
Engineering UoA for Research impact, with 70% 4* impact for case studies spanning
biomedical, mechanical and electrical engineering. In this REF period, the Department has
continued to place importance on identifying and supporting impact generation and case
studies through a variety of activities. Impact strategy is determined by the Research
Committee and led by the Director of Impact (Augarde). Impact is incentivised and recognised
via the Department’s workload allocation model (WAM), which allocates credits to the leaders
of case studies and then limits their other teaching or administrative duties.

In a technically diverse department such as ours, keeping track of potential impacts is key and
has to include those generated by staff who have left as well. The Impact Director maintains a
“longlist” of potential case studies and oversees the training of staff in understanding and
recognising impacts, via Departmental continuous professional development (CPD) seminars
individually working with case study leads. The Director also works closely with REF
colleagues from the University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) central professional
support team.

For REF2021, the selected case studies are all new, and, as in REF2014, are drawn from a
broad spectrum of engineering specialisations, once again demonstrating the breadth of the
research undertaken in the Department.

   The SI Research Challenge supports two impact case studies, ‘Soil Health’ (Johnson)
    and ‘Rail Support Systems’ (Coombs). ‘Soil Health’ exemplifies the Department’s
    commitment and success in delivering impactful interdisciplinary research in a major project
    that involves working with social scientists and policymakers from outside the University in
    order to affect change in Government policy. Significant support and input for this work has
    been received from two of the University’s research institutes, the Institute of Hazard, Risk

                                                                                                    5
    and Resilience (IHRR) and the Durham Energy Institute (DEI). “Rail Support Systems” is
    quite different and, unusually for Civil Engineering, shows economic impact associated with
    improved manufacturing processes of concrete railway sleepers. The impact has been
    enabled through Durham's long-standing strength in computational solid mechanics which
    dates back to Bettess’ work in finite elements in the 1990s and 2000s, on to contributions in
    boundary element analysis (Trevelyan since 1995) and geomechanics (Augarde, Osman
    since 2000). Coombs, the impact case lead, studied for an EPSRC-funded PhD at Durham
    (2008-2011) under the supervision of Crouch, in computational geotechnics, and then took
    up a Lecturer post in 2011. Coombs is now an Associate Professor in the Department.
   The AMEC Research Challenge supports the ‘Radio propagation for 5G wireless
    networks’ case study. This has arisen from the pioneering work of Salous at Durham since
    2005 and is now about to become highly significant with the roll out of 5G technology
    worldwide. This work has been underpinned by Salous' development of state-of-the-art
    radio sounders and RF anechoic chamber facilities, supported by the Department's
    Electronic and Mechanical workshops and Ofcom. Salous' findings have been incorporated
    into several ITU recommendations and also implemented in network planning software tools
    (e.g. RanPlan Ltd).
   The FES Research Challenge supports the ‘Vehicle Aero-Acoustics’ case study, led by
    Sims-Williams. It is built on long term investments in facilities (such as the Durham 2m
    Wind Tunnel) and staff with strong foundations dating back to the 1990s which have
    developed into robust partnerships with leading industrial players. For example, both Jaguar
    Land Rover and Nissan have made direct use of Durham’s work on the impacts of unsteady
    on-road flows on wind noise.

Beyond the submitted case studies, during the REF period, SI Challenge research has had
impacts in development of geotechnical test equipment (Toll), earthen construction (Augarde,
Hughes), flood resilience (Toll, Johnson) and computational methods (Augarde, Coombs,
Giani, Trevelyan). FES Challenge research has led to many non-academic impacts in
electrical engineering for renewable energy generation built on the early 2000s by Tavner and
successors, and linked to the DEI, for example test methods for assessing wind turbine blade
fatigue (Dominy, Ingram). Members of the AMEC Challenge have carried out research for
funded industrial projects with multinational companies such as Jaguar Land Rover (glass
cleaning technology, EPSRC iCASE), BAE Systems (microwave materials, EPSRC iCASE)
and Senstronics (industrial pressure sensors, Innovate UK KTP) as well as SMEs such as
Viper Electronics (THz communications, ERDF studentship) and Teraview (THz optics,
Technology Strategy Board). The outcomes from these and other such projects will lay the
foundations for impact cases post-REF2021.

The Impact Director is also the Departmental contact for University-level schemes to help staff
improve pathways to impact for ongoing research. These include the Global Impact
Acceleration Account, leveraging GCRF monies, the University’s own Research Impact Fund
and the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account. Engineering has been very successful in
securing funds from these sources in this REF period. Examples of projects include:

       Manufacturing processes for collagen-based scaffolds (Wu, AMEC) which led to a
        successful patent;
       Field trials for flood-resilience of remediated soils linked to the “Soil Health” case study
        (Johnson, SI);
       A reliability test facility for wind turbine power electronics (Crabtree, FES).



                                                                                                       6
The University also runs an annual award scheme and ceremony highlighting the top impact
case studies across the University.

Research Integrity and Ethics
The Department is committed to maintaining excellent standards of research integrity and
ethics and sharing the results of its world class research through open access publications and
datasets. Durham University Library staff and the Department's Library Representative (Wang)
have also presented to staff on open access requirements and helped with compliance
monitoring throughout the REF cycle. An open access publishing fund is accessible to all staff
for UK Research Council funded outputs. Probationary staff receive training in integrity and
ethics through their induction process. Additionally, all staff attend regular in-house continuous
professional development courses related to these areas. This includes, for example,
Responsible, Research and Innovation workshops run by an ORBIT approved trainer (Groves)
and Ethics workshops led by the Department's Ethics Representative (Carvalho). Carvalho sits
on the Science Faculty Ethics committee, handles the Department's Ethical Approval process
and reports to the Board of Studies (the top decision-making body in the Department
comprising all academic staff).
Section 2. People

Staffing strategy
As part of the University's 2017-2027 Strategy, and as described previously, the Department is
undergoing a period of substantial growth. The core strategy to date has been to appoint new
staff to strengthen or extend the research undertaken within the three Research Challenges
providing critical mass. Examples of recent appointments for each Challenge (and their
previous institutions) are given below:

AMEC Challenge: Strengthening and extending our expertise in: Optical metamaterials,
Organic Light Emitting Transistors; low dimensional semiconductor devices; supported by the
Department's cleanroom facilities; and also communication networks, devices and channel
characterisation.
 Amit (Marie-Curie Research Fellow, Exeter)
 Chaudhry (COFUND Junior Fellow, Durham)
 Hedayati (Marie-Curie Fellow, Technical University of Denmark)
 Fang (Research Associate, Manchester University)
 Ben-Mabrouk (Assistant Professor, Al Ain University, Abu Dhabi)

FES Challenge: Strengthening and extending our expertise in: Harsh Environment Electronics,
Solid State Transformers and the Decarbonisation of Heat; supported by the Department's
cleanroom facilities, electrical engineering and thermofluids laboratories as well as current
infrastructural new builds.
  Bastankhah (Postdoctoral Researcher, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne)
  Horsfall (Royal Academy Senior Research Fellow, Newcastle)
  Roskilly (Professor and Director of the Sir Joseph Swan Centre for Energy Research,
    Newcastle) along with four further permanent appointments from his group (Smallbone,
    Wang, Ma and Bao)

SI Challenge: Strengthening and extending our expertise in fracture and contact mechanics,
unsaturated and saturated soils and multi-scale composite lattices. Supported by the
Department's computational solid mechanics expertise and civil engineering laboratory.
 Lloret-Cabot (Researcher, Newcastle, Australia and Marie-Curie Fellow, Glasgow).
 Szyniszewski (Assistant Professor, Surrey)
                                                                                                     7
The majority of appointments in the REF period have been made at Assistant Professor
(formerly Lecturer) level which has helped to ensure that the Department has maintained a
well-balanced age distribution, to ensure its staff profile is sustainable for future REF periods.
The median age of Category A staff is 42.

For new appointments, selection is carried out by a departmental selection committee which
oversees the search process, longlisting and shortlisting stages. The search process is
reported on before longlisting with confirmation that the applicant pool is sufficiently diverse,
one member of the selection committee is specifically tasked with monitoring this aspect. To
encourage diversity, committee members typically contact potential female and other minority
group applicants directly. If diversity is not achieved at this stage, then posts are re-advertised.
Shortlisting is guided by a REF-like assessment of, typically, four research outputs published or
submitted within the current REF period. This process has ensured that our new recruits have
strengthened the world-leading nature of our research portfolio in line with our strategic aims.

Staff development

Mentoring
The Department runs a mentoring scheme that supports both new and established staff
members with separate mentors for teaching and research. This support includes assistance
with grant writing and mentoring for Durham’s Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
programme, PGCAP. All new academic staff are required to complete the PGCAP programme
unless they have an equivalent qualification from another institution. The PGCAP is delivered
through the Durham Excellence in Learning and Teaching Award (DELTA) pathway. The
Department is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
and the DELTA pathway courses are also open to postdoctoral staff and postgraduate
students, aimed at those who intend to pursue an academic career. This leads to associate
membership of the HEA.

Induction and training
Department specific training, led by the Department's Mentoring Coordinator (Veremieiev) is
delivered through a term-time, weekly continuous professional development (CPD) sessions
which are timetabled to enable all staff to attend and, as of October 2020, they are also
recorded.

Grant writing support
Faculty research grant writing workshops are run twice yearly by Faculty of Science colleagues
who have experience of UKRI panels. Engineering staff are invited on an individual basis, and
all early career staff attend these workshops during their probation period. All external grant
applications made by staff in the Department are peer-reviewed (by someone who is not a Co-
Investigator) prior to submission. The University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS)
provides support for grant costings and advice on compliance with funding body regulations.

RIS staff are available to meet face-to-face within the Department at least twice a week and
also provide valuable comments on applications and check alignment with funding criteria and
regulations. Academic staff are supported to undertake appropriate consultancy work,
recognising that it can lead to wider publicity for research, new collaborations and impacts. The
‘Rail Support Systems’ case study provides a good example of the benefits of staff undertaking
consultancy, where initial routine work for a manufacturer of railway sleepers by Coombs led


                                                                                                       8
on to the application of advanced computational methods developed at Durham to impact
specifically in terms of greatly-improved sleeper design.

Support for postdoctoral staff
Postdoctoral staff are supported through their line manager and (separate) Annual
Development Review (ADR) lead. The line manager and ADR lead can recommend training
courses to assist with career progression. The cohort is also supported by an academic
champion (Johnson). One key aspect is involvement with funding proposals: either for a
fellowship or as a named Researcher Co-Investigator, e.g. within an UKRI proposal. The
Department recognises that our postdoctoral staff play a crucial role in the Department,
including assisting with PGR supervision and training, developing grant applications and
generating high quality research outputs. To this end, we regularly support members of
research staff to attend the Aurora Leadership Programme. The last member of postdoctoral
staff to attend this course has since progressed to take on a permanent academic position at
the University of Delft in 2020. To assist in the early development of proposals (e.g. for network
formation or for exploratory experiments) the University offers a seedcorn funding pot which
can be accessed, typically up to a value of GBP5k per proposal. This utilises the 20% of their
time which is allocated by UKRI for them to spend on their own research development,
allowing these staff to gain direct experience of being a Principal Investigator. The last member
of postdoctoral staff to win this funding has since progressed to take on a permanent academic
position at the IIT in Delhi in 2020. One-to-one support is provided by colleagues from RIS. The
Department (or University, for major applications) arranges mock-panel interviews. These
procedures and support opportunities are available to academic staff as well as PDRAs and
PGR students who are seeking Fellowship type funding.

Research Leave
To give newly appointed academic staff time to develop their research careers, they are given
a reduced teaching and administration load through the Department’s workload allocation
model, typically for three years but tailored to individual needs. Durham is now unusual in still
allowing all post-probationary staff the opportunity to apply for Research Leave every one-
term-in-seven when they are relieved of teaching and administrative duties. The Department is
supportive of staff who may choose to accumulate, and take up, more than one term of leave
(up to one year) and as a departmental convention, which extends above and beyond
University policy. Engineering staff Research Leave covers the vacation time either side of the
leave period. Research Leave is used in a variety of ways including prolonged overseas visits
to collaborators, industrial placements to develop impact and proposal writing. Research Leave
is automatically given to our staff who return from maternity or paternity leave.

Research Students
Analysis of the REF2014 data showed a need to bring the number of research students per
FTE within the Department in line with our competitors. To address this, we have placed an
increased focus on attracting industry and government funding streams for PhD and MSc
studentships. This strategy has resulted in many more research students now being funded in
this way. For example, this has included Ørsted (formerly DONG Energy), BAE Systems,
Jaguar Land Rover, GE, the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult, Rolls-Royce as well as
North East based SMEs such as OGI Groundwater Specialists, TRL9, Viper RF and AVID
Engineering. The SME route has been supported by the Durham University led ERDF funded
Intensive Industrial Innovation programme. Significant efforts have gone into coupling this
approach with the University’s internationalisation strategy in developing joint agreements for
funding PGR students with several countries, including Mexico and China.


                                                                                                     9
The Department has been particularly active and successful in attracting Mexican students
through their Government’s CONACyT programme, which is currently providing funding for 20
research students in the Department. This effort has been simultaneously fruitful in aiding the
diversity and vitality of our PGR community and the Department overall. The EPSRC
Prosperity Partnership (EP/R004900/1) includes four PhD studentships that are being fully
funded by Ørsted. Our relationship with Ørsted goes back to 2011 when they began funding a
Chair in Renewable Energy (currently Hogg) in the Department. The Company’s involvement
in the Prosperity Partnership project has secured this relationship through to at least 2022.
Academics from the Department are also involved in two successful new UKRI Centres for
Doctoral Training that have won funding through the most recent round.

 ReNU CDT in Renewable Energy Northeast Universities, led by Groves for Durham and
  aligning to our AMEC Challenge.
 Aura Offshore Wind CDT, led by Coombs for Engineering and supporting the FES and SI
  Challenges.

Both CDTs have a large number of industry partners and secure funding for PhD studentships
in the Department in future years. The effect of the boost in PGR students from the CDTs and
other funding streams is not yet evident in the REF4a completion data but will be after 2020
with, for example, 23 students scheduled to complete by the end of the 2021 academic year,
and a further 32 by the end of 2022. The REF4a completion data does, however, help to
highlight the Department's interdisciplinary research activities with around 20% of completed
PhD students having had a member of their supervisory team from another Durham
Department (e.g. Mathematics, Biosciences, Chemistry).

Overseeing Postgraduate Research
Postgraduate Research in the Department is overseen by the Research Committee via the
Director of Postgraduate Research (Coombs). The Department adheres to the guidelines of
the University regarding Progress, Confirmation and Completion reviews (which take place at
9, 21 and 33 months). Every PGR student has a supervisory team comprising at least two
members of staff, and a two-member, independent review team. A key part of non-technical
supervision is an ongoing training needs analysis for all students to enable them to reach their
potential as both students and post-PhD. The Department makes considerable use of the
Durham Centre for Academic Development (DCAD) for training related to general academic
skills, such as technical writing, presenting and teaching skills. The Department also leverages
the relevant CDT training opportunities for subject-specific training materials. The voice of the
Engineering PGR community is heard through a Staff Student Consultative Committee which
meets once a term. It has a representative who sits on the major Departmental Committees,
including the Board of Studies.

Department-wide Equality and Diversity
Delivery of the Department's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda is handled by its
EDI Committee, which reports to the Board of Studies through the Director of EDI (Gallant)
who is a member of the Department's Strategic Leadership Group. All new staff receive EDI
related training, e.g. in unconscious bias. The Director of EDI has oversight of training records,
funding applications and REF output submissions to monitor for any bias against minority
groups. For REF output selection, this has included ensuring a representative balance of
papers versus the profile of Department in terms of gender, ethnicity and early career status.

We foster a welcoming, respectful environment for all staff, students and visitors to the
Department. Such an environment is conducive to attracting new staff and produces the

                                                                                                     10
widest, and most diverse, talent pool when recruiting to posts. The Department has become
significantly more diverse during the REF period; just over 40% of Category A staff identify as
BAME (up from 20% in REF2014) and 15% as female (up from 8% in REF2014).

The Department holds an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, valid until 2022 when we will apply for
a Silver award, as recognition of our commitment to the advancement of gender equality:
representation, progression and success for all. We continue to work hard to improve our
gender balance and this is of foremost importance in our research staffing strategy. As an
example of a gender-related initiative within the REF period, the Department purchased Sheryl
Sandberg’s “Lean In” book for all first-year engineering students. This helped to generate
broad discussion about the topic of diversity, led to external publicity (including in Nature
News) and a Lean-In group now exists within the University.

To ensure fair and equitable career progression for all within the Department, the promotion
process considers a range of factors which are clearly defined through the role expectations for
academic staff, assessed by Department and Faculty Progression Committees. When
considering staff progression and promotion, the Department (and University) has moved in the
REF period from an “apply for promotion when ready” approach to an “apply annually”
approach via submissions of CVs to a Departmental Progression and Promotions Committee
(DPPC). This change was enacted to ensure that all staff are considered and promoted when
they meet the University’s progression criteria, supporting female and other minority group staff
who may be less willing to put themselves forward. In terms of senior promotions within the
REF period, the Department has three female Professors (versus one in REF2014) and 29% of
Professorial staff identify as being from BAME backgrounds (versus 10% in REF2014).

The Department’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) is used to ensure that academic staff
members receive a balanced teaching and administrative load that allows them to devote
sufficient time to delivering excellent research either through managing existing grants or
developing funding proposals. In designing the WAM, great care was taken to ensure that it
does not disadvantage staff who are at early career stages, or who have taken career breaks.
In particular, it is recognised that successful senior academics can build significant research
groups, and that the staff who have not had the opportunity to do this should not be penalised
by having to take on more teaching and administration to compensate.

Each member of academic staff receives an annual allowance to spend on research activities
(e.g. conference attendance). To reduce barriers to travel for staff with caring responsibilities,
up to GBP200 per day can be claimed to cover, for example, childcare when attending a
conference. Academic staff can also arrange flexible working through timetabling requests.

The Department organises two flagship public lectures annually (Higginson and Sir Gareth
Roberts, jointly with the Department of Physics) and uses them as an opportunity to invite
outstanding STEM role models to the University. Recent speakers have included Professor
Dame Ann Dowling on her work on Aeroacoustics, and the Athena SWAN Charter founder,
Professor Dame Julia Higgins.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
The annual research income for the Department has remained stable throughout the majority
of the REF assessment period at an average of GBP50K per annum per FTE. Of this, 58% of
the reported spend over the period can be attributed to Research Council Grants; 20% from

                                                                                                     11
EU funded projects; with the remainder primarily from UK industry and government grants.
However, from 2019-20, the growth of the Department is reflected in the REF4b/c figures with
the annual spend rising to GBP2.8M (versus a GBP2.1M three year rolling average). In
2018/19, we focused efforts on improving our postgraduate research income. These efforts
have been successful, and we have brought in GBP1.26M in our Aura and ReNU CDTs. This
is in addition to the large number of PGR students that we now have funded through the
CONACyT scheme and industry through major projects such as the Prosperity Partnership
Programme. We are also engaged with Durham University’s Global Challenges Research
CDT, where the Department currently has had three of the 26 PhD students funded through
this initiative (a UK first).

The Department benefited from substantial internal investment in infrastructure since 2014.
This includes over GBP11M of investment by the University in Infrastructure and Facilities. We
have also established a new research laboratory in a rented building on a business park on the
outskirts of Durham, that provides some additional laboratory space for Roskilly’s team. This
investment by the University has resulted in significantly enhanced research space for
students, staff and undergraduates, throughout the Department.

Major Grants
The vitality of Durham Engineering is evidenced not just through research grant income but
also by our input to a large number of >GBP1M research projects and collaborations, often in a
leading role. Since 2014, the Department has been involved in capturing grants with a
combined project value of greater than GBP40M, including a number of large collaborative
grants. Examples of major world-leading collaborative research programmes (total project
values > GBP1M) in each Research Challenge area that have been awarded and launched in
the current REF cycle, are given below:

FES Challenge:
 EPSRC Prosperity Partnerships (EP/R004900/1) “A New Partnership in Offshore Wind”. A
  5-year GBP7.5 million collaboration launched in 2017 and involving international industry
  partners Siemens Gamesa, Ørsted and the Universities of Durham, Hull and Sheffield
  (lead). Durham University's contribution (Hogg, Matthews, Crabtree, Ingram, Augarde
  and Coombs) aims to reduce the operation and maintenance costs of offshore wind
  turbines (SDG7) to ensure the efficient running of wind farms, and aspects of civil
  engineering infrastructure provision offshore such as foundations and anchoring.
  Technologies being developed at Durham include new methods and sensors for earlier
  detection of emerging faults before the turbines need to go offline, better turbine blade and
  tower inspection techniques, improved understanding of the impact of blade erosion on
  wind turbine performance and better designs for seabed anchors. All of these developments
  are aligned with the overarching aim of the collaborative project, which is to reduce the
  costs of energy from offshore wind. This consortium formed the underpinning basis for the
  UKRI AURA CDT.
 A Network for Heating and Cooling Research to Enable a Net-Zero Carbon Future
  (EP/T022906/1). Durham University (Smallbone, Chin, Bao) leads the GBP1.16 million
  international research and innovation network on behalf of UKRI. It will be bringing together
  researchers, technology developers, managers and policymakers to facilitate learning,
  share progress and new knowledge, and to fund new research projects for decarbonising
  heating and cooling (SDG 7 and SDG13). A wide range of universities, industrial bodies and
  governance organisations are also partners in the project including BEIS, Energy Systems
  Catapult, European Energy Research Alliance, Durham County Council, GE (General


                                                                                                  12
   Electric Company), E.ON Energy Solutions Ltd, North East Process Industry Cluster
   (NEPIC), Narec Distributed Energy.

AMEC Challenge:
Challenge members have shown significant success in the capture and delivery of major EU-
funded projects, totalling over Euro14M during the REF period.
 EU ITN INDEED (GA 722176). A Marie Curie Innovative Training Network (ITN) project on
   “Innovative Nanowire Device Design”. This is a 4-year project led by Durham Engineering
   (Zeze and Gallant) which involves 12 academic institutions and 13 industry partners from
   across Europe training 17 PhD students (15 funded by the EU and 2 by Russia). This
   project aims to progress the translation of nanowire-based technology to more customer-
   oriented scientific R&D. In addition to leading the project, the Durham Engineering
   contribution is in the development of pressure sensitive materials and architectures for ZnO
   based nanowires which have applications in H2 and O2 splitting from water, a fundamental
   mechanism for sustainable future energy supplies (SDG7). The consortium builds on the
   success of the earlier EU FP7 funded Initial Training Network, Nanoembrace (also led by
   Zeze and Gallant).
 EU ITN WAVECOMBE mmWave Communications in the Built Environment (GA 766231)
   which involves five European countries including four universities and three industrial
   partners, training 11 early stage researchers (ESR’s) with 2 ESRs registered for PhD
   studies at Durham University. Durham (Salous) leads WP2: Characterisation and modelling
   of radio propagation channels at mmW bands with input into the International
   Telecommunications Union recommendations on rain statistics in the UK and its impact on
   5G radio links and propagation models for indoor environments.

SI Challenge
 Challenge members lead the GBP4.9M Achilles (EP/R03457/1) research consortium which
   works to develop tools to assess, monitor and repair the ground beneath or around
   infrastructure systems (e.g. pylon, pipe or rail track); the GBP1.8M CACTUS
   (EP/R005834/1) project which addresses the effect of climate change on the urban geo-
   infrastructure and the GBP1.3M GCRF WindAfrica project (EP/P029434/1) which is
   accelerating the uptake of wind energy (SDG7) through foundation development in Africa.
 EPSRC (GCRF) (EP/P029671/1) “Sustainability and Resilience of Transportation
   Infrastructure in African Countries” is a 3-year project led by Durham which addresses the
   global challenge of providing sustainable and resilient transport infrastructure for African
   countries. It brings together Durham University (Toll, Johnson and Hughes) with Kwame
   Nkrumah University of Science & Technology (Ghana), University of Pretoria (South Africa)
   and Nyaoro & Associates (Tanzania). The research investigates (i) the use of sustainable
   (locally occurring) construction materials (SDG12) in road construction and (ii) the impacts
   of climate change (SDG13) on transportation infrastructure. A key enabling element for (ii)
   is the high suction tensiometers technology developed at Durham and commercialised by a
   spin-out company, Durham Geo-Technologies (founded by Toll).

Infrastructure and Facilities
The Department has been successful in securing University funding through capital equipment
rounds for targeted (either underpinning or strategic) investments in several specialist research
facilities spanning all three Research Challenges. These include the following which have been
funded and/or opened during the REF period.

 The establishment of the state-of-the-art Vadose facility in the geotechnical lab
   (GBP300k). This unique-to-the-UK facility is built on the Department's existing experimental

                                                                                                    13
    capabilities in partially saturated soil mechanics. It includes the creation of a test
    environment for near surface soils (material within the Vadose Zone) which form a critical
    component within our engineered and environmental infrastructure, including vital work to
    support the ‘Soil Health’ impact case study.
   Geotechnical lab (Advanced Automatic Soil Testing Systems) (GBP180k). During the REF
    period, the Department's success in GCRF and EPSRC funded grant capture led to existing
    triaxial and shear test systems reaching operational capacity. This funding augmented our
    Advanced Soil Mechanics testing capabilities.
   Electrical engineering research laboratories (GBP352k). Addressing an identified need
    to ensure Durham was competitive in the UK: This investment delivered a major upgrade to
    the Electrical Engineering R&D facilities supporting the innovative designs of future flexible
    AC/DC power networks; design and testing of control methodologies for advanced power
    electronic converters; design and validation of novel electrical machine topologies for
    special applications in renewables, aerospace, electric vehicles and wider industries;
    improved real-time simulation of ultra-fast power system phenomena; condition monitoring
    and reliability evaluation of electrical machines and drives for renewable energy systems
    (supported by the DEI and Ørsted).
   Smart Energy Tech Hive (SETH) (GBP500k). An experimental low voltage distribution
    network with GBP400k RTDS which was upgraded in this case. It is a new technology
    demonstration platform capable of demonstrating various smart energy technologies such
    as blockchain based peer-to-peer energy trading, Internet of Things (IoT) based smart
    home, energy-powered markets and a smart fish farm. SETH supports engagement with
    industrial partners and other stakeholders to allow them to test their new products and
    services.
   Nanoengineering for Renewable Energy and Scanning Microwave Microscope
    (GBP829k). This funding introduced new tooling for nanoscale film growth and patterning
    within the Durham cleanroom and has been used to underpin both the Department's EU
    ITNs and EPSRC funded projects (e.g. EP/K016857/1 Electronic nanodevices for energy
    harvesting: a novel approach to thermal-energy conversion). The scanning microwave
    microscope (SMM) enables the advanced study of morphology and electronic properties of
    nanomaterials and related devices.
   Terahertz testing laboratory (GBP400k). This brought world class Terahertz metrology
    facilities to the Department of Engineering through the creation of a new laboratory
    equipped with a THz Time Domain Spectroscopy system and one of the few THz Vector
    Network Analysers in the world. The laboratory has supported the researchers employed by
    the EU NOTEDEV ITN as well as SMEs (e.g. Teraview Ltd).

These facilities complement, or strengthen, our established experimental infrastructure in
cleanroom based micro- and nanofabrication tooling (200m2 class 1000 facility), wind tunnel
testing (2m and a member of SATA - Subsonic Aerodynamic Testing Association),
communication network characterisation (e.g. anechoic chamber and radio sounders up to
90 GHz) and XRCT imaging (funded by EPSRC). Many facilities have or continue to support
non-academic impact generation; as described earlier, the anechoic chamber is linked closely
to the “5G” case study and the 2m Wind Tunnel to the “Vehicle Aeroacoustics” case. The
Department has access to the University's GJ Russell Electron Microscopy Facility, for which
Gallant is the Facility Director. The Facility houses a Transmission Electron Microscope (used
for nanomaterial characterisation) and three Scanning Electron Microscopes (including
Variable Pressure / Environmental systems which are particularly relevant for studying wet soil
samples). For computational work, Durham University’s Hamilton cluster is available which is a
Linux based High Performance Computing facility.


                                                                                                     14
The expansion of the Department includes major structural work to support the experimental
needs of the Roskilly team. This includes the formation of two new laboratories (described
below) which are scheduled for completion in 2021 and establishing the new rented laboratory
facility for the team, as mentioned earlier. This represents an additional GBP500k of
investment by the University in the Engineering Department’s research facilities.
 Thermochemical System Laboratory: This laboratory is designed to accommodate a
   range of test equipment and cutting-edge research facilities for developing and
   implementing innovative thermal-driven low carbon technologies. We are creating an
   interdisciplinary endeavour on a spectrum of low carbon technologies including
   thermochemical heat pump, drying and desalination and energy storage, liquid and solid
   desiccant systems, phase-change-materials (PCM) thermal energy storage, through the
   development of novel thermodynamic processes, advanced energy materials and efficient
   heat exchanger/reactor, operation controlling strategy and so on. The Thermochemical Lab
   will be further extended with the funding from three newly awarded EPSRC projects worth
   around GBP2.2M in total, growing our world-leading research and innovation infrastructure.
 Zero-Emission Laboratory: The Government’s 10 point green revolution highlights the
   need to decarbonise heat and to accelerate the “hydrogen economy” to underpin both the
   transport and heating sectors. Hydrogen from renewables offers highly scalable and flexible
   demand which can be managed to exploit renewable wind electricity generation capacity to
   balance the daily, weekly and seasonal dynamics of the wider energy system. The Zero-
   Emission Lab is designed and equipped with advanced research facilities to allow a wide
   range of development and testing of new technologies for operation with or for compatibility
   with hydrogen. The primary research activity currently in the Zero-Emission Lab involves
   hydrogen-based zero-emission engine generators for decarbonising heat and transport,
   supported by a variety of collaborative projects funded by EPSRC, Innovate UK and North
   East Local Enterprise Partnership, worth around GBP3M in total. The world’s first prototype
   system of the patented design for a high efficiency free-piston engine (FPE) generator is
   under development and testing through a GBP500k project funded by Innovate UK. As the
   next evolution of the FPE, a 25kW zero-emission closed-loop linear Joule cycle engine
   (ZECCY) generator prototype will be designed, built and demonstrated through a
   GBP1million EPSRC project. With EPSRC funding support (GBP1million), Durham
   coordinates a UK national future hydrogen fuelled transportation network, bringing together
   all relevant stakeholders and leading technology developers from across a number of cross-
   cutting themes, further extending and reinforcing our research facilities and capability in the
   Zero-Emission Lab.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Department has worked closely with Durham’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) to
help strengthen existing and to develop new interdisciplinary and international research
collaborations across all of our three Research Challenges. This research is facilitated by our
University Research Institutes (URIs) and Research Centres. The URIs bring together
individuals and groups from across the University with industry and policymakers to create the
interdisciplinary critical mass needed to address global challenges. In contrast, our Research
Centres are typically more thematically focussed than the URIs.

The most relevant of the URIs to Engineering are the Durham Energy Institute (DEI) and the
Institute of Hazard, Risk and Resilience (IHRR). Because of this facilitation by URIs and RIS
our research projects stretch beyond the pure technical, and into the social and economic
aspects of the research undertaken.


                                                                                                     15
The Department’s staff are active in, and contribute to, the leadership of several of the URIs
and Centres. During the current REF period, Hogg has been Executive Director of the DEI, Wu
has been a Co-Director of the Biophysical Sciences Institute, Johnson has been a co-Director
of the Institute of Advanced Study and Roskilly is a current Co-Director of the DEI. Salous
leads the University’s Research Centre for Communication Systems and Groves leads the
Centre for Molecular and Nanoscale Electronics.

As described previously, we are leading multidisciplinary consortia with other world-leading
Engineering departments, key industrial strategic partners and policymakers across the world.
The GBP1.27M “Developing performance-based design for foundation systems of wind
turbines in AFRICA (Wind Africa)” project led by Osman and working with policymakers in
Tanzania and Sudan to transform energy production in these countries, is one good example
of this. Here the team is working closely with the African Union Development Agency to
accelerate the development of sustainable infrastructure for renewable energy (SDG7) in Africa
by providing reliable and economical foundation solutions combining our expertise in
experimental, computational and policy aspects of wind energy. The GBP1.72M CACTUS
“Climate Adaptation Control Technologies for Urban Spaces” led by Toll is another example of
a collaborative project from our Sustainable infrastructure Challenge, where Durham University
is leading the way in a transformational collaborative project which brings together Queen’s,
Cardiff, Dundee, Durham, Imperial and Newcastle Universities and Northumbrian Water Group.
Together, they are exploring how to transform the way engineers work with soils (SDG15) in
our urban spaces, to both mitigate and adapt to climate change (SDG13).

Durham University’s involvement as a founding partner in Hull University’s Project Aura has
been led by Coombs and Hogg. Project Aura is the first regional cluster which will support
research development and innovation, skills development and supply chain development for
the rapidly expanding offshore wind industry (SDG7) and the first to consider the impact of this
industry on the marine environment (SDG14). The founding partners were Hull, Durham and
Sheffield Universities, Siemens Gamesa (the world’s largest Wind Turbine OEM), Ørsted (the
world’s largest offshore wind farm developer) and the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult.
The Aura partnership has already led to two large RCUK investments during the last two years.
These are the EPSRC Prosperity Partnership “A New Partnership in Offshore Wind“, and the
EPSRC/NERC Aura CDT. The Offshore Wind Sector Deal announced by BEIS in March 2019,
includes the establishment of several regional clusters around the UK, including one in the
North East (NE), based on the model established by Aura. The NE cluster, Energi Coast, was
formed immediately following the announcement of the Sector Deal. Hogg is a member of the
Energi Coast Management Board and, with support from the DEI, formed and leads the
Cluster’s Innovation Group. The Group has a leadership team consisting of over 20 members
drawn from local industry partners, global wind farm developers and an OEM with interests
based in NE, NE Universities, Aura, ORE Catapult and the NE and Teesside local enterprise
partnerships.

The National Centre for Energy Systems Integration is another example of a major
collaborative research project that the Department contributes to under our Future Energy
Systems Research Challenge. This GBP5.4M collaboration involved the Universities of
Newcastle, Durham, Edinburgh, Herriot Watt and Sussex. There are many industry partners
headed by Siemens who have made a major investment in the project. In addition to
Engineering, the DEI, Departments of Anthropology, Mathematics, Earth Sciences and DUBS,
are all involved from Durham University, underlining our interdisciplinary engagement in
support of major collaborative projects of this nature.


                                                                                                   16
Members of the Advanced Materials, Electronics and Communications Challenge have led two
EU Innovative Training Networks (ITNs) during the REF period, focusing on PGR training in
THz device and technology development (NOTEDEV); and nanowire growth and exploitation
(NanoEmbrace and INDEED). These ITNs have dedicated training programmes which support
the personal and professional development of the PGR students and include research
engagement with a range of partner universities and companies. Regular training events have
been organised throughout the REF period, with workshops and conferences held in places
such as Morocco, St Petersburg, Iceland, Prague and Paris.

Many of these collaborative research projects that we have led and the facilities that we have
invested in within this last REF period have been used by engineering academics throughout
the world. Our recently improved Geotechnical laboratories and the XRCT lab (which is
available for use across the N8 HE Institutions) have been accessible to postgraduate students
and academics from across Southern Africa in Osman’s Newton funded “Unsaturated Soils
Mechanics for Engineering Practice (UnsatPractice)”. This collaborative use of our equipment
and facilities has allowed us to further develop our links and work more closely with this global
south region.

Collaborative Development of Early Career Researchers
Durham Engineering has a track record of leading international collaborations for the training
and development of early career researchers. As an example, within the UnsatPractice
doctoral exchange scheme with South African Universities supported by the Newton Fund,
Durham researchers (Osman and Toll) ran Doctoral Schools in Durham and Sun City, South
Africa on geotechnical engineering, specialising in tropical and unsaturated soil behaviour.
Osman also organised a Workshop in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in January 2018 on “Increasing
Climate Resilience of Urban Infrastructure” to which Toll contributed. It was funded by the
Newton Fund Researcher links with Malaysia scheme. In all, 20 young researchers from
Malaysia and 20 young researchers from the UK attended the Workshop. Johnson also ran an
online workshop in July 2020 for researchers from her GCRF network on
SDG7/SDG12/SDG15 disconnects. This was attended by 30 international researchers who
created short animations which are being used by all partner institutions to educate and
engage staff and students on the SDGs

Linked to the Sustainable Infrastructure Challenge, Durham was also a leading member of the
ITN, TERRE (“Training Engineers and Researchers to Rethink geotechnical Engineering for a
low carbon future”, 2015-9) which organised bi-annual Schools for early stage researchers
(ESRs) in Durham, Delft, Naples, Lausanne, Barcelona and Glasgow. TERRE was innovative
in that every ESR spent time at, and was jointly supervised by, two institutions via Cotutelle
agreements, receiving dual awards.

Contribution to the Research Base
Beyond winning research income and writing outputs, Durham Engineering staff contribute to
the research base, economy and society across the academic spectrum as follows:

Discipline Service and Leadership:
Just under a fifth of our staff are full EPSRC College Members; over two thirds of staff have
reviewed research proposals for national and international funding bodies (e.g. US National
Science Foundation, German Research Foundation, Australian Research Council, Israel
Science Foundation, Canadian Research Council, EU H2020) within the REF period. Augarde
became a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers in 2015 joining our other Institution


                                                                                                    17
Fellows: Toll (FICE), Hogg, Trevelyan (FIMechE), Salous (FIET), Zeze (FIET) and Gaskell
(FIMA).

Both Zeze and Horsfall have held RAEng Senior Research Fellowships. Zeze's, which was
co-funded by the Leverhulme Trust, (2014) explored nanoscale characterisation and an
integration platform for nanowires, Horsfall's (2017) focused on electronically readable
quantum sensors. Wu was awarded the Rosetree's Trust Interdisciplinary Award for
Bioengineered Lenses; the first such award for Durham, recognising excellence in biomedical
research. Amit, Chaudhry, Hedayati, Lloret-Cabot have all held Marie Curie Fellowships
within the REF period, prior to their appointment at Durham.

Eighteen staff members have given over 40 invited, plenary type talks during the REF period.
This has included participation at major public research outreach events such as Shirshova
presenting at the invitation-only European Foundation Sharing Science: Towards New
Horizons in 2018. Linked to one of the impact case studies, Salous gave invited talks on
recent ITU propagation models for millimetre waves at EUCAP 2017 and 2020.

As examples of international recognition of our outputs, Augarde and Coombs' paper,
“Parallel computations in nonlinear solid mechanics using adaptive finite element and
meshless methods” published in Engineering Computations was selected by the journal's
editorial team as a Highly Commended paper in the 2017 Emerald Literati Network Awards for
Excellence. Coombs and Giani's paper won an award in 2019 from the International Journal
for Numerical Methods in Engineering recognising one of the journal's most downloaded recent
papers. Lloret-Cabot won the best paper award in Georisk (2015) and the most cited paper in
2018 from the same journal.

Durham Engineering staff have chaired the following national and international committees:
    Augarde: President, UK Association for Computational Mechanics (UKACM) 2016-19
      and was also a member of the IStructE Northern Counties Committee and ICE Northern
      Geotechnical Group Committee (until end of 2016)
    Salous: International Chair of Commission C on Radiocommunication Systems and
      Signal Processing of the International Union of Radio Science, (URSI) (2014-17), Chair
      of Correspondence Group CG 3k-5 providing guidelines for measurement equipment
      and procedures for data contributors to the International Telecommunications Union,
      which is a UN agency. Salous was the only academic contributor worldwide to the
      model adopted for 5G propagation in the recommendation ITU-R 1411-9 in preparation
      for the World Radiocommunications Conference, WRC-2019. Salous also co-chaired
      the largest working Group in the EU COST action, IRACON (2016-date) and is a
      member of the IET Antennas and Propagation Committee.
    Sims-Williams: Chair, Society of Automotive Engineers Road Vehicle Aerodynamics
      Committee (2012-2018)
    Toll: Chair of Technical Committee TC106 on Unsaturated Soils of the International
      Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE). Chair, Institution of
      Civil Engineers North East (2013-14). Chair, Joint Technical Committee JTC2 of the
      Federation of International Geo-Engineering Societies (representing ISRM, ISSMGE
      and IAEG) (2005-2017)
    Ikhlef was co-organiser of IEEE WCNC'2016 Workshop on Wireless Powered
      Communication Networks, Doha, Qatar, 2016, Co-Chair IEEE ICC'2017 Workshop on
      Emerging Energy Harvesting Solutions for 5G Networks. Held in Durham in 2018, he
      co-organised a full day EPSRC CommNet 2 workshop on Communications and Signal
      Processing for beyond 5G.

                                                                                               18
      Q. Wang was Conference Chair for ASME, 22nd Design for Manufacturing and Life
       Cycle, Cleveland, Ohio, 2017 (also was a Program Chair the year before) and Vice-
       Chair for the Design for Manufacturing and Life Cycle Technical Committee, ASME,
       2019 (formerly Secretary in 2018).
      Ingram is Point Contact for the ASME Turbo Expo Steam Turbine Committee and is in
       charge of coordinating the session organisers.
      Coombs is the UK Representative for the European Community on Computational
       Methods in Applied Sciences (ECCOMAS) Young Investigators Committee.
      Roskilly is the Director of Network H2 - A network for hydrogen-fuelled transportation
       and also the Thermal Energy Challenge Network.

Academics from the Department are active in bringing major international conferences and
workshops to Durham. For example:
    Osman and Toll organised the British Geotechnical Association’s biennial conference
      that will be held in 2021 (Piling 2020, delayed by COVID-19). The Department was
      scheduled to host the 2020 International Conference of the Engineering Mechanics
      Institute (EMI) of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE). The conference was
      also postponed due to COVID-19 with likely rescheduling in 2022. Recent meetings
      have been held at MIT (2018), Tongi University (2018), CalTech (2019), and INSA Lyon
      (2019).
    Sun is Chair of the International Workshop on Integrating Communications, Control and
      Computing Technologies for Smart Grid (ICT4SG) which has been held annually since
      2015. He has also chaired International Workshops on Connecting All Things for
      Enabling Smart Cities (CONTEST) since 2015.
    Salous organised Commission C programme for the Union Radio-Scientific
      Internationale (URSI) General Assembly and Scientific Symposia held in 2014 (Beijing)
      and 2017 (Montreal); each with over 1500 attendees, TPC organising committee of the
      European Conference on Antennas and Propagation held in London 2018, and two
      sessions involving the IET Antennas and Propagation Committee and the EU COST
      action IRACON, in EUCAP 2019 and 2020. As a member of the IET antennas and
      propagation committee she also co-organised the IET Antennas and Propagation
      conference in 2019 and 2020 and a joint workshop IET/IRACON held in Durham in
      2016.
    Amit won a UK-Israel Synergy grant from the British Council to hold a symposium on
      “Disordered and Defect-Rich Nano-Materials for Electronics” in Durham in September
      2019. Amit is also co-Chair of the Institute of Physics Early Career Researcher's
      Group.

Our staff hold, or have held, visiting academic positions internationally. For example:
   Balocco, Gallant and Zeze (ITMO University)
   Gaskell (University of Canterbury, Christchurch NZ, Bayreuth University and Technical
       University of Heilbronn)
   Giani (Umea University, Sissa International School, Aalto University)
   Hughes (Newcastle and Loughborough)
   Ingram (Royal Military College Ontario)
   Matthews (Ørsted, Copenhagen)
   Seaid (University Paris 13, Aachen University, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, University
       of South Pretoria)
   Shirshova (Visiting Academic at the Max-Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces,
       Potsdam, Germany, June-July 2016 and Poitiers University)
   Sun (Chinese Academy of Sciences, Sichuan University)

                                                                                                19
      Roskilly (Beijing Institute of Technology and Zheijang University)
      Trevelyan (Colorado School of Mines, Universite de Technologie de Compiegne)
      Q. Wang (Tsinghua University)
      Wu (MIT)

Journal Editorships / Board Members
Engineering staff hold, or have held, positions on editorial boards of the following international
journals:
     Computers and Geotechnics
     Computers and Structures
     Energy Reports
     EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking
     Geotechnical and Geological Engineering
     Géotechnique
     Géotechnique Letters
     ICE Proceedings - Geotechnical Engineering,
     IEEE Communications Letters,
     IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence
     IET Smart Grid (Editor in Chief)
     International Journal of Optimisation and Control: Theory and Applications
     International Journal of Research in Computer Science.
     Journal of Communications and Networks
     Journal of Materials Science: Materials in Electronics
     Radio Science (Editor in Chief) a publication of the American Geophysical Union,
        Communications Systems,
     Soil Security
     Springer Nature
     Theoretical and Applied Fracture Mechanics
     Underground Space

Contribution to Economy and Society
Highlighted specific contributions to policy where RIS and the DEI and IHRR have facilitated
the Department to have policy impact include:
     Adam’s work (Adams and Bell 2015) supported by the DEI advocates interdisciplinary
       collaboration and community engagement for planning energy projects and has been
       used by workers considering energy justice in other countries, Nepal (Damgaard, et al.,
       2017) and Canada (Keilty et al., 2016). Adams continues to lead the way in
       championing geothermal energy as a potential resource in the UK. The research
       approach has been debated in Westminster and led to changes in policy. Adams won a
       Geological Society medal for her work on ultra-low enthalpy geothermal energy and an
       “Energy Champion Award” by the UK Energy Institute for her research into the potential
       of using geothermal energy as a low-carbon heat source.
     Working closely with RIS and IHRR, Johnson’s work in soil health helped launch the
       UK’s first Soil Health Inquiry. Johnson has worked with a wide range of audiences
       including artists and public health regulators around soil health since 2014 after
       completion of her GBP1M EPSRC ROBUST grant. Johnson’s support by the DEI and
       IHRR has enabled her input of 4 lots of written evidence to 4 separate Governmental
       Environmental Audit Committee inquiries as well as one lot of oral evidence.
     Coordinated by the DEI, with input from Carvalho, Hogg and Sun, written evidence
       (BES0013) was submitted to the Parliament EU Energy and Environment Sub-
       Committee's Inquiry on Brexit: Energy Security. This written evidence was cited five

                                                                                                     20
    times by the House of Lords European Union Committee 10th Report of Session 2017-
    19. “Brexit: Energy Security”.
   Highways England’s 2018 Briefing paper “Resilience of the Strategic Road Network”
    identifies impacts of severe weather and climate change on geotechnical assets as a
    knowledge gap that they are addressing through working with the iSmart project
    (EP/K027050/1, GBP1.67M), with Durham researchers Hughes and Toll. Highways
    England are responsible for motorways and major (trunk) roads in England, a network
    totalling 4,300miles. They will deliver GBP15billion of investment on the UK road
    network as described in the government’s Road Investment strategy, including
    GBP11billion of capital funding between 2015 and 2020. Highways England continue
    as partners of the ACHILLES programme grant (EP/R034575/1, GBP4.9M). Hughes is
    co-author for the Committee on Climate Change's Risk Assessment Evidence Report
    2017 which was put before Parliament in January 2017 and informed 5-year climate
    change adaptation policy. Hughes is a section author on the next Risk Assessment
    Evidence report, which is scheduled to be released in 2021.




                                                                                          21
