Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Durham Geography is a large, integrated department that aims to be a global node for
 geographical research – a destination and conduit for outstanding researchers from a wide range
 of countries and backgrounds. We seek to provide an attractive, supportive, and innovative
 research environment within which to work, in order to enable our staff to follow their academic
 interests and passions, to challenge existing approaches and understandings, and to be
 experimental and take risks. This environment is enabled by a set of guiding principles:

    To foster a research culture that is welcoming, ambitious, flexible, and adventurous,
     generating innovation and transformation in our practices, approaches, and outputs;
    To ensure that we maximise our collective research strengths, by enabling individuals at
     all career stages to realise their potential while also contributing to a culture of collective
     endeavour;
    To generate high-quality outputs that advance scholarship in and across a range of fields
     and address societal challenges at multiple scales, nationally and internationally;
    To maximise the societal relevance and impact of our research through engagement with
     non-academic communities, nationally and internationally; and
    To maximise access to our research through effective communication and the provision of
     open access to our outputs and data.




                                                              Fig. 1. Departmental research
                                                              clusters (bold) and their
                                                              relationship with University
                                                              research institutes (italics).




 Our research activity is organised into seven clusters: Catchments and Rivers; Economy and
 Culture; Geographies of Life; Hazards and Surface Change; Ice Sheets and Sea Level;
 Politics-State-Space; and Urban Worlds (Fig. 1). Clusters act as centres of gravity for
                                                                                                       1
collective research activity, and provide the foundational means through which we generate
diversity, vibrancy and innovation in our research. They are the mechanism by which we develop
new collective research areas and by which we foster and maintain innovative and alternative
forms of research practice, output, and societal engagement. Cluster boundaries are permeable,
and most staff and postgraduate students are affiliated to more than one cluster. Clusters are
also dynamic, and we routinely reflect on our organisational structure to ensure that the research
environment is aligned with the interests of the current cohorts of staff and research students,
as well as external drivers. During the REF2021 period, we reorganised and expanded activity
in our former Geographies of Health and Well Being cluster into a new cluster focused on the
Geographies of Life, while recruitment of new staff at the intersection of cultural and economic
geography led to realignment of our former Culture-Economy-Life cluster into Economy and
Culture. Beyond the department, our research also extends across the University’s network of
research institutes, primarily the Institute of Hazard, Risk, and Resilience, the Durham Energy
Institute, and the Institute for Medical Humanities (Fig. 1).

1.2 Review of strategic aims during the REF2021 period

Since 2014 we have made fundamental advances across all areas of our research, and delivered
against the priority research themes that were identified in REF2014. In addition, we have
opened new areas of research following the development of Geographies of Life and the
realignment of Economy and Culture.

Economy and Culture has advanced research at the intersection of the cultural and economic
by exploring the practices and processes through which marketised spaces are made.
Underpinning much of our work has been the development of approaches that incorporate
insights from cultural economy work with feminist and postcolonial approaches to economic life
and Marxian political economy (Bridge, Crang, Gregson, Hudson, Knuth, Langley, McEwan,
McGrath, Richardson). As well as exploring the different concepts of culture in economic work
(Richardson), our research has examined: (a) how new spatial configurations emerge as
markets are made around natural ‘resources’ (Bridge, Crang, Gregson, Knuth); (b)
transformations in the forms and practices of financialisation after the financial crisis (Brekke,
Bridge, Knuth, Lai, Langley); (c) how economic worlds are animated by moral economies which
ascribe and distribute worth (Crang, Gregson, Martin, McEwan, McGrath); and (d) how human
and non-human bodily life is made productive and becomes a source of value in contemporary
reconfigurations of work (Gregson, Johnson).

Geographies of Life has focused on how forms of human and non-human life are produced,
governed and experienced. Conceptual work has advanced theorisations of embodied life by
drawing on poststructuralisms in dialogue with feminisms and psychoanalysis to theorise the
conditions – including relations, encounters, and environments – through which bodily
differences emerge and persist (Anderson, Callard, Colls, Harrison, Secor, Wilson). We have
used this conceptual work to interrogate and offer novel perspectives on a range of
contemporary challenges and problems, including violence, recovery and well-being (Atkinson,
Laws, Pain, Proudfoot), multiculturalism and Brexit (Wilson), neoliberalism (Anderson), and
climate change migration (Baldwin). In addition to this theoretical work, the cluster has coalesced
around two areas of research: first, on the novel techno-scientific practices and processes
through which lives are known, governed and rendered actionable (Amoore, Johnson, Langley,
Lehman, Luque-Ayala, Nieuwenhuis); and second, on how embodied differences and identities
are enacted through imaginaries, technologies and artefacts (Colls, Darling, Gregson, Lai, Laws,
Nassar, Newhouse, Wilson).

Urban Worlds has developed new understandings of contemporary urbanism, particularly the
techniques through which cities are governed and urban life is made. We have targeted specific
domains that are critical to the nature of current urbanisms, including: the making of
sociotechnical and ecological infrastructures (Bulkeley, Luque-Ayala, McFarlane), the
production and contestation of political-economic architectures (Darling, MacLeod, Proudfoot),

                                                                                                      2
and the experience of everyday life (McFarlane, Wilson). Our work has: (a) explored the
implications of a relational approach to urban spatialities for global urban theory through work
on density (McFarlane), dispersal (Darling), revanchism (Proudfoot), and abandonment
(Leshem); (b) traced how urban political economy, ecology, and sociality are changing in the
Global South (Luque-Ayala, McFarlane, Newhouse); and (c) examined how emerging forms of
urban management have impacted urban governance, infrastructures, and inequalities
(Bulkeley, Darling, Knuth, MacLeod, Nassar).

Politics-State-Space has advanced understanding of emergent spatial forms of politics, by
working across diverse domains, including climate change governance (Baldwin, Bulkeley,
Schmidt), border security and migration (Amoore, Darling, Martin, Painter), and territorial
struggles, including those relating to colonialism (Anthias, Leshem, Schmidt), and development
(Calkin, McEwan, Power). Our work has addressed: (a) the ways in which political theory and
concepts are challenged by considering the social-materialities of political life, including water
(Lehman, Schmidt, Steinberg), land (Anthias, Leshem), energy (McEwan), and air
(Nieuwenhuis); (b) the techniques and forms though which political life is governed and political
spaces are made, principally how ways of governing the environment are assembled (Bridge,
Bulkeley, Knuth, McEwan, Schmidt, Steinberg, Williams) and the role of new actors in
contemporary development strategies (Calkin, Power); (c) the potentialities of novel forms of
belonging in the context of transformations in identity, citizenship, and nation (Newhouse,
Wilson); and (d) how objects animate the space of the political, with emphasis on contemporary
technoscience (Amoore, Brekke, Johnson, Lehman).

Ice Sheets and Sea Level has focused on explaining and quantifying the dynamic response of
ice sheets to external and internal forcing and their contribution to past and contemporary sea-
level rise. We have integrated field observations and remote sensing with numerical modelling
to understand the decadal to millennial trajectory of the polar ice sheets in response to climatic
and oceanic forcing (Bentley, Jamieson, O’Cofaigh, Whitehouse, Stokes) and how subglacial
processes affect ice-sheet dynamics (Evans, Jamieson, O’Cofaigh, Roberts, Stokes). We have
deepened our understanding of the interactions between ice sheets and sea-level change,
especially across major climate transitions and during the last interglacial period (Engelhart,
Lloyd, Long, Woodroffe), as well as the dynamics of the British-Irish Ice Sheet and its impact on
the UK landscape (Bridgland, Roberts). Our work has placed important new constraints on the
role of the oceans in climate shifts over both short and long time scales, and has used past
environmental analogues to understand the potential future impacts of climate change (Moffa-
Sanchez, McClymont). We have also developed and applied new sea-level indicators of seismic
activity in order to reconstruct earthquake recurrence and impacts in a range of settings
(Shennan).

Catchments and Rivers has monitored and modelled the interactions and feedbacks between
geomorphology, hydrology, vegetation, and water chemistry in hillslope and river systems. In
particular, we have generated new process-based understanding of how water, nutrients, and
sediment move through catchments (Bovolo, Hilton, Reaney), in part by quantifying flow and
sediment transport within the mixed bedrock-alluvial channels that are ubiquitous in many
montane rivers (Hodge, Warburton). Related work has developed novel uses of high-resolution
imagery to measure topography and habitat characteristics along riparian corridors
(Carbonneau). We have also investigated the interactions of vegetation with water flow and
sediment transport, including the effects of vegetation on hillslope stability and erosion (Turnbull-
Lloyd, Wainwright) and the role of plants in modulating flow and flooding in river channels (Hardy,
Warburton). Our fundamental process-based approach to catchment dynamics has informed
policy recommendations around water transfers (Bracken).

Hazards and Surface Change has advanced holistic approaches to understanding hazards as
the outcome of recurrent physical processes that occur within specific societal settings, rather
than as one-off events. We have made fundamental progress on the physical mechanisms of
landslides and gravity flows, coupling novel laboratory- and field-based approaches with

                                                                                                        3
numerical modelling, to allow assessment of slope stability at societally-relevant scales both
onshore and offshore (Brain, Pope, Rosser). This includes some of the first observations of
submarine turbidity currents that flush tremendous volumes of sediment to the deep ocean
(Cartigny, Pope). We have placed quantitative constraints on the long-term and large-scale
impacts of mass movements on the sediment and terrestrial carbon cycles, including systematic
assessment of how debris flows and earthquake-triggered landslides shape the landscape and
mobilise and transport sediment and organic carbon (Cox, Densmore, Hilton). We have also
documented impact of ENSO cycles on the numbers of people affected by disasters (McGregor)
and the ways in which scientific understanding of hazards can be used in decision-making,
including simple rules to reduce exposure to earthquake-triggered landslides (Densmore) and
new approaches to earthquake risk assessment (Rosser). At the same time, new remote-
sensing techniques allow us to characterise surface morphology and change at unprecedented
scales, ranging from objective identification of channel heads (Clubb) to mapping of
archaeological looting (Donoghue).

1.3 Research vision beyond REF2021

Economy and Culture’s central concern will be how economic worlds in the Global South and
North are made, unmade and remade in the context of changes to the global economy. By
developing concepts and techniques at the intersection of cultural economy, postcolonial and
political economy approaches, our work will: (1) examine the geographies and politics of new
types of resource extraction, production and circulation; (2) continue to track changing forms of
financialisation, whilst expanding the geographical scope of our work to Asia and new types of
digital finance; (3) create new understandings of the actors, structures and places of the green
economy, especially in relation to value creation through renewable energy and decarbonisation;
and (4) explore how livelihoods in the Global South are made through diverse, everyday labour
and consumption practices.

Geographies of Life will explore how the boundaries of life and non-life, and human and non-
human life, are at stake across a range of contemporary transformations. We will: (1) document
the production and experience of life and death for different peoples and non-humans in the
midst of environmental change and climate crisis; (2) continue to examine the configurations of
life that are emerging at the intersection of contemporary capitalism and technoscience; (3)
produce new understandings of how livable worlds are created in harmful and damaging
conditions, with particular emphasis on migration and displacement; and (4) interrogate the
emergence of inequalities associated with multiple forms of social difference. Underpinning this
work will be the continued creation of concepts and ways of researching attentive to embodied
human and non-human life.

Urban Worlds will advance understanding of how urban life is made and lived in the context of
the major challenges facing today’s cities. Through empirical work on a range of global
urbanisms, we will: (1) explore the implications of African, Asian, and Middle Eastern urbanisms
for urban theory, method, and representation; (2) explain the mechanisms producing and
intensifying urban inequalities and evaluate the potential for alternatives in different types of
cities across the Global North and South, including urban equality and sites of generosity; (3)
continue to examine and anticipate the infrastructural futures of cities, particularly in relation to
forms of smart and sustainable urbanism; and (4) initiate new understandings of the promise
and pitfalls of forms of green urbanism in response to climate change and processes of uneven
development.

Politics-State-Space will examine the existing and emerging forms of power through which
contemporary political spaces are organized. Our work will: (1) continue to develop
conceptualizations of power and the spaces of the political that begin from the materiality of
human and non-human life, principally water, land, and air; (2) examine how forms of violence
and harm are enacted and experienced, including in relation to the emergence of new
development actors, and indigenous struggles over land and territory; (3) generate new

                                                                                                        4
understandings of how contemporary governing practices, actors and forms intersect with the
state and formal politics, for example through novel types of data and analytics; and (4) explore
changes in ways of governing and living with difference in the context of migration, pluralisation,
and shifting political attachments and identifications.

Ice Sheets and Sea Level will advance our understanding of the coupled ice-ocean-climate
system. We will emphasise: (1) understanding marine ice sheet dynamics at a range of spatial
and temporal scales via two main approaches: (a) reconstruction of high spatio-temporal
resolution ice sheet behaviour using field-based and remote sensing techniques, and (b)
investigation of topographic, subglacial, oceanic, and ice shelf controls on past and present ice
sheet dynamics through combined data-modelling approaches; (2) using new and existing sea-
level records to document catastrophic events impacting coastal areas; (3) developing novel
geochemical approaches to reconstruct sea ice extent, ocean circulation, temperature, and
salinity, ecosystem change, and carbon cycling; and (4) drawing on our combined expertise in
ice sheet, sea level, and environmental reconstruction to further our understanding of global-
scale feedbacks operating between the climate, ocean, and cryosphere.

Catchments and Rivers will focus on process understanding of source-to-sink sediment,
carbon and geochemical fluxes from montane environments to coasts and deep-sea sinks. We
will deliver: (1) enhanced understanding of sediment transfer from mountain and upland
landscapes after extreme events; (2) improved tracking of carbon from minerals through soil to
river catchments, making pioneering measurements of CO2 release along with the reactivity and
age of organic matter in weathered sedimentary rocks; (3) improved understanding of how river
form affects drag by investigating how flow structures are influenced by boundary roughness
and aquatic vegetation; (4) greater clarity on the feedbacks between flow processes, channel
evolution, and deposition in terrestrial and deep-sea channel systems impacted by powerful
sediment flows; and (5) interdisciplinary approaches to connectivity that allow us to better
understand, adapt to, and manage complex systems.

Hazards and Surface Change will advance understanding of the processes that shape Earth’s
surface, and their role as persistent hazards that affect communities around the world. We will
focus on: (1) improved understanding of mass movements, using innovative laboratory tests and
remote sensing techniques at scales ranging from single hillslopes to seismically-active
mountain ranges; (2) quantifying the impacts of mass movements on landscape form and
sediment cascades, combining geochemical provenance tracers in river and lake sediments with
numerical modelling of hillslopes and rivers; (3) new knowledge of the land-sea interface by
monitoring the controls on sea-level change and the evolution of rocky coasts; and (4) enhanced
understanding of, and preparedness for, complex cascading hazards that repeatedly impact
lives and livelihoods, along with the role of local knowledge for informing policy and practice
before and after disasters.

1.4 Achieving our research aims: policies and practices

Our research culture is embedded in the daily life of the department. We recognise that the
inspiration for research can be mercurial and hard to anticipate, and we therefore mix formal
research events with spaces for more ad hoc conversations. The department operates a
research budget of approximately £100,000 per year, which is split between top-down and
bottom-up mechanisms:

     Research development funds (£76,000 per year) are available to support staff and
      postgraduate students in undertaking and organising research activities. Funding can be
      used for a wide range of activities, such as the development of research networks, pilot
      research, or trialling certain aspects of larger proposals. We use a rolling call to maximise
      flexibility, and we prioritise applications from early-career researchers and colleagues
      returning from leave.


                                                                                                      5
     Clusters are supported by internal funding (totalling £10,000 per year) to organise
      activities and events, and provide space for internal reflection on ongoing work. Clusters
      are enriched by visits from external speakers; in human geography speakers are
      scheduled around intra- or cross-cluster events, while in physical geography we use
      additional funding (£7,000 per year) to support a regular cross-cluster seminar series.

     We run an international visitors scheme (£9,000 per year) to bring in prominent external
      people who can extend and invigorate our research (16 during the REF2021 period).

     Additional funding is specifically reserved for outreach and impact activities, described in
      section 1.5.

     We organise an annual celebration of departmental research to further build community
      and provide all staff and postgraduate students with the opportunity to learn about one
      another’s research and impact work, and build future collaborations. We also use away
      days to reflect on strategic research topics with involvement from all staff.

     We organise regular research and impact development activities for specific groups
      within the department, such as early-career researchers, principal investigators, and
      applicants to specific grant schemes or fellowships. Examples during the REF2021
      period include: independent fellowships; the peer-review and publication process; being
      a PI; and writing workshops for staff at all career stages.

In addition, all staff receive an allowance of £1,000 per year (£1,500 for assistant professors) to
support conference travel, field work, or miscellaneous research and impact costs.

Research activity is directed by a departmental research committee, led by two co-directors of
research who span human and physical geography. This co-director model extends the breadth
of experience and leadership across the broad range of research topics and approaches within
a large department.

1.5 Support for impact

Our research culture is designed to generate research that is both intellectually innovative and
of wider public and societal benefit. Impact is thus an integral part of the day-to-day research
process, from the inception of ideas to the conduct of the research and its outputs and outcomes.
We also acknowledge that impact within the scope of REF2021 represents only one strand of a
broad range of important activities, including outreach, public engagement, knowledge transfer
or exchange, and collaboration. We see impact as something that all staff will engage with at
different points, rather than being the preserve of a particular cluster or subset of staff.

Our aim is to create and maintain an environment that allows all staff to identify and nurture the
impact of their research, broadly defined. Much of our impact stems from the relationships and
trust between staff and external partners and beneficiaries, and our support for impact is tailored
to protect and enhance those relationships – both during the research and after it has ended.

     The co-directors of research and departmental impact officers provide strategic oversight
      and direction of impact-related activities. Their specific roles include interpretation and
      communication of impact definitions and requirements; coordination of impact support
      mechanisms; and embedding impact in departmental research culture, including informal
      monthly round-table impact discussions as well as feedback on impact plans.

     The departmental impact officers provide direct support to staff in the identification and
      development of impact at all stages of research.



                                                                                                      6
     Impact work is explicitly recognised in our departmental workload model as a routine part
      of research. An allowance of 50 hours per year is given to all staff for impact-facing
      activities of all kinds, whether or not they fall under the REF2021 definition of impact.
      Colleagues leading significant areas of impact are allocated additional workload time.

     We operate a departmental impact fund (£16,000 per year) dedicated explicitly to
      furthering and developing impact. These funds are allocated by an open call to allow for
      responsiveness and flexibility. Staff are also encouraged to apply to University impact
      seedcorn funds and to ESRC and EPSRC Impact Accelerator Accounts, with support
      provided by the Impact Officers. Within the REF2021 period, 27 staff (40% of current
      permanent academic staff) received a total of £330,000 of impact funding, showing the
      reach of impact activity across the department. Examples of work that was supported by
      this funding, beyond our impact case studies, are given in section 4.3.

1.6 Support for interdisciplinary research

Interdisciplinary research across the natural and social sciences and humanities is a core part
of our activity and is enshrined within our guiding principles, particularly our focus on global and
societal challenges. As evidenced by the thematic focus of our clusters, we are committed to
experimenting with new forms of geographical thought which cross conventional disciplinary
boundaries. New staff are recruited from a broad range of disciplinary backgrounds; 12 of our
current permanent academic staff (19%) have PhDs outside of geography.

The research support mechanisms described in section 1.4 enhance our ability to secure large,
complex grants that require broad interdisciplinary or transdisciplinary collaborations. Major
interdisciplinary projects that have resulted from these mechanisms within the REF2021 period
include the ESRC-funded Move project (Curtis, 2012-2014), involving education, geography,
and health; the NERC/ESRC-funded Earthquakes without Frontiers consortium (Densmore,
2012-2018), involving natural scientists, social scientists, and practitioners in earthquake risk
reduction; the European Commission-funded Nature-based Urban Innovation project (Bulkeley,
2018-2023), involving urban development, geography, innovation studies, and economics; and
the European Commission-funded i-CONN ITN (Turnbull-Lloyd, Wainwright, 2019-2022),
involving astrophysics, computer science, ecology, geomorphology, hydrology, neuroscience,
systems biology and social science.

During the REF2021 period we have prioritised interdisciplinary doctoral training programmes
that can support diverse cohorts of postgraduate students, leading to department staff playing
key roles in a number of programmes: the alumni-funded Action on Natural Disasters (2016-
2020), the Leverhulme-funded Durham Arctic Research Centre for Training and Interdisciplinary
Collaboration (DurhamARCTIC, 2018-2023), the GCRF-funded Durham Global Challenges
Centre for Doctoral Training (2019-2021), and the NERC/EPSRC-funded Aura Centre for
Doctoral Training in Offshore Wind and the Environment (2019-2027).

The department’s research culture also benefits from leadership of and engagement with the
University’s network of interdisciplinary research institutes, particularly the Institute of Hazard,
Risk and Resilience (IHRR), the Institute for Medical Humanities (IMH), and the Durham Energy
Institute (DEI). This engagement extends and complements our research expertise, provides the
capacity to respond to wider funding calls, and facilitates new collaborations. During the
REF2021 period, department staff have undertaken major leadership roles in each of the
Institutes (Curtis and Bracken, executive director of IHRR; Atkinson, associate director of IMH;
Bulkeley and Marvin, deputy directors of DEI). Staff also lead interdisciplinary University centres;
Steinberg directs the University’s Centre for Borders Research (IBRU), Crang directs the Centre
for Visual Arts and Culture, while Leshem serves as co-director of the Centre for Modern
Conflicts and Cultures.



                                                                                                       7
1.7 Support for open research

As stated in our guiding principles, the department is committed to making research outputs and
data openly accessible to the greatest possible extent. In October 2014, we developed a policy
and mechanism to deposit all of our research outputs in the University’s searchable open-access
repository (Durham Research Online, DRO). This was well in advance of the REF2021 policy on
open access. Within this framework, 1,526 departmental outputs were made openly available
during the REF2021 period. All of the 90 submitted outputs that are within the scope of the
REF2021 open-access policy are compliant. Department staff serve on editorial boards of a
number of open-access journals, including PAGES (McClymont), Earth Surface Dynamics
(Hilton, Hodge), Cryosphere (Stokes, Whitehouse), Open Quaternary (Engelhart), Climate of the
Past (McClymont), and GEO: Geography and Environment (Steinberg).

We use the University Research Data Management Policy, effective from August 2017, to guide
the governance, storage, and disposal of research data. The University Research Data Service
maintains the research data catalogue and provides support for staff on best practice regarding
data access. Specific guidance on how to implement the policy within the department is provided
by the co-directors of research. Our standing position is that, wherever possible and in
compliance with ethical and legal considerations around personal and commercial sensitivity,
research data should be made publicly available to the greatest extent possible.

Several examples illustrate our commitment to open research. Reaney made his diffuse pollution
risk mapping framework SCIMAP freely available for non-commercial use in 2016, as both a web
application and as a stand-alone programme under a Creative Commons license. Bentley and
colleagues developed iceTEA, a set of free online tools for consistent analysis of cosmogenic
isotope data. McClymont serves on the open data advisory board for the PAGES programme,
which provides leadership and guidance on data management for global palaeosciences
research.

1.8 Mechanisms for maintaining research quality and integrity

The mechanisms in section 1.4, as well as the mentoring schemes described in 2.2, maximise
the quality of the department’s research. The department’s Research Ethics and Governance
Committee (REGS) is responsible for all matters of research integrity. REGS leads on the
inculcation of an ethical culture in all elements of departmental research, spanning rigorous
ethical review before research commences, training in research ethics for staff, and the
development of postgraduate research skills and practices. As well as advising on issues such
as data protection and intellectual property rights, REGS also leads on our dedicated process
for assessing work in challenging political environments, involving a team of off-site advisors
drawn from staff with experience of working in locations with political tension, civil unrest, and/or
intensive surveillance.

Section 2. People

2.1 Overview

We aim to recruit and develop a vibrant community of academic staff, research staff, and
postgraduates who work with technicians and administrative staff to conduct excellent research
and impact, in an environment in which all staff and ways of working are equally valued. We offer
all staff and postgraduates a supportive, inspiring, and collegial environment in which they can
pursue their research interests and passions and address important questions and problems.

We remain one of the largest geography departments in the world, with a 6% increase in the
number of Category A staff since REF2014 (67 in 2014, 71 in 2020). Of the 15 permanent staff
who have departed since 2014, five retired (Atkins, Burt, Curtis, Dunn, Innes), four moved to
academic posts outside of the UK (Hӧrschelmann, Macnaughten, Rigg, Staeheli), and six moved

                                                                                                        8
within the UK (Callard, Closs-Stephens, Marvin, Pain, Petley, Tolia-Kelly). We used replacement
positions and new posts to build upon our existing research strengths, advance new strategic
priorities, and maintain a welcoming, ambitious, flexible and adventurous research culture. When
replacing leavers and mindful of existing promotions, we have invested in the future by
prioritising entry-level positions, appointing 14 assistant professors (nine female, five male), one
associate professor (female), and two professors (one female, one male).

     In human geography, we reinvigorated each of our research clusters. We invested in
      work on financialisation and resource extraction (Anthias, Knuth, Lai) as part of Economy
      and Culture, and strengthened work on the embodiment of social differences (Newhouse,
      Secor, Wilson) and on how non-human life is known and governed (Johnson, Lehman)
      in Geographies of Life. As well as bolstering work on digital urbanism in Urban Worlds
      (Luque-Ayala), we added new expertise on migration to Urban Worlds and Politics-State-
      Space (Darling, Martin), and on the relation between materiality and the political to
      Politics-State-Space (Nieuwenhuis, Schmidt).

     In physical geography, we renewed our research in Ice Sheets and Sea Level by
      appointing in the area of sea-level change (Engelhart) while at the same time developing
      new capacity at the interface of climate change and ocean circulation (Moffa-Sanchez).
      McGregor joined Durham as a college head and bolstered our expertise in climate-
      change impacts. We also strengthened quantitative Earth surface processes across the
      Catchments and Rivers and Hazards and Surface Change clusters (Clubb). Two NERC
      independent fellows transitioned to assistant and then associate professors during the
      REF2021 period (Jamieson, Whitehouse).

Independent postdoctoral fellows and research staff are crucial to the dynamism of our research
culture, being active members of our research clusters, collaborating with academic staff, and,
in the case of independent postdoctoral fellows, co-supervising PhDs with experienced staff.
During the period, we hosted 34 independent postdoctoral fellows, including four funded by the
ESRC, six Leverhulme, three NERC, two Marie Curie, one Royal Society, and one NWO. A
further 17 independent research fellows were supported by the EU COFUND scheme. We also
appointed 68 non-independent PDRAs during the period. Fixed-term appointments provide
cover for staff funded via fellowships or prizes and all include protected time for research as well
as mentoring, as described in section 2.2. As of the REF2021 census date, eight Category A
staff are on fixed-term contracts.

2.2 Staff development

We invest in development to ensure that all staff are fully supported to undertake outstanding
research and teaching in a collegial environment with a healthy work-life balance. We do this
through a broad range of processes designed to provide the guidance, resources, and time
necessary for people at all career stages to flourish:

     A workload management group chaired by the head of department and including
      directors of research and education ensures balanced workloads. New appointees are
      supported with a reduced workload.

     We use a medium-term (3-5 year) planning model to allocate administrative roles. All
      staff have opportunities to contribute to research administration, commensurate with
      interest and workload and unconstrained by assumptions of what is appropriate at
      different career stages. We are careful, however, not to burden early-career staff with
      onerous responsibilities.

     We use departmental resource to provide staff with one year’s research leave after four
      full years of teaching, supplementing the standard Durham University allowance. A total
      of 37 staff took this leave in the REF2021 period. Staff are also encouraged to take
                                                                                                       9
       shorter patterns of research leave if this suits their circumstances, and this was adopted
       by 11 staff.

     All academic staff have a departmental mentor, and our mentoring policy is underpinned
      by two core principles: that mentoring is relevant to academic staff at all stages of their
      careers, and that it is concerned with the development of the individual and is not directly
      linked to promotion or performance.

     We provide additional support for the development of high-quality research outputs to all
      Category A staff and teaching fellows through a one-to-one mentoring scheme.
      Mentoring extends from advice on strengthening individual outputs through to long-term
      consideration of publication plans.

     The department maintains an annual training budget (£8,000 per year). Where research
      training needs are identified by staff or mentors, we have often used the opportunity to
      bring external training on-site for a wider group of staff and postgraduates.

     All staff receive annual tailored feedback from the department Progression and
      Promotion Committee as part of the university’s progression system.

The success of our support processes is evidenced by our track record of internal promotion. A
total of 21 academic staff have been promoted during the REF2021 period: 12 to associate
professor (six female, six male), and nine to professor (three female, six male).

The above mentoring and feedback mechanisms are available to all independent research
fellows. The success of our support processes is evidenced by 16 independent research fellows
transitioning into permanent lectureships in Australia, Canada, China, Germany, the
Netherlands, Spain, and the UK (including Luque-Ayala, Jamieson, Whitehouse at Durham).

We have adopted the Research Concordat for Research Staff and train PIs to ensure uptake,
clarify contract renewal procedures, and establish career development as a formal part of the
annual review process. A representative of research staff sits on Research Committee. One of
the co-directors of research is designated as Research Staff Champion. We also provide regular
training and guidance workshops for research staff on career development. The effectiveness of
this support programme is evidenced by 16 PDRAs moving to permanent lectureships in
Australia, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Ireland, France, and the UK.

2.3 Equality, diversity, and inclusivity (EDI)

EDI considerations are enshrined in the principles that underpin our research environment
(section 1.1), and are critical to our open, inclusive research culture. A major achievement over
the REF2021 period has been to continue the process of tackling longstanding gender
imbalances in recruitment and research leadership. Of the 17 permanent Category A
appointments made in the period, 11 (64%) were female and six (36%) were male. The
proportion of female FTE is now 37% (from 35% in REF2014). We strive to maintain gender
balance on all major committees and Departmental Management Group, which comprises all
senior leadership positions. Women have played prominent roles in departmental research
leadership over the REF2021 period, as co-Directors of Research (Bulkeley and Woodroffe,
2017-2020), Director of Services (McClymont, 2017-2020), Directors of Postgraduates (Colls,
2016-2019, Atkinson, 2019-present), and Deputy Head of Department (McEwan, 2017-19;
Amoore, 2019-2020). During the period, the department supported Atkinson to serve as Deputy
Head of Faculty (Research) (2015-2018), Bambra as Director of the Wolfson Research Institute
for Health and Wellbeing, Curtis and Bracken as Directors of the Institute of Hazard, Risk, and
Resilience (2015-2019), Bracken as Deputy Vice-Provost Research (2019-present), and
Staeheli (2012-2015) and McEwan (2015-2018) as Directors of the ESRC-funded NINE Doctoral
Training Programme. In 2019, we appointed Ross as our first female Laboratories Manager.
                                                                                                     10
Atkinson and Woodroffe are two of the six organisers of the University’s Mothers and Mothers-
to-be Support Network.

The department achieved a first-round Gender Equality Charter Mark and an Athena SWAN
Bronze award in 2018. Our Gender Equality Working Group, led by McClymont and then
McGrath, was transformed into an Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity Group during the REF2021
period, chaired by Crang, in order to centre EDI issues in all departmental activities. Our strategic
aim remains to continue our progress in addressing longstanding EDI inequalities within the
department. Below are examples of how we are working toward this aim by embedding EDI
considerations related to all protected characteristics in how we recruit staff, manage workloads,
and support diverse ways of working:

     Appointment panels for all posts are gender-balanced. To ensure that we recruit the
      widest possible pool of applicants, the department uses gender-balanced search
      committees for all permanent Category A posts. These committees carry out systematic
      and proactive searches to reach a diverse global field of applicants beyond our own
      networks. We routinely monitor the proportions of applicants by all characteristics, and
      respond to those patterns through new targeted advertisements. As a result, all of our
      applicant pools for permanent academic staff during the period have exceeded Russell
      Group averages in terms of gender and BAME composition. Of the 17 permanent
      Category A staff appointed in the period, 11 originated overseas in six countries (Canada,
      Colombia, the US, Singapore, Spain, and the Netherlands).

     We operate a range of processes to ensure equality in administrative responsibilities
      within the department. Since 2013, we have implemented formal role descriptors and
      open calls for all major leadership roles, and we scrutinise the language of these to
      minimise any potential bias and to ensure they allow for flexible working arrangements,
      fractional working, and job shares. We ensure that adequate workload hours are
      allocated to these roles.

     In order to ensure that excellence is sustainable, we have adopted and developed a set
      of work-life balance principles and practices, including ensuring that major departmental
      meetings are held between 0930 and 1500. The default timing for research events is
      1300-1500. Our principle aim to recognise the diversity of people’s lives outside of
      university work, the uneven distribution of caring responsibilities, and the presence of
      different ways of working. We strive to ensure that departmental social occasions are
      fully inclusive of all staff and postgraduates, for example by supporting regular
      postgraduate-led ‘Pizza Fridays’ in our departmental social space.

     All requests for a shift to part-time working during the REF2021 period have been granted
      (three female, three male). We have twice enabled fractional workers to develop their
      career profiles by supporting job shares of leadership roles (as co-directors of research
      and of postgraduates). The opportunity for staff to transition back to full-time work is
      supported through mentorship and discussion with the head of department.

     We also support requests for flexible working, operating in an appropriate, fair and
      consistent manner. Of 80 requests, 70 were approved and 10 partially approved.

     During the REF2021 period, we supported 10 maternity leaves, three paternity leaves,
      and two parental leaves. We strongly encourage staff to consider the University’s
      provision of one term of research leave upon return from a period of 26 weeks or more
      maternity, adoption, or parental leave, which was introduced in 2015. Four staff have
      been granted this research leave, which is additional to the entitlement detailed in section
      2.2. This includes one leave which was not strictly allowable under the policy but for
      which the department argued strongly on the grounds of fairness. Conversations with the
      head of department before and following leave consider relevant additional support. We
                                                                                                        11
       prioritise research development fund applications for returning staff for one year from
       return date.

     Led by the EDI committee, we have undertaken a range of actions to promote inclusivity.
      These include the provision of gender-neutral toilets, support for cross-cluster research
      events on race and humanism, and reading groups focused on the decolonisation of
      development research and queer geographies.

EDI considerations have also been central to how we have prepared for REF2021. Our approach
to output selection follows the University’s Code of Practice, but goes beyond it in the provision
of mentors (section 2.2) and transparency to the department over the distribution of outputs by
protected characteristics and career stage. All possible outputs have been double-evaluated by
a group of departmental readers at different career stages and with a balanced gender
composition. In the interest of transparency, data on the distribution of selected outputs and
estimated grades were discussed by the department in 2018/19 and 2019/20.

2.4 Research students

2.4.1. Overview

Our large, vibrant international community of research postgraduates is integral to our research
environment. We currently supervise 92 PhD students registered in the department (c. two-thirds
of whom are from outside the UK) and 15 in other Durham departments, with an average of 21.1
PhD completions per year, up from 15.4 completions per year in REF2014. All doctoral degrees
were PhDs rather than professional doctorates. Postgraduates work together with staff to initiate
new ideas and themes, organise innovative events that develop our research priorities, publish,
and contribute to our impact. By putting postgraduates at the heart of our research culture and
providing outstanding training and support, we aim to enable our postgraduates to generate
excellent research and equip them for successful careers.

The quality of our students is indicated by the award of 69 competitive UKRI studentships during
the REF2021 period. Our UKRI success has been rooted in our leadership of doctoral training
centres and partnerships. Staeheli led the ESRC North East Doctoral Training Centre (2012-
2015), McEwan led the ESRC Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Partnership (2015-2018)
with seven partners, and Donoghue and Wainwright have successively led the IAPETUS NERC
Doctoral Training Programme (2012-present), with nine partners. Concurrently, we have
diversified our sources of funding during the period and prioritised the recruitment of high-quality
international students, receiving 82 competitive studentships from non-UKRI sources. We also
recruit students through our leadership of interdisciplinary training networks. For example, we
lead a Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarships Programme to support Interdisciplinary
Understanding for a Changing Arctic (DurhamARCTIC, 2018-2023, directed by Steinberg) and
a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (ITN) on connectivity science (i-CONN,
2019-2023, directed by Turnbull-Lloyd). We previously co-led and were the largest participant in
a second ITN, on the glaciation of north Atlantic continental margins (GLANAM, 2013-2017).

2.4.2. Training and support

Every postgraduate has two or more supervisors, with a 50/50 supervisor split the norm.
Progress is monitored through a first-year progression report and literature review, along with an
interview by a panel of two other members of staff and presentation at a first-year conference; a
second-year report; and a third-year report and conference presentation. Strategic oversight of
research postgraduate matters is provided by Research Postgraduate Committee.




                                                                                                       12
We provide additional support and training in five principal ways:

     All postgraduates receive bespoke training in research approaches and design, specialist
      skills and techniques, and professional development.

     We provide supplemental funding to postgraduates for fieldwork and conference
      attendance. Our Research Development Fund is available to postgraduates, and we also
      allocate c. £20,000 per year to a postgraduate hardship fund to enable rapid response to
      particular circumstances.

     We offer bespoke annual sessions organised within the department on aspects of the
      PhD process, including ‘Writing Up’ and ‘Preparing for the Viva’.

     We run regular briefing sessions on academic careers, including advice on applications.
      We also provide information on non-academic careers in ‘Beyond the PhD’ sessions.

     Academic support is provided by a departmental academic progression officer.

2.4.3 Involvement in research culture

Postgraduates play a central role in our research culture through their close involvement in the
annual planning of cluster themes and activities and by leading and participating in cluster
events, including reading groups, workshops, and major conferences. Since 2018, most clusters
have had a postgraduate co-convenor (rotating yearly) to ensure linkages between the
programme of research activities and postgraduate interests.

Evidence for our strong and integrated postgraduate research culture is provided by the 34
research cluster events that have been organised or co-organised by postgraduates since 2014.
Postgraduates have organised or co-organised workshops (e.g. ‘Geopower’, 2020; ‘Google
Earth Engine’, 2020), international conferences (‘Public Moods’, 2019; ‘UK Antarctic Science
Conference’, 2018), alternative activities (e.g. urban tour on the theme of ‘housing and crisis’),
as well as regular informal discussion and reading groups.

Our postgraduates develop capacities in research leadership through these activities, learn to
forge and sustain networks, gain national and international recognition, and become immersed
in conversations and ideas that enrich their own research and the collective work of the
department. As well as delivering a multitude of conference papers, organising sessions,
publishing, and editing special issues, postgraduates are co-authors on 18 of the outputs
returned by the department in REF2021 (11%), including nine as first author.

The success of our processes is evidenced by the 38 postgraduates who have secured
permanent lectureships, including 14 in UK geography departments and a further 8 in UK non-
geography departments. As a hub for global research, our postgraduates secure academic
positions globally, including 16 permanent lectureships in 13 countries. Additionally, a further 18
postgraduates have been awarded independent postdoctoral fellowships in Canada, Finland,
Germany, Poland, UK, and USA, 28 have held PDRA roles, and nine have held teaching fellow
roles. Outside of academia, students use their research skills in business (e.g. Total, General
Electric, RMS), civil society (e.g. Natural England, Waterplan), and government (including in
Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand, and the UK).

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Overview

Our ambition to be a global node for geographical research is underpinned and sustained by the
research income and infrastructure that enable that work to happen. Over the REF2021 period,
                                                                                                      13
we have grown and diversified our research income, with our support processes (as detailed in
1.4 and 2.2) enabling a larger number of staff to be involved as PIs or Co-Is than in REF2014.
We have also continued to develop our research infrastructure and equipment. We now run nine
laboratories with a unique combination of world-class sedimentology, geochemical and
geotechnical facilities, supporting research both within and across our research clusters. This
breadth of expertise and capacity allows us to address a wide range of environmental problems,
from the direct response of hillslopes to earthquake shaking to the respiration of carbon in a
mountain belt.

3.2 Income

We have delivered on our strategic priority to maintain a bedrock of UKRI income while
increasing income from other funding sources. Research income has totalled £29,824,243 over
the REF2021 period on 292 awards, averaging £4,260,606 per year (up from approximately
£3.5M per year in REF2014). Our income from UKRI sources has stayed consistent in the face
of flat or falling budgets, averaging £1,324,983 per year on a total of 137 awards (compared with
£1,331,754 per year in REF2014). In contrast, and in line with our long-term research strategy,
we have significantly grown funding from EU government bodies (£973,175 per year, up from
£122,424 in REF2014), and increased our funding from both industry (£514,586 per year, up
from £312,577) and charities (£500,006 per year, up from £211,965). A total of 80 individual staff
have been PIs on research grants during the period, including 46 current Category A staff (65%).

Headline achievements include five European Research Council grants, worth a total of over
€10M, that were awarded during the REF2021 period: one Starting Grant (Hilton, €1.5M, 2016-
2021), two Consolidator Grants (McFarlane, €1.4M, 2018-2022; McClymont, €2.0M, 2020-
2025), and two Advanced Grants (Amoore, €2.2M, 2020-2025; Bentley, €3.4M, 2020-2025).
Bulkeley leads a Horizon2020 project on nature-based innovation involving 13 partners across
six countries (€7.8M, 2016-2020). Significant ESRC grants include projects on social innovation
in austerity (Painter, £638,465), transformation in the UK oil sector (Bridge, £683,912), financial
inclusion in refugee governance (Martin, £975,074), and smart urbanism and resilience (Luque-
Ayala, £363,297). Department staff collaborated on four large NERC consortia during the
REF2021 period: Lake Ellsworth (Bentley, 2009-2014), iGLASS (Long, 2011-2015), BRITICE-
CHRONO (O’Cofaigh, Roberts, Evans, 2012-2018), and ChAOS (Hilton, 2017-2021).The
department has also hosted a number of Leverhulme awards during the period, including Philip
Leverhulme Prizes to Anderson, McFarlane, McClymont, and Hilton, a Major Research
Fellowship to Amoore and Fellowship to Bridge, and Early Career Fellowships to Calkin, Cook,
Harker, Pope, Richardson, and Silver.

In addition to the support mechanisms detailed in sections 1.4 and 1.5, our increase in yearly
income and diversification of sources has been achieved through (a) rigorous demand
management and internal peer review of applications, supported by faculty-level peer review for
large or complex bids and review by University UKRI liaison groups, and (b) the use of research
clusters to provide supportive mentoring of staff as they develop ideas for grant proposals. We
operate a proactive process of call monitoring, supplemented by peer review and by mock UKRI
and ERC panel interviews where appropriate. We recognise that levels of grant income will vary
among staff according to subject, career stage, and experience. Correspondingly, there are no
targets for individual staff with respect to grant capture.

A departmental research office provides bespoke support to staff in research grant applications,
post-award grant administration, advertising and coordinating activity around grant calls and
supporting cluster activities, research visitors, and administration of internal research funds.

Our strategic aim post-REF2021 is to support the research vision outlined in section 1.3 by
continuing to diversity our income via (1) UKRI, including GCRF and schemes at the interfaces
between councils; (2) bilateral and multi-lateral international funding schemes, including but also
beyond European national funders; and (3) industry sources, including knowledge transfer

                                                                                                      14
partnerships. We will leverage our successes in capturing large research consortia, mentoring
less-experienced staff and giving them the capacities and confidence to apply for future large
grant programmes.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

The breadth of our research activity is supported by a comprehensive, state-of-the-art research
infrastructure. All of our facilities are shared across the department, ensuring that all staff and
postgraduates can benefit from them, irrespective of funding. Our facilities are supported by a
pool of dedicated technical staff (currently 12 FTE) and a research computing officer, and
comprise the following major items:

     The alumni-funded Laithwaite Landslide Laboratory contains geotechnical apparatus for
      understanding controls and impacts of mass movements, including a range of innovative
      shear boxes and triaxial cells developed in-house with industry partners. This facility
      underpins, for example, our recent research on the response of hillslopes to earthquake
      shaking and the importance of wave phase in landslide triggering.

     A Geotek multi-sensor core logger (comprising magnetic susceptibility, linescan imaging,
      XRF, gamma density, and resistivity measurements), along with a bespoke vertical X-
      ray 3-D CT system designed for the department, provides rapid, non-destructive and
      micron-scale characterisation of sediment cores. The system is used to reconstruct high-
      resolution, multi-proxy records of environmental change. The XRF spectrometer is
      supported by a dedicated XRF/XRD facility, with lab- and field-based instruments, to
      allow rapid qualitative and/or quantitative information on sediment chemistry and
      mineralogy.

     A purpose-built gamma dating laboratory that measures Cs and Pb isotopes, used for
      dating recent sediments.

     A dedicated biomarker facility, including a state-of-the-art GC-IRMS for isotopic
      measurement of individual biomarkers, used to determine hydrological changes, carbon
      cycling, reconstruction of climate and sea-level change, ocean-ice sheet interactions,
      and sediment provenance. This facility underpins a number of major recent projects,
      including ERC awards to Hilton (2016-2021) and McClymont (2020-2025), as well as
      NERC standard grants to McClymont (2016-2019), Roberts (2016-2021), and Hilton
      (2017-2020).

     A sediment and water geochemistry facility, including ICP-OES, ICP-MS, ion
      chromatography, and elemental analyser systems, used to determine elemental
      compositions in waters, sediments and soils. The facility has been used, for example, to
      track sediment inputs to rivers as a way of tracing carbon transport through large
      catchments, including in the aftermath of large earthquakes, and the impacts of mineral
      extraction on the coastal environment in North Yorkshire. The facility underpins an ERC
      award (2016-2021) and NERC standard grant (2017-2020) to Hilton and a large project
      funded by Cleveland Potash Limited to Brain and Rosser (2014-2021).

     A particle size facility, including two Beckman Coulter laser diffraction particle size
      analysers and a Beckman Coulter Multisizer Coulter Counter.

     A microscope facility, includes research-grade compound and stereo microscopes used
      in micropalaeontological (diatoms, pollen, foraminifera, chironomids) and
      sedimentological analyses.

These instruments are housed within climate-controlled clean laboratories for sample
preparation, geochemical, and sedimentological analyses. A new on-site cold store (purchased
                                                                                                      15
during the REF2021 period) has increased our capacity to archive sediment cores at Durham,
and provides flexibility when samples are temporarily transferred to Durham from NERC storage
facilities. Inventory software allows us to more efficiently manage our portfolio of sediment and
water samples.

Field research in the department is supported by a wide range of sampling equipment for use
on- and offshore. Survey equipment includes three differential GPS systems and three terrestrial
laser scanners, along with a unique bespoke permanent laser scanner at Whitby, North
Yorkshire, to monitor cliff failure to millimetre resolution. This capacity has supported the first
quantitative investigation of how monitoring interval affects rockfall magnitude-frequency
relationships as well as integration of optical imagery with airborne Lidar for tracking surface
change. A fleet of five DJI Mavic 2 and Phantom 4 Pro un-crewed aerial vehicles supports
research on new applications of structure from motion. The department also owns six vehicles,
two deep-water and one shallow-water acoustic Doppler current profilers, and a deployable
network of c. 10 meteorological stations and data loggers, and runs a network of c. 30 GPS
receivers that are currently deployed across West Antarctica.

Research in the department is further served by a dedicated cartography unit comprising 2 FTE,
with skills that include photography, videography and video production, web design, drafting,
poster design, and large-format printing.

Research computing facilities are provided at university rather than department level. High-
performance research computing requirements are supported by access to the Hamilton Linux
cluster with 4700 cores; use of the cluster is free for UKRI-supported research and is routinely
costed into research funded by other means. Department staff benefit from the Advanced
Research Computing (ARC) facility, a dedicated computing support unit within the University,
which provides facilities and expertise ranging from simple coding assistance through to help
with computationally intensive tasks. All research staff in the department receive personal
research storage of up to 5 TB of industry-standard storage housed in two data centres.

The sustainability of our infrastructure and facilities is ensured by both targeted investment and
routine recharging from the use of departmental equipment. The department and University have
invested approximately £2,000,000 in both replacement and new equipment during the
REF2021 period. Shared usage is promoted by the integration of our departmental equipment
into an equipment database across the N8 Universities that has operated since 2014. The
department maintains an annually-reviewed priority list of equipment that is due for replacement
or could support emerging research areas. Technical staff are regularly re-trained on our
equipment pool; we use our annual development review process to identify areas where training
is necessary, and we routinely include training costs for multiple staff members in bids for new
equipment.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Overview

We work with other academic and non-academic partners in order to generate important,
transformative research, lead strategic activities within and beyond the discipline, and support,
engage and enthuse researchers. As a key node in a global network of research and impact
activity, we achieve this aim by: (1) fostering exciting research collaborations leading to new
knowledge, agendas and capacities; (2) establishing mutually beneficial relationships with key
non-academic partners and users; (3) professional service that provides disciplinary leadership
and guides strategic developments; and (4) leading postgraduate and early-career initiatives.
Our prioritisation of collaboration and service is embedded in our research principles and
policies, cluster activities, and staff support mechanisms (as detailed in sections 1 and 2).



                                                                                                      16
4.2 Research collaborations

Collaboration is a normal part of how we work. Our returned staff have been involved in funded
research projects that comprise collaborations with 44 UK HEI partners and 82 overseas HEI
partners across 31 countries in all regions of the world. Our outputs returned to REF2021 involve
colleagues in 236 institutions across 33 countries. These returned outputs are just a fraction of
our collaborative activity. For example, staff have edited 59 journal special issues and 30 books
or proceedings volumes, including major reference works such as the Wiley-Blackwell
Companion of Political Geography (Secor), The Edinburgh Companion to Medical Humanities
(Atkinson), Handbook of Sea Level Research (Shennan) and the Routledge Handbook of
Political Ecology (Bridge).

Collaborations also happen through events that develop ideas, share research and build new
agendas and communities. During the period, staff co-organised 84 external conferences and
146 distinct conference sessions, including 44 at the AAG, 36 at RGS-IBG, 15 at EGU and 7 at
AGU. As well as this external activity, our clusters organised 42 national and international
conferences, as well as smaller workshops and symposia. We also lead, facilitate and contribute
to externally-funded networks, seminar series and workshops. We are PIs or named co-Is in
Leverhulme Trust International Networks (e.g. ‘Indeterminate and Changing Environments’,
Steinberg, PI), ESRC seminar series (e.g. ‘Researching Arts, Health and Well-Being’, Atkinson;
‘Psychological Governance’, Anderson, Painter), EU COST actions (e.g. ‘Connecting European
Connectivity Research’, Turnbull, Wainwright; ‘Decolonising Development’, McEwan), and an
ESRC Newton Fund network (‘International Network on Comparative Urban Low Carbon
Transitions’, Luque-Ayala, Bulkeley), as well as networks and series funded from a wide range
of other sources, including The Sociological Review, the Antipode Foundation, and the National
Science Foundation.

As well as welcoming at least 1,800 external delegates to Durham events, we have hosted a
total of 77 academic visitors from 20 countries, of whom 59 were self-funded and 18 were funded
through our Distinguished International Visitors scheme. In turn, a third of current permanent
academic staff have held a total of 26 visiting positions at institutions in 14 countries.

4.3 Relationships with users, beneficiaries, and audiences

Engagement with non-academic partners is one of our core principles and embedded in our
support mechanisms (as detailed in 1.5) and research cluster priorities and activities. During the
period, current academic staff undertook collaborations with 51 UK and 60 overseas non-
academic organisations, including UK and international governments and regulatory bodies,
businesses, NGOs, charities and other third sector organisations. Our wider contributions to
economy and society occur through four main types of work, with examples below and in our
impact case studies.

4.3.1 Policy influence and change

We work closely with governments and third sector organisations to influence policy, using
several distinct pathways. We use research briefs to shift policy agendas; for example, research
by Bambra on the differential geographies of access to pharmacy care in the UK shaped national
campaigns and was cited in the Department of Health’s impact assessment around reducing
community pharmacy funding. In collaboration with anti-trafficking organisations, McGrath
produced a policy brief setting out principles for addressing trafficking, forced labour and slavery
in supply chains. We also use direct engagement with regulatory organisations to embed
research in policy. McGregor served as lead editor for World Health Organization and World
Meteorological Organization guidelines on the implications of heatwaves for public health
authorities. Finally, we work directly with third sector organisations. Darling has provided advice
around UK asylum accommodation for a wide range of organisations, including Asylum Matters,
the Scottish Refugee Council, the Northern Ireland Community of Refugees and Asylum

                                                                                                       17
Seekers, and the No Accommodation Network. Luque-Ayala produced, in collaboration with
Arup, an Urban Resilience Framework which formed the conceptual framework for the
Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities programme.

4.3.2 Co-production with communities and third sector organisations

Based on a co-production model of impact that involves sustainable, mutually beneficial
partnerships with non-academic users, our work has supported a variety of communities and
third sector organisations. We launched the Participatory Research Hub in 2015 to facilitate co-
produced research between Durham researchers and the local community, with more than 370
participants. McEwan’s research with Newcastle has underpinned the production of a field guide
for sustainable harvesting in partnership with Flower Valley Conservation Trust, an NGO working
for sustainable wildflower harvesting and conservation in South Africa’s Cape Floral Kingdom.
The field guide and training tools have created a rigorous environmental audit within a wildflower
harvesting supply chain which extends to UK and South African high street retailers. Oven
worked with communities in Nepal to evaluate the successes and limitations of a set of minimum
characteristics for disaster resilience, which informed programming by the Red Cross and the
design of local disaster management plans by the Government of Nepal.

4.3.3 Environmental management

We use our expertise in environmental monitoring and modelling to help government,
businesses, and third sector organisations improve their environmental management processes
and practices. Our expertise in detection of grain size from high-resolution imagery
(Carbonneau) is being used in river management in northern Italy by the Italian environmental
protection agency ISPRA. Research by Rosser and Brain on the evolution of rocky coasts has
been supported since 2002 by a collaboration with Cleveland Potash Limited, with total funding
during the REF2021 period of c. £4,000,000. This research has provided the company with
critical evidence of environmental risks associated with future mining activities at the UK's largest
non-hydrocarbon extractive mine. We also build and lead collaborative networks of non-
academic partners around key environmental problems. For example, the Water Hub is a
collaboration between Durham University, Durham County Council, the Environment Agency
and Northumbrian Water, funded by the European Regional Development Fund and led by
Bracken. It engages with small and medium-sized enterprises in northeast England to develop
innovative, practical solutions to challenges in the region’s water sector.

4.3.4 Public engagement and outreach

Public engagement and outreach happen across all areas of our work, and involve traditional
exhibitions and public materials as well as more experimental outlets. Leshem worked with
Google Arts and Culture to produce a digital exhibition on the theme of ‘no man’s land’ – the first
collaboration between a UK university and Google Arts and Culture, with more than 15,000
unique visitors to date. Bentley, Jamieson, Stokes, and Whitehouse collaborated with the British
Antarctic Survey on an exhibition at Durham that showcased objects from the Scott and
Shackleton expeditions alongside modern scientific equipment and footage of Antarctic
research. In addition to >3,000 visitors, a set of resources for teachers were developed with
school visits and teacher CPD. Warburton and the artist Laura Harrington used a Leverhulme
Artist-in-Residence award for an exhibition entitled The Liveliest of Elements, an Extraordinary
Ordinary Material, using sound, images, and words to explore the Moss Flats, an upland peat
flat in the North Pennines. We also produce materials for interested publics to enhance their
engagement with place. Examples include field guides to The Quaternary of The Lower Thames
and Eastern Essex (Bridgland) and a Guide to a Glacial Landscape Legacy for the Vatnajokull
National Park, Iceland (Evans). As a more experimental approach to outreach, the department
hosted a band, Ribbon Road, under another Leverhulme Artist-in-Residence award, leading to
an album of original songs about the housing crisis in Durham. Bulkeley and others collaborated
with writers on ‘Weatherfronts’, a set of stories to explore alternative post-carbon futures, and

                                                                                                        18
produced an event at the 2016 Durham Book Festival entitled ‘Tipping Points: Climate Change
and the Stories We Tell’.

4.4 Research leadership and professional service

Our research influence and leadership is recognised through membership of learned societies
(Bulkeley, Hudson, Painter, Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences; Bulkeley, Curtis,
Hudson, Fellows of the British Academy; Burt, AGU Fellow), and the award of 12 prizes or
awards to nine current academic staff (Anderson, McFarlane, McClymont, Hilton, Phillip
Leverhulme Prizes; Shennan, 2016 QRA James Croll Medal; Evans, 2017 RGS-IBG Busk
Medal; Bulkeley, RGS-IBG Back Award; Cartigny, 2018 Early Career Scientist Award,
International Society of Sedimentologists, and 2018 Roland Goldring Award, British
Sedimentological Research Group; Whitehouse, 2016 Bullerwell Lecture, British Geophysical
Association; Hilton, 2014 Outstanding Young Scientist of the European Geosciences Union,
2018 Blavatnik Award for Young Scientists finalist). Staff have delivered more than 250 keynote
presentations and public lectures.

We play a key role in shaping UK and international research agendas through involvement with
major funding bodies. Physical geography staff play a wide range of roles for NERC. Bentley is
Chair of Panel A, while Donoghue chaired the NERC Airborne Research and Survey Facility
Steering Committee. Staff have also served as members of the Strategic Programme Advisory
Group and NERC Advisory Network (Densmore), and the Cosmogenic Isotope Analysis Facility
(Long, Densmore), and Radiocarbon (O’Cofaigh, Lloyd) Steering Committees. Hardy, Long, and
Woodroffe have served on standard grant panels, and Woodroffe has also served on panels for
Global Partnership Seedcorn funding and Independent Fellowships. Donoghue was Vice-Chair
of the Constructing a Digital Environment strategic programme panel and panellist for the Big
Data Centre for Doctoral Training, and Crang was Vice-Chair of the NERC/AHRC Newton
Columbia Biosciences Panel. Bentley served on the National Excellence Panel for Evaluation of
NERC Centres. Human geographers have similarly helped to shape strategic programmes within
the ESRC. McFarlane sat on the scoping panels for the ESRC-DIFID Education and
Development Funding call, and ESRC-Brazilian-Dutch Urban Sustainability initiative. He also
served on the ESRC Off-Grid Cities panel. Luque-Ayala helped to develop the specification for
the CONACYT-ESRC Newton Call for collaborative research on smart cities, and Langley sat
on the online scoping platform for the GCRF Digital Innovation for Development in Africa call.
Bulkeley served on the advisory group for the ESRC Climate Change Programme and Urban
Transformations programme. McEwan sat on the ESRC Doctoral Training Network Directors
Committee, overseeing postgraduate training in the social sciences. In terms of wider UKRI
initiatives, Bracken served on the panel for GCRF large grants, and Gregson is on the Steering
Committee for the UKRI’s interdisciplinary Circular Economy research programme. In addition
to these strategic roles, staff at all career stages regularly contribute peer review of proposals,
with 11 members of staff on the NERC peer review college, seven on ESRC, and two on AHRC.
Staff have also contributed to panels and the development of strategic initiatives for the British
Academy (McFarlane, Bulkeley), and as peer reviewers for a wide range of funders, including
the Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, and Carnegie Trust.

Internationally, current staff have reviewed proposals for 31 funding organisations across 20
countries. As well as sitting on grant assessment panels for the European Commission
(Advanced Grants, Bulkeley; MSCA Fellowship Programme, McFarlane, Painter), staff have sat
on assessment panels for 10 national funding bodies in Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Italy,
Sweden, and the USA. We also play a strategic role shaping high-profile initiatives which
coordinate science across national programmes. O’Cofaigh chaired the International Arctic
Science Committee Thematic Network ‘Palaeo-Arctic Spatial and Temporal Gateways’. Bulkeley
sits on the EU’s JPI Climate Transdisciplinary Advisory Board as the ESRC and NERC’s
nominee, while Bentley is one of two UK Delegates to the Scientific Committee on Antarctic
Research. Rosser is co-lead for landslides on the NASA Committee on Earth Observation
Satellites Disasters Working Group.

                                                                                                      19
Within the discipline, we provide significant intellectual leadership and service through our
extensive contributions to journal editorship. In the REF2021 period, staff have served as editors
for 15 journals, including Progress in Human Geography (Amoore), The Geographical Journal
(Anderson), Antarctic Science (Bentley), Progress in Physical Geography (Bracken),
Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers (Bridge, McFarlane), Journal of Geophysical
Research-Earth Surface (Densmore), Economy and Society (Langley), Journal of Quaternary
Science (Long), Climate of the Past (McClymont), Geography Compass (McEwen), Quaternary
Science Reviews (O’Cofaigh), Environment and Planning C: Politics and Space (Bulkeley,
Painter), Cultural Geographies (Secor), Political Geography (Steinberg), and The Cryosphere
(Stokes, Whitehouse). We have acted as associate editors or book review editors for 14 journals,
and have served on the editorial boards of 57 geography and interdisciplinary journals and eight
book series.

We also support and shape professional associations and learned societies in the discipline. We
co-edit two of the RGS-IBG journals (TIBG, McFarlane, previously Bridge; The Geographical
Journal, Anderson). Staff have served on RGS-IBG council (Painter), small grants committee
(Leshem), and in roles on multiple research groups, Economic Geography (Lai), Political
Geography (Leshem), Gender and Feminist Geographies (Colls), Social and Cultural Geography
(Anderson, Wilson) and working groups (Carceral Geographies, Martin). Similarly, we have
played key roles in major UK professional associations, including the Quaternary Research
Association (Bridgland, vice-president; McClymont, awards officer; Woodroffe, editor of the
Quaternary Newsletter), the British Society for Geomorphology (Wainwright, chair; Hodge,
honorary secretary), the Geologists’ Association (Bridgland, council member and vice-
president), the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society (Donoghue, UAV Special Interest
Group and Archaeology Special Interest Group convenor), the Royal Society (Bentley, Global
Environmental Research committee member), and the UK Palaeoclimate Society (McClymont,
committee member). Bentley is chair of the UK National Committee on Antarctic Research. We
also contribute to international associations and societies, including the American Association of
Geographers (Secor, board member), International Critical Geography Group (Painter, Secor,
steering committee member), and the Fluvial Archives Group (Bridgland, chair and executive
member).

4.5 Postgraduate and early career training beyond Durham

Staff contribute to postgraduate training beyond Durham in three ways, in addition to having
served as external examiners for 228 PhD students, including 83 overseas in 22 countries. First,
we lead cross-institutional (NINE DTP, IAPETUS/IAPETUS2, GCRF CDT, Aura CDT) and
interdisciplinary collaborations (Durham ARCTIC, i-CONN). Second, we organise novel
postgraduate-focused initiatives and events. Examples include Newhouse’s involvement in
developing the Academy for African Urban Diversity hosted in Johannesburg, Anthias’ co-
organisation with the University of Copenhagen of a summer school on governance, and
Whitehouse’s organisation of the POLENET-SERCE Glacial Isostatic Adjustment Training
School in Gävle, Sweden. Third, we have contributed invited lectures and workshops to 42
international postgraduate-focused summer schools and workshops in 14 countries, on research
topics (e.g. Engelhart, sea level changes, CoChE EGU summer school, Sardinia; Nieuwenhuis;
geopolitics, Maastricht; Johnson, political ecology, Wageningen), methodologies (e.g. Crang,
qualitative methods, University of Oslo), and skills and career development (e.g. Wilson, RGS-
IBG Geoforum Early Career Event; Clubb, E4 DTP careers workshop).




                                                                                                     20
