Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 14

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Overview:

 The past seven years have been a period of unprecedented success for Geography at Exeter.
 Our research and impact ranges across scales from local to global. We have led projects based
 on all seven continents and in every ocean basin on Earth, addressing critical societal and
 environmental issues. Our mission is to be at the forefront of defining global intellectual and
 scientific agendas and, in doing so, to develop research impacts and engagements that catalyse
 change and benefit for key users, stakeholders and audiences. To achieve this, we maintain and
 enhance a world-leading research environment, one in which researchers from all backgrounds
 and all career stages can flourish. Having grown to become one of the largest Geography units in
 the UK by REF2014, we have since fully capitalised on investments in staff and research facilities,
 achieving:



     A near-doubling in research funding to a total of £30.6 million for the REF2021 period
      (£16.1 for REF2014).

     Major advances in our national and international reputation: Geography has become
      established as a World Top 20 department in the QS World Rankings in each of the last 4
      years, including a ranking of 11th globally in 2018, and was ranked 5th (2019) in the
      Shanghai Global Rankings of Subjects.

     A step-change in the impacts of our research upon society, economy and industry
      partners, including our new partnership with South West Water, who have committed £21
      million worth of industrial investment (values additional to funding figures highlighted
      above) to establish the Geography-led Centre for Resilience in Environment, Water and
      Waste (CREWW; www.exeter.ac.uk/creww/).

     Athena SWAN Silver status awarded at both campuses in 2015 and 2016.

     Leadership of major interdisciplinary research agendas across the university.
      Geography staff have undertaken leading roles in the Environment and Sustainability
      Institute (ESI, www.exeter.ac.uk/esi/ Wills, Director) the Wellcome Centre for Cultures
      and Environments      of Health (WCCEH, www.wcceh.org Hinchliffe, Co-Director),
      CREWW (Brazier, Co-Director), and the Global Systems Institute (GSI, Lenton,
      Director, Geography staff member submitted to UoA7).

     A sustained track record of highly-influential publications in leading general science
      journals in Physical Geography, (e.g. 41 returned papers in physical geography (55%) are
      in Nature or Science family journals) and a substantial increase in major research
      monographs in Human Geography (seven double-weighted outputs; four in 2014).




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Unit Context & Structure.




 Figure 1. Shape and structure of Geography, highlighting research groups, cross-campus status,
 and leadership of interdisciplinary Institutes and Research Centres

 We are based in the Department of Geography on the Exeter campus (46.98 full-time equivalent
 employees (fte)) and the Centre for Geography and Environmental Science (CGES) on the
 Cornwall campus (14 fte), with both being constituent departments of the College of Life and
 Environmental Sciences (CLES) – see 1.3 Institutional Level Environment Statement (ILES).
 The dual campus context has promoted the development of a diverse unit. Climate change-related
 research represents a major focus in Exeter, aided by strong links with the UK Met Office, while
 for Cornwall-based researchers there is a unique focus on tackling key environmental and societal
 issues facing this deprived region of the UK. 13.6 fte staff based in Geography across both
 campuses are returned to UoA7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences, reflecting
 distributions of expertise in oceanography and deep geological time.

 Research and Impact activities across both campuses are managed through a single structure,
 led by two Directors of Research for human and physical geography (DoRs) and a Director of
 Impact. Together with Research Group leads, Directors of the Early Career Researcher Network
 (ECRN), and Directors of Postgraduate Research, they comprise the Geography Research
 Committee, which holds responsibility for oversight and development of our research culture and
 impact strategies.

 Our research is focused through six cross-campus RESEARCH GROUPS. Current key research
 agendas and topics for each group are outlined below. Further detailed information on each
 group’s major research awards and outcomes in this REF period is presented in Section
 3.2

 The Landscape and Ecosystems Dynamics (LED) research group (15.4 fte: Anderson,
 Aragao, Bennie, Brazier, Charman, Cunliffe, Feldpausch, Gallego-Sala, Hartley, Hill,
 Mercado, Oechel, Pennington, Quine, Reinhardt, Sitch, Urrego) studies functioning of
 terrestrial ecosystems, emphasising responses to, and feedbacks on, contemporary global


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 change, especially climate change and rising atmospheric CO2 levels. Research on issues as
 diverse as permafrost thaw in the Arctic to tropical rainforest function has generated agenda-
 setting outputs. Group members also deliver strong impact, working with industry to improve
 landscape management for ecosystem service delivery.

 The Cryosphere, Coastal and River Dynamics (CCoRD) research group (9.9 fte: Aalto,
 Bennett, Harrison, Le Brocq, Nicholas, Palmer, Perry, Roland, Scourse, Van Maanen)
 investigates geomorphic and ecosystem changes in the cryosphere, marine, coastal and fluvial
 systems. The group’s research on carbonate budgets helps evaluate coral reef health globally,
 developing the Reefbudget tool adopted by reef monitoring agencies worldwide. High-profile
 cryosphere studies focus on the Russell Glacier in Greenland and Thwaites Glacier in Antarctica,
 while fluvial research investigates some of the largest river and delta systems globally.

 The Environment and Sustainability research group (12.08 fte: Adger, Barr, Bickerstaff,
 Butler, Brown, Chaigneau, Devine-Wright, Evans, Fitch-Roy, Mitchell, O’Neill, Safra de
 Campos, Turner, Woodman) researches the theory, methods and policy of sustainability,
 including place attachment, the political economies of energy, climate justice, and sustainable
 development. The Cornwall-based Energy Policy Group is a leading hub for high-impact
 practitioner and government engagement.

 The Life Geographies research group (5 fte: Balayannis, Buller, Crowley, Davies, Hinchliffe)
 advances theory on the spatialities of life, health, materiality, and knowledge, and focuses
 empirically on human and animal health (including anti-microbial resistance), biosecurity, scientific
 and laboratory cultures and geographies of waste.

 The Cultural and Historical Geographies research group (8.6 fte: Cook, Dawney, DeSilvey,
 Leyshon, C., Leyshon, M., Romanillos, Smith, Thomas, Wylie) undertakes critical, creative
 and collaborative research on geographies of craft, commodities, coloniality, landscapes and
 heritage, with current research agendas and projects focusing on issues of materiality, authority,
 affectivity and environmental change in cultural landscapes, and contemporary and historical
 cultures of trade activism, volunteering, decoloniality, and creative making.

 The Space, Politics and Society research group (10 fte: Barnett, Caprotti, Carter, Cloke,
 Freeman, Gill, Goodwin, Kinsley, Lea, Little, Wills) undertakes conceptual and empirical work
 on theories of democracy, injustice, technology and faith, with major funded projects on bordering
 practices and spaces of law, contemporary global urban and digital lives, popular geopolitics,
 localism and abortion mobilities.

 Research groups provide focus, internal funding (c.£350k in this REF period), and a supportive
 context for research and impact in Geography, across all researchers from professors to
 postgraduates. Group activities include peer review of grant applications and publications, external
 seminars, reading groups, group projects and research retreats. Groups are coalitions of activity
 and research interest rather than silos with fixed memberships; researchers can participate in the
 activities of multiple groups. Devolved research group funding enables and sustains bottom-up
 research cultures, as well as supporting research travel and conference participation.

 Geography has a strong interdisciplinary research and impact environment as exemplified
 by key leadership roles in interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes across Exeter (see Fig. 1, ILES
 1.3). At Exeter, the Global Systems Institute (GSI) focuses on interdisciplinary research on climate
 change and socio-ecological systems. 15 UoA14 staff are core members of the GSI community,
 and Director Tim Lenton (UoA7) is a Geography staff member. In Cornwall, Wills is Director of the


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environment and Sustainability Institute (ESI), focused on problems of environmental change.
 Anderson, Chaigneau, DeSilvey and Turner are core ESI members. Hinchliffe is founding Co-
 Director of the Exeter-based Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health (WCCEH),
 while Brazier is inaugural Director of the Centre for Resilience in Environment Water and Waste
 (CREWW). Mitchell and Woodman lead the cross-disciplinary, Cornwall-based Energy Policy
 group. Geography staff contribute strongly to the cross-campus Exeter Marine Network
 (www.exeter.ac.uk/research/marine/), reflecting expertise in coastal governance and marine
 conservation (including Evans, Turner, Perry, Scourse).

 Our research and impact ecosystem involves major ongoing collaborations with industry,
 business, public and voluntary sectors. CREWW is a highlight example, attracting £21 million
 of commitment from the water industry (matched by £10.5 million from Research England; see
 ILES 1.7). In Cornwall, the Social Innovation Group (SIG), led by C. Leyshon and M. Leyshon,
 represents a high-profile example of our research with public and charitable/voluntary sectors,
 having established a long-term programme of research and impact activities promoting positive
 health changes in Cornish communities.

 1.3 Research Ethics, Research Integrity & Open Access

 Strong commitments to research ethics and research integrity underpin all our structures, in
 line with the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES 2.9).
 All research is assessed by the Geography Ethics Committee, which sits independently of
 committees chaired by DoRs and the Head of Department (HoD). Exeter’s successes in furthering
 Open Access and open research initiatives are evidenced by the institution having one of the 10
 top repositories in the UK (Institutional Repository Usage Statistics UK). The annual number of
 downloads of Geography outputs increased nine-fold between 2014 and 2019 (from 4,000 to
 >35,000 downloads), and we have capitalised on editorial expertise among senior staff (see
 Section 4.3) to disseminate best practice regarding Open Access. Geographers producing larger
 datasets and new code/algorithms routinely make their work open access, e.g., through code
 sharing via GitHub. Our leadership in promoting research integrity within the university is further
 demonstrated by Davies’ role as Responsible Metrics Champion for the College (ILES 2.8). Our
 staff are 100% ORCID registered.

 1.4 Research and Impact Strategy

 Our Research and Impact Strategy has pursued four objectives, outlined in REF2014.

 Objective1) Enhancing research sustainability – maintaining excellence, diversity and
 resilience across research lifecycles.

 We have an outstanding track record of research funding and awards. While substantially growing
 UKRI awards, we have notably diversified and innovated in terms of our awards portfolio.
 Researchers have had notable success with EU funding, with awards including leading a €12
 million (>£2 million to Exeter) European Research Council (ERC) Synergy Grant (Scourse), ERC
 Starter and Consolidator grants (Gill, Gallego-Sala), and >£900k in EU Interreg grants (C.
 Leyshon, M. Leyshon). We are building a new and distinctive track-record of Wellcome Trust
 funding (Davies, Hinchliffe). Our agility in responding to evolving funding systems is evidenced
 by UKRI Covid-19 Rapid Response funding (Balayannis), numerous awards from GCRF and
 Newton funds (e.g. Anderson, Brown, Barnett, Caprotti, Evans, Feldpausch, Gallego-Sala,
 Pennington, Quine), UKRI / UK Government collaborations (e.g., ESRC/DfiD, ESRC/DEFRA,
 NERC/DECC awards (Adger, Brazier, Buller, Hinchliffe, Hartley, Safra De Campos) and from

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Alan Turing Institute (Caprotti). Exeter Geography is recognised by multiple companies as a
 key partner in addressing industry-led research priorities (see also ILES 1.7), with strong and
 long-term relationships with South West Water (Anderson, Brazier, Gallego-Sala, Hartley), Shell
 (Hill, Jones) and the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (Hill).

 Objective2) Training the next generation of researchers – providing an outstanding
 research environment for PGRs and early career researchers.

 Key to this objective has been our ability to attract the strongest applicants for PhD scholarships.
 This is based upon successful participation in every relevant UKRI Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTP) through this REF period, with ESRC and NERC DTP awards especially
 significant. Our commitment to research training is further evidenced by College match-funding
 for DTP PhD awards (43 awards in UoA14). Geography PGRs have benefitted from £2.75 million
 of College match-funding, much of which has funded links with industry, diversifying PGR
 employability and promoting long-lasting industrial partnerships (see Objective1 above). We have
 also secured funding via institutional-level competitive PhD awards, including Vice-Chancellor’s
 Scholarships and strategic partnerships with the Universities of Queensland (Australia) and
 Tsinghua (China). These investments have ensured a sustainable and thriving PGR community –
 see Section 2.4 for further details. Furthermore, growth and diversification in income streams
 has nurtured significant expansion of post-doctoral researchers, increasing from 43 in 2014 to 80
 on the census date.

 Objective3) Creating an equitable and supportive research environment – focusing on
 equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI), ensuring that all researchers at all career stages
 have opportunities to flourish.

 EDI involves ongoing processes of action and reflection for all researchers. The director of EDI
 (Little) sits on the departmental executive group, and DoRs are core members of the Geography
 EDI committee (GEDI), which holds responsibility for policy development and which includes
 postgraduate and postdoctoral representation. Our success in enacting effective policies and
 actions for future EDI work, is evidenced by the award of Athena SWAN Silver Awards to
 Geography at both campuses in 2015 and 2016. We are one of only six Geography units in the
 UK to achieve this. We are now deepening our EDI work to consider issues of Black and Minority
 Ethnic (BAME) / People of Colour (POC) representation within research communities and explore
 pathways towards decolonising research cultures in human and physical geographies – see
 Section 2.3 for further details on our EDI commitments.

 Objective4) Maximising the benefits and impacts of our research – creating cultures of
 engaged and impactful research across Geography.

 In 2015 we created a new role of Director of Impact (DoI). Working with DoRs and research group
 leads, the DoI (Thomas) has developed new systems and structures providing advice and
 assistance to researchers, which have had a transformative effect on our research impact. A key
 focus has been embedding an engaged culture across all research activities. Annual impact
 showcase days allow a focused concentration on best practice with linked mentoring. The DoI is
 supported by an annual £10k budget for promoting new/emerging impact activities, especially
 targeting ECRs. This has facilitated development workshops targeted at advanced skills training.
 For example, a learning to podcast workshop led to a PhD student secondment with the Royal
 Geographical Society with the Institute of British Geographers (RGS-IBG) to develop a new
 podcast series. Additional College and institutional support has included funding of >£25k to
 facilitate collaborations between Geography researchers and Exeter-based production studio

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kaleider, providing innovative opportunities for researchers to translate findings/insights into
 publicly-accessible creative works and performances, supported by a dedicated producer. For
 example, Evans’ work ‘Buoyed’ is a collaboration bringing voices of inshore fishing communities
 in England to the general public and decision-makers, now touring at UK festivals. As outlined
 above (1.4 Objective1), we have been successful in establishing a portfolio of long-term industrial
 partnerships, aided by support from the University’s Innovation Impact and Business (IIB) team.
 Substantial College investment (1.4 Objective2) in match-funding PhDs partnering industry has
 underpinned the development of these relationships.

 The diversity of our impact, in terms of the range of beneficiaries and sectors involved, as well as
 locations and scales of activity, is exemplified by the breadth of our REF2021 impact case studies:

 1. The promotion of person-centred, place-based and community-led approaches to transform
 policy and practice in healthcare provision in Cornwall (led by Leyshon and Leyshon)

 2. The development of a new tool for monitoring coral reef health across tropical oceans, allowing
 reefs in need of urgent management interventions to be identified (Perry)

 3. Using novel interdisciplinary approaches to halt unlawful detention of asylum seekers and
 facilitate access to justice (led by Gill, shortlisted for an ESRC research impact award, 2016)

 4. Establishment of the environmental and financial evidence-base required to justify catchment
 restoration and the promotion of nature-based solutions for water resource management (led by
 Brazier)

 5. Production of practical recommendations for promoting transformation in the UK energy sector
 towards decarbonisation (led by Mitchell).


 1.5 Future Research and Impact Strategies

 Our five-year strategy to 2026 aims to enhance our position as a world-leading centre for
 geographical research, and to ensure our work continues to address key societal and
 environmental issues across scales. We will achieve this through focusing on four objectives:

 1. Targeted growth in key research areas: CREWW and WCCEH are offering exciting new
 opportunities for geography. We have thus identified the geographies of life, health and
 wellbeing and hydrological sciences as key priority areas for growth, with the former expected
 to be particularly important in the contexts of Covid-19. The new centres offer opportunities to
 attract world-leading researchers to work in cutting-edge facilities and research environments.
 Three staff members (Brown, Cloke, Mitchell) are retiring imminently, and we have clear
 succession planning to maintain critical mass across key research areas.

 2. Leading global interdisciplinary research agendas: Our leadership of and involvement in
 interdisciplinary Institutes and Research Centres in the University (Fig. 1), makes us uniquely
 placed to drive multidisciplinary and global research agendas in Exeter. The GSI in particular will
 offer new opportunities for co-location of interdisciplinary teams. We further aim to develop
 increasingly ambitious international projects, building on ongoing collaborations in regions where
 we have significant experience and expertise, including Latin America, East Africa, South East
 and South Asia (incl. India, Bangladesh, Malaysia) and China.

 3. Further enhancing cultures of impact and engagement: We aim to build more and deeper
 relationships with industry, with CREWW serving as a beacon for long-term partnerships. In


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition to international impact activities, we aim to enhance research that contributes directly to
 regional development in South West England, with local impacts being an important focus of our
 Cornwall research. Co-development of research with local and global industries and communities
 has increased dramatically over this REF period and we will grow this further over the next five
 years.

 4. Promoting inclusivity and addressing under-representation of researcher groups: We will
 deepen the work of GEDI to explore, understand, and address barriers to access for under-
 represented cohorts of researchers. While major progress has been made in addressing barriers
 to gender equality, and work will continue in this area, a key focus for Exeter geography going
 forward is BAME/POC representation (see also ILES 3.14). The increasingly international nature
 of our research, and our researcher community, makes further enhancing the inclusivity of our
 research environment a key priority now and going forward.


 2. People

 2.1 Overview

 Our goal is to provide a vibrant, supportive and inclusive environment, where talented academic
 researchers from all backgrounds can flourish. Our successes in achieving this are evidenced by:

     Athena SWAN Silver status being awarded at both campuses;

     Major increases in the number of academic promotions reflecting enhanced support
      for career development, and our ongoing success in research (35 promotions during this
      REF period, with 20 to female researchers);

     Substantial expansion of post-doctoral researcher cohorts from 43 in 2013/14 to 80
      in 2019/20, reflecting rising research funding;

     Attracting excellent PGR students and training the next generation of geographers,
      with c.50% of our graduating PhD students having progressed to research positions in
      academia and industry.

 2.1.1 Growth in staff numbers

 Geography’s staff profile is as follows:

  Grade               Headcount             Male   Female          FTE        Male     Female
                         (66)                                    (60.98)

  Professor                30                22        8          27.40       19.50      7.00

  Associate                10                5         5          9.30        5.90       4.30
  Professor

  Senior                   16                9         7          14.68       8.20       6.48
  Lecturer

  Lecturer                  8                2         6          7.60        2.00       5.60

  Research Only             2                2         0          2.00        2.00       0.00




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the REF2014 period, Geography grew from 36 to 58 researchers, achieving critical mass in key
 research areas. In the current REF period, we have seen further growth (66 staff, 60.98 fte).
 Furthermore, substantial increases in research funding have resulted in major expansion of our
 post-doctoral researcher community (see above), enabling the development of an increasingly
 dynamic research community.

 2.1.2 Staff Recruitment

 Our recruitment strategy seeks to: 1) sustain critical mass in key research areas, 2) expand into
 new priority areas, 3) further EDI agendas, and 4) work in partnership with Exeter’s
 interdisciplinary Institutes and Centres on strategic appointments. We aim to attract the highest
 quality researchers globally and provide them with the resources to develop their research
 careers.

 Recruitment is also tailored to campus-specific priorities, and firmly committed to making
 permanent, not fixed-term, appointments. We have appointed 18 permanent academic staff in this
 REF period. At the Cornwall campus, two Professorial appointments (Scourse, Wills) have
 provided fresh senior leadership to both CGES and the ESI, alongside four further appointments
 at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer (Bennie, Chaigneau, Crowley, Turner), further strengthening
 links with the ESI. On the Exeter campus we have maintained the balance, vibrancy and
 sustainability of our research environment by prioritising appointments at Lecturer and Senior
 Lecturer level. Therefore, alongside two Associate Professor/Professor appointments
 (Pennington, Caprotti), we have appointed 11 new Lecturers/Senior Lecturers (Bagelman,
 Balayannis, Cinnamon, Dawney, Hill, Smith, van Maanen, Freeman, Safra de Campos,
 Roland, Bennett). Across campuses there have been 11 leavers; one retirement, one deceased,
 one moving to industry, and eight to other academic roles in the UK or overseas (including
 Bagelman, Cinnamon).



 2.2 Staff Development

 2.2.1 Key Support and Career Development Policies for Researchers

 Our staffing strategies are developed within the framework of the Researcher Development
 Concordat and reflect the University’s commitments to supporting research careers at all levels
 (see 2.9 ILES). All staff engage with researcher development courses (see 3.5 and 3.6 ILES),
 while, in 2016, the introduction of the new ‘Exeter Academic’ system for career development (see
 3.3 ILES) has promoted a refreshed approach to staff support in geography. Our Academic Lead
 system (see 3.6 ILES), in which senior staff mentor 4-5 researchers, has been revised to provide
 enhanced progression and promotion support. Each Academic Lead now supports staff at a single
 career stage, thus becoming expert in identifying when staff have a case for promotion. The
 success of the Exeter Academic and Geography’s Academic Lead systems is evidenced by a
 large increase in Academic Promotions during this REF Period, especially for female staff (see
 Section 2.3):

    •       Lecturer to Senior Lecturer: 15 (Bennie, Butler, Chaigneau, Evans, Feldpausch,
            Gallego-Sala, Kinsley, Lea, Le Brocq, Mercado, O’Neill, Palmer, Romanillos,
            Turner, Urrego)

    •       Senior Lecturer to Assoc. Professor: 11 (Anderson, Bickerstaff, Carter, DeSilvey,
            Feldpausch, Gallego-Sala, Hartley, Hill, Mercado, O’Neill, Thomas)


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •       Associate Professor to Professor: 9 (Barr, Cook, DeSilvey, Gallego-Sala, Gill,
            Harrison, Hartley, Nicholas, Thomas)

 Clear policies support research career development. New academic staff at all levels are awarded
 start-up funds, typically to the value of ~£20k. In addition, new staff benefit from reduced
 education/administrative workloads in their first year, enabling them to focus on establishing their
 research. All Education & Research (E&R) academics are allocated 20% of their workload for
 research and impact activities. Furthermore, to provide extended periods of research-focused
 time, we have introduced (2015) a new Strategic Alignment of Research and Education (STARE)
 system. This relieves staff of core administrative, tutorial and student project work for an academic
 year, on a rotational basis.

 Researcher development is further supported by internal funding sources. The College-level
 Strategic Development Fund (SDF), aims to pump-prime new research ideas and in this REF
 period, 23 researchers in Geography have received a total of £240k of funding, with early career
 staff prioritised. To develop and strengthen international collaborations, the university has
 established Outward Mobility Academic Fellowships (OMAF) and Visiting International
 Fellowships (VIAF). 11 Geography staff have been awarded OMAF and VIAF funding to the value
 of £115k in this REF period. Researchers in Geography have also been able to enhance the
 impact of their work through UKRI Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAAs); ESRC IAA funding has
 especially benefitted human geographers. Research groups provide a supportive culture for
 research and impact, as well as funding for research travel and conference participation (see
 Section 1.2).

 2.2.2 Early Career Researchers

 Exeter provides a dedicated training/development programme for ECRs, mapped against the
 Researcher Development Concordat (see ILES 3.8-9). This programme has been particularly
 important in Geography as, early in this REF period, the unit contained a high percentage of ECRs.
 Internally, we employ a review system for grant applications, overseen by Research Group Leads
 and DoRs. We also have a strong track record of senior staff involving ECRs in their proposals
 and supporting new staff in initial applications. Consequently, more than two thirds (68%) of
 geography staff are currently in receipt of funding, and on average ~80% make an application
 each year. The success of our support for new lecturers is evidenced by 13 promotions to Senior
 Lecturer and above since 2014.

 In 2016, we established an Early Career Research Network (ECRN), currently directed by
 Balayannis and Roland, to provide bespoke support to senior PGRs and postdoctoral
 researchers. Recognising diversity in terms of academic background, nationality, working fraction,
 and contract length, the ECRN acts to promote inclusivity, and offers an informal setting through
 which researchers can engage in career development opportunities beyond those supplied by PIs
 and research groups. Regular activities include workshops on CV and grant writing, job application
 development, sessions on UK Higher Education policies and systems, dissemination and
 discussion of new frameworks including the Researcher Development Concordat. Post-doctoral
 researchers also benefit from mentoring through the Academic Lead system outlined above and
 are represented in university-level decision making through ECR liaison forums (see ILES 3.1 and
 3.8).

 2.2.3 Mid-Career Researchers




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for mid-career researchers recognises the challenges of balancing increasing levels of
 responsibility and assuming leadership roles. Through Academic Lead and workload planning
 systems, we support mid-career researchers to assume appropriate leadership roles, including
 Research Group leads and Directors of Postgraduate Research. We also support leadership
 training, including sponsoring researchers through the Advance HE Aurora programme for female
 researchers. Mid-career researchers have particularly benefitted from the mobility fellowships
 described in Section 2.2.1.

 2.2.4 Senior Researchers

 Our approach to supporting Professorial-level researchers recognises the diversity of this group,
 which ranges considerably in terms of age and experience. At University level, Professors have
 benefited from a clarified approach to pay/reward which supplements Academic Lead mentoring
 with bi-annual review of achievements and challenges. HoDs in Geography play an important role
 in mentoring senior staff. This includes succession planning for senior leadership roles, while staff
 concluding terms as HoD, DoR & Director of Education (DoE) benefit from post-leadership
 research time in their workloads. We also support senior researchers in leading major funding
 proposals, making prestigious Fellowship applications (including to the Leverhulme Trust, British
 Academy, Royal Society and Wellcome Trust), and in further internationalising research and
 impact through visiting fellowships and secondments (see Section 4.1). Our contribution to senior
 University leadership is outstanding, with three Geography staff occupying senior university and
 college management roles (Goodwin, Quine – both Deputy Vice-Chancellors; Charman –
 Executive Dean, CLES).

 2.3 Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity (EDI)

 As discussed in Section 1.4, strong commitment to EDI underpins all our research and impact
 activities. The GEDI committee, including the HoD, DoRs, and representatives from post-doctoral,
 postgraduate and undergraduate communities, is central to departmental decision making. The
 Director of GEDI is a senior role in Geography and a permanent member of the Executive
 committee. All staff complete mandatory training courses in equality and diversity (see 3.15 ILES),
 and those in senior management roles, including REF-panel related roles, additionally receive
 training in avoiding Unconscious Bias. EDI considerations have also been central to our
 REF2021 preparations. In accordance with the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, our
 selection of both Outputs and Impact Case Studies has been made by gender-balanced panels
 and has been informed by EDI considerations throughout.

 At the start of the REF period, Athena SWAN agendas were the primary focus of our EDI activities.
 The effectiveness of our response to gender inequalities is evidenced by our Athena SWAN Silver
 Awards (Cornwall, 2015, Exeter, 2016). Changes to our Academic Lead system outlined in section
 2.2.1 were a key response to evidence that researchers identifying as female were progressively
 under-represented at more senior levels. All interview and promotion panels in Geography are
 gender-balanced, and all staff involved are required to have completed EDI recruitment training.
 Female researchers account for >50% (20/35) of academic promotions in this REF period. While
 work on gender equality continues (under-representation of female researchers at senior levels is
 reduced, not eliminated), our EDI work is now also focusing on under-representation of
 BAME/POC researchers. Work is ongoing to identify, understand, and address barriers to
 inclusion, with attention also focusing upon staff understanding of the racialised histories of
 geography. Geographers (including Cook, Thomas) are at the forefront of initiatives to decolonise
 research and education cultures at Exeter.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our EDI team are central to ongoing efforts to balance academic workloads. The GEDI Director
 supports the HoDs, DoRs, DoEs, and Academic Leads in planning and monitoring staff workloads
 across research, education and administrative/leadership activities, using the University’s
 SWARM workload system. In response to University-wide staff engagement surveys in 2018, the
 GEDI team conducted focus groups with different staff cohorts, including PGRs and post-doctoral
 researchers, to identify and tackle priorities for cultural change. The GEDI committee has thus
 developed initiatives to support staff and student wellbeing, taking a leading role in University
 mental health training and facilitating accessible/family friendly social and well-being events. The
 committee also works with occupational health (see 3.17 ILES) to support staff returning to work
 after a leave of absence. Geography promotes flexibility in working, with staff entitled to reduce
 both fractions and available working hours. To facilitate this, we ensure all meetings and training
 events take place within core working hours, and part-time staff are never disadvantaged in terms
 of access to research support (e.g. research group or SDF funds), with head count rather than fte
 being used in all budget allocations. Exeter has sector-leading policies to support Shared Parental
 Leave (see 3.16 ILES), with no qualifying length of service. The success of these policies is
 evidenced by eight part-time staff having been promoted during this REF cycle; thus,
 proportionally, part-time staff are at least as well represented in promotions as full-time staff.

 Finally, beyond Exeter, Geography staff have helped promote gender equality across academia.
 Staff in the Energy Policy group produced a key UK Energy Research Centre-commissioned
 report identifying barriers to female researchers in obtaining funding and progressing careers in
 energy research. Geography staff, especially Gallego-Sala, have played a key role in the
 College’s ‘Soapbox Science’ initiative to promote women in science to the public. Thomas’s
 research has helped identify gendered barriers to career progression in UK academia and
 Geography in particular, while Anderson has co-edited two special issues in Drone Science and
 Remote Sensing journals aimed at promoting woman in these disciplines.

 2.4 Research Students

 2.4.1 PhD numbers and funding

 Research students are the bedrock of our research environment. A total of 117 students have
 been awarded doctorates (1.9 per fte) in this REF period, and we currently host a total of 77
 research students. Our large and diverse PhD community has been made possible by Exeter
 participating in 7 DTPs (see 1.8 ILES). We have been successful in attracting very strong students
 into the DTPs: 22 awards from NERC, 14 from ESRC, 3 from AHRC and 4 from EPSRC.
 Furthermore, the College has made major investments in PhD match-funding (£2.75 million to
 UoA14) aimed at supporting two key geography priorities (see Section 1.4). Firstly, to strengthen
 links with industry and promote applied research, 65% of the investment has supported
 studentships partnering industry and NGOs. Partnerships with several companies and NGOs were
 initially fostered through shared PhD studentship funding, including with Shell and South-West
 Water. Secondly, we have invested in international PhDs studentships to support our global
 research agendas, including funding three PhD research projects as part of the University’s QUEX
 Partnership with the University of Queensland. Academics in Geography also supervise PhD
 students based at other Universities both in the UK and internationally. In 2019, this involved 22
 UK-based and 12 International PhD students in Australia, Brazil, China and Mexico. Geography
 staff, including Anderson and Scourse, have also been core members of EU Marie Curie PhD
 Training Networks.

 2.4.2 Research student environment: facilities and engagement.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Every PGR student in Geography is provided with dedicated desk space and IT equipment. Most
 students receive a Research Training & Support Grant (RTSG) through their funder, and those
 who do not are allocated a RTSG by the College; £1,000 per annum in physical geography, £300
 per annum in human geography. Research group funding supports PGR participation in retreats
 and events, promoting an inclusive research culture, with PGR students also being key
 contributors to seminar series. In addition, CLEScon is an annual conference where PGRs from
 across the College present their research and expand networks across discipline boundaries.
 Liaison Forums allow PGR representatives to meet and discuss issues with Directors of
 Postgraduate Research, and PGRs are represented through the ECRN, on the EDI committee,
 and at our twice-termly all-Staff Meetings. At institutional level, in 2018/19, Geography PGRs were
 instrumental in the development of new Doctoral College policies (see also 3.10-3.12 ILES) and
 practices regarding student mental health and wellbeing.

 2.4.3 PGR progression, training and outcomes

 In 2016, Exeter established a University-wide Doctoral College, bringing together support, training,
 and administration for all PGRs and ECRs. In Geography, students and supervisors complete an
 annual Training Needs Analysis, to identify student-specific support priorities. Directors of
 Postgraduate Research oversee Annual Monitoring and Review. Our formal ‘upgrade’ process
 from MPhil to PhD registration occurs near the end of the first year and has been enhanced over
 this REF period to include submission of a refreshed research plan, literature review and chapter
 outlines, plus an oral viva. In addition, an 18-month mid-PhD review is conducted to gauge
 progress since upgrade and provide extra support where needed. The success of our internal
 policies is evidenced by 80% of PGRs submitting within 4 years, and, in particular, by our
 consistently strong graduate outcomes. In this REF period, >30 of our PGRs have progressed to
 further research and lecturing positions in academia, and >20 have progressed to positions in
 industry and commercial research.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Overview




 Figure 2. Main funders contributing to the £42.1M of new awards during this REF period.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Having reached critical mass in our key research areas, we have enjoyed a period of
 unprecedented success which has promoted internal and external investment in our research
 infrastructure and facilities. Key developments include:

     Research income near doubling since REF2014 (£30.6M/£16.1M), driven largely by
      income per fte increasing from £52K in 2013/14 to £95K in 2019/20;

     £42.1M of new awards in the current REF period (Fig. 2): The sustainability of our
      research environment is evidenced by the value of new awards exceeding research
      income by >35%. Thus, our research portfolio is expanding and we currently have more
      funded projects and post-doctoral researchers than ever before;

     Diversification of funding sources (see Fig. 2). In addition to increased UKRI funding
      (e.g. Exeter now ranks 2nd in the UK for NERC grant funding, with physical geography
      attracting more NERC funding than any other Exeter discipline), our income from the EU,
      charities and industry has grown significantly;

     An additional £31.5 million investment in the Centre for Resilience in Environment,
      Water and Waste (CREWW), including a commitment of £21 million from South West
      Water, the largest university-based R&D investment by a water utility (this funding is not
      included in the research income or new awards values presented above);

     Establishment of new research facilities on both campuses including a new Carbon-
      Cycle research laboratory and upgrades to analytical equipment on our Exeter campus,
      and new Drone and Sclerochronology laboratories in Cornwall.



 3.2 Research Groups: major funded activities and outcomes.

 This section outlines how research income and major awards have advanced research
 agendas within our key research groups (see Section 1.2 for group outlines).

 Landscape and Ecosystems Dynamics (LED) research group: High-value awards have
 allowed the group to pioneer applied landscape restoration approaches to environmental
 problems. South West Water has funded work by Anderson, Brazier, Gallego-Sala, Hartley
 investigating how management of upland and riparian areas can improve water quality and reduce
 flooding risks downstream. Further UKRI and charity funding allowed Anderson, Brazier to
 demonstrate the benefits of beaver reintroduction for water quality and ecosystem service delivery.
 The partnership with South West Water has ultimately led to the establishment of the new £31.5
 million CREWW centre, with Brazier as co-director. CREWW will provide state-of-the-art
 laboratories and enhanced fieldwork support, allowing researchers to address pressing issues
 facing water resource managers globally, including access to clean drinking water, and resilience
 to floods, droughts and pollution. With funding from Shell and the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Hill
 has used novel methodologies to quantify the potential for land management interventions to
 remove atmospheric CO2 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from oil palm. NERC-NEWTON
 funded research (Quine, Hartley) has used critical zone science to promote agricultural
 sustainability with the aim of alleviating poverty in rural China, while Pennington leads
 BBSRC/GCRF-funded projects to improve agroforestry sustainability and the livelihoods of
 farmers in the Brazilian “arc of deforestation”.

 The major blue skies focus of LED is on global change impacts on terrestrial ecosystems. In
 tropical and subtropical regions, with NERC funding: Feldpausch led research to uncover the role

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of past human disturbance in controlling contemporary Amazon forest dynamics; Mercado, Sitch
 and Hartley have used natural climatic gradients in the Colombian Andes to determine the
 sensitivity of tropical montane forests to climate warming; Hartley, Mercado and Aragão
 established the first large-scale, manipulation of soil nutrient availability in primary rainforest in
 Central Amazonia; Sitch has determined the potential for ozone pollution to limit tropical plant
 productivity; and Brazier, Hill, Anderson and Cunliffe have investigated the role of drylands in
 the global C sink. With GCRF/NERC funding Urrego, Feldpausch, Pennington, Mercado have
 advanced understanding of natural and societal drivers of post-conflict deforestation in Colombia,
 and Gallego-Sala has recently been awarded an ERC consolidator grant to determine the role of
 tropical peatlands in the global C cycle.

 In temperate and high-latitude regions, NERC funding is allowing researchers to determine the
 role of soil nutrient availability in controlling responses of mature forests and grasslands to rising
 atmospheric CO2 (Hartley, Mercado, Sitch), as well as the effects of climate change on soil
 carbon storage and methane emissions, including the dynamics of northern peatlands (Gallego-
 Sala, Anderson, Charman) and consequences of permafrost thaw (Hartley, Charman).
 Research led by Charman characterised the widespread biological response to rapid warming on
 the Antarctic Peninsula, with a key publication in Current Biology receiving the 5th highest media
 coverage of any climate change publication in 2017. Finally, research funded by the EU Structural
 Investment Fund has allowed Bennie to quantify ecological impacts of night-time light pollution.



 Cryosphere, Coastal and River Dynamics (CCoRD) research group: Increased and diversified
 funding has supported research across three main areas. Firstly, NERC and BBSRC funding has
 promoted major advances in understanding large river system and upland catchment
 dynamics. Nicholas and Aalto have quantified and modelled major controls exerted by fluvial
 sediment flux on channel and floodplain functioning, and how large rivers respond to climate,
 erosion rates and human impact. They have developed new insight into natural and anthropogenic
 impacts on sediment delivery to mega deltas at risk from rising sea levels. Work is now extending
 via Newton funding and Brazilian partners to predict river dynamics in the Amazon Basin. With
 NERC and Newton support, Bennett has quantified rainfall-triggered landslide hazards in
 mountainous regions of the Philippines, Nepal and the USA, with new NERC funding extending
 this research to develop novel Wireless Sensor Networks for landslide and flood management.

 The group have also advanced understanding of ice sheet dynamics and glacial hazards at
 multiple global locations. With NERC funding, Harrison identified rapid glacial lake transitions
 under climate change in the Andes, quantified global glacier volume changes under high-end
 climate scenarios, and delivered new understanding of the role of rock glaciers across Himalayan
 and Andean systems using remote sensing. Palmer’s NERC-funded work has used high
 resolution remote sensing techniques to constrain subglacial lake drainage patterns, winter
 subglacial ice storage, and ocean bathymetry in Greenland. Highly cited work by Le Brocq has
 constrained the role of ice-sheet margin instability on glacier retreat, and quantified ice dynamics
 in West Antarctica.

 In the area of coastal and marine global change, Perry’s NERC-funded work has shed light on
 turbid-zone coral reef ecology, growth capacity and resilience to climate stressors, with funding
 from Leverhulme Trust and Bertarelli Foundation quantifying severe bleaching impacts on reef
 growth in the central Indian Ocean, and reef capacity to track future sea-level rise. NERC funding
 has helped Scourse pioneer the use of ultra-high-resolution Sclerochronology to reconstruct


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ocean basin-wide climate dynamics. This technique has improved palaeoclimatic reconstructions
 of the North Atlantic and enhanced understanding of rapid deglaciation on the west Antarctic
 Peninsula. Scourse will now lead the major ERC Synergy grant, SEACHANGE (total value
 €12M), that will establish new baselines for understanding marine environmental change.



 Cultural & Historical Geographies research group (CHGRG): New funding streams,
 partnerships and creative collaborations have supported work on geographies of creative practice,
 heritage and landscape, and place-based care and well-being. Significant AHRC funding (4
 awards, plus support from the Norwegian Research Council) has supported DeSilvey’s
 development of new paradigms for environmental change and heritage landscapes, using
 innovative creative and curatorial methodologies, and resulting in prize-winning publications and
 new partnerships with heritage organisations including the National Trust. AHRC and British
 Academy funding (4 awards) has supported Thomas’s work on intersections of heritage, region
 and craft, generating new insights into the work of UK regional craft guilds and craft in the creative
 economy. With AHRC-led funding (3 awards, incorporating support from EPSRC), Wylie’s work
 on creative approaches to landscape has enabled the development of the Common Line project,
 a national-level land art project focusing upon immersive digital art experiences of landscape.
 Funding and support from ESRC and RGS-IBG has underpinned Cook’s development of the
 Museum of Contemporary Commodities (http://www.moccguide.net/) in collaboration with artists,
 producing innovative interactions for public understandings of digital data structures and
 commodity systems. Substantial new EU funding (Interreg 2Seas HAIRE project) to C. Leyshon
 and M. Leyshon and the Social Innovation Group (SIG) supports research involving a range of
 European collaborators and partners on healthy ageing amongst older age groups in rural/coastal
 regions.



 Environment & Sustainability research group: Diverse funding sources have allowed the group
 to establish global collaborations (including in South East Asia, Africa, India, and Bangladesh) to
 advance research in climate change, energy geographies and transitions, resilience, sustainable
 development and ecosystem services. Funding from ESRC/DFID, IDRC, Belmont Forum, and
 H2020 grants has allowed Adger and Safra de Campos to demonstrate the potential of human
 migration to allow adaptation to climate change, and document options for integrating new migrant
 populations into safe and sustainable cities. Research investigating public environmental actions
 and understandings of climate change by Barr and O’Neill (funded by ESRC Future Leaders,
 NERC) has shown how lay and expert public actors frame and make sense of climate change.
 With ESRC, NIHR, Belmont and Wellcome funding Butler, O’Neill, Bickerstaff and Brown have
 shown the mechanisms by which climate impacts result in mental health burdens, and the second
 order risks of adaptation. Brown and Chaigneau’s research (funded by two UKRI ESPA awards
 and AXA Outlook) documented fundamental linkages between ecosystem services and human
 wellbeing, including the differential role of gender, equity and non-monetary aspects of ecosystem
 services in Kenya and Mozambique. Investment from GCRF (2 awards, ‘Blue Communities’ and
 ‘Coral Communities’) supports Evans and Chaigneau’s work on sustainable marine communities
 and ecosystems in East and South-East Asia.

 Research on energy policy by Mitchell, Fitch-Roy and Woodman, funded by EPSRC and an
 ESRC New Investigators grant, have supported innovative contributions to energy policy in the
 UK. Devine-Wright (EPSRC and H2020 funding) has shown how public attitudes to energy and


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure are directly affected by attitudes to place and identity. Butler and Bickerstaff
 (EPSRC funding) have demonstrated the possibilities for welfare and employment policy to
 contribute to UK energy use reduction.



 Life Geographies research group: Significant investments in new research programmes and
 centres have enabled the group to make major contributions to geographies of science, human
 and non-human health, disease and welfare. Hinchliffe played a leading role in securing major
 funding for the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health (£4.1 million overall,
 2017) and now fulfils the role of Co-Director. The Centre explores experiences of health, illness
 and medical knowledge and investigates how evidence from the humanities and social sciences
 can develop innovative and effective public health initiatives. Further Wellcome Trust funding
 supports Davies’s Animal-Research Nexus research programme, drawing together
 interdisciplinary expertise regarding policies and practices of animal health in research and
 laboratory contexts. ESRC support enabled Crowley to develop new interdisciplinary research
 investigating the complexities of wildlife re-introduction and species management policies.
 European Commission funding has enabled Buller to explore innovative practice-led solutions to
 welfare issues in laying hen production (‘Hennovation’ Project). Buller and Hinchliffe have been
 at the forefront of recent social science research into anti-microbial resistance (see also ILES
 2.3), with ESRC (DIAL Project) and UKRI/DEFRA ('Production without medicalisation' Project)
 funding enabling new policy recommendations to reduce (i) antimicrobial use in livestock
 agriculture, and (ii) pharmaceutical pressures in shrimp and prawn aquaculture in Bangladesh.
 Lastly, new insights into current geographies of health/life are supported via a recent UKRI (ESRC)
 Covid-19 award to Balayannis, investigating UK waste industry responses to the pandemic.



 Space, Politics and Society research group: Extensive funding and partnerships have
 supported the group’s research on mobilities, governance, everyday lives and urbanism.
 Significant investment from ERC (Consolidator award, 2015-2020) supports Gill’s programme
 of comparative research on the mobilities and legal geographies of asylum seekers across the
 EU. A recent ESRC New Investigator Award to Freeman focuses upon mobilities, abortion and
 reproductive health rights in Latin America. Investments from funders including ESRC, GCRF,
 British Academy and the Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation have supported Caprotti’s research
 programme in urban political ecologies, establishing new findings in relation to ‘smart cities’ and
 sustainable energy agendas in China and South Africa, with the latter being awarded a prestigious
 Newton Prize (2020) to be used to promote off-grid solar energy provision in informal settlements.
 Related work by Barnett on South African cities and planetary urbanism has been supported by
 Leverhulme Fellowship and Newton funding. New insights on the intersections of policy and
 governance have been supported by: Leverhulme Fellowship funding and support from Dorset
 County Council for Little’s work on domestic violence in rural spaces, British Academy and ESRC
 funding for Cloke and Goodwin’s investigations of austerity, homelessness and food bank
 provision in the UK, and Trust for London and the Locality Commission’s investments in Wills’
 work on political localism and living wage campaigns. ESRC funding and internal SDF investment
 enabled Carter’s identification of the ludic and domestic as key geopolitical spaces and Lea’s
 explorations of emotional and affective labour spaces of yoga and massage. New ESRC funding
 for Barnett and Kinsley will evaluate the role of algorithmic systems in post-Brexit UK immigration
 governance.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Infrastructure & Facilities:

 3.3.1. Laboratories: Existing Facilities

 Research in physical geography is supported by twelve specialist research laboratories across
 our campuses, maintained by a senior laboratory manager and four laboratory managers, with a
 Geography-based electronics and mechanical workshop supporting manufacture of bespoke
 research equipment essential for our field and laboratory research.

 In Exeter, our Fallout Radionuclide Facility supports research into landscape and river dynamics
 and is the largest such facility in the UK, now comprising 50 alpha spectrometers and 20 gamma
 spectrometers. Another major asset is our Experimental Landscapes Facility (2001; £3.7M),
 housing a rainfall simulator and a sedimentation basin for alluvial fan experiments. In addition, the
 Fire Laboratory (established 2013) represents a globally-unique facility for addressing questions
 regarding how vegetation flammability has changed over geological time, and causes and impacts
 of contemporary fires. Our recently-refurbished analytical laboratories support environmental
 science research, and we have two dedicated palaeoenvironmental laboratories with advanced
 microscopy facilities. In Cornwall, research is supported by a bespoke Micropalaeontology
 laboratory with high specification microscopy facilities and a sediment processing laboratory for
 textural and property analysis. We routinely utilise other world-class College and University
 analytical infrastructure including the Stable Isotope Facility (ESI), DNA sequencing and Electron
 Microscopy (Biosciences), and EDX, XRD, and Micro-CT (Engineering).

 3.3.2 Investment during this REF period

 The University has made major investments to enhance our research infrastructure on both
 campuses. In 2016, as part of a £300k refurbishment, within the Experimental Landscape
 Facility we established a new Carbon-Cycle Research Laboratory with a CO2 (including stable
 isotope tracing) and temperature-controlled plant growth facility, which was instrumental in
 securing new UKRI funding into potential controls on soil C sequestration. Within the analytical
 laboratories major equipment purchases include: a new ICP-OES (£49k), fluorescence plate
 reader (£23k), new alpha counters (£30k), two new high-performance microscopes (£30k), and
 enhanced sample drying and grinding facilities (£20k). Our field-based research has seen
 considerable investment in portable greenhouse gas analysers (>£150k for leaf gas exchange,
 soil CH4 and CO2, and 13CO2 analysers), terrestrial laser scanning (£70k), portable X-Ray
 Fluorescence (£20k), and Digital GPS (£15k). In Cornwall, University investment has supported
 two new research facilities: the DroneLab (£60k) and Sclerochronology laboratory (£14k). The
 former builds on Anderson’s research into drone platforms, supporting research across
 Geography. Within CREWW, the DroneLab’s facilities will be further expanded for water-resources
 research, including new real-time-kinematic GPS equipment and state-of-the-art survey drones
 with specialised sensors for landscape monitoring (£200k). The Sclerochronology facility supports
 marine environmental change research and was instrumental in securing an ERC Synergy Grant
 (Scourse).

 3.3.3. Field sites

 In South West England, we maintain long-term upland research catchments on Exmoor and
 Dartmoor in which drainage ditches have been blocked, monitoring changes in hydrology,
 vegetation community and biodiversity, and greenhouse gas balance. Test catchments in
 Dartmoor are also monitored to determine the potential effects of beaver reintroduction on water
 quality and flood risks. Overseas, we have established permanent plots in the Brazilian Amazon


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 where the impacts of long-term forest degradation are assessed, as well as the effects of soil
 nutrient availability on forest function. With the University of New Mexico, we maintain
 permanently-instrumented dryland sites comprising eddy covariance towers in the Siviletta
 National Wildlife Refuge. These unique field sites have supported Exeter, US and Brazilian MSc
 & PhD students and multiple funding applications.

 3.3.4. Computing facilities and support

 Many of our highest-profile projects involve empirical scientists working with process-based and
 Earth system modellers. Modelling is supported by high-performance computing at both
 campuses including the Streatham Beowulf cluster. The College has provided a major increase in
 support for our modelling and GIS researchers, with the employment of a Senior Computing
 Science Officer, and a UK Earth System model and JULES researcher. They provide vital
 training to researchers and are frequently included as Researcher CoIs on funding applications.

 3.3.5. Professional services research support

 Geography’s pre- and post-award research support provides discipline-facing horizon scanning,
 call-specific advice, and assistance with costings and gaining necessary institutional approvals
 (see 4.6 ILES). The support has been further enhanced by the development of an online Research
 Toolkit and by a £2.5 million investment in a new Research Management system (see 4.7 ILES).
 Our industry-facing research is supported by Innovation, Impact and Business (IIB) partners,
 providing bespoke geography-specific advice and helping foster and develop long-term
 partnerships (see 4.8 ILES).

 3.3.6. External facilities

 Finally, UoA14 staff have benefitted substantially from access to Research Council facilities with
 >£500k of support from the NERC Radiocarbon Facility, >£300k for Research Vessel Time, and
 awards from the NERC Isotope Geochemistry Facility.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 This section discusses Geography’s extensive academic and non-academic research
 collaborations, providing evidence of the impacts of our work on diverse users, audiences and
 beneficiaries. We have developed some of Exeter’s most important industrial partnerships,
 contributed to policy development across scales, promoted high-profile public engagement
 activities, received significant external recognition via prizes and awards, and played an integral
 role in ensuring the vitality and sustainability of the discipline.

 4.1 Research networks and collaborations.

 a) Institutionally. Our strategy emphasises collaboration as essential to research sustainability
 and success. The interdisciplinary reach of our research is evidenced by Geography staff taking
 leading roles within Exeter’s research institutes (see Section 1.2 and ILES 1.3) and collaborating
 on funded projects or PhD supervision with researchers from seventeen other disciplines at
 Exeter.

 b) Key regional and national networks. Exeter is one of six UK institutions to have a formal
 collaboration agreement with the Met Office and has invested substantially in joint appointments
 (see ILES 1.7), with many Geography researchers maintaining close research links. For example,
 staff haven taken major roles (e.g. Mercado) in the development of the Joint Land Environment

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Simulator (JULES), the UK’s national capability land-surface model used in weather forecasting,
 climate, and Earth-system models.

 Notable further examples of funded UK-focused networks include Dawney’s founding
 membership of the interdisciplinary Authority Research Network, with Cardiff, Bristol and Warwick;
 Davies’ (Co-PI) Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award – The Animal Research Nexus, involving
 Nottingham, Manchester, Southampton and Oxford; and Gill’s ESRC-funded Immigration
 Detention Seminar Series with Lancaster, Birmingham, Oxford and York.

 c) International Research Training Partnerships. Geographers have played leading roles in
 establishing Exeter PhD partnerships with international institutions (ILES 1.9) including with the
 University of Queensland, Australia (QUEX Institute, Gallego-Sala, Feldpausch), and Tsinghua
 University, China (Adger, Sitch). Long-term collaborations built by Feldpausch, Hartley,
 Mercado, Pennington and Urrego with >10 Central and Latin American universities and research
 institutes contribute to training the next generation of environmental scientists throughout these
 regions. For example, Feldpausch is now a permanent faculty member at INPA (Manaus, Brazil),
 and UNEMAT (Mato Grosso, Brazil), developing researcher training programmes and leading
 supervision of MSc and PhD students. Since 2016, ten masters and four PhD students from INPA
 (Brazil) have undertaken their degrees within the Amazon Fertilisation Experiment (Hartley).
 Anderson has collaborated with 12 pan-EU partners to develop a major training network in the
 remote sensing of plant traits (TRUSTEE ITN), while Scourse was PI on the ARAMACC ITN
 which trained 10 PhD students from UK, Croatia, Netherlands, Germany, Norway and France.

 d) International networks. Geography researchers are active in >100 networks worldwide. Some
 key examples include:

    Caprotti’s €1.4M ‘Smart Eco-Cities for a Green Economy (SMART-ECO)’ research
     consortium has been developed with colleagues in the Netherlands, France, Germany, and
     China.
    DeSilvey’s work on ruination and environmental change, supported by the Norwegian
     Research Council, has established sustained relationships with international scholars on
     projects led by University of Tromso.
    Evans and Chaigneau’s GCRF-funded Blue Communities project is collaborative with
     universities in Malaysia, Vietnam, The Philippines, and Indonesia.
    Gallego-Sala is co-lead of the international C-Peat Network, supported by the Past Global
     Changes (PAGES) program, which aims to better understand the role peatlands play in the
     global C cycle, and brought leading peatland researchers to Exeter in 2019.
    Harrison partners with Indian researchers on the Water Security Assessment of Indian
     Rivers originating from the Himalayas (WEIGH) network.
    The DRYFLOR network led by Pennington involves >80 Latin American researchers and
     conservationists working to protect neotropical dry forests.
    Perry has established globally-extended networks of researchers measuring carbonate
     budgets to quantify the health/vulnerability of coral reef systems.


 e) Visiting Fellowships. Highlight examples include:

    Adger and Brown: Distinguished Visiting Scientists at CSIRO, Australia (2015).
    Barnett: Newton Advanced Fellowship, establishing new collaborations between         Exeter
       and the University of Cape Town, South Africa.


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Buller: Visiting Professor at the Department of Animal Environment and Health,
        Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala (2016).
    Cook: Visiting Professor, Université Paris Diderot (2016-17).
    Davies: Visiting Fellow, Chicago Center for Contemporary Theory, University of Chicago
        (2014).
    DeSilvey: Invited Fellow, Centre for Advanced Study, Norwegian Academy of Science
        and Letters, Oslo, Norway (2016-17).
    Fitch-Roy: Visiting Fellow at Fridtjof Nansen Institute, Oslo. 2020-23.
    Leyshon, M.: Visiting Chair at Kenyon College, Ohio (2017); Visiting Chair in Rural
        Geography Sun Yat-sen University.
    Quine: Honorary and visiting Professor at Tianjin University (2018), and member of
        International Steering Committee for the Institute of Surface-Earth System
        Science
    Wylie: Visiting Fellow, School of Foreign Languages and Literature, Nankai University,
        China (2020 – postponed, Covid-19).


 4.2 Contributions to economy and society: Key research users, beneficiaries and
 audiences

 Beyond the breadth of impacts and benefits showcased in Geography’s Impact Case Studies
 (ICSs; see Section 1.3 for details), our research produces benefits and impacts for numerous
 diverse users across government, industry, NGOS’s and public audiences:

 a) Major industry partnerships:

 As outlined in Section 3.1, Brazier and Hill have established major and ongoing partnerships with
 South West Water, Shell and the Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB).

 b) Impacts for national/local government & official bodies:

 Key Exeter geography contributions here include:

    Anderson: has shaped UK policy and international practice on drone use in environmental
     research, including presenting to the Science in Parliament group in Westminster.
    Barr: works with local authorities and councils to understand flood risk, housing and transport
     needs.
    Brazier: research on the impacts of beaver reintroduction resulted in government policy
     changing to allow beavers to live freely in England for the first time in 600 years.
    Brazier: invited advisor to the DEFRA Catchment Sensitive Farming partnership, working
     with farmers to improve water quality.
    Buller: served as Chair of the DEFRA Welfare at Killing Working Group and as member of
     the Farm Welfare Committee until 2017.
    Davies: Member of the UK Home Office Animals in Science Committee 2013-2019 and
     served as Chair of the Harm-Benefit Analysis (HBA) subgroup, 2014-2017. Her work as Chair
     informed the improvement of HBA processes in regulatory bodies, clarifying objectives
     around the use of animals in education and training through bringing a wider range of voices,
     including patients, into conversations about ethics and translational biomedical research.
    Devine-Wright and Butler: work on energy and sustainable transitions has contributed key
     advice to developing policy and pricing for the National Grid (UK), EirGrid (Ireland), the State
     of Guernsey, and the Department for Energy and Climate Change.


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Harrison: Head of the Climate Change Expert Panel for the Office for Nuclear Regulation
     (HSE).
    Hinchliffe: research on biosecurity and anti-microbial resistance (AMR) has led to
     appointments to the DEFRA Scientific Advisory Committee on Exotic Diseases (2017-), the
     DEFRA Social Science Expert Group (2017-2019) and the Food Standards Agency Social
     Science Research Committee (2011-2017). He is also co-author of the World Health
     Organisation (Europe) Cultural Contexts of Health report on AMR.
    Little: has led research delivering new understandings of domestic violence for Devon
     County Council.
    As showcased in the ICS led by Mitchell, the Energy Policy Group has made major
     contributions to transforming governance of the United Kingdom Energy System, driving the
     creation of a new area of focus in the UK Competition and Markets Authority’s Energy Market
     Review (2016).
    Safra de Campos: gave oral evidence at a House of Lords’ EU Affairs Committee Inquiry on
     migration (2020).
    Thomas: member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Craft


 c) Impacts for NGO’s and businesses:

    Brazier’s research, detailed in an ICS, directly influenced South West Water’s business case
     to OfWat, embedding research-level understanding in the decision-making of the water
     company and promoting environmentally progressive approaches to water management.
    Cook has a key role in the Global Coordination team of Fashion Revolution, a global NGO
     campaigning for social and environmental justice in the fashion industry. In 2017, he further
     led the design and delivery of ‘Who Made My Clothes’, a free online MOOC course attracting
     >16,000 participants from 190 countries.
    Crowley was member of the Science and Evidence Forum for the River Otter Beaver Trial
     (Devon Wildlife Trust) and co-wrote the advisory report on social impacts of the eradication
     of rats from St Agnes, Isles of Scilly (RSPB).
    DeSilvey’s prize-winning work on changing approaches to management of vulnerable
     heritage landscapes in the context of climate change has informed the work of key agencies
     and NGO’s including Historic England and the National Trust.
    The work of the Social Innovation Group (SIG), led by C. Leyshon and M. Leyshon, and
     showcased in an ICS, benefits a wide range of Cornwall-based charities and local government
     organisations working in the healthcare sector.
    Pennington’s work with the World Wildlife Fund in Brazil is promoting conservation of tropical
     dry forests.
    Thomas sits on the Boards of two arts organisations (Arts Council NPO Kaleider and Double
     Elephant Print Workshop)

 d) Public engagements with diverse audiences:

 Geography staff engage with multiple approaches to disseminate research insights to diverse
 public audiences:

    Anderson’s work using LiDAR data to explore urban greenspaces has led to visualisations
     of the data including interactive Minecraft games and 3D-printed models of urban
     greenspace.


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Cook’s work with dramaturge Paula Crutchlow led to the establishment of the Museum of
     Contemporary Commodities, a touring interactive digital installation, engaging >2000
     participants at sites across the UK (including the RGS-IBG London) with issues of online
     consumption, privacy and data activism.
    Crowley is leading a citizen-science project with 400 cat-owning households, working to
     identify effective means of reducing cat predation on wildlife.
    DeSilvey’s book Curated Decay: Heritage Beyond Saving (2017) featured extensively in print
     (Times, Telegraph, Daily Mail, Guardian, Independent and local newspapers) and broadcast
     media (BBC R4 Thinking Allowed, New Books Network, BBC One Countryfile Diaries), and
     led to a dedicated panel at Nesta’s FutureFest 2018, a public workshop on ‘Objects and
     Memory’ at Tate Britain, and a ‘Curating Decay’ continuous professional development course,
     including contributions from Historic England and the National Trust.
    Feldpausch and Hartley recorded videos that play on a continuous loop to visitors (>1 million
     people in 2019) to the Eden Project’s rainforest biome’s new Canopy Walkway exhibition,
     outlining the importance of rainforests globally. Geography-designed exercises are used by
     Eden Project staff in teaching secondary school students about forest surveying and impacts
     of deforestation.
    Gallego-Sala has helped develop videos on the carbon cycle that have been recognised at
     the Learning on Screen awards and the 2020 Geographical Association Publisher’ Awards.
    In collaboration with game developers, Le Brocq devised Ice Flows, a videogame for children
     that promotes understanding of ice sheet dynamics, now installed at Discovery Point Museum
     (Dundee).
    O’Neill has directly advised the Eden Project, the Met Office, and the Irish EPA on climate
     change communication.
    Palmer and Le Brocq developed a 3D landscape visualisation and modelling tool which
     provides the basis for virtual field trips to cryosphere and high-latitude locales otherwise
     inaccessible to public audiences. This work was awarded a Times’ Higher Education prize
     as UK Digital Innovation of the Year 2020.
    Thomas curated the touring exhibition Two Make, showcasing new craft collaborations
     (AHRC/Arts Council with the Gloucestershire Guild of Craftsmen) and Risk Makers (with
     Made by Hand Online) to highlight the challenges of making a livelihood.


 4.3 Contributions to the discipline and research base

 Geography at Exeter has extended its distinguished record of providing external leadership and
 sustaining the discipline’s research base.

 a) International and UK climate change committees:

 Exeter Geography continues to make significant contributions to the work of the Intergovernmental
 Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). For the 5th Assessment Report Adger was a Coordinating Lead
 Author of WGII Chapter 12 Human Security (2014). For the 6th Assessment Report (due 2022) in
 WGIII, Mitchell is a Coordinating Lead Author and Devine-Wright is a Lead Author. Adger was
 a member of the core writing team for the second UK Climate Change Risk Assessment Panel in
 2017 and serves on the expert advisory panel for the third assessment (2019-2021).



 b) UKRI & International funding body roles:


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exeter Geographers have contributed strongly as panellists and peer college members across
 UKRI Councils, with 5 staff serving on the AHRC Peer Review College, 10 on the ESRC College,
 3 on the NERC College, 1 on the EPSRC College. Hartley is an invited member of the NERC
 Radiocarbon/Environmental Isotope Facility steering committee. Beyond UKRI:

    Adger chaired the European Research Council (ERC) Panel on Institutions Environment and
     Space (2010-2018).
    Brown has been a member of the UK-wide GCRF Strategic Advisory Group (2016-), and was
     Co-Chair of the International Programme Advisory Committee, Ecosystem Services and
     Poverty Alleviation Programme, (ESRC/NERC/DFID, 2011 -2018).
    Caprotti, Gallego-Sala and Gill have served on ERC and EU Horizon 2020 Panels.
    DeSilvey sits on the international assessment panel of the Joint Programming Initiative on
     Cultural Heritage funding call on Conservation, Protection and Use (EU).
    Scourse is core member of the Royal Society AI Research Fellowship panel and serves on
     the awards committee for the Geological Society of London and the Learned Society of
     Wales’s Frances Hoggan Medal.
    Wills served on the 2019 panel for the Phillip Leverhulme Prize award in Geography.
    Internationally, our expertise is regularly sought by government funding agencies, for example
     in Belgium and France (Gallego-Sala, Buller), Czech Republic (Hartley), Norway (Butler),
     Georgia (Barr), the Netherlands (Devine-Wright) and Denmark (Pennington).


 c) Contributions to geographical associations:

 We contribute strongly to the management and running of relevant learned societies. Thomas
 served as Honorary Secretary (RHED) of the RGS-IBG, a key senior strategic role within UK
 Geography’s most important learned society (2014-2020). Also for RGS-IBG, Barr is currently
 Chair of the Planning and Environment Research Group, and previously Treasurer of the Energy
 Geographies working group; Butler was Secretary of the Energy Research group until 2018; Gill
 is Secretary of the Political Geography Research group, and Dawney is a committee member of
 the Social and Cultural Geography research group.

 In 2014, Charman was president of the Quaternary Research Association, which has an
 international membership of 1000 researchers. Le Brocq is Vice President of the British Branch
 of the International Glaciological Society. Butler is currently the convenor of the British
 Sociological Association’s Climate Change study group.

 d) Journal and Book Series Editorships:

 Exeter Geography offers significant leadership to key disciplinary journals and series:

    Little: Editor, Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers
    Wylie: Editor, Cultural Geographies
    Thomas: Editor in Chief, Journal of Historical Geography
    Davies: Co-editor of GEO: Geography and Environment
    Kinsley: Editor in Chief, Digital Geography and Society
    Buller: Lead editor of the Routledge 'Human Animal Studies' book series
    Barnett: Editor for the Routledge Research in Place, Space and Politics Series
    Fitch-Roy: Co-editor Palgrave Progressive Energy Policy series.




                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Additionally, researchers serve as Associate Editor for a wide range of key journals, including
 Scientific Reports (Perry), Local Environment (Barr), Ecology and Society (Adger), Global
 Environmental Change (Brown), Plants, People, Planet (Pennington), People and Nature
 (Crowley), Journal of Unmanned Vehicle Systems and Remote Sensing in Ecology and
 Conservation (Anderson). Staff have acted as Special Issue editors for >20 journals and serve
 as editorial board members for a further 25 journals.



 4.4 Awards and Recognition

 Geography staff have been recognised by numerous external awards and prizes:

    Adger: Lifetime Achievement Award from the Human Dimensions of Global Change
         Group, American Association of Geographers, 2018.
    Buller: Guardian Antimicrobial Resistance Award (research team award, 2018).
    Brown: Honorary Doctorate, Wageningen University – fourth ever female recipient, 2017.
    Caprotti: Chair’s Prize (£500K), Newton Awards, 2020 for the UMBANE project that
         will install solar micro-grids in informal settlements in South Africa, transforming
     lives in disadvantaged communities, with a focus on female entrepreneurs.
    Cloke: Fellow of the British Academy, ongoing.
    Davies: Wellcome Trust Fellowship (2016-20).
    DeSilvey: Historical Preservation Book Prize 2018, for Curated Decay.
    Devine Wight: Environmental Design Research Association Achievement Award, 2014.

 In addition, Geography staff have been awarded Leverhulme Fellowships (Barnett, Little, Perry),
 become fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Adger, Brown, Barnett, Goodwin,
 Hinchliffe, Wills), and been recognised as ISI Highly-Cited Researchers (Adger, Brown, Devine-
 Wright, Sitch)


 SUMMARY: Exeter Geography maintains a world-leading research environment in which
 researchers from all backgrounds and at all career stages can flourish, with commitments to
 equality and diversity externally recognised. Our submission demonstrates a continuous upward
 trajectory in research performance since REF2014. This trajectory is based on: i) substantial
 increases in total income and income per FTE; ii) the strength and quality of our outputs as
 indicated by our position within global geography subject rankings and by esteem measures; iii)
 our development of strong and sustainable industrial partnerships; iv) the high demand for our
 expertise by governments, businesses and NGOs; v) the central role we have played in driving
 interdisciplinary research in Exeter, including in the formation of new research Institutes and
 Centres. Our research is helping to address key political, cultural, environmental and scientific
 challenges. With more research funding and active projects than ever before, we are in an exciting
 position as we move beyond REF2021.




                                                                                           Page 24
