Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 16 (Economics and Econometrics)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a. Unit context and structure
 The Department of Economics at UCL has an outstanding track record of producing cutting-edge
 research across microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics. Our research addresses
 some of the most pressing national and international socio-economic challenges of our time, such
 as inequality, migration, globalization, and sustainable growth. Our policy-relevant findings
 improve the understanding, and impact the design, of economic policies in low-, middle- and high-
 income countries, from asset transfer programmes for the ultra-poor in Bangladesh, to Universal
 Credit in the UK.
 To this end, the Department invests in developing its specialist research centres, exploits cross-
 field synergies, and delivers research-led teaching. We have built an inspiring, interactive, and
 productive research culture in which empirical and theoretical research blend seamlessly and
 where there is a continuous dialogue across different fields of economics, a hallmark of UCL
 Economics. This dynamic and vibrant culture leads to innovative and impactful research and first-
 rate training, with fundamental link to policy.
 The Department benefits from the strong institutional support of the Faculty of Social and Historical
 Sciences and UCL as an institution. This enabled the expansion of academic staff during this REF
 cycle by 12%. Even in the current context of Brexit and COVID-19, the Department has continued
 to proactively recruit world-leading junior and senior researchers.
 Evidence of the Department’s excellence in research, discussed below in more detail, includes
 the 60+ papers published in the most prestigious (top-5) international academic journals in
 economics since 2014, by researchers at all career stages, on issues ranging from decision
 making by boundedly rational agents, to the determinants of macroeconomic fluctuations, and
 network analysis in high-dimensional data. Academics in the Department have won 21 highly
 competitive European Research Council (ERC) grants during the REF2021 period. Many current
 members of the Department have received prizes and honorary recognition during this REF cycle,
 including the Nemmers Prize, two winners of the Yrjö Jahnsson Prize, a Knighthood, a CBE and
 an OBE. We have also been able to nurture new generations of leading scholars, with recent PhD
 graduates taking up positions at in leading economics Departments in the UK and abroad (such
 as Bristol, Bocconi, Chicago, Essex, Northwestern, Toulouse, Wisconsin and Yale).
 The Department has four broad research groups, with the following core members:
     Economic theory which includes microeconomic theory, experimental economics,
       behavioural economics, and finance (Cabrales, Cripps, Gorbenko, Guarino, Huck, Jehiel,
       Kattwinkel, Kneeland, Laroque, Malherbe, Mierendorff, Pemberton, Roketskiy, Skreta,
       Spiegler and Yang);
     Applied economics which includes applied microeconomics, public economics, labour
       economics, industrial organization, international trade and development economics
       (Armendariz, Attanasio, Blundell, Borusyak, Carneiro, Conti, Dustmann, French, Ku,
       Lechene, Lindner, Manova, Nesheim, Piyapromdee, Postel-Vinay, Preston, Rasul, Robin,
       Schoenberg, Smith, Tincani, Vera-Hernandez, Ulyssea and Voigtlaender);
     Macroeconomics which includes macroeconomic theory, international macroeconomics
       and finance, applied, and quantitative macroeconomics (Carlin, Cui, Luetticke, Marcet,
       Olivi, Portier, Ravn and Sterk);
     Econometrics which includes microeconometrics and time series econometrics (Chesher,
       de Paula, Giacomini, Kitagawa, Kristensen, Weidner, Wilhelm and Zeleneev).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The organisation of research activity across these groupings is flexible however, and most faculty
 members can be said to belong to more than one of these groups, allowing us to create research
 synergies at the intersections of different sub-areas in economics.
 We maintain close collaborative ties with the Institute of Fiscal Studies (IFS), where Postel-Vinay
 and Rasul are Research Directors, 20 other members of the Department are Research Fellows or
 Research Associates, and Blundell directs the ESRC Centre for Microeconomic Analysis of Public
 Policy (CPP). The CPP is one of the only two ESRC Research Institutes in the UK. In addition to
 the CPP, there are four other research centres hosted wholly or partly at UCL Economics, which
 play a crucial role in its research environment, facilitating collaborative work among its members,
 offering long-term research support, hosting external visitors, and organizing conferences, which
 provide opportunities for discussion of research ideas and external collaboration. Most of the
 researchers in the applied economics groups are members of the CPP and the Centre for
 Research in the Economic Analysis of Migration (CREAM). Researchers in the macroeconomics
 group are affiliated with the Centre for Macroeconomics (CfM). Several of them also work within
 the Centre for Finance (CfF), which also includes researchers from the economic theory and
 econometrics groups. Finally, the Centre for Microeconometric Methods and Practice (CEMMAP)
 incorporates the whole of the econometrics group and some researchers from the applied
 economics group.
    b. Research Strategy
 The Department strives to generate top quality and impactful research. Since REF2014, UCL
 Economics has maintained excellent research standards, while strengthening synergies across
 different fields, and between research and teaching, which are distinctive features for which the
 Department is renowned worldwide. It now has strength across all core areas of economics
 spanning from purely theoretical research to empirical topics, from development economics to
 macroeconomics, from field experiments to empirical research on large administrative datasets.
 In addition, during this REF cycle, the Department expanded its expertise in two important areas,
 trade and finance. This plurality of research topics and methods, and the lack of boundaries
 between researchers working on different topics, has generated an environment conducive to
 innovation in research, and to maximizing its quality and impact.
 Cross-field interactions The fruitful blend across research fields is a hallmark of the Department.
 Almost every member of our Department has collaborated with colleagues in cutting edge
 research projects, and many of these collaborations span different research areas. This ideal is
 embodied in the year-long Departmental seminar series, featuring speakers from different fields
 and attended by all staff members, and the annual Department research day, where a rotating
 selection of Department members working in different fields present their newest research to the
 entire Department. The Director of Research (Kneeland) and a newly created Strategy Committee
 (chaired by Blundell) seek to institutionalize and support cross-field synergies. Researchers
 targeted as potential hires are sought to enhance this environment, and the recruitment process
 promotes active participation of staff from all fields and ranks.
 Big Data Much of what is currently at the frontier of empirical research relies on large-scale
 administrative records. We have promoted increased collaboration between staff members
 working with this type of data across different countries, and we have benefited from new data
 linkages and an expanded set of administrative datasets available for research, in the UK and
 abroad. In parallel, our econometrics group has further developed research expertise in the
 econometrics of high dimensional data, and actively participates in research workshops in the Alan
 Turing Institute, the UK’s national institute for data science, where Weidner became a Turing
 Fellow.
 Research-led teaching The Department emphasises the active involvement of all researchers in
 all taught programmes by developing a holistic approach to integrating research into its teaching
 culture. The Department has been a leader in introducing research-led teaching at all levels, where
 staff regularly teach material at the frontier of their research interests, and students are given the
 opportunity to engage in their own research from early stages of the undergraduate programme.
 Cabrales, Carlin and Pemberton are key contributors to the CORE project, which the Department

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported from the beginning, and which has had a world-wide impact on the design, delivery,
 and content of undergraduate introductory economics teaching.
 Research life The Department encourages its members to push the boundaries through their
 research projects. The Department supports this goal making sure that all research active staff
 benefit from low teaching and administrative loads, allowing more time for a focus on research.
 Early career researchers are mentored by senior colleagues, who read their papers, collaborate
 on research and grant applications, and help foster the pursuit of ambitious projects.
 There is a vibrant research atmosphere with joint projects between members of staff, academic
 visitors, and regular seminars, conferences and workshops. There are currently eight weekly
 seminar series in econometrics, microeconomics, finance, macroeconomics, applied economics
 (with two seminars every week), a PhD student seminar series and a Departmental seminar series
 attended by all researchers regardless of field. In addition, staff members participate in and
 organize three additional seminar series at the IFS (in applied economics, public economics, and
 development economics). The Department has an annual Research Day attended by all
 academics, post-docs and PhD students where faculty members across all fields present their
 current research. In addition, weekly reading groups in all fields are attended by both faculty and
 PhD students. The Department has also been heavily involved in organizing virtual workshops
 such as the VMACS (Virtual Macroeconomics Seminar) series, which has over 2,500 subscribers
 from all over the world for its weekly meetings.
 UCL Economics has a continual flow of visiting researchers and academics, including a large
 number of visitors from the world’s top economics Departments and Nobel Laureates such as
 Angus Deaton, Eric Maskin, Lars Hansen, James Heckman, Thomas Sargent, and Jean Tirole.
 Furthermore, the Department’s research standing enables its staff to organize large numbers of
 conferences and workshops involving the best researchers in the world, discussing issues at the
 forefront of research in economics. Many similar events are co-organized with the IFS. During the
 current REF cycle there have been more than 70 of these events, many of which have been
 interdisciplinary.
 Almost every year the Department hosts the Gorman Lectures, delivered by the most prominent
 economists in the world and usually published in book form after the event by Princeton University
 Press. During the REF period these lectures were given by Jean Tirole (2015), Eric Maskin (2016),
 Torsten Persson (2017), Claudia Goldin (2018/19), and Daron Acemoglu (2020).
 Research funding Sustaining high levels of external research funding is a primary aim of UCL
 Economics. Strong levels of revenue are central for supporting our ability to focus on research, to
 hire and retain excellent staff, and to support a rich programme of high-quality seminars and
 conferences. Members of the Department supported in preparing bids by experienced
 administrative staff in the Department, in the Faculty Research Office and UCL’s Office of the Vice
 Provost Research. As a result, the Department has benefitted from an outstanding stream of major
 research grants and funding for major research centres. The total amount of research income from
 which the Department has benefitted during the REF2021 period is more than £35m (£18m grants
 administered by the Department, and the remaining from grants administered by the IFS).
 Open access and research integrity It is commonplace in economics to have research made
 available through open access repositories, where researchers disseminate their working papers
 prior to publication. There are four working paper series edited by our faculty: CREAM, IFS, CfM
 and CEMMAP working papers. There is also full compliance in the Department with the best open
 science practices, encouraged by UCL’s Open Science initiative, such as making data and
 software openly available, namely through replication files in available in public repositories.
 Researchers declare any conflicts of interest and submit data collection projects for approval
 through UCL’s research ethics processes. UCL has frequently updated guidelines regarding
 research ethics and data protection, and the Head of Department promotes these among staff.
    c. Impact Strategy
 Research taking place in the Department is motivated by some of the most important social and
 economic issues of our times, and is, therefore, highly relevant to government and civil society. A

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wide and effective dissemination of this research, as well as direct interactions with policy makers
 and the public, are a central component of research activity in the Department. UCL Economics
 nurtures pathways to impact through the UCL Policy Lab, the IFS, direct collaboration with
 governments or other institutions of the civil society, authorship of policy reports, and other
 external communication initiatives.
 UCL Policy Lab In 2021, UCL’s Departments of Economics and Political Science will launch the
 UCL Policy Lab of Economics and Political Science, focused on the promotion and dissemination
 of political and economic research for the public good. The Lab is co-directed by Vera-Hernandez
 and has seed funding from UCL in excess of £1.3 million for the first three years of operation. The
 UCL Policy Lab aims to amplify the national and global impact of UCL’s rigorous research in
 economics and political science by: 1) disseminating research to the public and policy makers
 through a state-of-the-art website with high impact content, and media engagement; 2) engaging
 policy makers through a high-profile annual lecture with a senior policy figure, a “Policy and
 Practice” seminar series, seminars with policy and industry leaders, and Professors of Practice,
 who will be policy makers spending time at UCL, exchanging ideas, and expanding our network
 of policy makers.
 IFS There are very close interactions with the IFS. Through the IFS, our research serves as the
 basis of discussions about the most important policy issues of our times. A particularly significant
 initiative is the recently launched Deaton Review, a result of the UCL/IFS collaboration. This
 review, launched in May 2019, will assemble the most recent knowledge of the determinants and
 consequences of inequality in its various forms. Through their work with the IFS, researchers from
 UCL Economics also have frequent opportunities to engage with policy makers in government
 departments, including, the Treasury, the Department of Work and Pensions, the Department of
 Education, and the Competition and Markets Authority.
 Collaboration with Governments and NGOs Several members of the Department collaborate
 directly with national governments, NGOs in developing countries, and international institutions.
 For example, at the request of the Head of Ghana’s Civil Service, a team led by Rasul is assessing
 the link between management practices and productivity in the public sector. Tincani collaborated
 with researchers in the Chilean Treasury and the Chilean Ministry of Education in the evaluation
 of a programme aiming to increase access to higher education. Carneiro worked with the Ministry
 of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in Macedonia in evaluations of
 innovation subsidies for small firms and employment subsidies for low wage workers. Attanasio,
 Carneiro, and Vera-Hernandez have collaborated with multiple staff members at the World Bank,
 the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Inter-American Development
 Bank in the evaluation of health (Nigeria), education (Ecuador, Senegal, Macedonia), and
 microcredit (Mongolia) programmes.
 Policy Reports The Department’s commitment to producing policy-relevant research is also
 evidenced by authorship of many important ongoing and completed reports such as: the 2018
 Chief Medical Office Report (Blundell); National Infrastructure Commission Property Value Uplift
 Tool (Nesheim); Low Pay Commission Report on The Impact of the National Living Wage on
 English Care Homes (Lindner); Social Mobility Commission Report on the Long Shadow of
 Deprivation – Geography of Social Mobility in England (Carneiro); reports on bilingual education
 and university financing for the region of Madrid (Cabrales); and a report on the impact of cash
 transfers for pregnant women in Nigeria (Carneiro, Rasul).
 Other External Engagement Other recent examples of the Department’s external engagement
 activities include Microeconomic Insights, of which Blundell was a founder and lead editor. Rasul
 was a lead editor of the Economics Observatory website which looks at the impact of coronavirus
 on the UK economy. He was also part of the team that led the construction of the European
 Economic Association registry for COVID-19 projects. Staff members have a strong presence in
 on-line media used for communicating research to policy makers and the general public. One
 example is Vox.EU which regularly features columns by members of the Department.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    d. Strategic Aims for 2021-2028:
 Research Areas Our overarching strategic aim for the next decade is to exploit the strength
 across all research areas built in the Department during the current REF cycle and to embark on
 an ambitious path of ground-breaking and impactful research on some of the grand challenges
 facing humanity. We organize those grand-challenges into three main thematic areas:
 globalization and inequality; governance; and growth, sustainability and stability. Globalization and
 inequality includes work on social mobility, migration, international trade, income and wealth
 disparities, gender and ethnic gaps, taxation, and the impact of inequality on the design of
 stabilization policy. Governance incorporates political economy, mechanism design, policy
 (labour, fiscal, monetary, education) and regulation. Growth, sustainability and stability spans
 applied work in macroeconomics and finance. Understanding the social and economic
 consequences of climate change, and the design of mitigation policies for poor and rich countries,
 needs to be at the top of our research agenda. We also include in the work on growth much of the
 research in the Department on education and early child development. The theory and
 econometrics groups in the Department provide economic and econometric theory for evidence-
 based policy making, such as decision theory, game theory, econometrics, programme evaluation,
 and experimental economics. We also aim to enrich our empirical research in these strategic areas
 of research by increasing our use of Big Data from public registers and commercial sources.
 Covid-19 Recovery and Brexit Two of the greatest issues facing the UK in coming years are
 the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic and dealing with the new relationship with the EU and
 the world resulting from Brexit. Although they fit naturally into the themes described above, we
 will pay particular attention to these in the immediate future, when research on these topics will
 be most relevant for policy making. Multiple members of the Department have already produced
 a voluminous body of academic and policy research on the social and economic consequences
 of COVID-19, and on the design of policies to address these, in the short and the long run.
 Topics addressed so far include, inequalities, inflation, consumer spending, firm investment,
 macroeconomic fluctuations, responses to stimulus packages, tax policy and subsidies to
 families and businesses, and vaccination. This research has been disseminated through many
 outlets and is collated by the Department and made available through our website.


 2. People

 The Department aims to attract and retain world class researchers, producing the best research
 in their fields. We also seek to train the next generation of top researchers in the profession, by
 attracting brilliant students at all levels to our programmes, and offering them strong support,
 supervision, and an opportunity to grow their skills as economists to their highest potential.
    a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Recruitment Strategy Early career researchers bring new and exciting research ideas and are
 central to the dynamism of the Department. To attract the best junior researchers, recruitment is
 managed by the Head of Department and a broadly composed Junior Recruitment Committee,
 reflecting the plurality of research areas in the Department as well as its efforts to increase our
 diversity. The process includes both senior and junior academics.
 The Department aims to hire senior academics who are world leaders in their fields and who can
 add to the existing strengths of the Department and at the same time fit our strategic approach to
 communication and intellectual exchange between fields. Senior hiring is coordinated by the Head
 of Department and a newly created Chair of Senior Recruiting (Manova), in conjunction with senior
 colleagues.
 We pay particular attention to diversity issues, in accordance with UCL’s strong commitment to
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and in terms of academic background and methods, by
 reviewing data from recent years and constantly reassessing the balance of the Department
 across multiple dimensions. Currently 22% of academic staff is female (a low number, but an
 improvement from 16% in 2013), and 12% is BAME (11% in 2013). The Department is taking

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 steps to actively address these imbalances, discussed in section 2c. This will ultimately lead to a
 more productive research environment with a better representation of diverse views and insights.
 New Staff and Departures: The Department has made 19 appointments during the current REF
 cycle: Senior: Marcet (from Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona), Portier (from the Toulouse
 School of Economics), Voigtlaender (from UCLA). Junior: (Lecturers and Associate Professors):
 Borusyak (PhD Harvard), Conti (PhD Essex, hired from UCL-Applied Health), Gorbenko (PhD
 Stanford, hired from USC), Kattwinkel (PhD Bonn), Ku (PhD Cornell University), Lindner (PhD UC
 Berkeley), Luetticke (PhD Bonn), Malherbe (PhD ULBruxelles, hired from London Business
 School), Manova (PhD Harvard, hired from Oxford), Mierendorff (PhD Bonn), Olivi (PhD MIT),
 Piyapromdee (PhD Wisconsin), Tincani (PhD Penn), Ulyssea (PhD Chicago, hired from Oxford),
 Yang (PhD Princeton, hired from Duke), and Zeleneev (PhD Princeton).
 There were 13 departures in the current REF period: Adda (departed to Bocconi), Bassetto
 (Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago), V Bhaskar (University of Texas, Austin), Choi (Seoul National
 University), Eeckhout (Universitat Pompeu Fabra), Graham, Kehoe (Stanford), Kwon, Lise
 (Minnesota), Machin (LSE), Mogstad (Chicago), de Nardi (Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago),
 Rosen (Duke). Many leavers retain close connections with UCL (for example, Adda, Eeckhout,
 Lise, Mogstad, de Nardi and Rosen collaborate closely with academic staff at UCL and visit
 regularly).
 Nine of the departures were at the Professor level, three were at the Associate Professor level,
 and one was a Lecturer. In contrast, in terms of hires, three were Professors, six were Associate
 Professors, and the remaining ten were Lecturers. This brought new ideas to the Department as
 well as sustaining vitality and promoting the expansion of research scope. Two important fields in
 which we had limited expertise prior to the REF period, and which were strengthened in an
 important way, were trade (Borusyak and Manova) and finance (Gorbenko, Malherbe, and Yang).
 Net, the number of staff in the Department grew by 12%, from 50 to 56. Twelve members of staff
 have joint appointments.
 Joint Appointments The Department has a tradition of joint appointments which allow the
 recruitment of (and frequent interaction with) world class researchers primarily based outside the
 UK, and who significantly contribute to the research strength and breadth of the Department, or
 researchers who have primary appointments outside of economics, who bring additional diversity
 of ideas and methods. The Department has 0.4 FTE appointments for Jehiel, Laroque, and Robin
 who spend a weekly set time in the Department and the balance of their schedule in Paris (Jehiel
 at the Paris School of Economics, and Laroque and Robin at Sciences Po). Other joint
 appointments include Skreta (0.5 FTE appointment joint with UT Austin), Spiegler (0.4 FTE
 appointment joint with Tel Aviv), Voigtlaender (0.4 FTE appointment joint with UCLA), Attanasio
 (0.2 FTE appointment joint with Yale), and Huck (0.2 FTE appointment joint with the WZB Berlin).
 Regarding joint appointments with other Departments at UCL, Conti has a 0.5 FTE appointment
 joint with the Institute of Education, and Gorbenko, Malherbe and Yang have 0.5 FTE
 appointments with the School of Management. Furthermore, Koenker, a world-renowned
 econometrician, is an Honorary Professor at UCL and is a full-time researcher in the Department.
 Rios-Rull, a leading macroeconomist at the University of Pennsylvania, is a Professorial Research
 Fellow at UCL, spending several weeks every year in the Department. Johnson, Director of the
 IFS, is also an Honorary Professor in the Department.
 Early Career Researchers Newly appointed lecturers receive rigorous training in teaching from
 UCL. The Department offers them reduced teaching loads (relatively to the already low base load
 in the Department), allowing them to invest time in their research whilst introducing them to the
 Department’s culture and practice of research-led teaching and course design. All new lecturers
 have an academic mentor drawn from the senior staff, and the Promotions Committee undertakes
 an annual review of research performance. Most seminars in the Department are primarily
 organized by junior staff. This gives them ownership of an important aspect of the life of the
 Department, as well as visibility inside and outside the Department.
 A key aspect of staff development is to integrate newly appointed staff into the activities of the
 research centres in the Department. Membership of research centres provides them with

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities to work on collaborative projects with other junior and senior staff, and creates an
 environment where new staff members are able to keep abreast of the latest trends and activities,
 and are encouraged to apply for their own research funding. The Department believes that there
 is a high return to supporting early career researchers and researchers in areas where funding
 may be especially difficult and appreciates that it is easier to obtain funding in some areas than in
 others. It supports research in all promising areas of economics, including those that are
 temporarily less fashionable with external funders (using Departmental funding when needed).
 Most Lecturers in the Department have already been successful in securing their own independent
 research funding. For example, four members secured ERC Starting grants as Lecturers during
 the REF2021 period. During this same period Lecturers have also obtained funding from other
 sources including, for example, three ESRC grants, and grants from the British Academy, the
 Jacobs Foundation, and the Bank of Thailand. It is also customary for senior academics to include
 Lecturers in research funding applications. There are many examples of co-authoring between
 junior and senior colleagues in the Department that have produced publications in top journals;
 current co-authorships include Robin & Piyapromdee, Ravn & Luetticke, Mierendorff & Tincani,
 and Schoenberg & Borusyak.
 We routinely build externally-funded short-term (one to three years) Post-doctoral Research
 Fellow posts into our grant applications, providing junior researchers with the opportunity to
 generate the publications necessary to apply for permanent academic positions. Several early
 career researchers have made excellent use of these opportunities, including as Boneva,
 Cornelissen, Gadenne, and Reich, who were hired at Oxford, York, Warwick, and Northwestern,
 respectively.
 All members of staff are appraised annually, receiving feedback and encouragement on their
 progress, and the possibility of pay awards.
 Promotions At the start of every academic year all non-professorial members of the Department
 are asked whether they wish to be considered for promotion. Each of them is encouraged to
 assess the strengths of their case on the basis of their annual appraisal and discussions with their
 mentors.
 While nominations for promotions are formally made by the Head of Department, there is an
 extensive deliberation phase conducted by the Promotions Committee, comprising senior
 members of staff with a balanced EDI representation. The Committee carefully assesses whether
 candidates meet UCL’s criteria for excellence, considering individual personal circumstances. The
 Promotions Committee reflects the Department’s multi-faceted research profile and its emphasis
 on addressing gender equality, as discussed in section 2c. We set high standards for research
 output for promotion of Lecturers to Associate Professors, in accordance with UCL Careers’
 Framework, comparable to the tenure requirements in top US Departments. Promotion to
 Professor makes further reference to national and international impact and institutional citizenship
 contributions to the Department and UCL.
    b. Research Students
 The MRes/PhD programme The research degree programme aims to train economists to
 conduct research of the highest academic quality. The programme’s success is reflected in the
 placement of its students, both inside and outside academia. In the REF2021 window, graduates
 of the programme have obtained posts at leading universities in the US (such as Chicago, Cornell,
 University of Texas at Austin, USC, Washington University St Louis, Wisconsin, and Yale), many
 UK Departments (such as Bristol, Essex, Surrey and Warwick), top universities in Europe (such
 as Bologna, Carlos III, Milan, Stockholm University – IIES, Toulouse and Uppsala) and national
 and international organizations (such as the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, and
 the World Bank). Around 80 percent of our PhD graduates secure academic or research posts,
 with the remaining ones finding placements in public or private sector jobs.
 The first year of postgraduate research training is formalized into a MRes degree. Careful
 consideration is given to the match between an applicant’s research interests and the research
 profile of potential supervisors. Every new student is allocated a supervisor in his or her field upon
 admission and a second supervisor at the end of that year.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 While the Department takes great care in making sure that its graduates become fully independent
 researchers, it also encourages joint work between students and staff. This has led to
 extraordinary publication successes for our students. Individually, and in co-authorship with staff,
 students graduating in the REF2021 period published in journals such as Econometrica, American
 Economic Review, Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Political Economy, Economic Journal,
 Journal of Public Economics, Quantitative Economics, American Economic Journal: Applied
 Economics, Journal of Development Economics, Journal of the European Economic Association,
 and Journal of Labor Economics.
 Funding We have three Ricardo Scholarships that provide each recipient with funding for three
 years. Through the UCL, Bloomsbury and East London (UBEL) Doctoral Training Partnership,
 students can compete for six ESRC awards. We have also been successful at obtaining a joint
 ESRC-NERC funded three-year studentship. The total funding from ESRC to UCL Economics
 PhD students corresponds to approximately £1.2m over this REF cycle. The Department funds
 around 15 students per year, and our total investment in scholarships was about £1.1m. Some
 PhD students have been funded through research grants, amounting to an investment of
 approximately £0.5m per year. The UCL Graduate School is a further important source of financial
 assistance, for example for conference travel, a central feature of student development.
 Space The Department devotes the entire South wing of the ground floor of its building to a suite
 of PhD student offices. There are two large open-plan offices and an office for visiting PhD
 students with a total of 67 desks (enough for a desk per student), as well as a lounge.
 Structure Admission is initially to the one-year MRes, which contains specialist 40-hour core
 courses in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics, and options. Each course also
 has 20-60 hours of tutorial classes. After completion of the first-year courses, students produce a
 short dissertation. Upon successful completion of the MRes, students are admitted to the MPhil
 programme for their second year. During this year we provide specialist teaching in a large number
 of optional advanced PhD courses and workshops. Students also have their own weekly seminar
 series where they can present work in progress.
 During year 2 (i.e., in the year after completing the MRes) students work on their first research
 paper under the guidance of their supervisors. At the end of the second-year, students give their
 “Upgrade Seminars”. This is organized as a mini-conference where students present in front of a
 broad cross-section of faculty. Successful completion of the upgrade seminar allows the student
 to progress to PhD registration.
 All students funded by the Department serve as Post-Graduate Teaching Assistants (PGTAs).
 Through this they gain valuable teaching experience and are introduced to evidence-based
 teaching practice and research-led curriculum development through the Department’s Centre for
 Teaching and Learning in Economics (CTaLE) and the CORE project. They also follow the training
 provided for PGTAs by UCL Arena.
 International collaboration UCL is a founding member of the ENTER network of PhD Economics
 Departments in Europe (with Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Brussels Free University, Carlos
 III, Mannheim, Stockholm, Tilburg and Toulouse) which facilitates student exchanges, organizes
 workshops and an ENTER Jamboree.
 Graduation and placement 77 students graduated from UCL with PhD degrees and three
 students graduated with MPhil degrees during this REF cycle. We provide extensive support for
 students when they go on the job market, including advice about where to apply, and practice
 seminars for preparation for the job market.

    c. Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 The Department is committed to ensuring that all individuals regardless of sex, gender, race, age,
 disability, religion, sexual orientation, caring responsibilities, and family background are treated
 with fairness and respect. Academic staff (with a significant responsibility for research) come from
 a diverse set of countries: 16% UK nationals, 56% EU/EEA nationals, and 28% from the rest of
 the world. 22% of academic staff is female (an improvement from 16% in 2013), and 12% is BAME
 (11% in 2013). Five of 19 (26%) new academic hires during the REF period were women.
 These figures reveal persistent gender and ethnicity imbalances. To tackle these issues
 proactively an EDI committee has been set up in the Department during this REF cycle (chaired
 by Piyapromdee). In addition, the Department began preparing an application for Athena Bronze

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 status (led by Conti), for submission in 2021. Both the Athena SWAN (AS) and EDI committees
 examined how current Departmental practices address EDI imbalances. Furthermore, the EDI
 committee carries out an annual EDI survey, giving both staff and students an opportunity to voice
 their concerns, and collecting valuable data for human resources decisions.
 The AS and EDI committees identified, acquired and collated recent evidence on gender equality
 in different positions in the Department (students and staff at all levels), both from administrative
 data and a survey, which show that progress towards gender balance has stalled in recent years.
 In particular, most of the increase in the proportion of women among academic staff occurred early
 in the REF cycle, and the initial trend towards gender balance was not maintained.
 The AS and EDI committees then prompted numerous actions in the hiring process. The AS chair
 is in constant contact with the junior recruitment chair to ensure gender balance is a priority at all
 stages of the process. The Department implemented a gender balance policy among interviewers
 when a candidate is female (we do not require this for all male candidates as a way to protect the
 time of female staff members, so they do not have to sit on a disproportionate number of
 interviews). Going forward, a specially trained Fair Recruitment Specialist will be used in all
 interviews, and all those involved in recruitment activities will undergo unconscious bias training.
 Concerning promotions, candidates are encouraged by the Promotions Committee to put
 themselves forward for consideration and are made fully aware of the UCL promotions procedure
 and Academic Careers Framework. They regularly discuss their progress with their academic
 mentor. Unsuccessful candidates are given clear feedback from the Promotions Committee to
 help them build up their case for future consideration. This procedure ensures maximum
 inclusiveness.
 The Promotions Committee has representation from all the academic fields of the Department, in
 order to ensure that all candidates irrespective of their field of specialization are treated fairly.
 Currently, two out of five members of the committee are women. Furthermore, the Committee
 explicitly considers special circumstances such as maternity/paternity leave, health issues, or
 other personal circumstances. This aims to protect staff members with special circumstances from
 being disadvantaged in the promotions process. During this REF cycle three female staff members
 were promoted to Professor, and women now comprise 15% of the professorial staff in the
 Department, still a low number, but a significant increase from 8% in 2013.
 There is a mandatory online EDI training course for new staff during the induction week. The EDI
 chair regularly sends a reminder to all staff about resources such tools for reporting harassment,
 bullying and sexual misconduct, and support for mental health and wellbeing. The Department
 also ensures that the needs of everyone, particularly those with caring responsibilities, are
 accommodated as much as possible, e.g. by moving some seminars from late afternoon to lunch
 time.
 REF selection Staff selection was blind to gender or ethnicity. Four eligible staff members with
 joint appointments were submitted in other UoAs at UCL. Outputs were assessed by a gender
 balanced panel. Among outputs of similar quality, we favoured selecting outputs from female staff.
 The proportion of outputs attributed to female and BAME staff are 18% and 8% respectively, lower
 than female and BAME representation among staff, and reflecting gender and ethnic imbalances
 in senior staff. Female and BAME staff account for 15% and 6% of professorial staff respectively,
 and 17% and 6% of professorial outputs.
 Support for graduate students The Department supports part-time students who may have
 caring responsibilities by giving them flexibility in balancing their workload. All students are made
 aware of harassment and bullying reporting tools, and of support for well-being and mental health
 during registration week, as well as in various other meetings. The Director of the MRes/PhD
 programme has regular (at least monthly) meetings with the student representatives, where well-
 being questions are systematically reviewed. Additionally, Post-Graduate Research Experience
 Survey results are analysed and formally discussed at least three times a year during the Graduate
 Committee and Graduate Student-Staff Consultative Committee meetings.
 Wider Influence Members of staff have greatly influenced the discussion on EDI issues more
 widely in the economics profession. Giacomini is a leader in the promotion of the status of women

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in economics. As the Chair of the Women in Economics committee of the European Economic
 Association (EEA), she devised (and organized for the initial three years) a two-day mentoring
 and networking workshop for junior female academic economists in Europe held in conjunction
 with the EEA/ESEM summer meeting in Europe. The workshop has become a permanent feature
 of the conference, now includes participation from the Econometric Society, and has been
 exported to several countries. Manova has been a panellist in the mentoring workshops for women
 organized by the Royal Economic Society.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Department has a strong track record in attracting research income. Maintaining and growing
 already high levels of external research funding is vital to for preserving an excellent research
 infrastructure and environment. All academics devote substantial time and attention to this activity,
 strongly supported by excellent administrative staff. The resulting research infrastructure includes
 multiple research centres, which we describe below.
    a. Research Income
 Total research funding granted to the Department’s staff in the assessment period exceeded
 £35m, an increase of £6m compared with the previous REF cycle (this concerns research
 expenditure during the REF period, and includes funds with a PI from UCL Economics,
 administered both by UCL and IFS, with a roughly equal split between the two institutions). The
 funds have been obtained from a large number of sources, including the British Academy, the
 ERC, the ESRC, INET, Nuffield, Leverhulme, Alan Turing Institute, DFID, NIH, Alfred P Sloan
 Foundation, NORFACE, Academy of Finland, and also from the Gates Foundation, the Jacobs
 Foundation, and the Laura and John Arnold Foundation, more unusual funders for economics
 departments.
 Research funding allows us to invest in diverse activities enriching the intellectual environment of
 the Department. As well as investment in infrastructure (see below), important uses of the funds
 available from the research income include:
       Securing low teaching loads to allow academics to focus on high-quality research. We are
        targeting a teaching load corresponding to two 20 hour courses per academic year.
       Provision of research funding for, in particular, new faculty, but also, in some cases, seed
        funding for existing faculty.
       Investment in the visitors’ programme, workshop, and seminar programme. We fund
        directly (through the Department or through Research Centres) seven weekly seminar and
        workshop series. This produces a constant inflow of new ideas and helps foster research
        links between members of the Department and visitors.
       Investment in PGR students: a number of our PhD students are funded through ESRC and
        ERC grants and the availability of such funds allows us to attract high-quality PhD students.
        We have also invested heavily in the development of advanced PhD courses which are
        provided in the 2nd year of the degree. These courses are funded entirely through the
        Department via the resources raised through research grants.
 The large number of ERC grants held currently by faculty members and the research centres
 mentioned earlier ensures that income will be high over the coming years, thus enabling our
 continual investment in research activities.
 During the REF period, members of the Department have been awarded 21 ERC grants:
     Advanced ERC Grants: Attanasio, Blundell, Dustmann, Eeckhout, Jehiel, Ravn, Spiegler;
     Consolidator ERC Grants: Carneiro, Conti, Giacomini, Kristensen, Manova, Mierendorff,
        de Nardi, Schoenberg, Skreta, Weidner
     Starting ERC Grants: Kitagawa, Kneeland, Lindner, Wilhelm.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b. Research Centres
 There are several externally funded research centres associated with the Department, and led by
 faculty members: CREAM, CfM, CfF, CPP and CeMMAP. They are hosted or co-hosted at UCL,
 or at the IFS, and they are a central component of the research infrastructure of the Department,
 offering long-term administrative and research support which enables researchers to embark on
 high-risk long-term research projects. All these centres recently benefited, or are currently
 benefiting from, substantial ESRC funding. They are also funded by other sources such as the
 ERC, NORFACE, DFG (German Research Foundation).
 The Centre for Research in the Economic Analysis of Migration (CREAM) has published the
 most reliable estimates of the fiscal and labour market impact of immigration to the UK and other
 countries to date. CREAM has developed novel theory and has done ground-breaking conceptual
 work on the economic effects of migration on receiving and sending countries, as well as
 advancing a new empirical framework for the estimation of these effects. This research has
 facilitated unbiased policy discussions and has promoted the building of fair policy solutions. By
 engaging with proposed acts of Parliament in an objective way, CREAM researchers have shaped
 the tone and the outcomes of policy debates on the economic impacts of migration in the UK and
 abroad. At the same time, extensive media coverage of CREAM’s research has helped create a
 new awareness of the benefits of immigration.
 Researchers in the Centre for Macroeconomics (CfM) (joint with Cambridge, LSE, Oxford, Bank
 of England and NIESR) conduct innovative research on macroeconomic fluctuations, monetary
 and fiscal policy, and the formation of expectations. Centre research leads the way in the new
 area of heterogenous agents New-Keynesian models showing how wealth and income inequality,
 together with frictions in goods, labour and financial markets, impact on stability of the economy
 and on the design of policy. A major effort has also been devoted to research on tax reforms,
 providing rigorous evidence about their dynamic causal effects, work that has influenced both
 policies, such as the recent US tax reforms, and research in universities and central banks.
 The Centre for Finance (CfF) is a new centre based jointly in the Department and the School of
 Management. Its goal is the production of cutting-edge research in finance, or at the intersection
 between finance, monetary economics, macroeconomics, economic theory, behavioural
 economics, and econometrics. It hosts the Experimental Laboratory for Finance and
 Economics. Work by the Centre shows that one key driver of economic outcomes is the limited
 ability that economic agents have to understand how the economy works. Its studies of boundedly
 rational consumer behaviour have had many fruitful interactions with UK regulators, such as
 Ofcom and the OFT, and have fed into the design, for example, of spectrum auctions.
 Research in the ESRC Centre for the Microeconomic Analysis of Public Policy (CPP), based
 at the IFS and directed by UCL Economics staff (Blundell as director, and Attanasio, French,
 Postel-Vinay and Rasul as four of the six centre co-directors), has transformed understandings of
 many key issues in economic policy. As a result, the Centre has been awarded Institute status by
 the ESRC. An example of the Centre’s transformative research is its pioneering analysis of labour
 supply and earnings in families. It provided a rigorous underpinning for the analysis of tax reform
 and labour supply, especially on the employment, hours of work and earnings of mothers. It
 showed the key role of tax credit reforms in the UK in determining the level of part-time work
 among mothers of young children, and it provided influential empirical evidence about the part-
 time penalty and pay progression for women with children. It has had a major impact on tax credit
 policy reform and on policy concerning the gender pay gap and earnings inequality in the UK.
 The Centre of Microeconometric Methods and Practices (CeMMAP), a joint venture of IFS and
 UCL Economics, develops and applies methods for modelling individual behaviour, the influences
 on it, and the impact of policy interventions. This is one of the Department’s key strengths: basing
 empirical research on frontier statistical methods and rigorous economic theory. CeMMAP has a
 successful programme of training courses and Masterclasses that are central to the Department’s
 strategy of providing advanced research skills to professional economists, both in the UK and the
 rest of the world. CeMMAP has organised 170 training courses and over 80 masterclasses and
 workshops, and maintains an extensive network of Fellows at home and abroad. It is home to one

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the world's leading working papers series in the field of microeconometrics, with over 850 titles,
 many now published in leading journals.
    c. Research Infrastructure
 The Department has first-class research infrastructure. All faculty are provided with superb office
 facilities and we provide space for visiting academics, post-docs, and research personnel. We
 have state-of-the-art PC cluster rooms with workplaces for 67 research students. Many members
 of the Department are engaged in computationally intensive projects, and to enable this research,
 the Department has obtained funding for a high-performance computing (HPC) cluster. The initial
 cluster, obtained in 2007, was replaced in 2012 and 2019. The current cluster is housed in the
 UCL Research IT Myriad cluster, integrated in UCL’s central HPC facilities. The economics
 component of the cluster consists of 936 processing cores and four GPUs for machine learning
 applications. We house the Experimental Laboratory for Finance and Economics (ELFE), which is
 unique in size, relative to other experimental economics labs. The laboratory has 35
 computers. The lab was originally created in 2001 and has seen major renovations in 2006, 2013,
 and 2019.
 We have an efficient administrative team which aids with budgeting for Research Grant
 applications and post-award management of funds, as well as administering visitors, workshops,
 conferences, and research students. The efficiency of administrative support has been crucial in
 our ability to raise research funding. We also benefit from excellent support with research grant
 applications and research impact from the Faculty of Social and Historical Sciences (through its
 Research Development and Research Impact Managers) and the UCL Office of the Vice-Provost
 for Research.
 Start-up research funding The Department’s performance rests to a large extent on its
 considerable success in obtaining research funding. However, we recognize that early career
 researchers may find it difficult to access funding from ESRC, ERC and other funders. This
 problem is partially addressed by new junior hires being included in existing research centres. This
 gives them access to research funds from the centres, as well as experience of participation in the
 writing of grant applications. The Department has increasingly found it productive to grant new
 hires small but significant start-up funds that can be used for travel, as well as for purchases of
 software and data. We also provide seed funding to existing faculty in cases where only a limited
 amount of funds is available for specific projects, which nonetheless may have a high payoff.
 These investments are viewed as extremely productive.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    a.   Contributions to the Economy and Society
 The research taking place in the Department is motivated by pressing issues in our economy and
 society. The impact cases submitted by the Department for this REF provide detailed descriptions
 of a few examples of research impact deriving from academic research. Of similar impact to those
 cases is the work of Ravn on the dynamic causal impact of tax reform, published in a series of
 papers including in the American Economic Review in 2013. This work was a major input into the
 US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, the largest tax reform in the US since the Reagan tax reforms
 in 1981. The work was repeatedly cited by the White House and by the Council of Economic
 Advisors in their analysis of the likely impact of the reform, and its former chair, Tyler Goodspeed,
 described the work crucial for the reform. Of a different nature, through the CORE project, Wendy
 Carlin has had global impact on undergraduate economics education, and therefore, on the way
 economics is perceived by new generations of undergraduates, likely affecting their future
 behaviour in the economy and in society. In a Journal of Economic Literature paper published in
 2020, Wendy Carlin (and co-author Bowles) show how this project has brought the lessons and
 methods of the last four decades of research into Econ 101.
 In Section 1 we described the extent to which, as part of our impact strategy, researchers in the
 Department participate in policy making bodies, and author important policy reports. In addition
 much of the academic work in the Department concerns the impact evaluation of specific policies,

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the UK (e.g., Conti on Sure Start, Rasul on the depenalization of Cannabis in Lambeth) and
 abroad (e.g., Carneiro on maternity leave in Norway; Dustmann, Lindner and Schoenberg on
 minimum wages in Hungary and Germany, Borusyak and Schoenberg on school closures and
 COVID in Germany, Carneiro and Rasul on cash and asset transfer programmes in Nigeria and
 Uganda). This research concerns policy issues in, for example, education, health, crime, or social
 protection, and provides important practical data for evidence-based policy making.
 Many members of staff participate in the activities of the IFS and contribute to its strong presence
 in the press and public debate on many important social and economic issues facing the UK and
 other countries. Finally, CEMMAP is arguably the most important provider of training courses in
 modern microeconometric methods in the UK. Its courses cover the implementation of
 microeconometric methods to practical issues and are attended not only by early career
 academics, but also by civil servants, researchers in think tanks, and participants from many
 private sector firms (e.g., economic consulting firms). Several Department members also teach
 courses in various institutions such as central banks. For example, Vincent Sterk teaches
 advanced macroeconomics at the Bank of England.
    b. Contributions to the Research Base
 UCL Economics has close collaborations with researchers in leading universities across the world.
 Members of the Department have editorial positions in the main journals in economics, and central
 roles organizing large conferences, thereby helping shape the research that takes place in the
 field. The contributions of multiple staff members to science and society have been recognized
 with some of the most prestigious awards in the profession, fellowships in learned societies, and
 important honours from civil society.
 Collaboration The Department is extremely well connected to the international research
 community in economics. Visitors come from several North-American, European, South-
 American, Asian, and Australian universities (including all of the world’s leading Departments). We
 have frequent exchanges with these visitors, some teach in the PhD programme, and many are
 international co-authors. We have also maintained our approach to multidisciplinary work, with
 strong collaborations in this REF period with researchers in health and psychology. For example,
 together with researchers in child health, Vera-Hernandez has published two papers in two of the
 main outlets in that field: Pediatrics and JAMA-Pediatrics. Similarly, Attanasio has multiple
 collaborations with researchers from the Institute of Child Health at UCL, with papers published in
 outlets such as the British Medical Journal and Paediatrics. Conti has a joint appointment with the
 Social Research Institute in the Institute of Education and was previously in the Department of
 Applied Health Research, both at UCL, and has published her research in prestigious non-
 economics journals, such as Science or The Lancet. Ravn has worked with members of UCL
 Laws, UCL School of Pharmacy and the Academy of Medical Sciences and has published in The
 Lancet. Spiegler collaborates with researchers in the UCL Department of Psychology UCL and
 they have recently organized a joint conference on Psychology and economics of causal
 reasoning.
 We organize multiple joint conferences with other universities globally. CEMMAP runs joint
 conferences with Northwestern, Vanderbilt, Georgetown, HKUST, Seoul National, Kyoto,
 Shanghai Jiao Tong, Academia Sinica, Xiamen, and these conferences take place both in London
 and in the countries hosting these institutions. CREAM members were among the founders of the
 Australian and Asian Society of Labour Economics and co-organize their annual conference. The
 Centre for Macroeconomics has organized conferences in collaboration with Northwestern
 University, London Business School, the University of Naples, Mannheim University and also
 organized several Special Sessions at the Annual Conference of the Royal Economic Society.
 Editorships Members of the Department have served in many editorial roles during the REF2021
 period, playing a central role shaping the field. Notably, Jehiel has been co-editor of Econometrica,
 and de Paula and Schoenberg were co-editors of the Review of Economic Studies. Further editor
 (or co-editor) roles include the Annual Reviews (Blundell), Economic Journal (Cripps, Huck and
 Ravn), Economics Observatory (Rasul), Economics of Transition (Carlin), European Economic
 Review (Huck), Fiscal Studies (French), Journal of Econometric Methods (Giacomini), Journal of

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the European Economic Association (Rasul), Journal of Labor Economics (Dustmann,
 Schoenberg), Microeconomic Insights (Blundell), Pension Economics and Finance (French),
 Theoretical Economics (Spiegler).
 We have also had widespread representation on editorial boards and as associate editors. This
 includes: the American Economic Journal: Applied Economics (Carneiro), American Economic
 Journal: Microeconomics (Spiegler), Econometrics Journal (Carneiro, Giacomini, de Paula),
 Economic Journal (Sterk), Experimental Economics (Huck), Economics of Governance (Huck),
 Fiscal Studies (Vera-Hernandez), Games and Economics Behavior (Huck), European Economic
 Review (Huck, Mierendorff), International Journal of Forecasting (Giacomini), The Japanese
 Economic Review (Kitagawa), Journal of Applied Econometrics (Giacomini), Journal of Business
 and Economics Statistics (Giacomini, Nesheim, Weidner), Journal of Econometric Methods
 (Kitagawa, Weidner), Journal of the Economic Science Association (Huck), Journal of Economic
 Theory (Cabrales, Spiegler), Journal of the European Economic Association (Ravn, Sterk),
 Journal of Forecasting (Giacomini), Journal of Health Economics (Conti, Vera-Hernandez),
 Journal of Human Capital (Carneiro), Journal of International Economics (Manova), Journal of
 Labor Economics (Postel-Vinay), Labour Economics (Postel-Vinay), Quantitative Economics
 (French, Nesheim, Postel Vinay), Review of Behavioral Economics (Huck), Review of Economic
 Dynamics (Postel-Vinay, Sterk), Review of Economic Studies (Kitagawa, Lindner, Manova, Rasul,
 Schoenberg, Sterk), Society and Economy (Lindner), Theoretical Economics (Spiegler), World
 Development (Armendariz).
 Finally, Rasul has served as Director of the Review of Economic Studies and Blundell has served
 on the Advisory Board of Journal of Econometrics and Fiscal Studies.
 Learned societies Members of the Department occupy leadership roles in several professional
 societies. Attanasio served as President of the Econometric Society in 2020. He was president of
 the European Economic Association in 2014. Chesher was President of the Royal Economic
 Society (RES) in 2016. Blundell and Chesher are Life Vice-Presidents of the Royal Economic
 Society. Dustmann is President of the Asian-Australasian Society of Labour Economists (2019-
 2021), and he was previously President of the European Society for Labour Economics (2014-
 2017).
 In addition, Chesher and Cripps served as members of the Council of the Econometric Society.
 Carlin, Dustmann, Giacomini, Rasul are in the Council of the RES. Rasul is Council Representative
 on the Executive Committee of the RES. Giacomini, Manova, Ravn and Schoenberg served in the
 Council of the EEA, and Manova served in the Executive Committee of the EEA. Ravn served in
 the Executive Committee and the Investment Committee of the RES. Schoenberg is in the
 Executive Board of the Society of Labor Economics. Carlin is in the Executive Council of the IEA.
 Giacomini was Chair of the EEA Women in Economics committee and member of the RES
 women’s committee.
 Members of the Department have also been recognized as fellows of several academic societies.
 Attanasio, Blundell, Cripps, Chesher, Laroque and Rasul are Fellows of both the Econometric
 Society and the British Academy, while in addition, de Paula, Jehiel, Marcet, Postel Vinay, Robin
 and Spiegler are Fellows of the Econometric Society. Dustmann is Fellow of the British Academy.
 Cripps and Jehiel are fellows of the Society for the Advancement of Economic Theory. Blundell is
 a foreign fellow of the American National Academy of Sciences, a fellow of the American Academy
 of Arts and Science, an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, a Fellow of the Society of
 Labor Economists, a CES Prize Fellow – Munich, a Fellow of Academia Europea, a Distinguished
 Fellow of the Becker Friedman Institute, and a Founding Fellow of IAAE. Cripps and Jehiel are
 Fellows of the Game Theory Society. Cripps is Chair of the Economics and Economic History
 Section of the British Academy. Blundell, Chesher and Laroque are also Foreign Honorary
 Members of the American Economic Association. Chesher is a Fellow of the Academy of Social
 Sciences. Giacomini is founding Fellow of the International Association for Applied Econometrics.
 Attanasio, Blundell, Carlin, Manova, Jehiel, Rasul, Ravn, Robin, Schoenberg are fellows of the
 EEA.



                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Grant-giving bodies Members of the Department have served central roles in several grant giving
 bodies. Blundell chaired the panel for ERC Consolidator Grants, and served as a Selection
 Committee Member for the Nakahara Prize of the Japanese Economics Association, a member
 of the International Scientific Committee of the Angelo Costa Prize, the Research Evaluation Panel
 of the Helsinki Centre for Economic Research, Research Committee Chair of the EEA, UC
 Evaluation Advisory Group – UK Government, Francqui Prize Committee, IZA Prize Committee,
 A.SK Social Science Prize Award Selection Committee, Berlin. Attanasio chaired the panel for
 ERC Advanced Grants. Giacomini served on the panel for ERC Starting Grants. Huck was in the
 Phillip Leverhulme Prize committee. Postel-Vinay was on the committee of the Malinvaud Prize.
 Rasul served on the Steering Groups of the Collaborative Social Science Domain and the
 Executive Masters in Public Administration. Ravn serves on the board of the Danish National
 Research Foundation, is on the selection committee of Research Council Norway’s Centre of
 Excellence initiative, serves on the 2021 Yrjo Jahnsson Award committee, was on the Award
 Committee Member – Swiss Science Prize Marcel Benoist, on the PhD Grant Committee
 Chairman – Norges Bank, and was a Committee Member for Vienna Best Paper Competition.
 Advisory panels and boards Department members serve on several advisory boards. Blundell
 served on the Scientific Council of the Toulouse School of Economics, Scientific Advisor
 Committee of MaTax Mannheim, Scientific Council of Netspar, External Advisory Scientific Board
 of Barcelona GSE, CEMFI Board of Trustees, Scientific Council of CFS-SAFE Centre of
 Excellence, Goethe University, International Scientific Advisory Committee of CEPAR – Sidney,
 Scientific Advisory Committee of CESifo – Munich, CRC Advisory Board – Bonn, FAIR Scientific
 Advisory Board – NHH Bergen. Chesher served on the Advisory Board of the National Centre for
 Research Methods and was Governor of the National Institute for Economic and Social Research.
 Carlin is on the Executive and Supervisory Committee of CERGE-EI Prague, Scientific Council,
 Paris School of Economics (PSE) and the Scientific Advisory Board of CES-ifo Munich. Carneiro
 was in the Scientific Board of Fundacao Ciencia e Tecnologia – Portuguese Science Foundation.
 French is in the Professorial Review Board at Bonn and Helsinki. Postel-Vinay is member of the
 Aix-Marseille School of Economics Research Council. Giacomini is on the National Institute of
 Economic Research Model Committee. Huck is on the Scientific Advisory Board of the Faculty of
 Business, Economics, and Statistics at the University of Vienna, the Berlin Economics Research
 Associates Supervisory Board, the Berlin Centre for Consumer Policies Board of Directors, the
 Berlin Doctoral Programme in Economics and Management Science Scientific Board. Rasul is on
 the Steering Committee of Strengthening Research on the Civil Service at the World Bank.
 Weidner is Chair of the Economics Subject Advisory Committees for arXiv.org.
 Research users There is widespread representation of UCL Economics on policy bodies.
 Examples are: the Macron Commission (Blundell); Expert Advisory Committee of the Office of
 Budget Responsibility (Carlin); Cross-Government Trial Advice Panel at the Cabinet Office
 (Rasul); Governor of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (Chesher); National
 Institute for Economics Research Model Committee (Giacomini); Economics Advisory Board of
 the Millennium Challenge Corporation (Carneiro); Presidential Advisory Commission on the
 Pension System in Chile (Attanasio); Commission on the Realignment of Child Health at the WHO
 (Rasul); and academic advisors for: the Competition and Markets Authority (Nesheim), OFCOM
 (Nesheim), Bank of England (Sterk), German Bundesbank (Ravn), European Central Bank
 (Ravn), and Netherlands Bureau for Economics Policy Analysis (Giacomini).
 Large international conferences Cripps was Programme Chair of the European Economic
 Association Meeting (2019). Rasul and Giacomini were chairs of the Econometric Society
 European Summer Meeting (2017, 2019). The Department has been represented on the
 Programme Committee of all EEA, Econometric Society European, North American, and Latin
 American Meetings, the LACEA meetings, Society of Labor Economists Meetings, the IEA triennial
 world congress during the REF period.
 Keynote lectures During the REF period members of our Department have delivered more than
 100 keynote lectures at international conferences or research institutions. These include, for
 example, some of the largest meetings of economists each year, such as the meetings of the
 Econometric Society in Europe, Latin America, Asia, China or Africa (Attanasio, Blundell, Chesher,


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Giacomini), the European Economic Association meetings (Attanasio), and the Royal Economic
 Society meetings (Chesher). They also include prestigious (named) lectures, such as the Ely
 Lecture at Johns Hopkins (Attanasio), the Lawrence Klein Lecture at the University of
 Pennsylvania (Blundell), the Max Weber Lecture at EUI (Carlin), the Solari Lecture at Geneva (de
 Paula), the InstEAD Annual Lecture at the University of Sheffield (Rasul), among many others.
 Finally, they also include keynote lectures at major conferences such as the International
 Association for Applied Econometrics Annual Conference (Giacomini), Leonid-Hurwicz Lecture
 2019 Conference on Economic Design (Jehiel), the 2019 Dynare Conference (Ravn,), Research
 in International Economics and Finance Annual Meeting (Manova), Indian Statistical Institute,
 Annual Conference (Attanasio, Ravn), European Society of Population Economics (Schoenberg),
 CESifo conference in behavioural economics (Spiegler), among many others.
 Honorary doctorates and other accolades Numerous prizes were awarded to members of the
 Department during the REF period. Attanasio received the 2016 Klaus J. Jacobs Research Prize
 and the 2016 Carlos Diaz-Alejandro LACEA Prize. Blundell received a Knighthood in the 2014
 New Year’s Honours List. He is also the recipient of the 2015 BBVA Frontiers of Knowledge Prize
 in Economics, 2015 Thomson-Reuters Citation Laureate in Economics, 2016 Nemmers Prize in
 Economics, and (with the team at CPP) the ONS Research Excellence Programme Award in
 2020. Blundell received Dottorato honoris causa in Scienze Economiche, Università della
 Svizzera Italiana, Switzerland 2016, Doctor of Laws honoris causa, University of Bristol, Bristol,
 2017, Dottorato Honoris Causa in Economics, University of Venice, Ca’Foscari, Italy, 2018. Carlin
 received the 2019 Outstanding Career Achievement Award by the Economics Network, the 2018
 Murdoch University Distinguished Alumni Award, a CBE for Economics and Public Finance in
 2015, and an Honorary Doctorate of Economics at Murdoch University in 2014. Chesher received
 a Doctor of Science Honoris Causa from the University of Birmingham in 2017, and is Honorary
 Professor at Beihang University (Beijing, 2016). Conti (2019), Manova (2016) and Schoenberg
 (2016) received the Philip Leverhulme Prize. Conti received the Nick Hales Award of the
 International Society for Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (2019). Dustmann is the
 winner of the 2020 Carl-Friedrich-von-Weizsäcker prize and was ranked the best German
 economist by Handelsblatt in 2019. Huck received several awards for double-shift.org: the 2018
 Red.Dot Best of the Best Award, the 2018 iF Design Award for, the 2017 W³ AWARD (Gold Winner
 Visual Appeal/Aesthetics and Silver Winner Science), the 2017 German Design Award (Excellent
 communication design/Web. Rasul (2019) and Spiegler (2017) received the EEA Yrjo Jahnsson
 Award for the best economist in Europe under the age of 45. Rasul received an OBE in 2020, and
 was named in the list the world’s 100 most influential economists online by Richtopia.




                                                                                           Page 16
