Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: History (UoA 28)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at York St John University was not submitted to REF2014 but has since grown to the
 point where we can make a submission. The team has used QR funding to secure external
 income, building a vibrant research culture. We have forged research links with the community
 as part our commitment to the university’s social justice ethos and at the same time engaged in
 research activity internationally. Staff have showcased their research in mainstream TV
 programmes nationally and globally, and we are regular contributors on radio stations and
 podcasts. We have formed research groups with other universities while introducing a new
 postgraduate teaching programme, creating a new generation of researchers who came to us as
 undergraduates. In summary, we have generated an entirely new culture of research in history
 at YSJU.

 Context
 The submitted unit comprises ten staff, including one leaver, with a total of nine full-time
 equivalent (FTE) at the census date. The unit is drawn from staff in the History, War Studies,
 and American Studies programmes within the School of Humanities. This team has been
 through a period of consolidation, and has grown steadily over the current cycle, resulting in
 sufficient research activity to make the first submission since RAE2001.

 The university’s investment in History has resulted in a refreshed research culture with a critical
 mass of early and mid-career historians, which is reflected in the growth of our research
 community and our increase in outputs in the current Research Excellence Framework (REF)
 cycle. As part of the wider School of Humanities, we have a firm commitment to interdisciplinarity
 and work closely with colleagues in other disciplines in both teaching and research, exemplified
 by recent work on the Women of York and Yorkshire in Twentieth-Century Warfare research
 projects. We have also forged interdisciplinary research links with other universities, for example
 the Mathematics Department at the University of York.

 Strategy
 The UoA’s strategy for this cycle has been to establish a research culture and community, with a
 particular focus on investing in the long-term development of early career historians. In doing so,
 we have been committed to producing high-quality outputs during the present assessment
 period, and to developing outreach and impact around our research. These aims have been
 situated within the university’s 2026 strategy which has ‘impactful research’ as one of three key
 priorities. There has been an expansion in the staff base, a significant increase in grant
 applications and consequently greater research funding, creation of mentoring and peer-review
 platforms, a key focus on students as co-creators of research-led teaching, growth of a strong
 postgraduate research (PGR) community and the development of greater external connections
 and collaboration.

 Research vibrancy has been delivered through a series of early career appointments and the
 current cycle has necessarily involved steady growth and consolidation. Going forward with a
 more experienced team of researchers we will seek to build on our growing reputation in areas
 such as women’s history, international history, social and cultural history, American history, and
 the history of conflict.

 To further the strategy of strengthening our research culture we have created a firm framework
 of support for individual researchers and collaborative projects. Since 2016 there has been a
 school research and knowledge transfer lead (SRKTL) and a UoA lead, who between them have
 identified strategic priorities and areas for support so that we can tailor our needs to school and
 university research strategies. An example of this is the staff peer-mentoring scheme from which
 all staff have benefited, and the increased provision of research support and academic leave to

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues in History. Five colleagues have benefited from quality-related (QR) funding in this
 cycle, and three from research-only semesters – more than any other programme in the school.
 This has allowed an expansion of both short- and long-term research projects with outputs for
 both this and the next assessment cycle.

 Over the past five years we have also worked to create the basis of a strong research
 community. In 2015 we began an internal research seminar series and external speaker
 programme, with local, national and international speakers; for example, Professor Craig Taylor
 (University of York), a leading international authority on the history of chivalry. These merged
 with the school’s interdisciplinary seminars and lectures after the university restructuring of 2016
 to become part of a vibrant arena to share and peer review the development of research
 projects. These events are supported by an annual research conference and by regular writing
 retreats organised by the university. All established staff have presented papers at one or more
 of these events in the past four years. The History team have also organised a series of
 university-funded conferences and events at York St John University (YSJU), including A
 Century of Peril and Progress? International History Since the First World War (2015),
 Transnational Border Crossings (2016) and The Story of Britain’s Past and Future Place in the
 World. These included eminent keynote speakers; for example, Professor Steven Casey and
 Professor Piers Ludlow, both of the London School of Economics. We also hosted numerous
 public-facing events showcasing research, for example the annual York Festival of Ideas. These
 events included external academic delegates but were open to a mixed academic, student and
 public audience.

 In addition to staff research there has been a concerted effort to build our research engagement
 with students and to create a thriving postgraduate community. This is very much in line with
 university strategy to expand postgraduate provision, especially following the award of research
 degree awarding powers in 2015. This has been built from the ground up. At a basic level the
 foundational value of undergraduate research is stressed with, for example, our successful bids
 for funding for staff-student collaboration through the university’s Students as Researchers
 scheme, the creation of an annual undergraduate History, Community and Culture conference,
 and the involvement of undergraduate students and staff in joint public research presentations at
 the annual York Festival of Ideas, such as “Voices in the University” (2016), “Mapping Women’s
 History in York” (2017) and “Propaganda and People in Wartime Yorkshire” (2019). Student
 research is also embedded in our degrees through the compulsory dissertation and through
 several of our modules. The emphasis on students as co-creators of research-led teaching has
 been significantly strengthened in the revalidated History programme (beginning in 2020–21),
 through which we identify and facilitate a clear route of progression from first-year
 undergraduate to PGR study.

 We have built on undergraduate research engagement to create a new but thriving postgraduate
 community. We have introduced two new taught MAs in History and International History with a
 view to creating a natural ladder of progression between the undergraduate programme and
 doctoral research. The History team are also responsible for leading and co-teaching on the MA
 American Studies, also new in this cycle, which reflects the team’s commitment to
 interdisciplinary research and teaching. The wider range of staff research interests has also
 played a part in attracting a growing number of MA by Research students.

 As a result of this strategy the number of PGR students in the programme has grown. There are
 currently five PhD students (up from zero at the beginning of the cycle) with supervisors in the
 History programme. Three have supervisory teams exclusively in History and two in co-
 supervision with other programmes, highlighting the importance of interdisciplinarity to our
 research. Four have progressed from both the undergraduate History degree and the
 International History MA. All PhD students have passed the upgrade process, we have a 100%
 retention rate, and our first PhD student will graduate in 2021. Two of our BA graduates are
 currently studying for the MA by Research and another graduated in 2018.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our outreach activity has also increased significantly over this assessment period as links have
 been formed with official bodies, heritage institutions and schools (see Section 4).

 Future strategy will reflect the more established nature of the team and will focus on the
 consolidation of existing gains and opportunities for further growth and more varied and diverse
 provision of research. Our staff are currently continuing work in solidifying research clusters in
 international and local history (see Section 2), exploring new possibilities for collaborative
 research and progressing with longer-term research projects facilitated by school grants and
 research-only semesters. These research clusters allow staff, postgraduate and student
 researchers the opportunity for knowledge exchange and the sharing of expertise.

 Strategic goals are reflected in our impact strategy and our two case studies. We have worked to
 embed the research of the team more fully in the local community, defined specifically as York
 and more widely the North-east of England, with the aim of illustrating the historical significance
 of this region. Our impact case study focusing on the local experience of ordinary people in the
 region in the twentieth century, and our annual participation in the York Festival of Ideas and
 projects such as the York-focused flooding and social justice project, the Beyond the Vote:
 Women’s History in York project and work on the history of York Civil Defence reflects this
 emphasis, which we will develop going forward.

 Another part of our impact strategy has been to build interdisciplinary links and collaboration with
 other institutions and official bodies. For example, Price and Horwood have collaborated with
 scientific academics at University of York to create a research group, The York Historical
 Warfare Analysis Group (YHWAG), to produce interdisciplinary collaborative research published
 in leading history journals, such as History, Historical Methods and the Journal of Military
 History. They have also staged academic and public events and deliver papers at government
 institutions at home and abroad; for example, Horwood and Price spoke at RAF Air Command in
 2014.

 Research plans 2021–26
 Since 2013, History has been a focus of investment from the university. This has ensured an
 expansion in research activity. Over the next seven years, the History team will focus on the
 following:
      • Supporting and developing staff and strategically replacing any who leave in order to
         strengthen and supplement our research strengths.
      • Strengthening the impact of our clusters, which will provide an opportunity to build on
         current case studies and explore new pathways for impact; for example, in Early Modern
         and Women’s History.
      • Consolidate and expand international links and explore more opportunities for knowledge
         exchange within regional, national and international contexts.
      • Continue to produce high-quality impactful research reflected in publications of 3* and 4*
         quality.
      • Continue to strengthen and emphasise an open and inclusive research culture for all
         students and staff beginning at first-year undergraduate level and to emphasise the
         importance of research-led teaching.

 2. People

 Although the team is still relatively small, its growth has enabled greater collaborative work
 between colleagues with complementary thematic strengths. Our recruitment strategy has
 enabled us to develop strong clusters of research in modern international and military history
 and social and cultural history. In terms of international and military history, Horwood specialises
 in a range of aspects of modern warfare, including airpower history, asymmetric warfare, the
 Vietnam War, history of nuclear strategy, inter-service rivalry and air mobility. His approaches
 include the application of statistical methods to the history of warfare, counterfactual analysis,
 conflict modelling and simulation (war-gaming), the interface between popular literature and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 military nuclear technology and strategy. Price’s research encompasses science and doctrine in
 twentieth-century military history, British economic and social history, Anglo-American political
 economy and the interfaces between these areas. Barnes’ main research interests lie in the
 international history of the post-Second World War period, especially the histories of the Cold
 War, British decolonisation, modern East Asia and the United Nations. He adopts a multi-
 archival approach examining official government records and private papers collections in a
 range of countries across the globe.

 In terms of social and cultural History, Rivett’s expertise focuses on the social, cultural, political,
 spatial and environmental histories of early modern British society, with an emphasis on religion,
 surveillance and information regimes during the English Revolution. He also has research
 experience in early modern historical culture. His co-authored article “Engaging People in
 Making History: Impact, Public Engagement and the World Beyond the Campus” is currently
 listed in the Incites top 10% (2014–20) for normalised citation impact. Smart has published on
 Greek, Roman and Anglo-Saxon history, and is particularly interested in political and legal
 structures and the ideas shaping them. He is currently looking at ideas of empire in the ancient
 world, thinking about both the intellectual understanding of empire and the structural realities
 that maintain imperial rule. Smart is also interested in fatherhood and how it has been
 understood and defined in the past.

 Since 2014 we have recruited six full-time members of staff based on these existing clusters and
 in response to student interest. Importantly, six of these members of staff were recruited in early
 career, in line with our long-term commitment to growth in the discipline. Brumby is a social
 historian who is interested in the care, treatment, and perception of mental health in the
 nineteenth and twentieth centuries, including the treatment of shell shock during the First World
 War. Duché is a transnational historian of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century France and
 Britain. Her research has so far focused on the social and cultural history of British Napoleonic
 prisoners of war detained in France and French slave-societies, including Mauritius, with a
 particular focus on captives’ transnational charity networks, life-writing and cultural transfers
 post-captivity. Before her appointment in 2017, Brumby won a grant (2016) from the National
 Lottery Heritage Fund for the project Worcestershire War 100: Medicine in Worcester’s War
 Hospitals to research into the medical experiences of Worcester in the First World War. She also
 won a grant (2016) from Rethink Mental Illness to research the private archives of Rethink to
 assess material for a larger project, Rethinking the Stigma of Mental Health Care. Goodwin
 focuses on late medieval cultural and social history, particularly communities of English and
 European nuns in the sixteenth century. Robinson focuses on issues of race in the American
 South during the Reconstruction Era. Callister researches the popular influence on state power
 and international relations in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. Whitewood is a
 political and international historian of the early Soviet Union and Stalin era.

 In addition to the recruitment of staff at the beginning of their academic careers, Cooper was
 appointed in 2019 as an experienced academic and is currently associate head of school and
 leader of the History team. He is a historian of Anglo-American relations in the Reagan-Thatcher
 period as well as of the Troubles in Northern Ireland and brings considerable expertise. For
 example, he was a consultant for an exhibit about the relationship between President Ronald
 Reagan and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher at America’s National Churchill Museum in
 Fulton, Missouri, USA, which opened in 2014. The museum’s director wrote that this work not
 only informed and influenced the museum’s (and Westminster College’s) understanding of the
 Reagan-Thatcher relationship, but also how the institutions would approach exhibits about
 Anglo-American relations in the future. Cooper also was awarded a three-week visiting
 fellowship at the Norwegian Nobel Institute.

 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised research CPD programme
 (over 40 sessions) is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery is mainly delivered by our professoriate
 and by external speakers (e.g. Professor Mark Reed delivered our impact workshop). Our new
 open data repository service (RaYDaR) and research repository (RaY) will further increase the
 impact and transparency of research at YSJU and support researcher development.

 On a school level, Humanities provides internal research funding and following the university-
 wide restructuring in 2019–20 every member of staff has regular meetings with the SRL to
 discuss their research plans and to identify area and funding opportunities to support them.

 PGR training
 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software; (4) opportunity to complete a postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve
 associate fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support
 provided by the School and Research Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the
 year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT), Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 In addition to the institutional provision of facilities and Humanities monitoring of PGR progress,
 the school organises an annual PGR conference and provides opportunities for exchanges
 between wider staff and the PGRs, such as the research seminars and the annual Humanities
 research conference. One PhD student organised and delivered an internally funded symposium
 at the York Bar Convent Museum in association with academic staff. Our research students also
 make use of the specialist resources based at the university, including one PhD project working
 at and part-funded by the Yorkshire Film Archive.

 Equality and diversity
 UoA28 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and Human

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student and staff
 population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development appropriate to
 their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is a good place to
 work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and progress towards
 YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a yearly basis. Of additional
 note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is currently applying for a Bronze Award),
 a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20
 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer, and a Mindful Employer. There are also several
 active staff networks available for staff to join that align with these awards and this agenda including
 the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff networks.

 History complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs. The
 UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the role. Due
 to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level here while also
 complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting Equality and Diversity
 data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE). However, equality and
 diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the completion of output selections and
 reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN development groups as part of promoting greater
 diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional levels. Our data was also included as part of
 an equality and diversity impact assessment at institutional level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The unit has benefitted considerably in this cycle from both external and internal sources of
 funding. The sums involved are relatively modest and take the form of direct grants to
 researchers not generating research income for the university recorded in Higher Education
 Statistics Agency (HESA) returns. Our intention is to use this as a base from which to focus on
 external income generation to further develop our research strengths.

 External funding
 Colleagues have been successful in raising external income, which has had a measurable
 impact on their research outputs. Barnes, Rivett, Duché, Whitewood, Goodwin, Callister and
 Brumby have all won funding to a cumulative value in excess of £10,000 and colleagues have
 between them bid for external income in the cycle, including collaborative Leverhulme
 applications with research partners at other universities.

     •   Barnes (2015–16) won a Scouloudi Historical Research Award (£1,000) for research on
         South Africa's decision to contribute forces to the Korean War.
     •   Brumby won a grant from The National Lottery Heritage Fund’s First World War: Then
         and Now programme for Impact: First World War Legacies at York Army Museum (2018)
         to act as a research assistant – looking at the archives of the York Army Museum and
         scoping out the research for the exhibition (£6,300).
     •   Callister (2017–18) won a Scouloudi Historical Research Award (£600) for research in
         London at the British Library and the National Archives and at Exeter (Addington Papers,
         South West Devon Record Office) contributing to an article on the Peace of Amiens to be
         submitted to The International History Review.
     •   Duché won an Association of Commonwealth Universities early career grant for a
         research project and conference attendance at Western Sydney University, Australia, in
         2017–18 (£2,000). She also won a Fulbright Commission sponsorship for the Beyond the
         Vote Festival (women's history festival held in York, 6–8/07/2018) co-organised with Dr
         Anne-Marie Evans (YSJU) and Dr Kaley Kramer (Sheffield Hallam University), for £200.
         She also won £250 for a conference travel bursary offered as part of the Marie
         Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement nº 746995 for a workshop on Prisoners of War and
         Human Rights in Europe Before Geneva: 17th–19th Centuries organised by Dr Evaristo
         Martinez-Radio Garrido (02/02/2018, University of Warwick). In 2015 she won £800 for a
         British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies (BSCES) fellowship at the Centre for
         Eighteenth-Century Studies at the University of York.


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Goodwin (2018) won a Holland visiting fellowship for research at Durham University
        Residential library (£1,800) in the Ushaw College Collection investigating women in the
        early modern English Church.
    •   Horwood (2016) won a research council award towards staging a one-day conference,
        Borders and Beyond in the Middle East Since 1914: Legacies, Changes, Continuities, in
        association with York University (see also internal funding below) (£4,000).
    •   Rivett (2019–20) won a David Walker Memorial Fellowship, Bodleian Library, University
        of Oxford (£3,600) to investigate the surveillance and policing of clergyman during the
        English Revolution using the papers associated with the Committee for Plundered
        Ministers.
    •   Whitewood (2015–16) won a Scouloudi Historical Research Award (£988) for research in
        Moscow in the Russian State Archive of Socio-political History. He also won a place on
        the prestigious Hoover Institution Workshop on Authoritarian Regimes at Stanford
        University, USA, which had no cash value but involved two weeks of free
        accommodation and subsistence at Stanford.

 In terms of internal funding, the unit has also benefitted from university QR funding to facilitate
 research projects and “catalyst” funding from the university designed to promote all forms of
 research activity with an emphasis on ECRs. These funds are made available via a competitive
 bidding process and have proved indispensable for both individual research and impact
 purposes.

 Barnes, Duché, Horwood and Price, and Whitewood all submitted successful bids for QR
 funding to the university, in Whitewood’s case twice. The unit has received more support from
 this source than any other in the School of Humanities. This money made possible research trips
 to archives overseas.

    •   Barnes received £5,000 to conduct research at the US National Archives in Washington
        DC, USA on US perspectives on the Commonwealth, which was integral to his article for
        The International History Review.
    •   Horwood and Price received £5,000 to conduct research at the US Naval War College,
        Newport Rhode Island, USA on the emerging role of the aircraft carrier in the interwar US
        Navy and the British influence upon this. Aspects of this research were presented in a
        paper at the Transatlantic Studies Association Conference at Lancaster in 2019, which in
        turn resulted in an invited article in the Transatlantic Studies Review.
    •   Whitewood received £5,780, primarily to conduct research in Russia. This also funded a
        workshop, The Origins of the Communist Autocracy: Revisited, held in July 2017, which
        then led to the publication of the edited volume, The Fate of the Bolshevik Revolution:
        Illiberal Liberation, 1917–41, ed. Douds, Harris and Whitewood (Bloomsbury Academic,
        2020).

 Funding via competitive bids from the university’s Catalyst Fund has also been influential in
 developing the unit’s research profile, enabling staff to stage one-day conferences at the
 university at which travel expenses and accommodation were provided for visiting speakers and
 which facilitated the formation of research networks with scholars from other academic
 institutions. These were:

    •   One-day conference, A Century of Peril and Progress, organised by Barnes in June
        2015, for which he received £2,000 from the Catalyst Fund.

    •   One-day conference, Transnational Border Crossings, organised by Robinson and Price
        in June 2016 with £750 from the Catalyst Fund.

    •   One-day conference, Borders and Beyond in the Middle East Since 1914: Legacies,
        Changes, Continuities, in June 2016 organised by Horwood with Joanna DeGroot and



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        John Bibby from the University of York, with a successful bid of £2,000 from the Catalyst
        Fund.

    •   In 2020 Duché received £1,000 from the Catalyst Fund to support archival research at
        the French National Archives in Pierrefitte-sur-Seine.

 Other sources of university funding have also benefitted the research culture and activities of the
 unit.

    •   Duché and Callister made a successful bid for £1,134 as part of the YSJU Students as
        Researchers Oral History project, which provided paid positions for three students on the
        project.

    •   Barnes also made a successful bid for the Students as Researchers project for £712.50
        for the local project How York Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb: York’s Civil
        Defence Planning in the Early Cold War, 1945–1962. The student undertaking this
        research presented her findings in a poster at the UK Houses of Parliament in London
        and also in a paper at the York Festival of Ideas event Propaganda and the People in
        Wartime Yorkshire in June 2019.

    •   Duché was supported with £7,700 by the YSJU vice-chancellor’s “Events That Matter”
        funding for a three-day History Festival in York in July 2018 co-organised with Dr Anne-
        Marie Evans and Dr Kaley Kramer, covered by BBC Look North and BBC Radio York.

 The YSJU public engagement fund has also funded research-related events.

    •   Barnes received £1,000 to organise a York Festival of Ideas event with invited academic
        speakers in June 2017 entitled The Story of Britain’s Past and Future Place in the World.

    •   Duché also received an award of £1,000 from the fund, as co-awardee with Dr Adam
        Smith, for the project Beyond Dick Turpin: Experiences of Prison Life in the Long
        Eighteenth Century, in partnership with York Explore Library and Archive and York
        Castle Museum.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Staff in the UoA28 unit are housed in a single row of offices on the main campus, with a mixture
 of single and multiple occupancy offices. Additionally, tutorial rooms in the same area are
 available for booking by staff. This arrangement overcomes the disadvantages inherent in open-
 plan office arrangements, particularly in the context of engagement with PGRs.

 As noted above, the university facilitates research at the institutional and school levels. The
 university library provides considerable research resources for staff, PGRs and undergraduate
 researchers and has accumulated a strong and growing collection of historical databases – for
 example, the Churchill Archive collection, The Early European Books Collection and the
 Cambridge Core – and now provides unlimited interlibrary loans for staff and PGRs. Availability
 of scholarly monographs and articles has increased continuously in the current cycle: for
 example, the university library has entered into a partnership with Cambridge University Press,
 greatly enhancing our access to their publications, and our access to JSTOR has been
 increased.

 The university’s commitment to research-led teaching has also paid dividends. Teaching is not
 considered to be competitive with research in use of time or resources but as an essential
 component of our research base. For example, all students at level five take a placement
 module which often involves work inside local heritage institutions, and which culminates in a
 conference at which all students contribute. The relationships formed in this way are important
 and one of our case studies involves close collaboration with the York Cold War Bunker, an
 English Heritage institution. This has in turn led to research contact with the Royal Observer

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Corps Association and the beginning of an oral history project intended to provide research
 opportunities for students at different levels of study.

 Our aim is that local links formed to enhance research impact will be strengthened to develop
 larger research projects integrated with local people and institutions, particularly within the
 university’s focus on social justice. In this context, the university makes its facilities available for
 local people and institutions wishing to establish dialogue, particularly in the context of public-
 facing activity such as York Festival of Ideas events.

 To facilitate the achievement of its key strategic aim of research with impact, the university
 launched its first dedicated RO in 2018. The RO includes a head (1.0 FTE) and a further 5.15
 FTE staff. Its remit includes supporting grant applications, monitoring research performance,
 overseeing research governance and compliance, coordinating staff research training and
 managing the PGR student experience. The work of the RO is complemented by a
 new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO). The BDKEO includes a
 director (1.0 FTE) and a further 13.5 FTE staff. The BDKEO is responsible for supporting staff
 in increasing the range and scope of applied research, business development and knowledge
 exchange.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Members of the History team are engaged in a range of collaborative activities.

 Academic networks
 Team members are active participants in academic networks. Two members of the team,
 Horwood and Price, co-founded the YHWAG with scientific academics at the University of York.
 This network has produced unique collaborative and interdisciplinary research relating to
 science, mathematics and warfare in the twentieth century. Published articles from this
 collaboration form an important component of our REF submission:

 Horwood and Price co-wrote the articles “Bootstrapping the Battle of Britain”, Journal of Military
 History, 84 (1) (2020) with Brennen Fagan, Niall MacKay, Ed Richards and A. Jamie Wood (all
 from the University of York) and “Concentration and Asymmetry in Air Combat: Lessons for the
 Defensive Employment of Air Power”, Air Power Review, 17 (2) (2014) with MacKay and Wood.
 Price co-authored the articles: “Dogger Bank: Weighing the Fog of War”, Significance 14 no.3
 (June 2017), “Weight of Shell Must Tell: A Lanchestrian Reappraisal of the Battle of
 Jutland”, History 101 (2016) and “Weighing the Fog of War: Illustrating the Power of Bayesian
 Methods for Historical Analysis Through the Battle of the Dogger Bank”, Historical Methods 49
 (2016), all with MacKay and Wood.

 In addition, YHWAG has generated one of our impact case studies and has staged public-facing
 events at both universities: Horwood and Price co-presented the lecture and simulation “The
 Battle of Jutland: Mathematical War-gaming of Naval Conflict” at the University of York with
 Mackay and Wood in June 2016, and they both participated in the talk “Friction in War: The
 German Air Raids of 15 September 1940 During the Battle of Britain” with Mackay at YSJU as
 part of the York Festival of Ideas on 18 June 2014.

 Institutional research presentations are another benefit of the YHWAG collaboration, with
 Horwood co-presenting the paper “Concentration and Asymmetry in Airpower: Lessons for the
 Deployment of Small Air Forces” with MacKay at the Historical Analysis for Defence and
 Security Symposium (HADSS), Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Portsdown West
 nr. Portsmouth, 21 May 2014, and Horwood and Price co-presenting papers on concentration
 and asymmetry in air power at the British International History Group (BIHG) Conference at the
 London School of Economics in 2014, and with MacKay at RAF Air Command, HQ Air
 Command, High Wycombe, also in 2014. Horwood presented the group’s work on the First
 World War at sea with McKay at HADSS in May 2017 and at the British International History
 Group (BIHG) Conference at the University of Edinburgh in 2016.

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Horwood and Price are currently working on a book, Quantifying Counterfactual History, with
 other YHWAG members (under contract to CRC Press, Taylor & Francis Group, 2020).

 Duché is co-founder and administrator of the Prisoner of War (POW) Network with Dr Grace
 Huxford (University of Bristol). This international, interdisciplinary, bilingual (English and French)
 network brings together 64 researchers in POW studies from across Europe, North America,
 South Africa and Australia.

 Collaborative outputs
 In addition to the YHWAG articles above, other members of the team are engaged in the
 international collaborative production of scholarly research articles; for example: Barnes is
 currently working on an article on US perceptions of the Commonwealth at the end of the
 Second World War/start of the Cold War with Dr Matthew Hinds of the Danish Institute for
 International Studies, Denmark.

 Heritage projects
 Brumby and Price are currently working in collaboration with English Heritage’s York Cold War
 Bunker. This project is integrated with our impact case study, York and Yorkshire in Twentieth-
 century Warfare, designed to form a closer interaction with the local community and to increase
 engagement with its recent past, particularly in the context of the social and economic impacts of
 twentieth-century warfare on social development, including concepts of social justice. This has
 led us to closer collaboration with local history societies and with members of the public. Brumby
 also has a working relationship with Converge, a cross-school YSJU programme which offers
 University-based arts courses to adults with experience of mental ill health. Brumby has also co-
 curated exhibitions at the York Army Museum, the Thackray Museum of Medicine in Leeds and
 Worcester Medical Museums, including The Infirmary and The George Marshal Medical
 Museum.

 Rivett was historical consultant for the Changing Lives Exhibition, Weston Park Museum, 2017–
 18, and a collaborator with Museums Sheffield on Sheffield Women Against Pit Closures, a short
 exhibition. In 2014 he was co-producer (with River Wolton) for the Sheffield City Activist Walk.

 The team is conscious of York’s historical status and a number of these projects are in
 cooperation with local heritage institutions, for example, the National Railway Museum, the York
 Army Museum, the York Castle Museum and the York Cold War Bunker:

 Duché is co-leader of the ongoing project Beyond Dick Turpin: Experiences of Prison Life in the
 Long Eighteenth Century with Dr Adam Smith (YSJU, English Literature) in partnership with York
 Castle Museum, who have invited Duché and Smith to join a group of experts to support the
 forthcoming refurbishment of the museum.

 In 2014–15, Duché contributed to the “Hundred Days” AHRC-funded public engagement and
 impact project led by Professor Mark Philp and Dr Katherine Atsbury at the University of
 Warwick with biographies of Napoleonic objects to be displayed as part of a digital exhibition.

 Collaborative events
 Duché co-organised the Beyond the Vote three-day festival on women’s history in York (6–8 July
 2018) with Dr Anne-Marie Evans (YSJU, English Literature) and Dr Kaley Kramer (Sheffield
 Hallam University) in partnership with the York Civic Trust, Bar Convent, York Explore Library
 and Archive, York Bloom! Festival and the Fulbright Commission. This was an exploration of the
 ways in which women participated in civic life in York and beyond, before and after the historic
 (and limited) extension of the franchise in 1918. The aim of the festival was to commemorate this
 groundbreaking legislation but also acknowledge that many women have still been excluded
 from the vote and from participating in the political forum. The festival was funded by a Fulbright
 Commission sponsorship and the YSJU vice-chancellor’s Events That Matter fund.


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Team members have been regular contributors to the York Festival of Ideas: Duché presented
 the lecture and archival exhibition Mapping Women’s History in York in partnership with York
 Explore Library and Archive at the festival on 10 June 2017 and Story Zone: Voices in the
 University Interactive Display, celebrating 175 years of history at YSJU, co-designed with
 Callister, also at the festival on 18 June 2016.

 Duché participated in the York Explore Library and Archive “Coffeehouse: Debate, Discussion,
 Controversy” lecture series, presenting the launch event for the “Women’s History in York Map”
 she co-designed with Dr Anne-Marie Evans and Dr Kaley Kramer at YSJU on 5 March 2016,
 and she co-presented the lecture “Northern Poppies: War and the Social History of
 Remembrance in Yorkshire” at York Explore on 24 February 2016. Duché was also co-
 organiser, along with Dr Anne-Marie Evans, Dr Janine Bradbury and Dr Fraser Mann (all YSJU,
 English Literature), of Black History Month at YSJU in 2018.

 Barnes completed the York Civil Defence Project as part of the Students as Researchers
 scheme in association with the York Explore Library and Archive.

 Members of the unit are associated with respective discipline-specific societies – for example,
 fellowship and senior fellowship of the of the Royal Historical Society (RHS) – and members of
 the team are fellows or senior fellows of the Higher Education Academy. The unit regularly
 contributes to the dissemination of research at national and international conferences; for
 example, the BIHG Conference and the Transatlantic Studies Association Conference.

 Members of the unit are also involved with schools through the teachers’ network and provide
 presentations both at schools and for visiting school students. Along with colleagues across the
 school, Smart organised the Humanities Teachers’ Network (2020; postponed until 2021) and
 Brumby, Cooper, Smart and Price organised the History Teachers’ Network Event (2019).

 Team members are engaged in collaborative organisation of academic conferences. Goodwin
 was co-organiser for the Gendered Emotions in History conference at the Universities of
 Sheffield, York and Leeds, funded by White Rose College of the Arts & Humanities, the RHS
 and the Social History Society (SHS), in June 2018; and Nuns on the Move: Emotion,
 Communities in Exile and the Reformation Society for Renaissance Studies Conference in July
 2018.

 Duché was co-organiser of the Gender in War Captivity: Interdisciplinary Perspectives
 conference, at the Institute of Historical Research, University of London, on 8 May 2015, in
 conjunction with the Institute of Advanced Study, University of Warwick; organiser of the Military
 Visual Culture workshop, at the Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies, King’s Manor, University
 of York, on 30 April 2015; co-organiser of A Sea of Stories: An Event in Honour of Professor
 Carolyn Steedman, fellow of the British Academy, with Dr Matthew Thomson, Institute of
 Advanced Study, University of Warwick, on 13 December 2013; and co-organiser of the
 Representing Prisoner of War Experience conference at the University of Warwick, in
 partnership with the War and Representation Network (WAR-Net) on 9 November 2013.

 Horwood was a member of the scientific panel for the International Conference Aviation: The
 Impact on Time and Space held by the LPAZ Association, in collaboration with the University of
 the Azores, the Centre for International Studies of Instituto Universitário de Lisboa (ISCTE) and
 the Portuguese Association of French Studies (APEF) in Santa Maria, Azores, Portugal, in
 September 2017. He also co-organised the Borders and Beyond in the Middle East Since 1914:
 Legacies, Changes, Continuities conference at YSJU, 17–18 June 2016 with Joanna DeGroot
 and John Bibby from the University of York.

 Members of the unit have also organised a range of public and academic events to showcase
 aspects of their research and establish interactive communication outside the academy. For
 instance:


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2020 Barnes and Brumby organised a Holocaust Memorial Day event, Steps to Genocide in
 Nazi Germany and Colonial India.

 In 2019 Cooper, Price, Brumby and Smart co-organised the YSJU History Teacher Network
 Day; Price, Brumby and Barnes organised an event for the York Festival of Ideas, Propaganda
 and the People in Wartime Yorkshire; Goodwin delivered a talk at the Sheffield Showroom,
 Philosophy at the Showroom: Black Narcissus; and Smart delivered a series of talks for sixth-
 form students on his research at York College.

 In 2018 Duché co-organised a Black History Month event at YSJU; Goodwin co-organised the
 festival Gendered Emotions in History held at the universities of Sheffield, York and Leeds that
 was funded by the White Rose College of the Arts & Humanities, RHS and SHS; Duché co-
 organised the three-day festival on women’s history Beyond the Vote in partnership with the
 York Civic Trust, Bar Convent, York Explore Library and Archive, York Bloom! Festival, funded
 by Fulbright Commission sponsorship and the YSJU vice-chancellor’s Events That Matter.
 Brumby co-curated with Clements Hall Local History Group and Snape Local History Group an
 exhibition at York Army Museum, First World War Legacies, funded by the National Lottery
 Heritage Fund.

 In 2017 Rivett was a consultant for the Changing Lives Exhibition at Weston Park Museum in
 Sheffield and organised the Off the Shelf event; Brumby collaborated with two theatre
 companies, Out of Character and In the Moment, comprised of people who have lived with
 mental health problems, on a performance titled Medical Monstrosities and Objects of Terror:
 Stories of Treatments in Mental Health for the York Festival of Ideas; Duché co-organised an
 archival exhibition with York Explore Library and Archive, Mapping Women’s History in York, and
 delivered a lecture at its opening.

 In 2017 Callister ran an event at YSJU on the centenary of the Russian Revolution for pupils
 from the Bromsgrove School, at which Price and Horwood gave papers. He also delivered
 invited lectures on the French Revolution and on Waterloo at Bromsgrove School and delivered
 talks on Waterloo, the Battle of the Somme and the 1918 Armistice to an Army audience at the
 Queen Elizabeth Barracks, Strensall, North Yorkshire.

 In 2016 Brumby worked as a principal researcher on a project commemorating the Centenary of
 the First World War in Worcestershire, Worcestershire World War 100, funded by the National
 Lottery Heritage Fund; Rivett was a collaborator with Museums Sheffield on the short exhibition
 Sheffield Women Against Pit Closures; Callister and Duché organised an event at the York
 Festival of Ideas, Story Zone: Voices in the University Interactive Display, celebrating 175 years
 of history at YSJU; Horwood and Price co-organised a public lecture and simulation at the
 University of York, “The Battle of Jutland: Mathematical War-gaming of Naval Conflict”; Duché
 co-designed the “Women’s History in York Map” and participated in the event Northern Poppies:
 War and the Social History of Remembrance in Yorkshire, both in partnership with York Explore
 Library and Archive for the “Coffeehouse: Debate, Discussion, Controversy, Coffee” series; Price
 delivered a public lecture at York City Screen Picturehouse on the Home Guard before the
 premiere of the 2016 Dad’s Army film.

 In 2015 Duché co-organised the Gender in War Captivity: Interdisciplinary Perspectives
 conference at the Institute of Historical Research, University of London, and organised the
 Military Visual Culture workshop at the Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies at the University of
 York; and Barnes organised a one-day conference at YSJU, A Century of Peril and Progress?
 International History since the First World War.

 In 2014 Barnes co-organised a Black History Month event at YSJU; Horwood and Price co-
 delivered a talk at the York Festival of Ideas, Friction in War: The German Air Raids of 15
 September 1940 During the Battle of Britain; Cooper was a consultant for an exhibit about the
 relationship between Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher at America’s National Churchill


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Museum in Fulton, Missouri, USA; and Rivett was the co-producer of the Sheffield City Activist
 Walk.

 Furthermore, members of the team have been engaged in longer term projects and
 collaborations. For example, between 2013 and 2019 Rivett was the historical consultant for the
 Sheffield Women Against Pit Closures, Houghton Main book project; in 2013 Duché co-founded
 the Prisoner of War (POW) Network and continues to be the administrator for the network;
 Duché is also co-leader of the ongoing project Beyond Dick Turpin: Experiences of Prison Life in
 the Long Eighteenth Century in partnership with York Castle Museum; and since 2017 Barnes
 and Callister have delivered a series of talks at the Queen Elizabeth Barracks in Strensall, North
 Yorkshire.

 Media engagement
 Our academic staff have also regularly made media appearances discussing issues relating to
 their research. Barnes has written for The Conversation and the Fair Observer and appeared on
 radio on The Voice of the Cape, BBC Radio Tees and BBC Radio York, and on the television on
 the Islam Channel discussing Brexit and the Commonwealth and the recent Korean crises.
 Brumby has appeared on the BBC series Who Do You Think You Are? discussing her research
 into the plight of shell-shocked men after the First World War. Cooper has been interviewed by
 the Japanese newspapers Chunichi Shimbun and Tokyo Shimbun and the Norwegian
 newspaper Klassekempen, and has appeared on Global Radio and the BBC News Channel with
 regards to the Reagan-Thatcher relationship, Donald Trump’s election and inauguration, and the
 London Mayoral election. Duché was interviewed by BBC Radio York and That’s York TV on the
 Beyond the Vote festival and the successful application for a York Civic Trust blue plaque to
 commemorate the contribution of Victorian women to the history of YSJU. Goodwin has
 produced the blog “Historiography in action: teaching and learning historiographical approaches
 though active primary source analysis” for the History journal. Horwood has written for
 Newsweek and appeared on the BBC World Service, BBC Radio 4 and numerous times on BBC
 Radio York discussing American politics, Anglo-American relations and the Vietnam War.

 Price has appeared on BBC Radio York discussing Prince Harry’s departure from Royal life and
 the Abdication Crisis and the 2018 general election result. He has also written for The
 Conversation and summarised his research in Significance, the journal of the Royal Statistical
 Society. Rivett has produced the blog “Information regimes and governance in the English
 Revolution: Parliament and the case of the Committee for Plundered Ministers” for the History of
 Parliament Trust. Lastly, Whitewood has appeared as a talking head on the six-part History
 Channel series Race to Victory on the end of the Second World War and made a podcast
 appearance on Sean’s Russia Blog.




                                                                                            Page 13
