Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 This Unit submission (26 FTE) is structured into four Research Groups: Engineering (8 FTE),
 Forensics (3 FTE), Cybersecurity (9 FTE) and Modelling & Simulation (6 FTE).

 Our REF2014 UoA15 General Engineering return (14.2 FTE) comprised Engineering
 (computing, construction), Security (Forensic Science), Modelling & Simulation, and Interactive
 Media. Our environmental engineering research was submitted to UoA7 Earth Systems and
 Environmental Science, and our cancer biology modelling & simulation to UoA5 Biological
 Sciences. REF2021 Research Groups are linked to REF2014 UoAs as follows:

 -   Engineering: we integrate our construction and environmental engineering (FTE
     commensurate with REF2014);
        o We no longer return to UoA7 owing to a strategic shift towards UoA6; our
           environmental science research (REF2014 UoA7) is now submitted to UoA6;

 -   Forensics: submitted as per REF2014 (FTE commensurate with REF2014);

 -   Cybersecurity: we include this new research group of 9FTE;
        o This was a planned strategic growth in REF2014;

 -   Modelling & Simulation: is now distributed over UoA12 and UoA32 (Art and Design) based
     on research focus (complex systems modelling to UoA12);
         o UoA32 is a new Unit for REF2021 and has grown out of our REF2014 UoA15
            Interactive Media Research Group (REF2021 19.6 FTE; REF2014 4.5 FTE). Strong
            links remain in REF2021 between UoA12 and the new UoA32, evidenced in our
            strategy and income.

 Our REF2021 Engineering return to UoA12 reflects an increased research capacity from
 REF2014: the Unit now comprises 15 FTE Professorial and Senior (Grade 9 and 10) staff
 compared to 3.2 FTE in REF2014.

 The Unit operates within the context of Abertay’s Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE)
 Strategy (2014-19 and 2020-25 (see Section 1.3)), R-LINCS: Research-Led Innovation Nodes
 for Contemporary Society, which integrates our research into an Abertay-wide initiative designed
 to capitalise on our compact, focused and collaborative nature. R-LINCS bridges conventional
 boundaries among disciplines to addresses key local, national and international priorities,
 particularly in partnership with private, public and third sector parties. Our strategy is focused
 collaborative research and interdisciplinary innovation for impact.

 R-LINCS has 4 cross-cutting themes: Environment (including Engineering and Life Sciences),
 Security (including Cybersecurity and Forensics), Society and Creative Industries (including
 Modelling & Simulation). R-LINCS provides:
 - A single, pan-University research leadership to drive our discipline strengths and
    interdisciplinary research agenda and foster external collaborations (Sections 1, 3 and 4);
 - A cross-University Graduate School, which provides an integrated training programme for
    staff and postgraduate research students (PGRS) (Section 2);
 - Intra- and inter-theme support for RKE (including funded doctoral studentships) (Sections
    1 and 3);
 - Facilitation of public engagement, including STEM outreach (Section 4).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 R-LINCS strategy is overseen by Abertay’s Research Executive, led by the Dean of Research
 and implemented by Theme Leaders; RKE governance is managed by Abertay’s Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee. R-LINCS is thus centrally led and managed: UoA12
 research integrity and progress towards an open research environment wholly aligns with the
 institution. Abertay is fully engaged with (and a signatory of CSCDR and KEC):
 - the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (CSRI)
 - the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR)
 - the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC)
 - the Concordat on Open Research Data (CORD)
 - the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR), which we use to guide
     development of supportive RKE policies, practices and structures (see Section 2).

 We are compliant with our CSRI commitments: all staff, students and visiting researchers are
 required to adhere to the highest standards of integrity in research conduct as set out in the
 Abertay Research Code of Conduct (ARCoC) and engage in mandatory research integrity
 training (including GDPR for Researchers).

 We are developing our open research environment; published outputs are open-access
 compliant, and we are working towards compliance with our research data (freely accessible
 repository) by 12/2021. Our Open Access and Research Data Management Policies, researcher
 development training and individual support provided by our dedicated Research Support
 Manager, has been used to increase staff engagement in open science/research practices, pre-
 registration, and the use of open-access data repositories. We are committed to the responsible
 use of metrics in research evaluation and are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA). Our policy and practice on research metrics use for research
 assessment is included within our ARCoC and is mainstreamed within our Recruitment and
 Promotions Policies and procedures and our REF Code of Practice.

 1.2 Unit Research and Impact Strategy
 Our Research Groups neatly aligns to the R-LINCS Strategy: to deliver research with impact
 by combining academic excellence with stakeholder collaboration. Much of our research
 depends on the interoperation with disciplines beyond UoA12 (sociology, psychology, allied
 health, art and design).

 This interdisciplinary approach with stakeholder engagement has led to high quality funding,
 and as part of large consortia, including UKRI (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC), Innovate UK, EU
 MED-ERDF and Interreg Europe, together with Knowledge Exchange (KE) funding from KTP,
 Scottish Government and the Scottish Funding Council (SFC).

 In REF2014 we set out Objectives for each Group:
 a. Engineering will (i) drive RKE in the R-LINCS Environment theme with increased stakeholder
     engagement; (ii) invest in new environmental engineering labs (1,200 m2; £4.1M planned);
 b. Security will (i) optimize evidence recovery for multiple materials and evidence types with
     stakeholders; move from qualitative to quantitative forensic evidence; (ii) develop a new
     socio-technical methodology for cybersecurity; (iii) appoint a Chair in Cybersecurity;
 c. Modelling & Simulation will integrate process-based and data-driven models, for multi-scale
     complex systems modelling coupled to interactive visualisation;
 d. Interactive Media will lead the R-LINCS Creative Industries theme to (i) deploy new games-
     based technologies in a range of domains to attract Interactive Media funding; (ii) increase
     REF returned FTE.

 1.2.1 Engineering
 Engineering (8FTE; REF2014 9FTE) strategy has been driven through the Urban Water
 Technology Centre (UWTC) and the Division of Engineering and Food Science. Engineering is
 the largest, longest running group within the R-LINCS Environment theme, has sustained
 income streams and has benefited from R-LINCS investment to stimulate new interdisciplinary
 partnerships with sociology and machine learning (Objective a(i); for Objective a(ii) see Section

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1). The Group focuses on: (i) sustainable technologies, sustainable urban drainage
 systems and decision making for sustainable systems and (ii) geo-environmental, geo-
 technical & structural engineering. For (i) we have developed a significant reputation
 internationally for high quality applied research over 20 years, delivering two Impact Case
 Studies. Area (ii) has largely developed within this REF period.

 In sustainable technologies our research focus is technology use and technology at the water-
 waste-energy nexus. We have applied our expertise to determine the capability of decentralising
 wastewater treatment systems and of technologies to reduce environmental pollution. We have
 evaluated technological solutions for hospital wastewaters in Saudi Arabia and examined how
 natural flood management can be applied in Scotland and Nigeria. Our energy research spans
 bioenergy production including development of new bioenergy technologies.

 Since 2003, Abertay has played a leading role in sustainable urban drainage systems (SuDS)
 research nationally and internationally, where we have stimulated adoption of an urban water
 management strategy that mimics natural ecosystem processes for drainage. We co-lead the
 UK-wide SUDSnet network (~1,000 members). In our Impact Case Study, we informed
 development of new statutory instruments in Wales, provided municipal land-use criteria for
 SUDS adoption in Malta, and influenced legal instruments for SuDS adoption in Brazil.

 Our approach to decision making for sustainable systems recognises that engineered
 environmental systems are complex and management requires trade-offs among multiple
 competing factors. We use multi-criteria decision analysis tools, co-designed with stakeholders,
 and computational models linked to games technologies for interactive visualisation of
 sustainability criteria. In our Impact Case Study with Scottish Government, we have
 implemented a new decision-support framework to select drinking water treatment technologies
 and identified specific interventions to support sustainable development in Malawi. New R-
 LINCS funded research with sociology is exploring the adaptive capacity of communities in the
 face of unreliable access to water.

 Our geo-environmental, geo-technical & structural engineering research investigates
 pedogenic carbon sequestration process, engineering soils for carbon sequestration and
 investigating critical on/near-shore soft sediments. We undertake modelling of complex systems
 such as thin-walled structures informing European guidelines, thermo-active geo-structures and
 pipelines, and dynamic event behaviours such as earthquakes.

 1.2.2 Forensics
 Forensics (3 FTE; REF2014 2FTE) works closely with stakeholders to improve latent
 fingermark detection to maximise evidence recovery (Impact Case Study). Recovery
 challenges arise when multiple evidence types occur in combination on the same substrate,
 such as latent marks and inks, and when recovering from complex surfaces such as fabrics and
 banknotes. We have identified a single step process to reduce detection time from over 24hrs to
 30mins.

 We worked with the Home Office and industry (Objective b(i)) to optimise recovery of
 evidence of multiple types from a range of substrates; e.g. we have shown fingermark ridge
 detail is recoverable from fabric using vacuum metal deposition, providing information for
 targeted DNA analysis. Our research on fast, effective fingermark recovery techniques has
 informed policy documents and research strategies published by the UK Home Office, Interpol
 and the International Fingerprint Research Group, which form the basis for operational practice.
 Recent work has identified fingermark development formulations that are less harmful to the
 environment and are better or as effective as the currently recommended techniques at
 developing marks with minimal interference, which are also part of Government’s guidance to
 UK police forces.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.3 Cybersecurity
 Cybersecurity (new Group, 9FTE) is the largest group within R-LINCS Security. In 2017 we
 established the Division of Cybersecurity to manage our rapid growth. The Group adopts a
 socio-technical approach (Objective b(ii)), spanning human factors, networking and machine
 learning. Consistent with R-LINCS, Cybersecurity has worked across disciplines and with
 stakeholders, has been supported by strategic R-LINCS investment (3.5 studentships) and has
 attracted funding from industry, Royal Society of Edinburgh, EU and RCUK.

 Our socio-technical research partners with psychology and sociology to undertake research at
 the human-technology interface. Examples include identifying predispositions associated with
 computer hacking performance (R-LINCS funded), working with primary school teachers and
 Education Scotland to develop teaching materials to support cybersecurity in the curriculum (R-
 LINCS studentship), exploring mobile security awareness in adults, and investigating how socio-
 organisational factors influence organisational security behaviour (R-LINCS funded).

 Our technical research spans design patterns for cybersecurity (RSE-funded, Section 3.4),
 machine learning for intrusion detection, critical infrastructure protection, security auditing, post-
 exploitation analysis and attack aware software toolkits, GPGPU accelerated digital forensics
 privacy-preserving modelling, and secure image banks for NHS Scotland (MRC-funded, Section
 3.4).

 Working with NCR Corporation (world leader in consumer transaction technologies, co-funded
 R-LINCS studentship), we identified the impact of social presence on dishonesty at self-service
 checkouts. We worked with Droman Crime Solutions, Police Scotland and games company
 Hyper Luminal to co-design an app for training police officers to respond to cyber-crimes which
 is now part of Droman’s training provision. New cybersecurity research in training is EU-funded
 (see Section 3.4).

 For Objective b(iii) we appointed two (rather than one) professors: Karen Renaud (formerly
 University of Glasgow) and Graham Johnson (formerly NCR Corporation) to develop our socio-
 technical research with leadership from academia and industry. The rapid growth of
 cybersecurity continues: Section 1.3 outlines a £18.2M cyberQuarter (£11.7M external
 investment) to extend our working with industry.

 1.2.4 Modelling & Simulation
 Modelling & Simulation (6FTE (and 4FTE in UoA32); REF2014 4.5FTE (and 8FTE in UoAs 5
 and 7)) explores complex phenomena over multiple scales (Objective c(i)), and interactive
 visualisation (Objective d(i)) in engineering, physics, health and computer games. Note
 Objective d(ii) is met by returning a new UoA32 Art and Design submission (19.9FTE).

 REF2014 Modelling & Simulation was distributed across mathematical biology and computer
 games (returned in UoAs 15, 5 and 7). In 2017, Modelling & Simulation was consolidated into
 the Division of Games Technology and Mathematics. The Division was formed in response to
 the strategic importance of computer games to Abertay (in which we are a world leader) and the
 fundamental role that Modelling & Simulation has in games technology.

 Modelling & Simulation worked with Engineering to provide interactive visualisations that
 underpin sustainable decision-making (Section 1.2.1). In Stepping Up (led by University of
 Manchester, EPSRC) we developed a better understanding of the water-energy-food nexus;
 Abertay led multi-scale systems modelling with interactive visualisation to support multi-objective
 decision making with stakeholders. Physics research focuses on high-precision simulation of
 multi-scale dynamical systems: we exploit games engine efficiencies for molecular dynamics
 simulations for plasma processing (with University of Glasgow). In work supported by R-LINCS,
 Royal Society and Carnegie Trust, we have procedurally generated clouds and lightning in
 games. With the University of Bern, our lightning model is being used in planetary Global
 Circulation Models.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For health (with Universities of St Andrews and Edinburgh) we characterised tumour tissue and
 cell signalling dynamics in response to therapeutic interventions and oncological mutations. With
 UoA32 we developed a real-time interactive visualisation of a cancer cell and this work has led
 to a new partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support to use network visualisation to improve
 cancer support provision across the UK (see Section 4).

 In computer games Abertay (lead) and partners Universities of St Andrews and Dundee, were
 awarded InGAME: Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise, an £11.5M AHRC and SFC
 funded research and innovation centre. Within InGAME, Modelling & Simulation is playing a
 leading role in technology experimentation and diversification (Section 3).

 1.3 Future Strategic Aims and Objectives
 R-LINCS 2020-25 (Figure 1) is an evolution of our 2014-19 strategy: themes have evolved into
 Challenge Spaces. In a new development we are building research leadership in Pools of
 Excellence, i.e., distinct ways of working that cross-cut Challenge Spaces areas and discipline
 strengths encapsulated in academic Divisions. Over the next five years, Abertay will invest in
 and support c.15 fully funded PhD studentships, funded PhD studentships for newly appointed
 academic staff (subject to the approval of a research plan that is aligned with the R-LINCS
 objectives), Abertay Futures Scholarships, Pump Priming awards, and Open Access Publication
 awards.




 Figure 1: R-LINCS 2020-25



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering will maintain deep links with Scottish Government to inform policy and practice
 nationally and internationally. A developing focus is research on soil carbon processes in (i)
 micro-scale mineral carbonation in agricultural and urban soils, (ii) fate of water treatment
 sludges and wastewater treatment sludges (recalcitrant micro-organic pollutants from use of
 pharmaceutical compounds); and (iii) with Modelling & Simulation, developing machine
 learning to extract soil information from mobile phone images. Engineering will play a leading
 role in “Sustainable Development & Inclusive Living” and, based on our stakeholder engagement
 expertise, in “Co-creation and external engagement”.

 Objective 1: (a) to inform policy and practice in sustainable technologies, systems and decision
 making nationally and internationally; and (b) to develop our focus on soil carbon processes.

 Forensics will collaborate with industry, government agencies and supra-institutional
 organisations to develop underpinning scientific evidence to improve forensic science and its
 practice. We will align to UK/Scottish Governments’ strategic priorities in evidence-based
 policing and quality assured forensic science (including ISO17025). In addition to detecting
 fingermarks on complex surfaces, we will develop methods for the extraction of intelligence from
 crime scenes. This includes holistic interpretation of examination of evidence (e.g., effects of
 human factors on micro dynamics of fingermarks; chemometrics and Bayesian network analysis)
 with psychology and biomedical science. With Engineering, we will research trace evidence
 detection and interpretation (e.g., micro-plastics in water). Forensics will contribute to “Security,
 Equality and Social Justice” and, through its development of evidence interpretation
 “Experimentation and systems modelling”.

 Objective 2: (a) working with industry and government to inform policy and practice in fingermark
 visualisation and interpretation; and (b) to expand our work on intelligence from crime scenes,
 trace evidence, and environmental forensics by building interdisciplinary collaborations.

 Cybersecurity will frame its future activity through a new cyberQuarter, an £18.2M (£11.7M
 Tay Cities Deal, £6.5M Abertay investment) on-campus Centre (~1000 m2). The cyberQuarter
 will bring together academia and industry (currently 18 partners) to: create new products,
 markets and services; catalyse the growth of a Cybersecurity cluster that will retain and attract
 talent and investment; and make businesses and citizens more cyber-resilient. Central to our
 research will be usable security, i.e., security measures that are technically robust and realistic
 in their expectations of users. The scale of the cyberQuarter means that Cybersecurity will make
 a major contribution to “Security, Equality and Social Justice”, and cybersecurity is fundamental
 to “Digital transformation and emerging technologies”.

 Objective 3: cyberQuarter will work with industry to research and deploy socio-technical
 solutions to enhance cybersecurity in the SME sector.

 Modelling & Simulation will continue to enhance core technological competencies through
 funding in applied areas. A key growth area is emerging technologies (machine learning, high-
 performance simulation, dynamical systems models, etc.) linked to interactive experiences
 (games, games engine technologies and both entertainment and applied games contexts (e.g.,
 manufacturing). To support this growth Abertay has invested in the Emergent Technology
 Centre (ETC, see Section 3) which will house a 5G network core, part of a £4M 5G R&D
 Testbed partnership with Dundee City Council and Scottish Futures Trust; Abertay is the lead
 R&D partner and will host the Scottish 5G Centre’s first innovation hub to support R&D on
 enabling technologies for applications where mobile plays a key role (e.g., service delivery,
 Internet of Things). The 5G network will be a testbed located on the city’s £1B waterfront
 development adjacent to the V&A Museum for Design in Dundee. Modelling & Simulation will
 drive “Digital transformation and emerging technologies” and contribute computational
 techniques to “Experimentation and systems modelling”.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Objective 4: Modelling & simulation will work with UoA32 and Cybersecurity to undertake
 research in machine learning for network management, dynamical systems modelling, the
 Internet of Things and 5G-backed interactive experiences.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Unit size has almost doubled since REF2014 (14.2FTE-26FTE) and has a broad
 demographic: 5 Professors (one of whom is Head of Division (HoD)), 2 further HoDs, 8 Senior
 Lecturers (SL, Grade 9) and 11 Lecturers (Grade 7 and 8).

 In contrast, REF2014 Engineering had 1.2 Professors and 1 SL and this increase in research
 capacity has arisen from a strategic, systematic and sustained approach to staff
 recruitment and development. All Category A staff are on permanent contracts.

 Recruitment: We have aggregated recruitment (see Equality, Diversity & Inclusion, Section 2.3)
 by School: School of Applied Sciences (SAS: Engineering, Forensics) and School of Design and
 Informatics (SDI: Cybersecurity, Modelling & Simulation (drawn from the Division of Games
 Techology and Mathematics). Recruitment and associated EDI data is only available from 2017
 owing to a system update. Since 2017, SAS made 6 appointments (82 applicants): 1 HoD, 1 SL;
 3 Lecturer; 1 Research Associate. Since 2017, SDI made 14 appointments (104 applicants): 2
 Professors, 1 SL, 4 Lecturers, 2 Research Fellows, 3 Research Assistants and 2 Teaching
 Fellows.

 New staff benefit from a comprehensive Induction Programme covering PGR regulations, R-
 LINCS, ARCoC, CSRI, CORD and CSCDR. Depending on experience, new staff undertake our
 PgCert Academic Practice (PgCAP) which includes an optional taught module on research
 covering regulations and policies underpinning research practice, building RKE networks,
 research planning and funding.

 Consistent with the CSCDR, all staff have personal Development Discussions with their HoDs
 (Line Managers) twice a year. Development Discussions appraise both short-term research
 objectives and long-term plans, discuss development needs, and review any well-being and
 workload issues. UoA12 includes HoDs for Engineering, Cybersecurity, Modelling & Simulation
 and the HoD for Forensics (2014-18), which affords a strong alignment between Unit and staff
 development.

 Development needs are met through the Graduate School and HoDs. The Graduate School has
 three Researcher Development Staff who, together with senior Abertay staff, provide >100
 development opportunities annually. Training includes advanced statistics, GDPR, impact,
 enterprise, PGR supervision, public engagement, paper and grant writing. Where necessary,
 staff development needs were met by external organisations, (e.g., Fast Track Impact;
 Transparent and Reproducible Science training). In addition to externally sourced funding
 (Section 3), Divisions provide internal support for travel, conference attendance, etc. (~£135K for
 UoA12 over REF2021).

 Academic Enterprise: R-LINCS provides leadership in Academic Enterprise (two academics with
 excellent KE track record). Abertay initiated Bell Street Ventures (2019), an enterprise hub to
 develop enterprise and entrepreneurship skills and is supported by a charitable donation and
 Santander Universities Network.

 Mentoring: Abertay provides internal mentoring through the PgCAP. In addition, we joined a
 Cross-Institutional Academic Mentoring Scheme TRAM (from 2016) with the Universities of
 Dundee and St Andrews. Originally aimed at ECRs it has since been extended to senior
 academics and to three more HEIs. Academic staff are matched annually with mentors/mentees
 at external institutions to provide objective support for career development. UoA12 benefits from
 and contributes to TRAM (2 female, 3 male mentees; 2 female, 4 male mentors).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Promotion: In 2014, a new promotion process was adopted and a panel consisting of the
 Principal, Deputy Principal, all Deans, the Head of Human Resources, and an external member
 (usually university senior management) is convened annually to consider written submissions for
 promotion. Table 1 illustrates the outcome of the promotion process for SAS and SDI Divisions
 contributing to UoA12. The overall success rate was 34%.

  Grade G9_SL to       G8_L to       G7_L to      TF to G7_L total total           %
           G10_Prof    G9_SL         G8_L                          apps success overall
  Year     apps suc. apps suc. apps suc. apps suc.
  2014     3     2     6      2      0       0    0       0        9     4         44
  2015     0     0     2      2      2       1    0       0        4     3         75
  2016     1     0     0      0      0       0    0       0        1     0         0
  2017     0     0     0      0      0       0    0       0        0     0         0
  2018     0     0     2      0      4       2    1       0        7     2         29
  2019     0     0     1      0      1       1    0       0        2     1         50
  2020     0     0     2      1      4       2    1       0        7     3         43
 Table 1: UoA12 promotion applications for grade (G) transitions from Teaching Fellow (TF),
 Lecturer (Grades 7 and 8), Senior Lecturer (Grade 9) and Professor (Grade 10).

 2.2 Research students
 The number of doctoral degrees awarded has almost doubled from REF2014 (14 over 5 years
 to 33.5 over 7 years). This increase has been sustained over REF2021: the average annual
 number of registered PhD students is 35.6 for a Unit of 26 FTE. Viva voce success rates have
 increased to 100% from 2016/17 due to a structured approach to support PGRS progress
 provided by the Graduate School.

 All PGRS are based in Abertay’s Graduate School, allowing access to training and a large peer
 group from other disciplines. As well as providing physical resources (allocated desk in an open-
 plan office, social area, IT equipment), the Graduate School provides:
 − Progress panels: Students complete an annual progress report and presentation to a
     Review Panel to assure student progress, supervision quality and provide an opportunity to
     address any issues.
 − Personal development planning: Students track meetings, achievements, goals and
     training needs into a Vitae Researcher Development Framework system, which must be
     submitted for approval one month before the PhD thesis. This ensures that students are
     systematically focused on progress, and are able to articulate research, experience and
     wider achievements attained throughout their PG training.
 − Annual Graduate School conference: All PGRS are required to present their research to
     peers, supervisors and academic staff from across Abertay, helping students develop
     presentation skills and confidence in a professional context.
 − Training: Weekly skills-based seminars are held to meet training needs, including research
     methods, statistics, qualitative analysis, public engagement and outreach training, academic
     writing, funding applications and business development.
 − Access to Researcher Development Staff: providing tailored statistical support, and
     academic advice e.g., funding applications.
 − Funding opportunities: students can apply to a dedicated fund for conference attendance
     and researcher training support.

 To further support PGRS, staff inexperienced in postgraduate supervision are required to
 complete an online Epigeum course on Supervising Doctoral Studies and our in-house
 training before being mentored through a first PGRS supervision. Those new to Research
 Degrees examination must engage with our Novice Internal Examiners Process which
 involves in-house training and observation of viva voce.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Discipline-specific support is also provided. Abertay is a (subscription) member of several pan-
 Scotland Research Pools that are funded to stimulate collaboration amongst Scottish HEIs,
 including PGR training. For example, we are part of the Scottish Alliance for Geoscience,
 Environment and Society (SAGES), which has provided PGRS international travel grants for
 research visits and conference participation. PGRS have engaged in the Scottish Informatics
 and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) Graduate Academy (PhD conference) and Demofest,
 an RKE showcase event for PGRS and staff. Internal and external funds are used to provide
 PGRS with conference/ summer school attendance, nationally and internationally. PhD students
 were also part of our showcase for UKRI research on the UKRI main stand at the American
 Association for the Advancement of Science conference (2019).

 We have received studentships from SAGES (co-funded by Abertay), industry (e.g., NCR
 (Section 1.2.3)), Scottish Government (co-funded by Abertay), Northwood Trust (that leveraged
 additional external funds (£0.4M)) and Research Degree registration by externally funded RAs.

 Recruitment is centrally managed, and our procedures adhere to the UK Quality Code for Higher
 Education requiring that selection is undertaken by at least three suitably trained staff and is
 compliant with our Equality & Diversity Policy. The University’s Admissions Policy states that,
 subject to availability, admission is open to all those that have the ability to benefit from the
 opportunity to study for a given degree. The University will only admit students to programmes of
 research degree study that are properly resourced and supported.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 To maintain consistency, inclusion and fairness all REF2021 Units have followed a centralised
 approach to EDI.

 Abertay’s ethos embeds inclusion, diversity and equality in all our policies, operations and
 strategic thinking. We recognise and value colleagues and students with different backgrounds,
 experiences and attitudes who bring fresh ideas and perspectives to the University. Since
 REF2014, the University has been awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze award (2015, 2018). Led
 by the Graduate School, the self-assessment team helped drive development of fair and
 equitable policies and practices to support researchers, staff and students across Abertay. In
 2016, we were the first Scottish university to achieve the Race Equality Charter Mark.

 Our Academic Recruitment and Promotion Policies are applied to ensure a fair, equitable,
 transparent and consistent process for appointing and reviewing the grade of academic staff,
 which is integrated with the University’s grading, Role Profiles and underpinned by the principle
 of ‘equal pay for work of equal value’. As a signatory of DORA, when considering appointments
 and promotions, we evaluate research on its own merit rather than on the journal Impact Factor.

 Consistent with CSCDR commitments, all staff have undergone mandatory Diversity in the
 Workplace and Unconscious Bias training, and Recruitment and Selection training is required for
 all involved in recruitment and promotion decisions. Our EDI Action Plan requires an Equality
 Impact Assessment (EIA) for policy, statements and procedures and makes accessible
 relevant software systems and supporting information.

 Our Sabbatical Policy encourages staff to apply for sabbatical leave for research. The policy
 provides for particular consideration of leave following maternity/adoption/shared parental leave
 to help re-establish an employee’s career and allows for sabbatical leave to be explored as
 positive action to promote career development for under-represented groups.

 The University’s suite of Work Life Balance Policies (Flexible Working, Maternity Leave,
 Parental Leave, Shared Paternal Leave, Adoption Leave, Carer’s Leave) are designed to
 support staff to balance work and home-life and deal with personal responsibilities. Well
 established policies are in place which both comply with current legislation and aim to establish
 a “best practice” culture. The University supports any periods of maternity leave whether or not
 there is additional funding provided by funders of research.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 UoA12 EDI
 We report the following patterns in UoA12 composition, recruitment and promotion. Note
 recruitment and promotion data are aggregated by School: SAS (Engineering, Forensics); SDI
 (Cybersecurity, Modelling & Simulation).

 Composition: The REF2021 Steering Group and the REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP) Working
 Group represents a diverse membership. EIAs were carried out by an independent panel during
 CoP development. The CoP was approved by University Senate and Court to assure
 transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. Unit composition adhered to the CoP.

 Gender equality has improved: REF2014 was ~20% female, ~80% male; REF2021 is ~30%
 female, ~70% male. The breakdown of staff across grades is: Prof (2F,3M); HoD/SL (3F,7M);
 Lecturer (3F, 8M). The UoA12 group for selecting outputs comprised 6 staff: 2F (34%) and 4M
 (66%). Outputs attributed to female staff represent 34% of the pool, matching the gender
 balance in UoA12.

 Recruitment: Tables 2 and 3 show EDI data for SAS and SDI recruitment respectively.

  Characteristic               Applicants                       Appointments
  Gender                       7% Female                        50% Female
  Age                          Average age =38                  Average age = 35
  Race                         57% BAME                         17% BAME
  Sexual Orientation           4% LGBT+                         0% LGBT+
  Disability                   0% declared disability           0% declared disability
 Table 2. SAS Recruitment EDI Data (from 2017)

  Characteristic               Applicants                       Appointments
  Gender                       19% Female                       15% Female
  Age                          Average age = 40                 Average age = 41
  Race                         44% BAME                         24% BAME
  Sexual Orientation           8% LGBT+                         N<5
  Disability                   7% declared disability           N<5
 Table 3. SDI Recruitment EDI Data (from 2017)

 Promotion: EDI data is not included in Table 1 (promotion) due to the potential to identify
 individuals because of the small numbers involved. For SAS 16 applications were submitted
 from 11 members of staff, with 7 successfully promoted (some on more than one occasion)
 (43% female). For SDI, 14 applications were submitted and 4 were successful (50% female).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Overview
 Figure 2 profiles income over REF2021 (£2.9M total), with ~50% of funding in the last two years.
 This rate of growth continues beyond REF2021 – we have already secured more funding than
 income generated over the entire REF2021 period in Cybersecurity (cyberQuarter) and
 Modelling & Simulation (5G R&D Testbed). Notable growth areas are (Column 1) BEIS
 Research Council (<5% of total (years 1 & 2) to 30% and 60% in years 6 & 7) and competitive
 UK Charity (Column 2) funding where a similar trend exists. The Unit has sustained support from
 UK and EU government, largely manifest through partnerships with stakeholders to deliver
 research with impact in Engineering.




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Our achievements demonstrate an increase in ambition, reputation and experience, and reflects
 the strategic focus on supporting research funding submissions, strategic investment (including
 £330K of staff time as in-kind contribution across UoA12 to leverage external funding), and a
 new internal peer-review process for grant applications. The internal peer-review process has
 improved grant success rates and scale across Abertay (e.g., in 2020 30% success rate
 (average award £335K) with peer review vs 10% success rate (average award £53K) without).
 Research support is provided centrally by the Abertay Graduate School that provides research
 training (Section 2), individual researcher development support and grant development support
 (9.6FTE, £2.8M internal investment over the REF2021 period). Additionally, R-LINCS provides
 Research Leaders to coordinate and support development of collaborative ventures including
 stakeholder partnerships and cross-disciplinary RKE projects.

 Our research is underpinned by facilities in two of Abertay’s three Schools: the School of Applied
 Sciences (SAS: Engineering and Forensics) and the School of Design and Informatics (SDI:
 Cybersecurity and Modelling & Simulation). In line with R-LINCS, our investments impact
 multiple units. SAS (£4M, 2016-19) investment provided a fully equipped suite of Science
 Laboratories (analytical chemistry, molecular biology, microbiology, tissue culture, forensic
 science); Sensory & Consumer Science, Food Innovation and a Food Processing Plant. Abertay
 also has seven Engineering labs (Ph & Environment, Hydraulics Surveying, Concrete,
 Structures, Highway Materials, Geotechnics). Science and Engineering labs are supported by
 3.4 FTE Technicians. These investments support UoAs 3, 4, 6, 24 and UoA12 (REF2014
 Objective a(ii)) activity.


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SDI was formed in 2017 to integrate Modelling & Simulation, Cybersecurity and Art & Design
 into a single collaborative working environment with a shared research space. This integration
 has been facilitated by a £5.5M investment (2019). Investment includes our ETC (valued at
 £1M), a research complex comprising four interconnected labs: a Game and IoT developer Lab
 with complex systems simulation capabilities; an Extended Reality Lab (augmented, mixed,
 virtual realities) with sensor tracking systems for interactive experiences; an Immersion Lab able
 to profile quantitatively user interactions with technology (including eye tracking, facial
 electromyography for reading emotions); an Observation Lab, comprising an instrumented
 observation space and a separate observation room. The ETC is supported by two technicians
 and is complemented by our Hacking and Computing Labs (see Section 3.4). This investment
 has supported UoAs 12 (REF2014 Objective a(ii)) and 32.

 Below, we outline our income generation strategy and underpinning infrastructure and facilities
 for each Research Group and highlight major projects that have contributed to this pattern of
 income. Note that while REF 4B requires data reporting on spend our narrative reports on a
 research/applied research (KE) project basis to provide a clearer sense of the nature of funding
 received and to represent both cross-unit and cross-REF period income generation.

 3.2 Engineering
 Our income generation is characterised by working in partnership with stakeholders, and
 Scottish Government in particular, where we draw on >20 years’ experience to undertake
 research with impact.

 We are part of CREW, the Centre of Expertise for Waters (Scottish Government funded), which
 works in partnership with industry to develop real-world solutions. Our funded portfolio of
 Scottish Government commissioned projects includes: (1) Integrating water resource
 management in Southern Malawi to help Malawi’s government meet sustainability goals (£109K,
 2016); (2) Identifying innovative solutions for sustainable drinking water treatment (£36K, 2017);
 (3) Development of a Scottish Water Map (£80K, 2016) to interactively visualise the Scottish
 Water Sector (with Modelling & Simulation); (4) Rural SuDS to identify treatment systems for
 farm and field run-off (£35K, 2015). Projects (1) – (3) form an Impact Case Study for the Unit. A
 cross-cutting methodology was the use of participatory design to elicit stakeholder knowledge
 and developing interactive visualisations to increase stakeholder knowledge.

 Our second Impact Case Study is founded on ESRC and EU MED Programme funding.
 ADEPT (ESRC, 2015-16) was a collaboration with Federal University of Minas Gerais, Brazil
 and Middlesex Universities. Our research justified inclusion of extensive green spaces for
 sustainable water management with multiple benefits within Belo Horizonte (Brazil) and has
 been translated into legal instruments which will deliver change for those communities.
 E2Stormed (EU MED Programme, 2013-16) Influenced practice in seven Mediterranean
 municipalities by co-developing Strategic Action Plans to stimulate adoption of sustainable
 drainage approaches.

 Our sustainable technologies research draws on the shared science laboratories outlined above
 (mass spectrometry, gas chromatography, high liquid chromatography, FTIR spectroscopy,
 scanning electron microscope) together with equipment for water analysis (chemical/
 biochemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, etc.), laboratory scale biochemical reactors,
 sewage treatment and industrial wastewater treatment pilot plants, portable landfill gas analyser
 and a range of remote samplers and analysers. Our geotechnics research laboratory has geo-
 mechanical testing apparatus such as triaxial, direct shear, vane, compaction and California
 Bearing Ratio.

 3.3 Forensics
 Forensics has worked closely with the Home Office (Dstl) where funding has been in-kind
 collaboration to ensure our research contributes to UK policy and practice published by the
 Home Office to improve forensic protocols for the police force (an impact case study for
 UoA12).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Home Office match-funded a PhD (£8K to Abertay, partners Universities of Manchester and
 Huddersfield) to examine micro and nano scale behaviour of fingermarks on model surfaces.
 Findings show migration of fatty acids, with time-dependent formation and degradation of a
 component layer away from the fingermark ridge. We used the results of this study to develop
 fingermark–surface research, including two PhD projects (internally funded). We also work with
 industry, particularly equipment and process manufacturers, including West Technologies
 Forensics Ltd (UK), CST (France), and Specim Spectral Imaging Ltd (Finland), part-funding our
 research, enabling us to be at the cutting edge of development of innovative forensic techniques.

 Our instrumentation to develop and visualise fingermarks (e.g., superglue fuming cabinets,
 alternative light sources, vacuum metal deposition chamber) are of the type and standard that
 are used in police forces and forensics providers. We also have analytical instrumentation (e.g.,
 mass spectrometry, atomic force microscopy, X-ray computed tomography, micro-FTIR
 spectrometer). This combination of forensic-specific and analytical equipment enables us to link
 materials properties and the fundamental nature of fingermarks, or other evidence, to
 performance of development and visualisation processes. This in turn uniquely enables
 Abertay to bridge the gap between the research laboratory, and the application of
 techniques at crime scenes or within forensic laboratories.

 Our approach to research feeds into Home Office and Defence Science and Technology
 Laboratory publications for forensic providers for operational use. Representing the only
 university with multiple inputs to the Home Office Source Book of experimental work on
 fingermark development techniques, Abertay staff were four of eighteen external contributors.

 3.4 Cybersecurity
 Cybersecurity is a nascent research group that has moved from small-scale awards to
 partnering in large consortia (H2020 and EPSRC/MRC funding).

 Indicative small-scale awards: Our research explored the novel use of design patterns, a long-
 established technique for software design, in cybersecurity (R-LINCS funded) to effectively
 engineer cybersecurity into solutions at development time. This work led to a prestigious Royal
 Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowship (2018-19, £41K) to develop a spin-out business. In
 partnership with industry and sociology, we took an interdisciplinary evidence review (including
 cybercrime and law enforcement) of policing responses to cybercrime in a range of countries
 and drew conclusions applicable in a Scottish context (£50K, Scottish Institute for Policing
 Research).

 Consortia awards: Abertay is a partner in Foresight (€5.9M, £45K Abertay, H2020, 2019-21).
 Foresight is developing a federated cyber-range solution to train cybersecurity professionals.
 Foresight focuses on preparedness training in aviation, power grid and naval environments, thus
 enabling cybersecurity professionals to adapt to an evolving threat landscape and mitigate
 sophisticated cyber-attacks. We provide expertise on socio-technical aspects of security,
 contributing to the platform's interface design, exploring relevant design principles
 and visualisation techniques for displaying live cyber-attack data. In Pictures (£4.4M, £80K to
 Abertay, EPRSC/MRC, 2019-24) we are working with NHS Scotland and the Universities of
 Dundee and Edinburgh to develop a new national data platform for AI classification of clinical
 images. Abertay’s role is to inform implementation of cybersecurity tools to guarantee patient
 confidentiality.

 Our Hacking and Computing Labs together comprise 140 PCs with dedicated servers used for a
 mix of RKE, PGR and teaching activity. The Labs are isolated from the main University network
 to allow experimentation with software tools and security features without putting the wider
 University ICT infrastructure at risk.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are now leading our own partnership, the cyberQuarter (see Section 1.3), which will
 provide us with a £5.1M dedicated cloud computing infrastructure (3000 Virtual Machines) which
 will complement the ETC (Section 3.5).

 3.5 Modelling & Simulation
 In line with R-LINCS, Modelling & Simulation has worked with other Units to generate income
 and sector impact. With Engineering, we led multi-scale modelling in Stepping Up (£1.5M,
 £0.18M to Abertay as partner, EPSRC) that unpacks the interconnections in management of our
 systems of water, energy and food provisioning. Working with partners and stakeholders Abertay
 provided multi-scale modelling to support complex systems decision-making process. Our work
 highlighted the need to face uncertainty in the decision-making process through multi-
 stakeholder scenario analysis.

 In health we focused on cancer, from cellular through tissue to UK population scales. In
 Northwood Trust funding (£0.6M co-returned with UoA3 and UoA32) we developed systems
 models of the intracellular signalling dynamics of cancer cells and statistical descriptions of
 cancer tissue structures. To unravel the complexity of signalling model dynamics we developed
 a games-based playable simulation of the network that animates dynamics using an interactive
 interface. This visualisation tool catalysed a £0.4M partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support
 and the Digital Health and Social Care Institute (2017-21) to impact wider society (Section 4).

 In computer games, with Art & Design (UoA32), our UKRI and EU funded work has influenced
 the creative industries sector. The project Design in Action (£5M AHRC, Abertay a partner,
 UoA32 returned, 2012-2016) demonstrated design as a key strategy for economic growth and
 innovation within industry. Design in Action was a precursor to InGAME, (£11.5M, AHRC and
 SFC, 2018-2023) which integrates our RKE practice from Design in Action, sector engagement
 from Create Converge (see Section 4) and our research in Modelling & Simulation (Applied
 Games in both Engineering and Allied Health (UoA3)).

 InGAME – Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise – is the UK Creative Cluster for
 Computer Games. InGAME is Abertay-led with academic partners Universities of Dundee and
 St Andrews, and industry partners including Sony, Microsoft, 4J Studios (games include
 Minecraft), Beano, Outplay (UK’s largest mobile phone games company). InGAME provides a
 R&D environment for new and experimental creative content, products, services and
 experiences. The InGAME Applied Games Lab enables industry to work directly with our R&D
 team to harness the power of computer games to solve real-world problems in games and
 outwith the games sector (diversification) and de-risk technologies (through experimentation).

 InGAME, at its mid-point, has delivered 28 outputs (R&D projects, innovation labs, etc.) and
 provided networking/training opportunities to >700 people. InGAME has led to (1) InGAME
 International (£0.5M, AHRC, co-returned with UoA32) to develop new modes of working with
 games companies in China; (2) SmARtview (£250K total, £75K to Abertay Innovate UK, co-
 returned to UoA32) with AgriEpi Innovation Centre and Pocket Sized Hands games SME to
 develop an AI-powered Augmented Reality tool for animal health and productivity.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Abertay has engaged with Scotland-wide SFC-funded initiatives to foster institutional
 collaboration, with academia through SFC Research Pools and with industry through SFC
 Innovation Centres (Section 4.1). The City of Dundee is also part of the EU Interreg North Sea
 Region and we have partnered in consortia to add value to industry and society (Section 4.2).
 Section 4.3 sets out our wider contributions to the research base.

 Research with impact is fundamental to R-LINCS: we prioritise working on real-world problems.
 Below we give examples in environment, health, security and creative industries that map to R-
 LINCS Themes; much of this RKE activity funded by Scottish and EU government. To support

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interaction with the research base, economy and society the Abertay Graduate School provides
 specialist support for research with industry including guidance on funding, IP, contracting, etc.

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The Unit has a leadership role in the Research Pool Scottish Alliance for Geoscience,
 Environment and Society (SAGES), leading the Theme “Transformations in Society and
 Environmental Policy” and co-leading Themes “Landscape Form, Use and Change: a dynamic
 Earth” and “Carbon & Biogeochemical Cycles: Sustaining Life”. Theme leadership necessitates
 interaction and integration across Scottish research institutions and coordinating the Annual
 Science Meeting. Abertay is part of SAGES’s Research and Innovation Committee and
 Executive Committee. SAGES provided PhD funding in geotechnics, and an industry placement
 for PhD students. SAGES has facilitated visibility and connectivity for Abertay via a hub
 (including Find an expert) for geo and environmental expertise and the loan of equipment (worth
 £40,000) for soils analysis.

 With Research Pool the Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) we explored policing in
 the COVID-19 pandemic. In collaboration with Universities of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Napier and
 the Cambridge Cybercrime Centre we investigated how cyber-criminals leveraged salient events
 and governmental announcements to carefully craft and execute cyber-crime campaigns and
 profiled the impact on the workforce.

 With Research Pool the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA) we
 received networking funds (£5.5K) for international research visits (OTH Regensburg, Germany
 and Morgan Stanley, Baltimore, USA). The US visit involved various universities in Scotland
 (including Abertay), where events and workshops were attended and organised as part of the
 Cyber Nexus (2019), concluding with an event on women in Cybersecurity. Abertay staff co-
 organised and co-chaired the IEEE Cyber Science 2018 Conference, partly sponsored by
 SICSA (~90 participants, 26 countries).

 Our cancer-cell signalling visualisation toolkit (Section 3) was a catalyst for a £0.4M partnership
 with Macmillan Cancer Support and the Innovation Centre Digital Health and Social Care
 Institute (DHI) (2017-). Initiated in an ideation workshop with DHI we identified the potential to
 combine our interactive network visualisation with machine learning to develop a service
 provisioning framework to allow Macmillan to profile current and future service demand for
 different age groups, cancer types etc. and the partnership will be rolling out an AI-backed
 service recommender engine to support persons affected by cancer across the UK.

 In Cybersecurity we are partnering with Strathclyde University (Scottish Government funding)
 to (1) investigate what is deterring SMEs from pursuing Cyber Essentials accreditation, and (2)
 design an intervention to engage SMEs regarding cyber risks. We are working internationally
 with Rhodes University and Stockholm University / Örebro University to contribute to global
 sustainability by examining the role that cybersecurity and data protection play in an increasingly
 digitalised world.

 We have engaged in international research visits: e.g. for Engineering geotechnics (University
 of Bremen and Geoverbund ABC/J, Germany, University of Technology Malaysia); for
 Modelling & Simulation physics (Instituto de Astrofísica de Andalucía, Spain, U. Ebert,
 Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica, Netherlands, the Space Research Institute, Austrian Academy
 of Sciences, Austria); in Cybersecurity (Ostbayerische Technische Hochschule Regensburg,
 Germany).

 4.2 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 In Engineering, and in addition to our CREW supported work (Section 3 and Impact Case
 Study), our pathway to impact includes LoCal-Net (initiated by ERDF funding, 2011) that
 stimulates innovation in low carbon technologies, products and services across Scotland. We
 were part of the Scottish Biofuel Project (2012-2016, Scottish Government and ERDF funded, 4
 other partners) to enable Scottish businesses to access academic expertise available to achieve

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lower waste disposal costs and introduce new income streams through innovation. Abertay led
 on anaerobic digestion, which counted for >60% of inquiries from Scottish businesses during the
 project. Abertay currently plays a leading role in the professional development and uptake of
 anaerobic digestion technology in Scotland.

 The Unit provides national expertise to the working group for Eurocode EN1993-1-6 (Shell
 Structures) and the working group for the (not yet published) Eurocode EN1993-1-14 on Finite
 Element Modelling. Eurocodes are the Europe-wide standards for all aspects of the structural
 design and development of buildings. Eurocodes became mandatory for the specification of
 European public works in 2010. They are now the de facto standard for the private sector.

 Engineering has contributed nationally and transnationally to the health and social care domain.
 We worked with the Environmental Health Department, Isle of Guernsey to study transport of
 pollutants in the urban air environment. “In For Care” (£154K, EU Interreg North Sea Region,
 2014-20) is a 11-partner consortium seeking to optimise care provision in the face of an ageing
 population, the rising costs for (care) services and budget cuts. “In For Care” used the same
 participatory design methodology and interactive visualisations from our CREW research
 to understand user needs and to develop interactive tools to enable service access in special
 user groups.

 Activity in Cybersecurity includes Co-Directorship of the Cybersecurity Capacity Centre for
 Southern Africa (C3SA, 2019) in partnership with the Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre
 (GCSCC) at the University of Oxford; Research ICT Africa; international and regional
 organisations. C3CA provides cybersecurity capacity-building activities in the Southern African
 region. We work with the Scottish Business Resilience Centre to provide internship students who
 undertake security assessments for clients using Abertay’s SME Security Assessment
 Methodology.

 Modelling & Simulation are part of Create Converge (EU Interreg, 2016-21) co-returned with
 UoA32 (£3M total, £0.12M to Abertay) focusing on transmedia – the convergence of creative
 technologies across sectors, (e.g., film, games), to deliver new ways of working and to reach
 new markets, (e.g., food, architecture). Our contributions include games for virtual film
 production (now an Erasmus+ project (UoA32)) and development of bespoke game controllers.
 Create Converge is on track to impact 30 SMEs (new ways of working) and 50 new transnational
 interactions.

 4.3 Contributions to the discipline and research base

 Engineering (8FTE)
 Prizes/awards: VIBES Award (Scottish Environment Business Awards) 2015 Co-operation
 winner (with partners including Wimpey and Scottish Government) to create SUDS technology to
 help control rainwater and promote green infrastructure. Unit member named as an ICE
 (Institution of Civil Engineers) invisible superhero: ‘Eco-crusader’ by ICE Scotland in 2019 and
 selected as one of 80 participants for the prestigious international Homeward Bound initiative, a
 year-long women in STEMM leadership programme culminating in a voyage to Antarctica 2019
 –2021.

 Grant reviewing: EPRSC Reviewer, Panel Interviewer for NERC, ESRC Peer Review College.

 Fellowships/ Honorary: Fellow of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of the Arts,
 Manufactures and Commerce.

 Sector contribution: SUDSnet network and conferences: The network (~1000 members) has a
 mission to connect professionals and researchers in sustainable surface water management
 across the UK and Globally. The Unit has coordinated all SUDSnet events (including two
 international conferences). Scientific Committee for Association of Researcher in Construction
 Management.

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Professional bodies: Membership of Institution of Structural Engineers, Chartered Engineer/ Civil
 Engineer/ Water and Environmental Management, Institute for Civil Engineers, International
 Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering, British Geotechnical Association.

 Reviewing for Journals: including Pressure Vessel Technology ASME and Advances in
 Structural Engineering, Engineering Geology, Nature Scientific Reports, Geosciences, Minerals,
 Measurements, Applied Sciences, Environmental Accounting and Management, Ecological
 Economics; Water, Air and Soil Pollution.

 Outreach: Royal Academy of Engineering- Ingenious Awards (2015, 2019). Women in Science
 representative for Abertay (2011 – present). STEM Ambassador (2017 – present) undertaking
 multiple engagement activities for schools and public every year.

 Forensics (3FTE)
 Grant Reviewing: EPSRC

 Fellowships/ Honorary: Fellowship of Institute of Physics

 Sector contribution: Invited talk at VIET Vacuum, Ion & Electron Technologies 2017; Invited talk
 at IWSSPP International Workshop & Summer School on Plasma Physics 2014. Session Chair
 Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences DNA & Body Fluids Forum Conference.

 Professional bodies: Trustee and Council Member of Chartered Society of Forensic Science,
 Institution of Engineering & Technology, Chartered Physicist.

 Editorship: Editorial Advisory Board Member World Water: Stormwater Management

 Reviewing for journals: including Science & Justice; Forensic Chemistry; Journal of Forensic
 Sciences; Journal of Forensic & Legal Medicine; Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics; Journal
 of Physics: Condensed Matter; Journal of Vacuum Science A; Materials Research Express;
 Nanotechnology; Surface & Coatings Technology.

 Outreach: Forensics contributions to LIFT OFF delivers the Scottish Funding Council’s national
 Schools for Higher Education Programme in Fife and Tayside raising awareness of opportunities
 to access HE (Abertay hosted).

 Cybersecurity (9FTE)
 Grant reviewing: Assessor for the 2017 and 2019 rounds of the EPSRC and GCHQ’s Academic
 Centres of Excellence in Cybersecurity Research. Member of the GCHQ Master’s Certification
 Panel for sessions 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020. South African National Research Foundation
 Thuthuka Programme (2017). NordForsk (2016; EU Call: Society, Integrity and Cyber-security);
 SICSA Cyber Nexus; Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland.

 Fellowships/Honorary: Visiting Professor at Dalian Maritime University. Honorary Research
 Associate 2020-2024 (University of Cape Town)

 Sector contribution: Vice-Chair: IFIP Working Group 11.8 Information Security Education.
 Working Group member of the Joint Task Force on Cybersecurity Education assisting with
 development global cybersecurity curricular guidelines. Invited talks: KDU University (Malaysia)
 “Cybercrime and the security of connected cities” 2017. Member of Scottish Qualifications
 Authority’s Development Team for cybersecurity in schools. Chair: Digital technologies, big data
 and cybersecurity, 2019 South Africa-Sweden University Forum. Programme committee: IFIP
 International Symposium on Human Aspects of Information Security & Assurance. Programme
 Committee, – International Conference on Cyber-Technologies and Cyber-Systems 2018.
 Chairing session on the Role of Education in Cybersecurity, Holyrood (2018, 2019).


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professional bodies: Association for Computing Machinery. Association of Information Systems.
 Chartered Psychologist and Associate Fellow British Psychological Society, Member of the
 Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors.

 Editorships: Associate Editor: Journal of Intellectual Capital. Associate Editor: European
 Conference on Information Systems (2019 Security/Privacy Track). Associate Editor: European
 Journal of Information Systems (2016 Special Issue on Security and Privacy in 21st Century
 Organisations)

 Reviewing for Journals: including Computers & Security; European Journal of Information
 Systems; Behaviour & Information Technology; Information Technology & People; Decision
 Sciences Journal; International Journal of Human-Computer Studies; Journal of Information
 Security and Applications; African Journal of Information Systems; Information Technology and
 People

 Outreach: SICSA Christmas Lectures “How the Black Hat (Hackers) Stole Christmas”, featuring
 a demonstration of an IoT child’s toy, and a discussion on open-source intelligence (2018).
 Social Market Foundation event, SNP Conference, Digital security: how do we keep our money
 – and ourselves – safe online? Glasgow, Scotland (2017).

 Modelling & Simulation (6FTE)
 Grant reviewing: EPSRC Associate Peer; Expert reviewer for EU–Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Actions individual fellowships and Innovative Training Networks.

 Fellowships/Honorary: Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society. Fellow of the Royal Society of
 Biology. Visiting Professor, Faculty of Business and IT, Ontario Tech University; Visiting Fellow,
 University of York; Honorary Research Associate, School of Physics and Astronomy, University
 of Glasgow.

 Sector contribution: Abertay represented UKRI research on the UKRI main stand at the
 American Association for the Advancement of Science conference (2019, 2020). Women in
 Games Executive Board Member, Scottish Innovation Centre DataLab Ambassador, Keynote:
 We Love Games, Plenary: European Biotechnology and Technology Network (2016, 2017);
 Conference Organising Committee, ESCAMPIG XXIV, 2018.

 Professional Bodies: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Institute of Physics.

 Editorships: Editor Scientific Reports

 Reviewing for Journals: including American Institute of Physics: Physics of Fluids, Proceedings
 of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Aerospace Engineering, Solar Physics,
 New astronomy, PLOS One.




                                                                                            Page 18
