Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 8: Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The School of Chemistry at Bristol is one of the largest, most globally engaged, and vibrant
departments in the UK. It leads within a world-class enabling eco-system of cross-disciplinary
research institutes, industrial partnerships, entrepreneurial incubators and physical infrastructure.
Our continued success and scientific identity are built on the intellectual quality, energy and
enthusiasm of our staff and students; broad-ranging academic strength across the entire discipline;
entrepreneurial culture; awareness of global impact and environment; and a collaborative,
supportive, and diverse science environment that pervades the entire School.




    Figure 1.1 Bristol Chemistry REF2021 Submission [all references to people in this figure are
                                      current headcounts]

Our goal is to make fundamental and transformative contributions to the discipline, providing
leadership and innovation in the field and high-quality training for the next generation of leaders in
science. We are at the centre of national and global initiatives, including antimicrobial resistance,
climate change, synthetic biology and digital chemistry. Following REF2014, we renewed our
research strategy and restructured our research groupings into more focused Themes. We
refreshed our leadership, improved the diversity of our appointments (including recruiting our first
female Head of School), and substantially expanded our entrepreneurship and translation activities
as well as producing significant global social and policy impacts.

The strength, depth and diversity of our School, and the success of our focus on intellectual
excellence, impact, collaboration and collegiality, is shown by a selection of highlights in the REF
period:
     •   People - Our world-leading staff include seven Fellows of the Royal Society (FRS), with at
         least one in every research Theme. Five are in post (Aggarwal, Ashfold, Evershed,
         Mann, Orr-Ewing), one retired in 2017 (Simpson) and one moved to a prestigious
         Canada Research Chair in 2019 (Manners). We also have 4 Members of the Academia
         Europaea and 10 RS Wolfson Research Merit Awardees.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    •   Impact - Substantial impact activities include the spinout of 11 companies from academic
        staff and another 2 from our students, e.g. Ziylo (A. Davis), which was bought by Novo
        Nordisk in a deal worth up to US$800M (awarded Global University Venturing Exit of the
        Year 2019) – generating up to £39M for the University. A new company Carbometrics,
        spun out as part of the deal, could yield as much again. The creation of Ziylo led our
        chemists to independently establish UnitDX, a deep tech incubator in central Bristol which
        has already supported a community of 57 companies in biomedical and other chemically-
        based disciplines (£40M of investment by December 2020).
    •   Funding - £183M of research grants awarded (Principal Investigator (PI) and Co-
        Investigator (CoI)) and £13.6M of investment in our equipment base. These include major
        grant successes such as 7 European Research Council (ERC) Advanced Investigator
        Grants, 4 ERC Consolidator Grants, 3 ERC Starter Grants, 2 Horizon2020 Future and
        Emerging Technologies (H2020 FET), 2 Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
        Council Strategic Longer and Larger Grants (BBSRC sLOLA), 1 Engineering and Physical
        Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) National Consortium and 2 EPSRC Programme
        Grants.
    •   Diversity - Our strong commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is evidenced
        throughout this submission. There are 11 female staff (cf 5 in 2014) across every career-
        stage, including 2 females in our 4-strong senior leadership team (cf 1 in REF2014), 3
        female professors (cf 1 in REF2014), and 7 female early career researchers (ECRs) (cf 3
        in REF2014) and 6 staff from ethnic minorities (cf 3 in 2014). We have hosted 66
        independent early career fellows (19 female) in the School during the REF period, with 17
        included in our REF submission.
    •   Covid-19 Response - A key example is the Bristol Aerosol Research Centre (Bzdek,
        Cotterell, Reid) which is leading Covid-19 projects to inform the Scientific Advisory Group
        for Emergencies (SAGE) and UK Chief Medical Officers, with Reid sitting on the
        Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) Environmental Transmission
        and Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS)/Public Health England
        (PHE) Advisory sub-groups of SAGE. A further £1M of funded programs of research
        across the School are centred around the Covid-19 virus, treatments and transmission.
    •   Training - We lead and partner in 11 Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) (14 in the REF
        period) spanning every Research Theme in the School. Our success in developing the
        next generation of chemists is exemplified by our award-winning Chemical Synthesis CDT
        which has run continuously since 2009 (funded to 2028) and published over 225 research
        papers in that time.
    •   Prizes and Awards - Over 40 leading International and UK awards for our staff; including:
        International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) Distinguished Women in
        Chemistry/Chemical Engineering Award (Willis), RS Davy Medals (Aggarwal FRS, Mann
        FRS), RS Wolfson awards (Manby, Raven, Woolfson), Phillip Leverhulme awards
        (Glowacki, Bower), American Chemical Society (ACS) Cope Scholar Award (Aggarwal
        FRS), Humboldt Research Award (Aggarwal FRS, Woolfson), Prix Franco-Britannique,
        Société Française de Chimie (Clayden), Herbert P. Broida Prize of the American Physical
        Society (Ashfold FRS), Yamada-Koga Award (Aggarwal FRS), JMT Medal
        (Mulholland), ACS Pimentel Award (Shallcross).




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research Strategy and Objectives
A root-and-branch review of our research areas in 2014 identified the need to encourage greater
interdisciplinarity, impact-focus, and agility to address global challenges and enhance our impact
and innovation environment, while maintaining the breadth of expertise and critical mass required
for excellence across chemical science. We reconfigured into 5 Research Themes (previously 9)
that define key focus areas and link to the wider research landscape through University Research
Institutes and external partnerships. This approach provides flexibility to shape the direction of
emerging research areas and respond to new initiatives such as those in minimal biology,
interactive VR, machine learning and robotic synthesis, as well as addressing global challenges
such as air pollution, climate change, Covid-19 pandemic response and antimicrobial resistance.
These streamlined and focused Themes enabled us to map a new research agenda to provide
leadership in Digital Chemistry (developing and applying digital tools for chemical science) and
Global Change (developing and applying chemical science for emerging global challenges). These
scientific ambitions align with our parallel impact strategy to encourage a culture of
entrepreneurship and societal impact (see Impact Strategy and Objectives) enabled by the
evolution of new infrastructures within the University, wider City of Bristol and the South West.

Overview: Our core research strategy is to enable individual excellence and a critical mass of
expertise and resources while preserving our collegial and collaborative environment, and build
partnerships in interfacial and challenge-led areas. Our priorities and objectives are:
     •   International intellectual and scholarly leadership in our core Research Themes and
         partner disciplines, with overarching ambitions in Digital Chemistry and Global Change.
     •   Supporting delivery of impact in areas of global and national importance such as air
         pollution, climate change, sustainability, Covid-19, and antimicrobial resistance.
     •   Expanding our culture of entrepreneurship, providing our researchers with tools and
         opportunities to translate their research into solutions of value to industry and society.
     •   Providing an inclusive, diverse, collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment
         which nurtures future leaders in the discipline.
     •   Growing our outstanding infrastructure and equipment base to integrate strongly with our
         Research Themes.

Research Structure
The five new Research Themes which emerged from our 2014 review are: Chemical and
Synthetic Biology; Computational Chemistry, Theory and Dynamics; Environment and
Energy; Functional Molecules and Materials; and Synthesis and Catalysis. Research strategy
is developed and overseen by the Research Committee, comprising the Research Director, Theme
Leads, Infrastructure Lead, Industry Lead, ECR Representative, Impact Lead and School Industry
Partnership Manager (a post created through dividends from the Ziylo sale).




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




                      Figure 1.2: School of Chemistry Research Environment

Our Research Themes (described below) are designed to be at the frontiers of the discipline with
most staff being members of more than one theme. The Theme Leads provide strategic oversight,
identifying blue skies and impact-focused topics that cut across activities, which can form the
nucleus for large-scale initiatives, e.g. recent examples include ‘eco-formulation’ and ‘digital
synthesis’. Theme leads also coordinate large-scale project and equipment bids, postgraduate
researcher (PGR) training and seminar programmes. They advise the School Executive Board on
academic staff recruitment, including attracting research fellows into our early career pipeline
which has underpinned our substantial improvements in diversity over the REF period.

Integration into wider research infrastructures: Our Themes are strongly integrated with the
multidisciplinary University Research Institutes (URIs; see Institutional-level Environment
Statement (REF5a) focusing on Environment (Cabot Institute), Data Science (Jean Golding
Institute (JGI)) and Health (Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI)), supported by Specialist Research
Institutes (SRIs), e.g. the Bristol BioDesign Institute (co-lead Woolfson, Chemistry and
Biochemistry) and the Bristol Composites Institute (Engineering and Physics), and institution-wide
programmes, e.g. BristolAMR antimicrobial resistance network (led by Mulholland) and Advanced
Computing Research Centre. Our leadership in these pan-university bodies ensures the School
influences and aligns with University of Bristol (UoB) strategy and enables us to seize cross-
disciplinary opportunities rapidly and effectively. This is channelled outward through the GW4
grouping of research-intensive universities in the South West (Bristol, Cardiff, Bath and Exeter).
Theme descriptions and Section 4 provide further detail on our leadership and integration into
national and international research infrastructures.



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
NOTE: In theme descriptions, numbers of academic staff and ECR/postdoctoral research
associate (PDRA)/PhDs are current values. Academic staff are counted for every Theme to which
they contribute, but ECR/PDRA/currently enrolled PhDs and other metrics are assigned to their
most closely aligned Theme and counted only once.

Chemical and Synthetic Biology (CSB) Theme (Lead: Crump)




                         Figure 1.3: Chemical and Synthetic Biology Theme

This interdisciplinary Theme is underpinned by strong links to the University’s Elizabeth Blackwell
Institute, and leads cross-University programmes, such as the Bristol BioDesign Institute and
BristolBridge antimicrobial resistance project. It is closely allied with the Schools of Biochemistry
and Biological Sciences in the Life Sciences Faculty, strengthened by joint appointments
(Parmeggiani, Woolfson). Successes over the REF period include:
     •   Establishing the UK's first Max Planck Institute (MPI) in physical/biological sciences
         (Mann FRS/Woolfson). The Max Planck Centre for Minimal Biology is hosted in
         Chemistry and led in partnership with Biochemistry (Berger) and leading scientists at
         MPIs in Heidelberg, Mainz and Munich. It creates international partnerships addressing
         the most challenging questions in minimal biology and biodesign, advancing the future of
         health and medicine, e.g. a US$2M US/UK partnership (National Science
         Foundation/BBSRC) to probe cell morphogenesis.
     •   Major collaborative programmes, including the BBSRC/EPSRC-funded BrisSynBio
         Synthetic Biology Research Centre (Woolfson PI; Crump, Mulholland, Simpson FRS,
         Willis, CoIs; £15M, 2014–2021, >170 research papers; 9 patents (3 for Chemistry), 4
         spinout companies (2 for Chemistry)); Global Challenges Research Fund and
         Healthcare/Impact Partnerships to develop the next generation of bio-inspired carbon dot
         probes for rapid bacterial detection (Galan PI, £1.6M); BBSRC sLOLA grants in natural

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
         products with high value (Mulholland CoI with Manchester, £3M) and agrochemical leads
         (Willis CoI with Warwick, £3.5M).
     •   Developing the next generation of bio-science experts through partnership in two major
         CDTs: SynBio CDT (Bristol, Oxford, Warwick, industry and public partners); BBSRC
         South West Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership (SWBio DTP) (led by Bristol, with
         GW4 partner Universities).
     •   Two spinout companies: Glaia (Galan, 2019) develops nanotechnologies for agriculture
         to increase crop yields and allow crops to be farmed outside their traditional growing
         regions; Rosa Biotech (Woolfson, 2019) exploits α-helical barrel technology in
         biosensing and medical diagnostics, and won the Health Award at the Royal Society of
         Chemistry’s Emerging Technologies Competition (2019).

Research Highlights: Defining the nature of the catalytic ferryl species in a heme enzyme, thus
resolving >40 years of debate on the identity of this intermediate (Science 2014); Identifying a
bona fide natural Diels-Alderase in the biosynthesis of the antibiotic abyssomycin (J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2016); Demonstration and the first mechanistic interpretation of heme as an activator of
cardiac KATP ion channels (PNAS 2016); Design and construction of entirely new protein structures
- α-helical barrels (Science 2014) and miniproteins (Nat. Chem. Biol. 2017); Resolving a long-
standing issue of whether or not the α-helix dipole truly stabilises protein structures - it does not
(Nat. Chem. Biol. 2015); Controlling intracellular uptake and organelle localization using glycan-
coated nanoparticles, with implications for targeted drug delivery systems (Angew. Chem. Int.
Ed. 2014); Showing that artificial foldamers will insert into vesicle membranes and respond to
stimulation by light (Science 2016) and ligand binding (Nat. Chem. 2017).

Computational Chemistry, Theory and Dynamics (CTD) Theme (Lead: Orr-Ewing FRS)
The CTD Theme focuses on using fundamental theory and advanced experimental techniques to
investigate, predict and understand dynamics and reactivity in molecular and materials science. It
links substantially into all Themes in the School, and more widely in the University, e.g. Physics,
Biological Sciences, Biochemistry, and the Cabot, JGI, EBI, and BioDesign Institutes. The Theme
works closely with industry including Oracle, BP, Dow Chemicals, Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
Amgen, Element 6, Hyundai, Bridgestone and AWE. Researchers are exceptionally well-served
with world-leading equipment including ultrafast laser laboratories, a unique and pioneering VR
suite, and University Advanced Computing Research Centre High Performance Computing (HPC)
resources and specialist Research Software Engineers (led by Woods). Theme members are also
major users of large-scale national and international equipment infrastructures, UK Tier 1 and 2
HPC Facilities and international beamlines (see Section 3).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




               Figure 1.4: Computational Chemistry, Theory and Dynamics Theme.


Successes over the REF period include:
    •   Leading major grants: ERC Advanced Grant (Orr-Ewing FRS, €2.5M); 4 EPSRC
        Catalysis Hub grants (Mulholland (CoI), £14M total) EU FET-Open grant (Oliver (CoI),
        €4.9M with Warwick and EU partners); ERC Consolidator Grants (Glowacki, €2.0M;
        Royall – joint appointment in UoA9, €2.0M); EPSRC Programme Grants (Ashfold FRS,
        £4.6M; Glowacki (CoI), £4.1M with Maths).
    •   Developing the next generation by hosting 4 RS/UKRI-funded ECR Fellows in the REF
        period (Bourne-Worster, Glowacki, Oliver, Rigby) and the Bristol hub of the EPSRC
        Theory and Modelling in Chemical Sciences CDT (Oxford, Bristol, Southampton) which
        has trained 81 students and is partnered with 20 international companies.
    •   3 spinout companies: Entos (Manby, 2020) is commercialising electronic structure and
        dynamics software, attracting substantial Silicon Valley venture capital (confidential value,
        but has built a team of 17 scientists/engineers) with a multi-million dollar grant from
        Schmidt Futures to develop “Envision”, a platform for chemical discovery and education;
        ArtSci (Glowacki, 2018) is a not-for-profit company commercialising an open-source,
        multi-person interactive molecular dynamics virtual reality (VR) software framework -
        ‘Narupa’; Dynamerse (Bennie, 2019) creates interactive dynamic simulation
        environments for industry – winning the Creator Fund Challenger 2020 award (beating
        400 other start-up companies from UK universities).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research Highlights: Computational discovery of ultra-fast energy dissipation mechanisms in
collisions of atoms with graphene (Science 2019); Pioneering VR tools for interactive molecular
dynamics simulations (Sci. Adv. 2018); Computational and spectroscopic stereochemical
molecular structure elucidation from 128 possible diastereomers each with >6 million potential
conformations (Nature 2017); Combining ultrafast infrared (IR) spectroscopy with atomistic
simulations to unravel the dynamics and energy dissipation mechanisms of exothermic reactions
in strongly interacting solvents (Science 2015). Femtosecond to microsecond transient absorption
spectroscopies observing reactive intermediates participating in multi-step photoredox catalytic
cycles, for sustainable organic photocatalyst design (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018; Nat. Commun.
2019).

Environment and Energy (E2) Theme (Lead: Briscoe)
The E2 Theme leads our ambitions in Global Change, conducting world-leading research
addressing Earth system chemistry (climate change, air quality, nutrient cycling) and developing
new materials to generate clean energy and enhance food production. Theme members are deeply
engaged with the Cabot and Elizabeth Blackwell University Research Institutes as well as UK and
international governmental and non-governmental organisations such as the US Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), World
Meteorological Organization (WMO), Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy
(BEIS), and Historic England.




                          Figure 1.5: Environment and Energy Theme




                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Successes from the REF period include:
     •   Developing the next generation by leading the new EPSRC Aerosol Sciences CDT
         (Reid, Bristol, Bath, Cambridge, Hertfordshire, Imperial, Leeds, Manchester) in
         a multidisciplinary collaboration with 50 industrial and public-sector partners, and
         substantial ECR success with 5 Royal Society and Natural Environment Research Council
         (NERC) independent fellowships (Bzdek, Cotterell, Lloyd, Naafs, Roffet-Salque) and an
         ERC Starter Grant (€2.3M, Bzdek).
     •   Driving international policy agendas in Global Change, e.g. the Atmospheric Chemistry
         Research Group (O’Doherty, Rigby, Shallcross) are founding members of the NASA-
         funded AGAGE (Advanced Global Atmospheric Gases Experiment), lead the WMO 2018
         Assessment of Ozone depletion and chapters of the IPCC 2019 climate change report, as
         well as informing UK, USA, Thailand and South African governments on policy concerning
         greenhouse gases and air quality.
     •   Leading major multidisciplinary grants, including the Bristol Radiocarbon Accelerator
         Mass Spectrometer (BRAMS) (Evershed FRS, £1.9M) investment for organic
         geochemistry analysis across Archaeology, Chemistry and Earth Sciences; Photovoltaic
         Technology based on Earth Abundant Materials (PVTEAM) (Fermin, PI, £2.0M) which
         partnered 12 companies and universities including Tata, Johnson Matthey, and Pilkington
         focusing on sustainable thin-film photovoltaic technologies.
Research Highlights: Revealing the palaeoecological range of honey bees and their exploitation by
pre-historic farmers (Nature 2015); Demonstrating that terrestrial temperatures in past elevated
CO2 worlds were much higher than previously thought, suggesting increased land warming due to
anthropogenic climate change in the next century (Nat. Geoscience 2018); Identifying global
increases in emissions of the banned ozone depleting substance, CFC-11, pinpointing eastern
China as the primary source of the rise (Nature 2018; Nature 2019); Exposing the significant role
of surfactants in cloud formation, radiative forcing and hence climate change (PNAS, 2020).

Synthesis & Catalysis (S&C) Theme (Lead: Aggarwal FRS)
Bristol is the UK's leading academic centre for chemical synthesis research, and this Theme spans
the development and application of methods for the construction of molecular targets from ligands
and catalysts to natural products, functional materials and biomimetic molecules.




                                                                                          Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




                            Figure 1.7: Synthesis and Catalysis Theme

Strengths in molecular synthesis underpin activity across the School, particularly in synthetic
biology and biological and materials chemistry. New technologies for synthesis are a focus,
particularly automated synthesis, flow chemistry, photochemistry, electrochemistry and
biocatalysis. Activity is centred in the purpose-built Synthetic Chemistry Building, accommodating
~200 laboratory-based researchers and incorporating a dedicated and technician-supported
instrument suite comprising GC, LC and TLC-MS reaction monitoring, reaction automation and
purification capabilities. Successes over the REF period include:
     •   Leading (Aggarwal FRS/Booker-Milburn/Clayden) the UK’s longest-running EPSRC-
         funded CDT (2009-). The latest evolution, the Technology-Enhanced Chemical Synthesis
         CDT (2019-2028), integrates machine learning, automation and other emerging digital
         and experimental technologies to enable chemical synthesis. Through this and our
         partnership in the EPSRC Catalysis CDT (2014-2023) we have trained over 80 PGRs
         during the REF period.
     •   8 Major Individual Investigator awards (2 ERC Advanced grants (Aggarwal FRS,
         Clayden), 2 ERC Consolidator grants (Bower, Galan), 2 ERC Starter grants (Bower,
         Lennox), 2 RS Wolfson Research Merit Awards (Aggarwal FRS, Clayden).
     •   Major investments in Digital Chemistry, including the Bristol Automated Synthesis Facility
         which is capable of 128 parallel reactions (–70°C to 140°C, inert atmosphere, solid
         handling, automated purification; £750k, EPSRC) and VR laboratories which underpin the
         CDT and research programmes across the Theme.
     •   Commercialisation and enterprise success with 12 patents and technology transfer
         applications, e.g. Innosyn and Merck scale-up of Aggarwal’s decarboxylative borylation
         chemistry and spinout company Photodiversity (Booker-Milburn, 2015) applying high-
         throughput flow photochemistry to provide complex, sp3-rich scaffold libraries to
         pharmaceutical and agrochemical industries.
Research Highlights: A modular approach to the synthesis of molecules designed to adopt
linear/helical shapes through iterative homologation of boronic esters (Nature 2014; Nat. Chem.
2019); Exploiting conformational preferences to deliver a general and practical way to make new
families of modified alpha-arylated amino acids (Nature 2018); Developing iron-based catalysts to


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
replace less abundant metals in cross-couplings (Nat. Catal. 2018); Coordination of Pd(0) to
phosphine-modified block copolymer micelles induces inter-micelle cross-linking (Nat. Commun.
2016); Atom-economic catalytic methods for selective carbohydrate synthesis (J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2017; Angew. Chem. 2017); Elucidation of the mechanism of the most active homogeneous
MeOH dehydrogenation catalyst known (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016); Using flow X-ray absorption
spectroscopy to reveal the mechanism of iron-catalysed Negishi cross-coupling (Nat. Catal. 2019);
Unique biocatalytic C-H functionalisation building heterocycles from a non-activated methyl group
(Nat. Catal. 2018); The first sp3 C-H bond activation based on metal-free ambient temperature
photoredox catalysis (Nature 2020).

Functional Molecules and Materials (FMM) Theme (Lead: Patil)
The FMM Theme addresses interdisciplinary research challenges based on the development and
application of new materials, spanning physical and biological sciences and engineering.
Reflecting this breadth, the Theme membership extends over the Schools of Chemistry,
Mathematics, Physics, Biochemistry and Mechanical Engineering, e.g. Royall (UoA 9) and Fox
(UoA 8) are both joint appointments in Chemistry and Physics. The FMM theme is strongly
integrated into University centres: for example, leading the Centres for Protolife Research (Li,
Mann FRS) and Organised Matter Research (Davis, Mann FRS, Patil), and through close
engagement with the Bristol Composite Centre and Interface Analysis Centre. Wider Theme links
include the National Composites Centre, Advanced Composites Centre Specialist Research
Institute, the Nanoscience and Quantum Information Centre, and the Bristol Robotics Laboratory.




                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




                    Figure 1.6: Functional Molecules and Materials Theme


Successes from the REF period include:
    •   Five spinout companies: Ziylo (A. Davis, 2014) based on a breakthrough in glucose
        receptor development; Carbometrics (A. Davis, 2018) is developing new glucose sensor
        chemistry in market-leading continuous glucose monitors; Advanced Diamond X Ltd (Fox,
        2018) provides commercial synthesis of ultra-high purity diamonds for materials
        applications; Eutomic Ltd (Hall, 2018) offers magnetic control of polymorphs for
        pharmaceutical and agrochemical applications; Arkenlight PLC (Fox, 2020) is
        commercialising diamond-based nuclear battery technologies.
    •   Co-leading (with Physics) the EPSRC Bristol Centre for Functional Nanomaterials (BCFN)
        CDT (£4.6M, 2014-2022) which now operates as a fully industrially funded programme,
        and partnering in the EPSRC Diamond CDT (2014-19, led by Warwick).
    •   Major grant awards in materials characterisation and control, e.g. MagnaPharm (Hall,
        €2.9M, EU FET-OPEN) to direct pharmaceutical polymorphism through crystallising in
        high magnetic fields; Establishing the world-leading and UK-unique NanoESCA Facility
        (Fox, £1.96M, EPSRC), possessing extraordinary surface sensitivity for energy-filtered
        Photoemission Electron Microscopy (PEEM) and micro-ARPES (Angle Resolved
        Photoemission Spectroscopy, 19 nm lateral resolution, 20meV energy resolution), for
        characterising electronic properties of nano-structured and two-dimensional materials.


                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research Highlights: First demonstration of the micro-crucible mechanism of nanowire growth
(Science 2014); Predicting a new class of non-sticky gels (PNAS 2020); Design and construction of
protocells that exhibit novel functions (Nat. Chem. 2014), autonomic motility (Nat. Chem. 2018)
and can be programmed for artificial phagocytosis (Nat. Mater. 2017), predatory behaviour (Nat.
Chem. 2017), prototissue assembly (Nat. Mater. 2018) and chemical computation (Nat.
Nanotechn. 2019). Demonstrating that simple inorganic salts control the porosities, pore size
distributions and functionality of growing cross-linked conjugated microporous polymers (Angew.
Chem. Int. Ed. 2019); Creating the best synthetic receptor for glucose, capable of outstanding
affinity and selectivity in water – the most challenging of solvents (Nat. Chem. 2019); Designing
anion carriers capable of operating in live cell membranes, implying potential for treating
channelopathies such as cystic fibrosis (Nat. Chem. 2016).

Impact Strategy and Objectives
Our Impact strategy encourages a culture of entrepreneurship and policy impact across our
School, enabled by supporting infrastructures that allow colleagues to identify and leverage the
impact opportunities created by their research. Our School Industry Partnership manager leads our
industry engagement, supported by the Faculty Science Partnership Office, to develop strategic
partnerships with key companies who span our Research Themes. Key enabling structures within
the University are Research and Enterprise Development (RED) team, who support
commercialisation through spinouts and protection of intellectual property, and the PolicyBristol
and Public Engagement teams who provide expertise and funding for policy and societal impacts
(see REF5a). We also promote impact through external partnerships such as the award-winning
UnitDX (lab-based) and SETSquared (non-lab based) incubators, as well as the Science Creates
and Spin Up Science enterprises, that provide infrastructure, expertise and venture capital support
for innovators (see REF5a).

Commercial Impact success: Establishing 11 spinout companies over the REF period, including
the phenomenally successful Ziylo exit in 2018, is no accident. We have driven this forward by
reinvesting income from spinouts and external partners into impact priorities, e.g. establishing a
Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Enterprise Fellow (Bennie) to develop interactive VR for
catalysis that led to the spinout of Dynamerse; using the School’s share of Ziylo income to fund: (i)
an Industrial Partnership Manager to engage and enhance links and collaborations (ii) a Lecturer in
Innovation in Education and (iii) a number of targeted PhD and PDRA posts in the School. We
make significant use of Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAA), with 33 projects (£1.07M) funded to
support commercialisation, knowledge transfer secondments, and early career researcher
kickstarter grants alongside more exploratory projects. An exemplar of this is the world’s first
commercialisation of optical tweezers funded by an IAA knowledge transfer partnership in 2014
between Reid and BIRAL Ltd that has led to £1M of sales to date. Four of our successful spinout
companies have developed from IAA support, e.g. ArkenLight (Fox) developed from two IAA
projects to explore diamond and nanodiamond dynodes, and Glaia (Galan) from IAA-funded
investigations of fluorescent carbon dots for rapid detection of bacteria. Our School worked with
179 companies in project sponsorship, consultancies, knowledge-transfer programmes and
commercial research agreements and hosted 9 industrial professors during the REF period to
maximise opportunities to identify and exploit current commercial challenges that our research can
address. The entrepreneurial successes of our staff and student role models such as Destecroix
(PhD graduate, Ziylo co-founder) have embedded this same culture into our student cohort, with 2
further spinout companies created by our students over the REF period (Anaphite, Burrows;
Albotherm, Allington). We reinforce this commercial focus for postgraduates and undergraduates

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
by providing entrepreneurship/IP training and career mentoring opportunities for them (see Section
2).

Policy Impact Success: We work closely with PolicyBristol to bring together academic, policymaker
and practitioner expertise to enhance the impact of our research by influencing policy at the local,
national and international level. This is exemplified by our Impact Case Study “Aerosol science
informs clinical and public health policy on COVID-19 transmission” which describes the
contribution of the Bristol Aerosol Research Centre to informing the UK Chief Medical Officers,
SAGE and the Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport about the risks of Covid-19
airborne transmission in medical procedures (e.g. anaesthesia, intubation/extubation, ventilation
and dentistry) and the performing arts (e.g. singing and woodwind performance). Similarly, our
Atmospheric Chemistry Research Group (Shallcross, Rigby, O’Doherty) contribute to and lead
reports for the IPCC and WMO (both United Nations bodies). They have also worked with
international governmental agencies (US EPA, Thai Pollution Control Department, UK
Meteorological Office and BEIS, South African Weather Service, and health agencies in Laos and
Vietnam), to enable policy change based on improved scientific data, e.g. informing decision-
making which accelerated Thailand’s implementation of EURO 6 emissions standards to 2022 from
2028.

Collegiality, collaboration and partnerships: Interdisciplinarity is a defining characteristic of our
research, and a focus for our strategy over the REF period. This is demonstrated by joint
appointments, e.g. with Biochemistry (Parmeggiani, Woolfson); Computer Science (Glowacki);
Physics (Fox, Royall), and leadership of interdisciplinary endeavours, e.g. Max Planck Centre for
Minimal Biology (Mann FRS, Woolfson) and BristolBridge (Mulholland). As an example, the latter
brought together over 200 researchers across five Faculties to address antimicrobial resistance
leveraging £3.8m in follow-on funds (including winning the Longitude Prize) to establish the now
self-sustaining Bristol AMR cross-faculty research community, which has a £15.4M funding base
and is a Research Strand of the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute. Section 4 describes further examples
of leadership across disciplines, including founding of BrisSynBio and the Bristol Biodesign
Institute (Woolfson, Berger (Biochemistry)) and chairing Steering Groups of the UK Catalysis Hub
and UK central counterparties (CCP) (Mulholland) and CCP5 (Allan).

Open Science: Bristol Chemistry is committed to Open Science (see REF5a). We firmly believe
that a culture of transparency and openness ensures effective communication and dissemination
as well as the highest quality science. Woods leads the UK Research Software Engineering
community where the default position is open-source projects with open data. In software our
School leads in open-licence practices, with examples including Narupa (Glowacki), PGOPHER
(Western), BioSimSpace (Mulholland, Woods), Elfin (Parmeggiani), IMPRESSION (Butts,
Glowacki); SCORER, BUDE and CC+ (Woolfson). Staff are also involved in Open Data
initiatives, including a community commitment (J. Chem. Inf. Model., 2020) led by Mulholland to
share data and models on Covid-19 targets, and NMReData (Butts) which aims to provide greater
transparency and quality in reported spectroscopic data. All our research outputs and published
datasets are made open access via our institutional repository (PURE) and Research Data Storage
Facility.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Future Research Directions
We have a clear vision for our future research direction, with strong support from the University
which is investing in the development of Digital Chemistry and Global Change as the unifying
elements in our research strategy. We believe that Digital Chemistry, broadly defined as the
application and development of digital tools in chemical science, will transform our discipline over
the next decade. Our commitment to this is demonstrated by ~£3.0M of funding (EPSRC, BBSRC,
RSE, BP, University) in the last two years. This has included automated synthesis robotics
integrated with predictive quantum chemistry and machine learning techniques (Butts/Aggarwal
FRS), as well as equipment and fellowships for VR development and translation (Bennie,
Glowacki, Mulholland, Allan) and new computing and data storage infrastructure (Fey). This is
on top of £20M of University investment ring-fenced for HPC facilities over the next decade.
Similarly, our ambitions in Global Change see chemical science as a crucial element in solving the
increasingly global challenges of our modern world, particularly climate and sustainability. Activity
will be driven through our existing Atmospheric Chemistry and Aerosol centres as well as new
initiatives such as Eco3-formulation (Lead: Briscoe) which targets cross-disciplinary and industrial
engagement in formulation, chemical synthesis, catalysis and functional materials to reduce
environmental impact. The School’s strategic focus on innovation, translation and industrial
partnerships will be enhanced by opportunities provided by the University/Bristol City Council
partnership to create the Temple Quarter Enterprise zone in Bristol city centre (2020-), one part of
which is a recent £1.5M UKRI award to enable University partnership in expansion of UnitDX, with
laboratory capacity set to treble in 2021. We have also recently created an Entrepreneur-in-
Residence role (Phil Bates, formerly Oracle), funded by the Royal Society – this will focus on a
translational remit linked to Digital Chemistry and will provide in-house specialism to support our
staff in commercialising and spinning out their research. These impact-focused initiatives coupled
to our forward-looking research programs will ensure we are well placed to continue our success
into the future.

 2. People

Demographics, Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The School currently has 63 permanent academic staff comprising 32 Professors, 6 Readers, 5
Senior Lecturers, 4 Lecturers, with 9 core-funded Research Fellows and 7 Teaching Fellows (2
Professorial) who support research and teaching activities respectively. We also host 17
independent research fellows, all submitted to REF, three of whom hold proleptic Lectureships. We
are proud that we have substantially improved our diversity profile since REF2014, especially with
women in key leadership roles across our senior leadership team (50% female) and decision-
making committees (>30% female/transgender/BAME membership in Research, Teaching and EDI
Committees).

Staffing and diversity strategy: Our core staffing strategy is to build an inclusive, supportive
environment within a world-leading research infrastructure that attracts and retains a diverse
community of the very highest intellectual quality. We ensure that succession planning and
recruitment processes take three factors into account: research excellence, maintaining a breadth
of expertise across our Research Themes, and equality of opportunity. We have balanced strategic
appointments at professorial level (Clayden in Synthesis & Catalysis; Raven in Chemical and
Synthetic Biology) with attracting, and making permanent appointments (proleptic where needed)
from a strong early career pipeline of leading independent Research Fellows across all our
Research Themes (Bzdek, Fey, Glowacki, Lennox, Naafs, Oliver,and Rigby). This emphasis on


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
strength in depth and our early career pipeline is also delivering an improving gender profile since
REF2014, roughly doubling BAME and female representation across all career levels (Figure 2.1)
and a well-balanced age profile (average age 45). Similarly, our commitment to the long-term
support of our staff is reflected in low numbers of fixed-term positions, all arising from externally
funded fellowships (14%). These diversity improvements are especially noteworthy given limited
opportunities to recruit during the REF period, with low turnover of permanent academic staff (only
6 leaving) in that time – our staff rarely want to leave our strong and collegiate research
environment.




                                Figure 2.1: Chemistry staff diversity

Over the next REF period we will build on this strategy, targeting mid-level professorial
appointments in our focus areas of Digital Chemistry and Global Change, while maintaining our
strong early career pipeline, using proleptic appointments to ensure excellence across the breadth
of our Research Themes and prioritising diversity in all recruitment processes.

Developing a high quality and diverse early career pipeline: Our long-term future success is built
on our talent development strategy: identifying, attracting, and nurturing the best and brightest
minds. Our research strength, infrastructure and collegial environment ensure that we are an
attractive School for early career staff to undertake their independent fellowships.
ECRs are proactively identified and engaged in discussions around their future ambitions and
directions. In cases where there is a good science match on both sides, a senior mentor is
appointed, and candidates are encouraged to apply for independent fellowships. We work closely
with fellowship applicants and the University’s RED team to prepare them for the application and
interview processes, including mock interviews with panels of senior staff. Once in post, they are
embedded within Research Themes that provide vibrant and intellectually stimulating
environments, with support and mentorship by senior colleagues within those themes. Our Staff
Review and Development process (see below) provides a structure for ECRs to build their long-
term science plans with full support from their mentor and Theme leaders. The School strategically
invests in talent development, providing ECRs with independent research lab space, prioritising
requests for PhD studentships, funding new equipment to support grant proposals, prioritising their
applications to competitive funding calls, and covering costs for access to instrument Facilities. We
also ensure very minimal teaching loads through our Workload Allocation Model, to support them
in launching successful research programmes.

Clear evidence of the success of this strategy and our ability to attract leading ECRs from across
the globe to Bristol is that we hosted a total of 66 independent fellows in the REF period, funded
from a wide range of grant agencies (29% female, 70% international). This included 8 RS URFs, 2
RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellows, 1 EPSRC Early Career Fellow, 2 NERC IRFs, 7 RS Newton Fellows,


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
39 EU Marie Curie Fellows, 1 Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Fellow, 1 RSE
Enterprise Fellow, and 1 EPSRC Research Software Engineering Fellow.

Successes of our early career staff: Our successful mentoring of our ECRs is evident in their major
grant successes, notably 3 ERC Starter grants during the REF period. Similarly, of the 14 ECRs in
our previous REF2014 submission, four have already been promoted to Professor in Bristol
(Galan, Royall, Bower, Rigby), three to Reader/Senior Lecturer (Glowacki, Fey and van Der
Kamp (now in Biochemistry)) and six have taken academic appointments elsewhere (Tew/Oxford,
Hudson/British Columbia, Bonet/Hull, Zheng/Northwest, Grubb/Fort Lewis, Leitao/Auckland). All
of this demonstrates the excellence of academic training and support that we offer through our
talent development strategy.

Staff departures: We take enormous pride in the achievements of staff who excel with us, and the
strength of our support and environment that allows them to continue to succeed in their discipline
elsewhere. During the REF census period, four permanent academic staff left us, each of them to
prestigious roles in other institutions: Bower (to Regius Research Chair, Liverpool, 2020), Harvey
(to Head of Quantum and Physical Chemistry, Leuven, 2014), Manners FRS (to Canada Research
Chair, Victoria, 2019) and Wass (to Director of Catalysis Institute, Cardiff, 2018). In addition,
Simpson FRS retired to an Emeritus Senior Research Fellowship (2017) and Pancost moved to
Head of Earth Sciences in Bristol (2018).

Visiting scholars: We typically host ~30 visiting scientists within the School at any time, as well as 4
Visiting Professors who are appointed on a fixed-term but renewable basis and work with staff on
collaborative research topics and deliver postgraduate courses. We have also hosted 9 leading
international scholars through the University’s Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professorship scheme
during the REF period. Through our named lectureships, and the largest annual 1-day chemistry
symposium in Europe (Bristol Synthesis Meeting), we attract the highest quality of scientific
presentations to Chemistry, including 3 Nobel Laureates (Arnold, Levitt, Feringa).

Staff development and line management: Our core aim is to create an environment in which all
staff can flourish in their chosen field. Annual staff review and development is undertaken for all
core-funded members of staff by our 3 Section Heads (who are line managed in turn by the Head
of School) and by PIs for grant-funded research staff. Workloads are managed by an agreed
Workload Allocation Model that ensures committed time for research activities, plus balancing of
teaching and other roles across all members of the School. We ensure excellent employment
practices which include positive action in equality, diversity and inclusion (see ‘Equality and
Diversity’ below) and support flexible working for all staff. Leadership and advice in this are
provided by the School EDI Committee which contributes to higher-level decision-making through
our School Executive Board and the Faculty-of-Science and University EDI Committees. The vital
importance of supporting women at key career transition points is fully recognised by the School,
which has established the Women-in-Science Mentoring Scheme particularly targeted at PGRs,
PDRAs and ECRs with the aim of providing a supportive environment for individuals and to
encourage women to pursue careers in science.

Promotions: All promotion cases proceed through University processes from an annual open call to
all staff, with a specific Faculty steer to line managers to encourage diversity in applications for
promotion. The School ensures support for all staff through an additional internal Promotion
Committee (Senior Leadership Team, 50% female representation) who check that no staff are

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
overlooked and provide personalised guidance on all applications prior to submission. Promotion
applications are considered at a Faculty Committee, led by the Dean, which makes formal
recommendations to the University Promotions Committee where final decisions are made. Both
committees consider the submitted CV, letters from external assessors and any individual
circumstances (including, for example, career breaks and caring responsibilities). Evidence
successful guidance of candidates through this process is 22 staff promotions since REF2014,
including 11 to Professor and 11 to Associate Professor (formerly Reader/Senior Lecturer).

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Our strategy for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is coordinated through the School’s EDI
Committee (Chair: Manby; with constituencies across the School) and EDI considerations are
applied throughout all decision-making processes in the School. The EDI Chair sits on the School
Executive Board and EDI is a standing (usually opening) item in our 3 monthly School Assemblies.
We have made huge strides in EDI since our Athena Swan Bronze award renewal in 2018. In the
past two years we have become recognised as a beacon of excellent practice in EDI across the
institution, with our strategies and practice to improve diversity being disseminated by the Faculty
of Science and the University EDI Oversight Group. Innovations to foster an inclusive environment
have included:
     •   Putting EDI front-and-centre at staff events, e.g. introducing a 15-minute inclusion item in
         all School Assemblies with presentations on Privilege, Microaggressions and Being
         LGBT+ in a University – a practice that is now disseminated across the Faculty of
         Science.
     •   Leading high profile EDI activities such as:
         o Being-BAME-in-STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) events
              (now University-wide) that are aimed at better understanding BAME inclusion and
              equality and developing strategies for improvement.
         o Working with City Academy in Bristol to help BAME students experience and be
              inspired by university-based science.
         o The Red Heroes Project (@RedHeroes_Chem) to address period poverty across our
              School community.
     •   Scheduling research seminars and committees in family-friendly hours and active
         balancing of EDI when selecting speakers.
     •   Establishing prominent displays across the School highlighting:
         o Diverse early career Inspirational Bristol Scientists and BAME students who have
              made outstanding contributions in the University and to society.
         o Our support mechanisms for all members of our School community, e.g. against
              bullying and harassment.
         o LGBT+ with a flag in our main foyer and promotion of gender pronoun ID badges,
              widely worn around the School and in teaching activities.
     •   Actively managing uptake and compliance with EDI training for all academic staff
         (currently >98% uptake), mandatory Partnership Working and Sexual Harassment
         workshops and an established EDI Code of Conduct for School events, visitors, and off-
         site activities.

Equality of research support: We pride ourselves on ensuring equal and inclusive research support
to all our researchers in the SoC through all stages of academic progression, with a positive
working environment, including flexible and part-time work. Home working by academics is
supported by line managers and two of our REF-submitted staff work part-time (three over the REF

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
period). Our research support decisions prioritise ECRs and researchers who are re-establishing
themselves after career or funding breaks, e.g. financial support for co-funding grant applications,
prioritising these groups for studentship support and ring-fenced budgets to cover their use of our
central instrument Facilities so that these become ‘free-at-point-of-use’ for these supported
researchers.

EDI Summary: The inclusive environment we have built is reflected in positive diversity statistics.
We are submitting around twice as many female and ethnic minority researchers to REF2021 as
REF2014. This improvement is driven primarily by attracting a diversity of staff through our early
career pipeline, and then successfully supporting and retaining them within this positive and
inclusive environment. For example, all but two of our female REF-submitted staff started as ECRs
in the School. In the post-Covid era we intend to continue supporting hybrid home/campus working
for all staff who wish to take advantage of this. Our consistent EDI improvements have genuinely
changed the culture and behaviours of the entire School, and we are determined to build on these
successes to create even greater diversity in the future.

Research Students
Our Graduate School (Director: Hall) is one of the largest in UK chemistry, with 285 PhD and 15
research Masters students currently enrolled (43% female, 20% minority ethnic) and 352
graduated during the REF period. It operates within the Bristol Doctoral College, which is the
coordinating centre for sharing good practice across the University. We place substantial emphasis
on maintaining this strength and scale in our postgraduate community which underpins our
research success.




                           Figure 2.2: Chemistry Postgraduate Research




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The School of Chemistry currently leads or partners in 11 Research Council doctoral training
programmes (14 over the REF period), testifying to the breadth and depth of the science
undertaken in the School. We currently:
        •   Lead four EPSRC CDTs: (2019-) Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis (£6.6M)
            and Aerosol Science (£6.8M); (2014-) Chemical Synthesis (£5.3M) BCFN (£4.6M) with
            Physics.
        •   Partner in five EPSRC CDTs: (2014- and 2019-) Theory and Modelling in the
            Chemical Sciences (with Oxford and Southampton); Composites Science, Engineering
            and Manufacturing and Advanced Composites for Innovation and Science (both with
            Engineering at Bristol); Catalysis (with Cardiff and Bath); Diamond Science and
            Technology (with eight other UK universities).
        •   Partner in three BBSRC/NERC CDTs: BBSRC SWBio Doctoral Training Partnership
            (2015- and 2020-, with GW4); BBRSC/EPSRC SynBio CDT (2014-, with Oxford and
            Warwick); NERC GW4+ Doctoral Training Partnership (2014-, with GW4 universities).

The quality of the research training and career development that our postgraduates receive is
demonstrated in our REF-submitted papers: 63% include one or more Bristol PhD students as
authors. Our PhD students have obtained substantial recognition of their excellence in science and
its communication, including a Springer thesis prize, six Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science (JSPS) Fellowships, a Houses of Parliament STEM for Britain gold medal, and dozens of
prizes awarded for their presentations at national and international meetings.

Postgraduate recruitment: We recruit from around 400 high quality applications every year and
diversity (20% BAME, 43% female) is considered at every step by our Graduate Recruitment team
(2 female, 2 male) with PGR applications reviewed by at least three academic staff who all receive
Unconscious Bias training. Our gender profile is strong, being above the 2017 Royal Society of
Chemistry (RSC) reported national average in Chemistry and has been at this level throughout the
REF period. Funding for our PGRs comes from Research Councils/CDTs (55%, including
substantial industry contributions), direct industry support (20%) overseas scholarships (8%), EU
(8%), and University and other sources (9%). Chemistry staff also co-supervised >100 PGRs in
other Schools and Faculties (not counted in this submission), e.g via SWBio DTP, NERC and MRC
GW4 DTPs.

Entrepreneurship: The seismic shift in our entrepreneurial culture since REF2014 is also reflected
in our postgraduate training. For example, we run Business Modelling Workshops, covering
commercialisation of a discovery through to pitching a Company in a 'Dragons Den' type event.
One of the judging panellists was so impressed by a winning team that they are now working
together on a commercial launch. Our Technology Enhanced Chemical Synthesis (TECS) CDT
partners with UnitDX to provide week-long events for our students to establish business networks
and support them to define their own career paths by launching start-up companies. The success
of these strategies is demonstrated by two of our postgraduate researchers launching their own
start-up companies and around 30 more going into careers in start-up companies immediately after
graduating – including Dr Andy Chapman who was awarded the 2020 RSC “Rising Star in
Industry” prize for his work in spinouts.

Postgraduate support: To ensure a diversity of academic and pastoral support, all students are
supported by a team of four academic staff. Academic and pastoral support are primarily provided
by the Supervisor through regular one-to-one meetings (typically weekly or fortnightly), with a

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
pastoral point of contact provided by an independent second supervisor who is explicitly outside
the research project. Academic progress is supported by annual progress monitoring via written
report and interview involving two independently appointed staff with detailed feedback afterward,
including student responses through our online records system. All supervisor,
assessor/interviewer and student comments are read by the Graduate School Director and the
Faculty Graduate Dean who can initiate action, e.g. three-month Enhanced Academic Support,
where unaddressed concerns are identified.

Postgraduate research skills, careers and professional training: Alongside training in research
techniques, we enable all our students to build a portfolio of skills of value in their research
programmes and future careers. We integrate best practices from our CDTs and the Bristol
Doctoral College (BDC) into our development programme for the whole postgraduate cohort.
PGRs participate in safety, professional development, personal development planning, well-being
and entrepreneurship courses delivered by external experts. Core research skills are developed
through the BDC, with courses on responsible research, research planning, time management,
leadership, networking, presentation skills, and professional and career development. The Bristol
Futures programme offers wider-scope personal development courses such as sustainability,
innovation and global citizenship to all researchers. Within the School, postgraduates are also
given tailored training in teaching and many join our outreach and public engagement activities as
STEM Ambassadors (147 since 2014). Specific careers support within the School is provided by
an academic Careers Lead and the Faculty of Science specialist careers team with regular events
promoting careers opportunities and training, e.g. careers fairs, alumni and industry careers
presentations, supplemented by the central Bristol mycareers online portal with webinars, online
courses and opportunities to engage with alumni mentors. Consequently, our postgraduate cohort
has excellent careers outcomes with 97% in employment 3 months after graduation (32% to PDRA
positions)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income and Strategies
Our core strategy as described in Section 1 aims to build and maintain world-leading research
programmes which requires leadership and engagement in national and international agendas that
align with the scientific excellence in our Research Themes. To achieve this, we commit
substantial time and energy to building relationships with key organisations and funders that allow
us to shape and exploit national and regional investment agendas. Our success is reflected in our
research income of £183M (£83M as PIs) over the REF period, with examples of partnerships and
infrastructures that enable this being:
     •   International interdisciplinary research partnerships. In Global Change, Rigby and
         O’Doherty lead two NERC Highlight projects (DARE-UK and Moya-UK) and are partners
         in the NASA-supported Advanced Global Atmospheric Gases Experiment (AGAGE)
         programme that monitors global gas emissions.
     •   UK and regional partner organisations such as the GW4 network, entrepreneurial
         incubators (SetSquared, UnitDX) and over 280 different organisations, comprising 179
         companies, 33 different governmental partners (8 international), 21 charitable institutions
         and 52 other UK and international universities.
     •   Collaborative research programmes in thematic areas. Our 509 funded research
         programmes have included 2 EPSRC programme grants (Ashfold FRS PI and Glowacki,


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
         CoI); 2 EU FET grants (Hall PI and Oliver CoI); EPSRC National Consortia (Reid, CoI);
         and 2 BBSRC sLOLA grants (Willis CoI, Mulholland CoI).

Research Infrastructure and Facilities
A 5-year strategic planning process is the basis of our world-class research infrastructure and
estate (Figure 3.1), with an annual programme of major improvements to underpin our current and
future ambitions.




                           Figure 3.1 School infrastructure and investment

Estate: Chemistry is housed in a single purpose-built site, newly built or entirely refurbished to
world-leading standards in a rolling capital programme over the last 20 years. Our site provides a
total available laboratory area of 6870m2 (370 fume cupboards) and out-of-lab office space for all
PDRA and PGR researchers. It hosts an in-house Chemistry library, refurbished in 2017 to house
80 computers and >150 private study spaces. We entered REF2014 with an outstanding Estate
base which underpinned the breadth of our research needs and consequently we have focused
new Estate investments (£2.2M) during this REF period on emerging priorities:
     •   Digital Chemistry (VR labs, HPC, automated robotic synthesis and laser facilities).
     •   Global Change (atmospheric and materials chemistry laboratory refurbishments).
     •   PhD training (Training hubs for two new CDTs).
     •   Strategic appointments (chemical biology laboratory repurposing).
     •   EDI support (accessible showers, gender neutral toilet facilities, disability signage).
School researchers also use facilities based in the Life Sciences and NanoScience & Quantum
Information buildings, which offer state-of-the-art analysis capabilities for researchers in biological
chemistry/synthetic biology and materials chemistry and our NanoESCA Facility.

Equipment infrastructure and investment: Our buildings are equipped with £36.2M of world-class,
state-of-the-art scientific instrumentation and infrastructure, and dedicated mechanical, electronic
and glassblowing workshops, all supported by 36 FTE research technical professionals and
dedicated research fellows. Our 5-year equipment planning process maximises leverage from
substantial institutional cash support (£2.3M) for equipment bids. Since REF2014 we have
invested a total of £13.6M into our equipment base, including: NMR spectroscopy (£3.4M,
BBSRC/EPSRC/MRC/UoB) including a dedicated 700MHz 1.7mm microcryoprobe system,
600MHz and 500MHz 1H and 13C cryoprobes and 500/600MHz metabolomics spectrometers,
supporting synthesis, catalysis, functional molecules, biological chemistry and synthetic biology;
Materials Characterisation (£4.4M EPSRC/UoB) including the UK-unique NanoESCA Facility,
200keV High resolution FEG and EELS/energy-filtered TEMs and a dual microfocus single crystal
X-ray diffractometer, supporting functional materials and energy research; Radioisotope
accelerator MS (£1.9M BBSRC/NERC/UoB) - the UK’s most ultra-compact high-precision

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
accelerator MS providing compound-specific 14C analysis for our world-leading organic
geochemistry research cluster; Ultrafast laser spectroscopy (£450k, ERC/EPSRC/UoB) enabling
femtosecond to nanosecond studies of photochemical reactions in the gas-phase and solution,
coherent 2D vibrational and electronic spectroscopy, and ultrafast microscopy, supporting our
cluster of excellence in ultrafast laser spectroscopy; Automated Synthesis Robotics (£750k
EPSRC/UoB) capable of running dozens of parallel and serial reactions across a wide temperature
range, under inert conditions and with photochemical capabilities to support synthesis and
catalysis.

Central Facilities: Much of the University’s equipment base is housed in Chemistry, which hosts 7
major shared instrument Facilities. These are underpinned by a team of 13 FTE dedicated
research technical professionals and led by academic Directors. The strategic decision to
centralise these core capabilities means that we can underpin our entire research portfolio and
catalyse shared activities across the University with a long-term financial model that also future-
proofs our equipment base. These Facilities, with a user-base of ~400 researchers, are recognised
as centres of best practice in UoB for equipment support, training, sharing and sustainability.
Training and career progression of our specialist Facility staff is crucial and we work with the GW4
Technical and Infrastructure and Knowledge (TIK) Group to ensure effective support structures and
development for our research technical professionals.

The NMR Facility comprises 12 high-field instruments (300-700 MHz) serving both physical and life
sciences; The Chemical and Biological Mass Spectrometry Facility and complementary NERC
Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility together comprise 18 systems, including the UK’s first
GC-Orbitrap installed in 2018; The Chemical Imaging Facility (8 Scanning Electron Microscope
(EM)/Transmission EM/Atomic Force Microscopy instruments) offers characterisation of chemical
systems, high-speed imaging and physical properties measurements, and coordinates with
complementary Interface Analysis Centre and Wolfson Bioimaging suites for materials and bio-
oriented imaging applications respectively; The X-ray diffraction Facility comprises four
instruments for single-crystal and powder diffractometry, including recent investments in micro-
focus sources and variable temperature powder analysis; The Bristol Radiocarbon Accelerator
Mass Spectrometry Facility is a newly established state-of-the-art resource specialising in
methods for radiocarbon determinations of gases, solids and dissolved organics from diverse
environmental matrices including atmospheres, soils and waters; The NanoESCA Surface
Analysis Facility is a UK-unique multi-platform capability combining PEEM, high-resolution X-ray
Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) and Spot Profile Analysis Low Energy Electron Diffraction
(SPA-LEED).

Facilities supporting Themes: Our School also hosts specialist clusters of UoB and UKRI-funded
instruments supporting Theme needs with pooled research technical professionals and
underpinned by financial support from the School. Examples of these include analytical suites for
chemical and biological synthesis (React-IR, 10 LC/GC-MS, biosuite, peptide synthesis,
biophysical characterisation) and materials (DSC, ELS, BET, TGA), automated synthesis robotics,
soft matter analysis suite, atmospheric chemistry sensor arrays (UK and international), aerosol
science instrumentation and ultrafast-laser laboratories. These suites form strong links to wider
University Facilities, for example our dedicated 400-core Chemistry computational cluster acts to
triage our researcher’s substantial use of the University’s central ‘BlueCrystal’ 16000 CPU, 150
GPU High Performance Computing Facility and other HPC Facilities, e.g. BlueGem and
BluePebble. These in turn filter engagement with GW4 Isambard and Isambard II (Tier 2) and

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Archer (Tier 1) UK HPC systems. The University’s commitment to centralised facilities to support
our science is evidenced by a £20M ring-fenced budget for HPC over the next decade.

National and international Facilities: Our world-leading teams, particularly in ultrafast laser
spectroscopy and materials chemistry, are significant users of beam time on major international
research facilities (~£7.6M in-kind over the REF period), including: ISIS/Diamond (UK), Institut
Laue-Langevin (France), Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron (DESY-Flash, Germany), Paul
Scherrer Institut Light Source (Switzerland), Dalian Coherent Light Source (China), Heinz Maier-
Leibnitz Zentrum (Germany), Free-Electron Laser Facility (FERMI, Italy), Central Laser Facility
(UK), Berkeley Advanced Light Source (USA), SLAC Accelerator (USA). Our researchers also lead
programmes making substantial use of Tier 1 and 2 national HPC, e.g. HECBioSim (Chair:
Mulholland) was allocated 1.07M kAU on ARCHER (6.6M CPU hours, £570k in-kind value).

Equality focus: One of the key drivers behind our strategy for centralised and Theme-level
Facilities is to ensure world-leading techniques are accessible for all our researchers, especially
ECRs or those re-establishing their research careers who therefore do not need to procure and
maintain their own entire instrument base. As highlighted in ‘Equality of Research Support’ above,
we provide funding to minimise the cost of Facility access for these groups. Equality in supporting
large infrastructure bids is also underpinned by institutional mechanisms such as feedback and
mentoring from senior academics in the Faculty of Science and mock panel interviews for all
applicants.

Impact focus: The scale and quality of our core facilities and infrastructure enhance our
interactions with industry, Research Councils UK strategic priorities and underpinning of the UK
R&D base. External demand for our Facilities has risen sharply with over 60 companies requesting
bespoke access. These cover the spectrum from University start-ups (e.g. HelloBio, Photodiversity,
Ziylo, UnitDX, ArtSci, Rosa Biotech, Glaia, Carbometrics, Pertinax) through small and medium-
sized enterprises (SMEs) (e.g. CatSci, Anaphite, Isca Biochemicals, Barden Corporation) to global
corporations (e.g. Mars, BP, Oracle, Hyundai). The impact-focus, infrastructure and expertise
available in Bristol were key drivers for members of our School (co-founders of Ziylo) to spin out
the deep tech incubator UnitDX in 2017 to establish an extensive innovation hub in Bristol. Their
first facility has supported 57 companies, which themselves have generated 125 jobs and
collectively raised over £40M to date. A University-wide service-level agreement with UnitDX
enables all companies in the incubator to access our world-leading Facilities and expertise with
minimal barriers. This is fully described in our accompanying Impact Case Study.

Environmental sustainability: This is a core value at Bristol, and high on our agenda for actions,
with the University declaring a climate emergency in 2019. This is underpinned by £2M/annum of
capital investment and campus-wide sustainability initiatives (e.g. Green Labs, Let’s Eco Sort It).
The School has invested in a series of large-scale sustainability projects (£0.7M) including
improvements to lighting, compressed air infrastructure, drying cabinets, ultra-low temperature
freezers. These have reduced our consumption of electricity by 17%, equivalent to 1M tonnes of
CO2 emissions, despite concomitant expansion in the School. Similarly, a new central liquid
nitrogen facility has reduced losses and delivered substantial cost reductions (~£120k pa saving)
and switching water-cooled turbomolecular vacuum pumps for air-cooled systems has eliminated
our largest source of water use. Crucially, these investments include projects that do not fully
recover their costs but have major environmental benefits (e.g. electricity reductions, recycling).



                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
We are currently scoping a helium gas recovery and reliquification operation (through the School of
Physics) for our NMR Facility which will recover >3000 litres/annum of this finite resource.

Financial sustainability: The financial sustainability of our Estate and infrastructure is crucial for our
long-term future. The costs of our major equipment Facilities and their research technical
professional staffing are sustained through TRAC-compliant charging, which recovers running
costs directly from research and teaching users. We successfully recover >90% of
these >£1M/annum costs, with the remaining 10% being committed to free access for pump-
priming, supporting diversity considerations for ECRs and post-career break staff, and international
student support. Our financial model future-proofs our Estate and infrastructure, supported by
~£100k/annum industrial income streams to these Facilities.

Future plans: The recent transformation in entrepreneurial culture in Bristol and the associated
infrastructure and incubator space will bring positive and reciprocal benefits to the School’s physical
and non-physical infrastructures. The new £300M Temple Quarter University Enterprise Zone
focuses on digital, business and social innovation and anchors a new innovation district including
the Engine Shed and UnitDX. The University’s partnership in the coming UnitDX expansion will
provide new state-of-the-art space for spinout companies in artificial intelligence, smart energy, agri-
food and clean growth aligned with our School Research Themes and strategic priority areas of
Digital Chemistry and Global Change. We are working closely to integrate our theme-level and major
Facilities into this evolving infrastructure to maximise the opportunity for researchers across the
School and University.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration is at the heart of our research and is increasingly conducted in large inter- and multi-
disciplinary teams. Indeed, 88% of our REF-submitted publications are collaborative, 60% include
international collaborators as co-authors, 53% have co-authors from another UK academic
department and 37% are with industry. Our global reach is illustrated in Figure 4.1, showing our
research links to organisations in >130 locations worldwide.




     Figure 4.1 Chemistry collaborations (bubble size represents the number of organisations)

                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Interactions and leadership with key research users, audiences and beneficiaries: We are engaged
in >100 national and international networks and partnerships, covering all the School’s Research
Themes. Many cases of our leadership have been highlighted throughout Sections 1 and 2 of this
document and further examples include: Butts (Co-founder of UKMRM and ConnectNMR NMR
networks; President, SMASH NMR conference), Reid (President, UK and Ireland Aerosol Society);
Eastoe (Coordinator, International Consortium on New Low Surface Energy Materials); Fermin
(Chair, PVTEAM Consortium); Woods (Chair, UK Research Software Engineering network). The
School has also established networks with other universities to cement research relationships.
International examples include: Jilin University, China (Li, Mann FRS, Faul), Rhodes University,
South Africa (Shallcross) and Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics (Ashfold FRS).

Wider contributions to economy, society and industry: Our five Impact Case Studies demonstrate
the breadth of our impact globally, encompassing climate change, commerce, sustainability,
cultural heritage, and Covid-19 policy impact in health and culture. We are especially proud of our
societal impacts, exemplified by our massive Outreach programme (see Engaging with diverse
communities and public, below) which has partnered to engage over a quarter of a million
members of the public internationally in the REF period. Similarly, our Atmospheric Chemistry
Research Group has made major societal contributions around greenhouse gas emissions
inventories and modelling being used by the IPCC, with impacts on global climate change
initiatives, which has led to prosecution and closure of factories in China breaking ozone-depleting
CFC emissions bans.

Commercially, staff have obtained 27 patents during the REF period. Our 11 spinout/startup
companies established by School staff during the current REF period (Figure 4.2) target diverse
goals from non-profit open access software development (ArtSci) to improved crop production
(Glaia) and medical diagnostics (Rosa Biotech). Our work with 179 companies, ranging from SMEs
to global conglomerates, creates mutually beneficial outcomes in fundamental research as well as
translational and knowledge transfer opportunities for our partners. This is reflected in £8.5M
industrial support for PDRA-based research over the REF period, and £3M to support PhD
studentships and undergraduate research projects across companies as diverse as: Airbus,
AstraZeneca, Bayer, BP, Bridgestone, Bristol Water, CatSci, Chiesi, Codexis, Cresset, Croda,
Dextra, Dow, Dr Reddy’s, EcoEgg, Edwards, Element Six, Eli-Lily, Evotec, GSK, Heptares,
HyphaDiscovery, Hyundai, Imerys/FiberLean, Infineum, Janssen, Johnson Matthey, Lucite, Merck,
Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Nutrica, Oracle, Procter & Gamble, Pfizer, Prozomix, Sasol, Solvay,
Syngenta, Toyota, UCB and Victrex.




                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




                   Figure 4.2: Spinout companies established by Chemistry staff

Engaging with diverse communities and the public: We believe we have the most active public
engagement programme of any UK Chemistry department. Led by Mr Tim Harrison, it has run over
650 events over the REF period and engaged >175,000 UK school students, teachers and
members of the public. Many of our >650 Outreach activities (school visits, public lectures,
published resources, laboratory experience days) centre around research activity in atmospheric
chemistry and climate change. Our partnership with the Primary Science Teaching Trust has
developed the STEM/Science Trails program which has trained teachers in ~25% (>5000) of UK
primary schools to investigate local pollution and family travel habits, leading to Schools changing
their travel-to-school policies and parental engagement with their children’s education. Our team
has delivered training to international partners who have engaged >75,000 members of the public,
such as the Sci Bono Discover Centre (South Africa) and the South West Australian “Old Ways,
New Ways” program to enable genuine and measurable impacts on awareness of climate science
in disadvantaged communities such as the South African Townships and the First Peoples of
Australia. Shallcross is an internationally recognised leader in this activity as President of the
Royal Society of Chemistry Education Division, Director of the Primary Science Teaching Trust,
Convenor of the Education Forum, and winner of the 2017 RSC Nyholm Prize and 2020 ACS
Pimentel Award.

Wider influence, contributions and recognition: Our substantial influence and recognition across
international research communities is illustrated by numerous Fellowships of academic and
professional societies, e.g. FRS, Academia Europaea, FRS(Edinburgh), FRS(South Africa), Royal
Societies of Chemistry, Meteorology and Biology, Institute of Physics and two honorary doctorates.
Our staff hold visiting professorships in 6 international institutions, memberships of 16 University,
governmental and industry Advisory Boards, and serve on over 50 committees of professional
societies including 2 RSC Division Presidents (Raven, Shallcross). Staff have received 46 major
international, ACS and RSC awards and prizes during the REF period, including 2 Royal Society
Davy Medals (Mann FRS 2016; Aggarwal FRS 2019), RSE Sir James Black Medal (Simpson
FRS 2016), 10 Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award and 2 Philip Leverhulme Awards (Glowacki
and Bower, 2016). School staff have given >750 keynote, plenary or invited talks worldwide (not
including invited UK seminars) and led 21 international conferences including chairing 5 Gordon
Research Conferences.




                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
We play a full part in the leadership of international, EU and UK grant awarding bodies including:
Physical Sciences Panel Hong Kong RAE (Ashfold FRS, Orr-Ewing FRS), ERC Advanced Grant
Committee (Aggarwal FRS, Raven), Italian Research and University Evaluation Agency (Eastoe)
Irish Research Council Outer Board (Eastoe), EPSRC Science, Technology and Engineering
Board (Mulholland) and Strategic Advisory Teams (Booker-Milburn, Butts, Mulholland,
Woods), BBSRC Transformative Research Technologies Panel Chair (Woolfson), BBSRC
Appointments Board (Mulholland), UK Synthetic Biology Leadership Council (Woolfson),
NERC/BBSRC Individual Merit Promotion Committee (Evershed), EPSRC ARCHER Resource
Allocation Panel Chair (Mulholland), EPSRC UK Catalysis Hub Steering Committee Chair
(Mulholland) and Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Physical Sciences and
Engineering Advisory Panel (Orr-Ewing FRS).

Co-operation and collaboration in PGR training: We are proud of our national leadership around
doctoral training and discuss this fully elsewhere in this document, with the full list of 11 CDTs in
which we are currently engaged given in Section 2. This leadership is recognised nationally by the
high demand for our CDT leaders, e.g. Booker-Milburn and Raven have served on six CDT
Advisory Boards (Nottingham (Chair), Oxfordx2, Imperial College London, Cardiff and Cambridge).

Looking to the Future
Our School has a deeply embedded culture for intellectual and scholarly excellence that thrives on
new ideas and opportunities, and is creating economic, entrepreneurial and societal impact
worldwide. We have outlined in this statement a clear vision for our future research activities, with
a focus on digital enabling technologies (Digital Chemistry) and global challenges (Global Change),
and we have strong support from the Faculty and University to deliver this. Our impact priorities are
entrepreneurship and addressing global challenges, supported and enabled by outstanding Bristol
infrastructure and organisations. Our ambitious and energised staff cohort will be further
strengthened by targeting investments in strategic priorities at professorial level and by ensuring a
continuing strong early career pipeline across the breadth of our research portfolio. We are excited
about the future research directions and impact-focus of our School and confident that our thriving,
supportive, diverse and stimulating environment will continue to be a place where world-leading
scientists can excel.




                                                                                            Page 28
