Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art & Design – History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 Our shared project is making a positive difference to the lives of others through our
 practice based arts research that actively contributes to: the creative economy;
 promotes inclusivity, diversity and well-being; and builds collaborative partnerships that
 allow our students and staff to participate in cultural activities. Established September
 2019, Leeds School of Arts (LSA) includes 165 academics and 3022 students at Leeds
 Beckett University (LBU). Demonstrating our commitment to the arts, a new £80-million
 building opened in January 2021.




 Since REF2014, staffing, investment and infrastructure changes at LBU, including the
 creation of a new Leeds Arts Research Centre (LARC), have strengthened public-
 facing interdisciplinary and collaborative aspects of its research.

 The changes implemented have increased staff submitting to Art & Design from 12 in
 2014 to 39 academics in 2021. PGR students increased from 22 to 31 in 2020, with a
 further eleven graduating. HESA recorded funding has increased, from £94,271 in REF
 2014 to £133,821 in REF 2021 with a further £1,326,980 external funding generated
 (unrecorded in HESA), including 32 successful Arts Council England grants and
 £136,000 in prize money awarded to four of our academics.


                                                                                     Page     1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research culture is thriving in Leeds School of Arts. In this REF cycle our Art &
 Design academics have authored 18 monographs; 3 Edited anthologies; 47 book
 chapters; 56 Journal articles; delivered 87 conference papers; produced or participated
 in 246 exhibitions; made 88 live performances; given 52 radio and film broadcasts; held
 9 residencies; realised 29 commissions; built 38 collaborations with other HE institutions;
 and delivered 78 public lectures/keynote presentations.

 1.2 REF 2014 Review

 Following a review of REF 2014, we developed the following research groups, research
 and impact strategy whilst observing our Code of Practice’s core principles of
 transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. We have worked to develop
 the research intensity of staff through open dialogue, exchange of ideas and creating
 platforms for sharing.

 1.3 Research Groups:

 We’ve established eleven research groups: Autism; Co-Design; Critical Theory;
 Curating; Dementia; Experimental Publishing; F= Feminism; Fashion & Sustainability;
 Participatory Practice; Peace Studies; and XR [Extended Reality]. We intend to develop
 these over the next REF cycle with leadership and targeted funding, strengthening our
 interdisciplinary research activity whilst connecting academics across the University.
 Although we recognise the importance of working together we also value academic
 independence and support colleagues to pursue individual as well as collaborative
 research programmes. The culture of the Unit is one of enablement and facilitation,
 rather than prescription.

 1.4 Research Strategy

 In line with our institutional Strategic Planning Framework 2016-21 – including the KPI
 ‘Leading Research and Academic Enterprise’ – Professor Morris was appointed as
 Director of Research (DoR) in 2016 to increase research intensity, recruit more post-
 graduate students and increase external income.

 On auditing the research environment, Morris identified key strategies:

    1.41. Improve understanding of practice-as-research outputs. Research
          Strategy 1 (RS1)
          Working collaboratively across units, Morris and Shail (Unit 33) commissioned
          DUST to design templates for practice-as-research outputs. Staff were
          mentored on how to develop and articulate their research in terms of
          originality, significance and rigour. Twelve exemplar outputs were displayed in
          six offices to demonstrate effective framing of practice-as-research, leading to
          an interdisciplinary sharing of ideas.




                                                                                    Page       2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    1.4.2 Incentivise staff to obtain external research funding to increase and
          diversify income. (RS2)
          Following Arts funding workshops five attendees obtained ACE funding: F=
          Hassall, Orr and Stirling, (£14,259); Wanner (£15,000); and Hafeda (£15,000),
          and successful applications to the British Academy Small Grants and the
          Henry Moore Foundation supported (Bamford; Morris X 2).

    1.4.3 Expand research partnerships with local cultural institutions
          (programming and production). (RS3)
          We have strengthened existing partnerships with Leeds Art Gallery, Yorkshire
          Sculpture Park, East Street Arts, the Henry Moore Institute, The Tetley and
          developed partnerships with Yorkshire Sculpture International, Leeds City
          Council and Leeds 2023. By advocating practice-as-research, our
          partnerships maximise public engagement and student employability while
          providing contexts for disseminating staff research.

    1.4.4 Establish a centre for practice-as-research to create more platforms for
          sharing research internally and externally. (RS4)
          To create a culture of collaboration and interdisciplinarity, Morris and Shail
          established Leeds Arts Research Centre (LARC) in 2017. A public-facing
          platform, LARC advocates research through its public-programming of events
          and exhibitions including: the INSIDE/OUT lecture series; Dialogue - our
          annual research newsletter; Research Field Station, producing exhibitions of
          our researchers’ work at LSA and University of Cumbria; and an internal
          monthly LARC Research Newsletter promoting research events and
          opportunities amongst our staff and PGRs. LARC staff’s research profiles,
          projects, and research impact are available to view on the LARC website
          alongside archives of Dialogue, the INSIDE/OUT Lecture series, and selected
          audio-visual research projects. www.leedsbeckett.ac.uk/research/larc/




                                                                                 Page      3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    1.4.5. Research sustainability. (RS5)
           To attain 100% staff submission in REF 2028 through mentoring and
           workshops. Strengthen research groups through funding, sabbaticals,
           convening events and administrative support. Generate further external
           funding through workshops and targeting funding opportunities to specific
           academics and research groups. Improve our PGR provision through inclusive
           scholarships offering opportunities to people from B.A.M.E. communities and
           low-income backgrounds.

  1.5 Impact Strategy

       1.5.1. Understanding impact (IS1): To capture research impact, we improved
       staff understanding of impact and its evidencing through training. REF experts
       Professor Mark Reed, Saskia Walcott, Professor Paul Chamberlain and Professor
       Emma Rose presented to our Impact Case Study (ICS) authors, DoR, REF
       Consultant and Impact Officer. Their presentations were tailored to staff who use
       participatory methods, and whose research has impact potential.

       1.5.2. Identifying high impact research areas (IS2): Through Annual Research
       Audits (ARAs), we identified two key areas of research inclined to yield impact.
       These are: (1) projects using participatory models as research vehicles, and (2)
       research projects tackling specific social issues through practice-as-research.
       Two of our ICSs (Hafeda; Offeh), have resulted in policy and practice changes at
       arts institutions by creating cultures of belonging through participatory practice
       research. Whilst Gibbon, another ICS, uses art methodologies to raise awareness
       of the arms trades’ marketing strategies and provoke change. Like Gibbon,
       Fabri’s research addresses particular issues, using creative technologies to
       design tools to support autistic students’ transition into University.

    1.5.3 Allocating funding and resources to support impact (IS3): Potential for
          impact has priority when allocating research funding, e.g. £9000 awarded to
          Gibbon as match-funding for her £35,739 International Social Research
          Foundation grant for publication of a book, journal articles and exhibition at

                                                                                   Page     4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           The Bradford Peace Museum. Many of our staff use social art practices, their
           participatory and socially engaged projects eligible for seed-funding from the
           Unit’s research budget.

    1.5.4. Devising mechanisms for recording and evaluating impact (IS4): The
           roles of Research Impact Officer and REF Consultant were created to support
           case study authors to identify and capture evidence of impact from their
           research. We have used data-gathering tools, testimonials and evidence from
           independent evaluations to document impact.

    1.5.5. Sustainable Research Impact in Art & Design (IS5):
           In the next REF cycle, we will run workshops on understanding, generating
           and recording research impact. ARAs enable staff to self-identify potential
           research impact, so administrative and financial support can be allocated as
           appropriate. Eg. in the next REF cycle, we are helping Dr Fabri capture the
           impact of his research developing toolkits to help young autistic learners
           transition into higher education, improving retention. Supported by an EU
           grant (€331,399), Fabri’s Autism & Uni toolkit has: already been downloaded
           6500 times; had 3500 print copies distributed; been rolled out at 5 universities
           and trialled at 14 more.

 1.6 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Three out of four of our Research Strategies’ objectives (RS1; RS3; RS4) are aligned to
 supporting interdisciplinary research: (RS1) by explicating it appropriately, eg. output
 folders; (RS3) developing partnerships for interdisciplinary activities, eg. Inscription
 journal; (RS4) through the creation of LARC as a platform to showcase interdisciplinary
 research and enable future activity, eg. Dialogue Newsletter. Interdisciplinarity diversifies
 potential research funding streams, creating new knowledge.

    •   Inscription: the Journal of Material Text - Theory, Practice, History
        (output:40), edited by Dr Gill Partington (Exeter University), Professor Adam
        Smyth (Oxford University) and Morris (LBU) works across three HE providers and
        engages theoretically across several disciplines. Seven academics from LBU
        contribute to the journal, including: Truelove, digital designer; and Ashton, Hamill
        and Hussain (School of Cultural Studies & Humanities, LBU) are on the advisory
        board and Worth manages the website and Instagram account. Ashton and Offeh
        were also commissioned to make work for the journal. The journal is a space for
        critically discussing the materiality of text, published by Information as Material in
        partnership with LBU. It’s theoretically aware, trans-historical, and cross-
        disciplinary remit breaks with the conventions of academic ghettoization, creating
        connections between areas that have much to say to one another – bibliography,
        media theory, conservation, the history of the book, museum studies, and artist’s
        book studies, for instance – enabling wide-ranging conversation and unexpected
        juxtapositions. Johanna Drucker, Distinguished Professor, Information Studies,
        UCLA said: “Inscription is poised to create a vital niche within current discussions
        around media and information.” www.inscriptionjournal.com The success of the
        journal can be measured by its inclusion in the following special collections and
        libraries (amongst many others): around the globe: The Bienecke Rare Book and
        Manuscript Library, Yale University; The Huntington Library, California; ten
        separate College libraries from Oxford and Cambridge; The Joan Flasch Artists’
        Book Collection, School of the Art Institute of Chicago; the Bodleian Library,

                                                                                      Page       5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Oxford; the University libraries from Princeton, Stanford, New York and Columbia
        in the USA; and Toronto in Canada.

    •   The Slow Research Group was established in 2015 by Stirling and Bamford, a
        bi-weekly interdisciplinary reading group open to PGRs and staff from across
        LSA. By working slowly through texts, read aloud during the session, discussions
        and digressions cover many aspects of current research practice. The slow
        nature of the group also enables participants to attend frequently or irregularly
        and gain insights into different responses to theoretical texts. Whilst functioning in
        part as a support network for researchers it has also acted as a catalyst for formal
        collaborations and since moving online has welcomed national and international
        guests and participants.

    •   As well as promoting our achievements externally, the LARC annual newsletter
        Dialogue, concretises our intellectual identity whilst increasing internal
        awareness of LSA’s research. Its thematic clustering helps identify potential
        collaborations and supervisors for prospective PGRs, also communicating to staff
        developments in the wider research community.

 1.7 Open research environment

    •   Open Access at LBU: Output data is recorded using the information-
        management system Symplectic at LBU and staff are encouraged to have ORCID
        identifiers. The Libraries and Learning Innovation (LLI) and REF consultant
        support academics in making research open access compliant through the
        institutional repository e-Prints.

        Within LSA, with support and advice from the Libraries and Learning Innovation
        team, we have been working on other ways of making our practice-as-research
        outputs open access through the platforms outlined below:

        LARC website: An open access platform for presenting our research
        environment, supplementing the capabilities of the institutional repository e-Prints.
        Sharing our research, 50 world-leading artists and designers have lectures
        archived on the website. The lectures are public, enhancing the cultural life of
        Leeds and promoting the development of interdisciplinary global research
        communities. News on outputs and impact are promoted through the LARC blog
        and social media channels.




                                                                                      Page       6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    •   Research Field Station (2017): the Research Field Station is a physical
        exhibition space making practice-as-research more accessible and visible,
        generating dialogue between staff, students and the public. Academics receive a
        3-month exhibition, accompanied by an illustrated essay. In partnership with the
        University of Cumbria, a second parallel Research Field Station occupies their
        Brampton Road campus, affording further external exhibiting opportunities.

    •   Dialogue: Distributed in print and on the LARC website our annual research
        newsletter is a substantial publication in its own right and serves as a physical
        repository for staff to share selected research outputs and good practice.
        Dialogue #3 was a 104pp publication, a volume increase of over 100% since its
        first issue in 2016, demonstrating an exponential increase in research
        engagement from submitting staff in the unit.




                                                                                    Page    7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    •   Inscription: specifically engaging with the open access debate, our new
        academic journal has worked to make a spectrum of research activity openly
        available. The double blind peer-reviewed physical journal is in a print edition of
        500 and the entire contents are freely accessible on the web. The full creative
        content of each issue is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution -
        NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

 1.8 Research Integrity

 Following restructuring of LSA’s research ethics in 2019, Dr Bamford was appointed our
 Local Research Ethics Coordinator and instigated an internal audit of research ethics for
 all outputs by requiring submissions of new ‘Research Ethics Declarations’. Bamford
 also updated guidance on online submission through our ethics portal for future projects,
 communicated through the LARC Research Newsletter, ensuring all research meets
 LBU Research Ethics Policy.

 2. People

 2.1 Strategy
 We are committed to supporting staff at all career stages to achieve their research goals
 and those of the unit. To this end we have implemented new support and management
 processes in-line with LBU’s Research Code of Practice (CoP) and the Concordat’s five
 commitments to research integrity, to enhance our academics’ careers, comprising: a
 Research Induction; Annual Research Audit (ARA); mentoring; research and impact
 workshops; and a monthly research newsletter.

                                                                                      Page    8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.1.2 Staff Development and Support
 Staff are invited, within three months of appointment, for a Research Induction
 covering information on REF, ARA, Symplectic, Open Access, Ethics and the
 Institutional Repository. In 2015, we introduced an Annual Research Audit (ARA) to
 track and appraise research activity (RS5; IS5), and identify areas for new
 collaborations. Through the ARA all academics report on their previous, current and
 future research and impact, and make requests for support and training. Individualised
 career progression is supported through Mentoring: taking a person-centred approach
 to support and enhancing research quality; publication; training; promotions; and grant
 applications. LBU’s Research Training Programme is complemented by our Unit’s
 subject specific workshops, delivered to staff and PGRs covering funding
 applications, practice-as-research methodologies, and framing practice-as-research.

 The LARC monthly research newsletter supports our strategic aims to incentivise
 academics to apply for external funding (RS2; RS3), directing staff at all career stages to
 curated information on internal and external funding, fellowships, grants, bursaries,
 CFPs, commissions, and connecting staff to administrative support. Open to all
 academics, those interested in applying for internal research funding are required to
 consult the DoR before proceeding, with advice and feedback then offered on draft
 applications.

 2.2 Staffing structure
 The DoR sits on the Research Degrees Sub-Committee, Academic Promotions Board,
 University Athena Swan Committee, and University Research and Enterprise
 Committee, cascading information to colleagues. The DoR is supported by new posts
 created to increase research impact/funding sustainably: University Research
 Development Manager (1.0FTE); Research & Impact Officer (1.0FTE); and REF
 consultant (0.7FTE). The DoR works with School Research Degrees Coordinator
 (Dunn), Professors (Shail & Stansbie) and Readers (Bamford, Dunn, Fabri, Gibbon,
 Hafeda & Offeh) to manage postgraduate and research strategy. To enhance our
 research environment, Professor Dworkin, University of Utah was appointed Visiting
 Professor to Leeds School of Arts from 2016 -2019, delivering six public lectures and
 five student seminars.

 2.2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
 Our priority is to recruit research active academics capable of excellent teaching and
 research, securing funding and attracting PGRs. To build research capacity and retain
 excellent researchers our CoP allocates greater research workload to research active
 staff, whilst researchers working towards independence are supported through funded
 doctoral study.

 The DoR sits on interview panels for all academic vacancies to ensure recruitment in-
 line with our Unit’s Research and Impact Strategies (Section 1): targeting recruitment of
 academics excelling in practice-as-research (RS1; RS5), with impact achievement and
 potential (IS2); a history of funding success (RS2); who will contribute to and enhance
 our partnerships and research community (Bovan, Connor-Crabb, Gibbon, Hafeda,
 Hamill, Hemingray, Jeffries, Kelly, Meadley - RS3; RS4). Our appointment of Bovan,
 described by the Guardian as ‘Fashion’s great bright hope’ (14.02.2018) and shortlisted
 for British Council Fashion Awards for Emerging Talent: Womenswear 2017, 2018 and
 2019, demonstrates our commitment to recruiting leaders in practice-as-research to our
 research community.

                                                                                    Page       9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 LBU continues to be committed to succession planning for research leadership and
 sustainable research intensity. Our Category A staff composition is 43% female to 57%
 male. 43% of staff are employed on 1.0 permanent full-time contracts, with 53%
 identified as having a significant responsibility for research, with a further 18% currently
 completing PhDs. Following our aim to submit 100% of staff to REF2028, the remaining
 29% are working towards research independence with mentoring, training and
 appraisals. At 6%, we have work to do to recruit more staff from ethnic minority groups
 and aim to improve BAME representation and progression within our Unit. Our Unit
 takes an active approach succession planning and we have identified and are growing
 talent to fill leadership and strategically critical positions in the future.

 2.3 Support for new researchers
 The Research Induction facilitates staff integration into LARC’s research community
 (RS4), introduces staff to relevant processes and support, identifies training needs and
 collaborative research potential (RS5). Support is sustained through training and
 appraisals throughout each academic year (RS1; RS2). As a platform for all academics
 to share their research interests the publication Dialogue helps foster an inclusive
 culture of collaboration and knowledge-sharing. New appointees, ECRs and PGRs have
 opportunities to share research through the Research Field Station and LARC output
 portfolios. For new academics without doctorates, the School funds their PhD research.
 Once graduated, staff are encouraged to become PhD supervisors and receive
 mentorship from an experienced Director of Studies.

 2.4 Research Leave Policy
 Applications for sabbaticals/research leave are open to all staff and are assessed by an
 internal panel for research quality and impact potential (RS5; IS2). Since 2014 research
 leave has supported critically acclaimed projects including Bamford’s publication of
 Jean-François Lyotard: A Critical Life (Output:2); the realisation of multiple international
 projects by Offeh, culminating a 2019 Paul Hamlyn Foundation Award and exhibition in
 Japan (Output:45); and Wanner’s exhibitions at RIBA North & Tate (Outputs:52&53).
 Gibbon’s ISRF double sabbatical grant was internally match-funded, supporting an
 exhibition whose impact attracted international media coverage (Output:19; ICS:1). Our
 Research Leave Policy facilitates research and impact excellence continuing with
 Hafeda’s forthcoming sabbatical supporting The Time While Waiting (ACE funded): a
 project and exhibition working with refugees, in partnership with Wakefield District City of
 Sanctuary.

 2.4.1 Conferences
 Funding covering conference costs supports staff to present their research at
 established and esteemed conferences in order to stimulate future research
 collaborations. Funding is allocated through an open application, ensuring equity of
 opportunity and research quality.

 2.5 Procedures stimulating exchanges between academia and business, industry,
 public and third-sector bodies

 Aligned with our commitment to delivering on our role as an anchor institution in the
 region, our local partnerships include Memorandums of Agreement with YSI in Yorkshire
 (through HEIF funding), and Shandy Hall in North Yorkshire (RS3). Our YSI partnership
 strengthened existing relationships with institutions including LAG, HMI, Hepworth and
 YSP, which ensure our research is informed by the context in which it is applied. Our

                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships create opportunities for staff to present research in collaborative contexts,
 for instance, our Memorandum of Agreement with the ICA, London and The Tetley,
 Leeds, facilitated Bamford and Offeh’s production of the symposium ‘Performance &
 Uncertainty’, featuring: Sonia Boyce, Dora Garcia, Rana Hamida, Hayley Newman and
 Irit Rogoff. Our commitments to stimulating exchanges between academia and external,
 and to hiring active practice-led researchers are complementary; demonstrated by our
 successful bid for a collaboration between Leeds City Council and our recent appointee
 Matty Bovan on his exhibition JUST/UNJUST (Output:8) for the 2018 London Design
 Biennale at Somerset House, realised with £50k funding.

 Secondment of our staff to external organisations is supported by flexible working
 arrangements, allowing staff to reorganise working hours to enable knowledge sharing
 and exchange outside of academia. Having hired our academics for specific projects,
 organisations including the National Science and Media Museum (Dunn: consultant on
 ‘SuperSenses’ and NSMM Digital Cultures Working Group invited member), the BBC
 (Dalton, R&D for ‘Where do you go to?’) and Tad Hirsch's Public Practice Studio in
 Seattle, USA (Dalton, Guest Researcher). The new School Research & Enterprise
 forum, established in 2020, meets quarterly to review and design new procedures to
 support future exchanges between our researchers and external organisations.

 2.6 Impact recognition and support
 Staff are encouraged to self-identify research impact potential through the ARA, so
 financial and administrative support can be allocated to cultivate impact growth and
 capture. ICS authors received workshops on and funding for impact development and
 capture. For the next REF cycle, we will be introducing new impact training for all
 researchers at LSA, addressing four aims of our Impact Strategy (IS1; IS2; IS4; IS5).

 Overseen by the Dean and DoRs and in-line with the Concordat, our annual promotions
 recognise, reward and maintain research and impact excellence, align expertise with our
 curriculum and strategic partner opportunities, and ensure succession and sustainability
 by facilitating staff retention. The promotions process is supported through workshops
 delivered by the Executive Team and online guidance. Promotions applications from our
 ICS authors were encouraged and supported by the DoR, resulting in promotions to
 Reader for Gibbon, Hafeda and Offeh. Dunn and Fabri, identified as potential ICS
 authors for REF2028, were promoted to Reader in recognition of the burgeoning impact
 of their research. Recognising excellence in research leadership Bamford was also
 promoted to Reader and Stansbie to Professor. Overall, 35.8% of our staff have
 benefitted from promotions since 2014.

 2.7 Research Students
 LSA provides inclusive, dynamic environments for PGRs specialising in practice-led
 research. Since 2014 we have increased the number of registered PGRs by 55%, from
 20 in 2014 to 31 in 2019, and have awarded 8 PhDs and 3 MRes degrees. The
 Graduate School, launched in February 2018, supports PGRs from admission to award,
 integrating institution-wide PGR support with research career development, and
 attending to student wellbeing, disability and hardship needs. Tailored professional
 workshops are based on Vitae’s Research Development Framework through the
 Research Training Programme for PGRs and a development programme for staff in all
 aspects of research activity. Whilst, LSA and LARC provide the primary academic home
 for our integrated research community.

 PGR Recruitment

                                                                                    Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment of doctoral candidates prioritises attracting PGRs demonstrating
 outstanding practice-as-research. Doctoral applications are welcomed from all sections
 of the community, and our research community has grown through new Collaborative
 Doctoral Partnerships (CDPs) and fees-only studentships for part-time external
 candidates which both improve access to postgraduate study. Our CDPs with Yorkshire
 Sculpture International (YSI) and Richard Demarco Foundation provided two new fully-
 funded studentships, strengthened external partnerships, enhanced student
 employability, and facilitated knowledge exchange between LSA and third-sector
 organisations.

 PGR Progress and development
 PGRs enjoy expert supervision, a supportive environment and opportunities for
 development. Established mechanisms and processes support students, monitor
 progress and promote on-time completions. Within six months of registration, students
 prepare a report that is reviewed by a panel comprising an independent chair, the
 supervisory team, and a senior academic unconnected to the project (Confirmation of
 Registration). The panel may confirm the target award, recommend an alternative award
 (e.g. MPhil rather than PhD), highlight weaknesses and recommend resubmission, or
 recommend the student’s withdrawal from study. Annually PGRs are required to present
 on their progress to a panel (Annual Progression) consisting of supervisors, an
 independent chair, and another senior researcher from within LSA. These meetings are
 invaluable in providing students with constructive feedback and advice. From enrolment,
 students receive 12 tutorials per year (six for part-time students), benefitting from the
 knowledge of our academics, with external advisors appointed as required for the best
 possible PGR experience. Supervisory staff undertake training and must demonstrate to
 the University’s Research Degree Sub-Committee that they are active researchers to
 ensure that PGRs are properly supported.

 Students experiencing difficulties at any stage in the PhD process may apply to the
 University Research Degrees Subcommittee (RDSC) e.g. for an extension or
 suspension due to personal circumstances (caring responsibilities, maternity, etc.).
 Locally, PGRs are encouraged to identify any issues affecting their progress with
 supervisors, Director of Studies or the DoR at the earliest opportunity so appropriate
 guidance can be provided and applications made to RDSC if necessary. The Graduate
 School now operate a PhD manager software system (Student Admin Manager)
 streamlining the process of organising and recording supervision meetings, progression
 monitoring, examinations management, and reporting. All staff and PGRs have received
 training in this new system.

 Run by the Graduate School, the compulsory Research Training Programme (RTP)
 provides PGR students with the skills and competences needed to undertake research
 and to work effectively towards the successful completion and defence of a written
 thesis and/or disciplinary equivalent. This approach reflects national good practice
 guidelines and specifically relates to QAA guidelines and Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework. The RTP offers quality research training relevant and
 appropriate across our disciplinary areas to meet the diverse needs of our students.
 School-specific initiatives including the bi-weekly Slow Research Group and the biannual
 Research Seminars at the Henry Moore Institute foster a research culture of exchange
 and support.

 2.8 Commitment to Equality and Diversity


                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We’ve always been committed to maintaining and developing policies and practices
 promoting equality, diversity and inclusion in relation to recruitment, retention and
 development. Our recruitment processes and practices adhere to HR guidelines
 concerning equality, diversity and inclusion, and our ‘Equality and Diversity Policy’ and
 ‘Dignity at Work and Study Policy’ ensures everyone, including those with protected
 characteristics, can conduct research in supportive environments. At university level, we
 are Disability Positive employers, hold institutional Athena Swan accreditation, have
 received Stonewall Top 100 employer status, and are members of the pilot group of
 universities for the Race Equality Charter Mark. Our Equality Forums deliver events and
 activities including annual race lectures, an inaugural Gender Research Conference,
 participation in Leeds Pride and events in support of Disability, LGBT and Women’s
 History Months. Our equality work was recognised in December 2018 with a Vercida
 award when we were named in the Top 10 of the UK’s most LGBT-inclusive employers
 and singled out as one of only 11 HEIs with a consistently gender balanced Board in the
 Women Count, Leaders in Education Report 2018. We are now in the second year of
 Gender Pay Gap reporting and bonus pay gap.

 At School level, our application for the Athena SWAN Bronze Award is being led by Dr
 Anne Schiffer. LBU is committed to improve representation and achievement of black
 and minority ethnic staff and students in HE. Researchers within the Autism Research
 Lab, F= Feminist Research Group and Participatory Practice Research Group actively
 research inequalities and mechanisms for inclusion, and two of our ICSs address issues
 around the exclusion of disadvantaged and marginalised communities - demonstrating
 our unit’s commitment to these matters.

 We are maximising the benefits for both the University and the individual of more flexible
 working arrangements, including the location, pattern and hours of work. We are
 supportive of those with caring responsibilities, such as those going on or returning from
 parental / maternity /adoption leave, for carers, and grandparents. Colleagues and
 managers are encouraged to informally discuss and agree flexible working requests,
 and most flexible working requests are resolved through informal discussion. As such,
 our Unit is family-friendly and supportive of flexible working for colleagues to ensure
 work-life integration to suit all individuals and provide equitable research and
 development opportunities. As part of our commitment to inclusivity and equity of
 opportunity our new Professional Doctorate of Creative Arts programme, approved in
 2018, was designed for flexible working in order to remove barriers to doctoral study by
 supporting candidates to balance their development as researchers with their wider
 commitments.

 Staff and students can also access specialist confidential advice and support for their
 mental and physical wellbeing through the Employee Assistance Service, Active Care
 Service, and Student Wellbeing Team, including: a 24-hour confidential helpline,
 counselling; financial/legal advice; online guides; and specific support to help staff on
 leave due to stress get back to work.

 2.9 Code of Practice
 To determine our REF submission a panel comprising the Dean, DoR, Readers, and a
 DoR from another School, to ensure impartiality, internally assessed staff’s research
 quality and independence. Our CoP emphasises transparency, consistency,
 accountability and inclusivity as its core principles. In-line with this our CoP was shared
 with staff through presentations and a Q&A, and is available digitally and in print to all
 staff. The University established an independent Equality panel to consider requests

                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from staff with complex circumstances. An Appeals panel adjudicates any potential
 appeals resulting from our processes. All staff were invited to submit research and the
 panel assessed whether staff had a responsibility for research; were working towards
 research independence; or were undertaking PhDs. Demonstrating our commitment to
 inclusivity, all staff rated 1* - 4* through our internal assessment are included in our
 submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Recorded through HESA cost Centre 143: £133,821 includes successful grant
 applications to EU Erasmus, British Academy/Leverhulme, the Henry Moore Foundation,
 Sasakawa Foundation and the International Social Research Foundation. A successful
 grant has been awarded from the AHRC which will be recorded in our next REF cycle.

 During the current REF cycle (2014-2020), many external grants that support the work of
 our academics are received through sources that are not reported in our annual HESA
 return but demonstrate the considerable investment there is in our arts practitioners from
 multiple major institutions and funding bodies, nationally and internationally, totalling
 £1,326,980. This figure includes funding from a consortium of European partners to
 support our academic Nathaniel Mellors’ presentation of Aalto Natives in the Finnish
 National Pavilion at the Venice Biennale with Erkka Nissinen (output:35). This is just
 one example from 125 externally funded commissions and projects by our researchers
 which link to LBU’s strategy to promote the ‘quality and impact of our research’ and our
 ‘global engagement’.

 3.1.1 Strategies for generating research income

 The DoR recognised the need to encourage research-active staff to apply for external
 grants as a strategic aim of the School’s development, whether they appear in our HESA
 return or not. Since 2017, funding and application writing workshops have been offered
 to academic staff with focus on securing Arts Council England funding – 32 successful
 grants. The monthly LARC research newsletter compiles an exhaustive list of funding
 opportunities relevant to LSA’s research activities, also alerting staff to workshops and
 other support, including details on contacting the Research Development Manager to
 initiate applications.

 3.1.2 Links between research funding and high-quality research output

 Allocated by the DoR, funding for activity that contributes towards the realisation of new
 research outputs falls into two categories: seed funding to initiate new projects or match-
 funding to augment current ones. For example, Mellors received internal funding for a
 publication to accompany his solo exhibition, Progressive Rocks (output:36) at the New
 Museum, New York, 2018, a substantial mid-career retrospective seen by half a million
 people.

 3.1.3 Prestigious grants from external bodies made on a competitive basis

 Dr Marc Fabri (PI) received an erasmus grant of €331,399 for his Autism & Uni project
 (output:18 www.autism-uni.org), which has partners in Finland, the Netherlands, Poland
 and Spain. Using toolkits produced by Fabri through his research, young adults with
 autism across Europe have been supported in their transition into higher education. The

                                                                                    Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 estimated cost to society of every autistic person who does not complete a University
 degree or gain employment after graduation is £1m. The award of two further recent
 erasmus grants – €400,663 for ‘The IMAGE project: Improving Employability for Autistic
 University Graduates’ (http://www.imageautism.com/); and €402,552 for the
 DesignMyFuture project (www.designmyfuture.eu) – will carry these projects (Fabri was
 PI on both awards) well into the next REF cycle. IMAGE is an Erasmus+-funded
 partnership of 5 HE Institutions from 5 European countries all departing from the ‘deficit’
 model of autism, instead focusing on skills development, self-advocacy and sharing
 good practice amongst universities and employers. DesignMyFuture aims to improve
 employability amongst autistic young people by working with students, HEIs and
 employers.

 Our academics have received prestigious grants from the Henry Moore Foundation and
 the Leverhulme British Academy through highly competitive application processes.
 Bamford was awarded a Leverhulme British Academy Small Grant (£5,012) to complete
 research on his book Jean-François Lyotard: The Interviews and Debates (output:3),
 enabling him to source and secure the rights of twenty-four out of print, hard to find or
 untranslated documents featuring Gilles Deleuze, Jacques Derrida and Emmanuel
 Levinas, assembling “many of Lyotard's most important interviews and articles. Each
 chapter is accessibly written and the introduction is exemplary in giving the context of his
 works--a must have for those new to Lyotard as well as scholars of writings.” (Peter
 Gratton, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Southeastern Louisiana University, USA.)

 Two grants of £2000 each were awarded to Morris by the Henry Moore Foundation to
 support publication of books by Information as Material, the publishing imprint he
 founded in 2002.

 3.2. Organisational infrastructure

 The creation of the new DoR for Unit 32 in 2016 marked a significant shift in LSA’s
 approach to organising research and measuring impact. The DoR is supported by a
 school Research and Enterprise Officer, a Research Development manager, Research
 & Impact Officer and a REF consultant. Conceived to work in concerted synergy, these
 roles stimulate, promote and strengthen LSA’s research activity.

 3.2.1 LARC

        LARC was created to provide a platform for galvanising research across LSA,
        inculcating a more accountable culture. LARC has given LSA a clear research
        identity by bringing together cultural historians and theorists with arts practitioners
        from across Units 32 & 33. Internal funds (£20,000) were invested into the design,
        development and launch of LARC online and in print by the design agency DUST,
        who won the tender. LARC’s online presence and publications have raised the
        research profile of the school, wider interest generated through the INSIDE/OUT
        public lecture series. Over the last six years £75,000 has been invested in this
        international programme, whose purpose is to inspire our academics and the
        public by bringing world-leading arts practitioners to LBU, including Tarek Atoui,
        Phyllida Barlow, Christian Bök, Martin Creed, Ayse Erkman, Kimsooja, Michael
        Landy and Teal Triggs.

 3.2.2 Research clusters: Dialogue



                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        As the publishing vehicle of LARC, Dialogue presents research activity between
        colleagues, highlighting potential areas of shared interest. In preparation for the
        first issue, staff were invited to propose new research clusters, a descriptive list of
        those relevant to each staff member being listed alongside their research profiles.
        Following the fourth issue of Dialogue and moving into the next REF cycle, we
        plan to rationalise existing clusters to give greater focus and intensity to emerging
        areas whilst actively developing research impact.

 3.2.3 Specialist Studios, Workshops and Facilities

 Most LSA staff and students are based at the multi-award-winning buildings at
 Broadcasting Place that house our offices, studios, and workshops, providing us all with
 creative and contemporary learning environments. The studios for fine art, graphics,
 fashion and architecture are flexible and adaptable space, reconfigured annually to
 provide bespoke environments for teaching and research to take place in. We have
 dedicated workshops for 3D production, including specialist facilities for woodworking,
 metalworking, fabrication, plastic forming, vinyl moulding, glass reinforced plastics,
 welding, plasma cutting, model making and 3D sculptures; printmaking workshops
 offering letterpress, various printmaking processes, and reprographics; digital printing
 and photographic studios, complete with Mac suites, and resources for digital and
 analogue photography. Our digital facilities also offer staff and students specialist
 animation workspaces and technology for AR and VR production, alongside access to a
 wide range of cameras, lighting, video and sound-recording equipment. Additionally,
 staff and students can access learning spaces and resources at the nearby Sheila Silver
 Library (SSL), housing the main art and design collection relevant to LSA. SSL and the
 Headingley Library provide 22 bookable spaces for staff and PhD students; three silent
 study spaces; borrowable self-service laptops; and 900 PCs, with 11 further study
 spaces around campus offering PC and printing facilities.

 Investment in a new Creative Arts Building (CAB) opposite Broadcasting Place brings all
 LSA’s subjects to the city campus, nurturing a research culture of interdisciplinarity and
 collaboration. Due to open in January 2021, CAB facilities include: performance spaces;
 a theatre and a black box studio; a 220-seat Dolby Atmos cinema; a TV studio, three
 large film studios; a green-screen studio; a stop-motion studio; Foley studios, dubbing
 and music recording studios; acoustic labs and a suite of post-production studios.

 3.2.4 Specialist support staff

 Staff and research students can access specialist support from Senior Learning Officers
 and Subject Librarians. Based at the SSL, LSA benefits from the specialist knowledge of
 Academic Librarians for Leeds School of Arts (Karen Fisher and Laurence Morris) and
 the Learning Innovation service.

 Dedicated teams of specialist learning officers manage the workshops at Broadcasting
 Place, providing staff and students with training and specialist production support. Many
 of our Senior Learning Officers are arts practitioners, contributing to the creative culture
 of the school. Our workshop learning officers have created bespoke display structures
 for the exhibitions Reading as Art (output:39) at Bury Art Museum; Ceramica (output:52)
 at RiBA North; and PlatFORM (output:53) at Tate Liverpool.

 3.3 Addressing Equality & Diversity



                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of preparations to apply for an Athena SWAN award, a review of the School’s
 gender balance is being conducted, addressing imbalances in staff structure with regard
 to gender and BAME representation.

 3.4 Supporting impact through infrastructure and expertise

 The creation of LARC by the DoRs and introduction of the publications Dialogue and the
 LARC Research Newsletter have promoted research impact through the sharing of best
 practice. By bringing researchers at LSA closer together, the creation of the new CAB
 will augment the interdisciplinarity and collaboration already established by the
 introduction of research clusters.

 Our Impact Officer and REF consultant assist our researchers in working with
 stakeholders at the early stages of their research to maximise its potential, devising
 bespoke approaches to evidencing impact. The creation of the new post of REF
 consultant has provided the staffing resources to conduct testimonial interviews with
 stakeholders and beneficiaries; conduct and collate data on research impact; and
 increase understanding of that impact.

 3.5 Research Field Station collaboration with the University of Cumbria

 The Research Field Station is an exhibition space dedicated to arts research. Quarterly
 exhibitions of staff and student research are accompanied by a publication printed in an
 edition of 500, including a 36-page illustrated essay. To support inter-institutional
 collaboration, we installed an identical Research Field Station at the University of
 Cumbria so our respective academics could exchange research ideas. So far, two of our
 academics and one of our postgraduate research students have exhibited their work at
 Cumbria.

 3.6 Benefits-in-kind

 3.6.1 Shandy Hall Residencies for the INSIDE/OUT Lecture Series

       Benefit-in-kind in the form of an artist residency for participants of the
       INSIDE/OUT lecture series is provided by our partner, the Laurence Sterne Trust.
       Each week-long residency includes accommodation at Shandy Hall in North
       Yorkshire, whose historical and intellectual legacy continues to inspire artists. The
       residency is supported by the curator Patrick Wildgust who provides our
       international guests with practical and research support.

 3.6.2 Research accommodation at the Henry Moore Institute (HMI)

 The HMI provides our unit with spaces for activities: postgraduate research
 presentations, reading groups and symposia.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Leading and contributing to the field

 Many of our academics are at the forefront of their disciplines and influence the
 development of the subject and its evolving policies. Impact has been achieved through
 books, curating, design, exhibitions, installations and performances. Our academics also



                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribute to important activities such as external examining, reviewing, sitting on
 boards, organising conferences and delivering lectures/keynotes addresses.

 4.2. Collaboration

 We have invested strategically in successful external partnerships, including:

 4.2.1 Local Research Collaborations

 LSA’s contribution to local culture is vital. Through strong ties with Leeds Art Gallery,
 Henry Moore Institute, Yorkshire Sculpture Park, Tetley, Yorkshire Sculpture
 International and Hepworth Museum, our researchers have delivered talks, workshops
 and exhibitions.

 In 2018, we established our partnership with Yorkshire Sculpture International (YSI),
 investing £126,000 HEIF funding. The partnership enabled us to host six international
 sculptors for public lectures; create a fully-funded PhD; host a symposium; initiate two
 publishing prizes; facilitate a studio for sculptural exploration; and participate in YSI’s
 engagement art programming. Staff and PGRs (Hamill; McKinlay; Worth) contributed
 research directly to Yorkshire Sculpture International 2019, whose audience of 1 million
 added £8.3million to Yorkshire’s economy. Our collaboration with YSI was shortlisted as
 a finalist in the Arts & Culture Award for the White Rose Awards. The Producer of YSI,
 Jane Bhoyroo, said: “The support of Leeds Beckett University made it possible for
 pioneering gallery partnerships to develop ambitious artistic and engagement
 programmes attracting local, national and international audiences and press coverage in
 major broadsheets.”

 Additionally, we partnered Leeds Art Gallery and Hayward Touring in a series of
 projects, public lectures and a publication relating to the British Art Show 8 which
 opened at Leeds Art Gallery, 2015, co-programming 12 talks, including artists Ryan
 Gander, Rachel Maclean, Benedict Drew and Caroline Achaintre. Students and staff
 produced a publication and film which they presented at BAS8 as it toured to Edinburgh,
 Norwich and Southampton. We partnered Leeds Art Gallery and Bloomberg New
 Contemporaries 2019 to develop projects and six public lectures in response to New
 Contemporaries, which opened at Leeds Art Gallery.

 Our feminist art collective F= (led by Hassall, Orr & Stirling) partnered Leeds City
 Council at Leeds Central Library for the Festival of the Body, a month-long exhibition
 of performances, events, meetings and workshops externally funded by ACE’s Room
 700 (£3000). The Erotic Power of F= Conduit Tour 2018 – 2019 (output:50) was funded
 by ACE (£14,259) in partnership with Feminist Archive North (Leeds), In Situ
 (Lancashire), and the Armitt Museum (Ambleside), leading to the founding of an LBU
 feminist researchers’ network.

 Partnering East Street Arts, Harrison devised the project tomorrow is our permanent
 address (15 invited artists including Dalton, Dunn and Edwards) for Convention House,
 working critically, practically and sonically to place the surrounding geography of ESA’s
 new space within global contexts.

 4.2.2 National Research Collaborations

 Contributing to our inclusivity, diversity and well-being agenda, two of Dr Harold Offeh’s
 research projects have engaged nationally significant health centres. Working with the
 Wellcome-MRC Cambridge University Stem Cell Institute, A Pattern for Progress
                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (output: 42) examines the shared experience of patient and practitioner, bringing
 together people living with Multiple Sclerosis and their carers with scientists researching
 MS at Cambridge’s new Jeffrey Cheah Biomedical Centre (JCBC), a world-class
 research facility comprising several biomedical institutes. For his Mindfully Dizzy project,
 Offeh created workshops for patients at Bethlem Royal Hospital’s Psychiatric Intensive
 Care Unit (PICU) – (output: 44).

 Our academics have worked with national institutions: the V&A (Ashton; Lima); the
 James Joyce Centre, Dublin (Oliver); the National Centre of Craft & Design (Marston);
 the Harris Museum, Preston (Offeh; Mellors); the International Anthony Burgess
 Foundation, Manchester (Dunn & Oliver); and specialist institutions such as Bradford
 Peace Museum (Gibbon). Collaborative partnerships with Tate Modern (Harrison, Offeh
 & Stirling) generated curatorial projects for Tate Tanks, Tate Exchange and Tate
 Learning. Dunn devised major public interventions through partnerships with Bruntwood
 property developers and Ocean Outdoor, culminating in our researchers presenting work
 on public digital platforms, including the largest digital advertising screen in Europe,
 outside Liverpool Lime Street station.

 4.2.3 International Research Collaborations

 The combination of long- and short-term, local, national and international practice-as-
 research collaborations makes for a dynamic research environment at LSA. Many of our
 academics are practising artists collaborating with major institutions. For example,
 Mellors worked with Finnish film director Erkka Nissinen on the installation The Aalto
 Natives (output:35) for the Finnish Pavilion at Venice Biennale 2017, attracting 600,000
 visitors and eighty critical reviews. Lewis’s long relationship with the Sharjah Art
 Foundation, UAE, co-curating the Sharjah Biennial in 2003 produces research that
 transforms curatorial practice. For curating /Seconds in Sharjah (output:31), Lewis was
 nominated for the Global Fine Art Awards (2015) and has been invited to contribute to
 the Sharjah Biennial 15 in 2022.

 4.3 Contribution to research bases, economy & society

 4.3.1 Research stakeholder engagement

 Some of our researchers operate in marginalised contexts. Hafeda and Offeh use
 participation, working with audiences in conjunction with external organisations. Offeh
 was commissioned twice by Peckham Platform to work with local communities on social
 art projects, being made a trustee in 2018 in recognition of his contribution. Participatory
 projects at Wysing Arts, Cambridge and Tate Modern saw Offeh become a Trustee of
 Wysing in 2018 and a member of the Steering Group for the Tate Learning Research
 Centre. Hafeda’s projects, commissioned by South London Gallery and Serpentine
 Galleries, develop relationships with specific groups, his published research
 documenting the impact of his research methods and their adoption by other artists and
 curators for projects in Brazil and the Lebanon (ICS:2).

 4.3.2 Wider contributions to society

 Many of our academics – particularly those producing participatory projects
 commissioned by external organisations – contribute to current debates. For example,
 Offeh’s work with TATE Learning prompted a major review of its approach to recruiting



                                                                                      Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BAME candidates, addressing gender and ethnicity imbalance across the cultural sector
 (ICS:3).

 Our researchers develop ecologically sustainable approaches to design and production,
 notably Amanda’s Wanner Ceramica (with Rosa Urbano Gutiérrez, Liverpool University)
 that presents new ceramic processes and materials for collaborative models of
 architecture, engineering and manufacture. Their findings – including a new daylighting
 technology – were presented at RIBA North National Architecture Centre and TATE
 Liverpool.

 The impact of some research projects will run into REF2028, such as Dunn’s ‘Where the
 Art Belongs’, commissioned by The Bluecoat and funded by Arts Council England, The
 Baring Foundation and The Rayne Foundation. Located within dementia support
 facilities, it has already had a positive impact on the wellbeing of residents at nursing
 homes in the North West, increasing understanding of art’s palliative potential and
 reviewed in the Guardian (26.06.2019). Love’s advisory work (output:32) on Leeds City
 Council’s design of new residential facilities for autistic adults is another project
 generating potential impact for REF2028.

 4.3.3 Working with diverse and marginalised communities

 Working with diverse and marginalised communities is a key skill in LSA, particularly the
 use of participatory methods to engage marginalised communities/audiences. Having
 identified institutionally commissioned (ACE-funded) collaborations as the most effective
 way of engaging communities, we support staff with funding application workshops
 designed to help articulate their project’s envisaged impact.

 Our academics’ research positively impacts on communities outside the UK, e.g.
 Hafeda’s 2014 book Creative Refuge (output:21) summarises research findings in
 refugee camps in Beirut and Lebanon, where his participatory rubric is used as a manual
 by educators working with displaced and marginalised people.

 Our impact case studies demonstrate our academics’ influence on cultural life, education
 and public discourse. They change the social fabric through theoretically informed
 practice as leaders in interdisciplinary research, exemplifying the research-through-
 practice that characterises new approaches to knowledge formation.

 4.4 Influential roles and recognition of our researchers

 4.4.1 Industry

 In industry, several of our academics (Briggs, Marston) are directors or partners in the
 graphic design agencies (DUST; FIELD) who designed our Research Centre’s website,
 portfolios for our outputs, posters for visiting speakers, websites for academics,
 catalogues and publicity for degree shows, annual newsletters and marketing material,
 helping to visually structure LSA’s research identity.

 4.4.2 Board members/Consultancies/Trustees/Other Memberships

 38% of our academics sit on advisory boards as consultants, trustees, or members of
 official bodies (national and international), and participating in dialogue with other
 educational organisations. Our Dean, Stansbie is Chair of the Board of Directors for Axis
 Arts (supporting 72,763 artists) and Co-Chair of The National Association of Fine Art
 Education. Offeh is a Steering Committee member for Tate Centre for Learning. Kelly is
                                                                                   Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the Organising Committee for the Association of Art Historians Annual Conference.
 Our staff also work in the intersection between healthcare, art, design and education.

 4.4.3 Honours & Awards

 Our academics have received national and international recognition. Offeh was a
 recipient of the £60,000 Paul Hamlyn Foundation award, 2019; a runner-up for the Arts
 Foundation Award, Brighton, 2018; and won a commission for the 150th anniversary of
 the London Underground in 2014. In 2014, Mellors won the £40,000 Contemporary Art
 Society Annual Award in 2014; and was Jury Prize Winner at Art Rotterdam Andaz Art
 Donation, 2015. Ashton won Second Prize at the International Award for Art Criticism
 2017 (€3,500).

 4.4.4 Judging

 Our staff’s expertise is reflected in their appointment to judging panels: The Society of
 Garden Design National Awards (Entwhistle); Landscape Institute (Entwhistle); and
 Portfolio Reviewing for Aesthetica Art Prize, 2017 (Morris).

 4.4.5 Editorial

 25% of staff undertake external editorial work. Dunn and postgraduate student Worth
 separately guest-edited themed issues of the Journal of Writing in Creative Practice. Our
 academics edit publishing imprints, journals, magazines and catalogues. Booth edits
 reports on global trends in the textiles industry for Camira (output:7) and Beckitt created
 the editorial design template for Backwash magazine (output:5).

 4.4.6 External Examining

 Our doctoral supervisors are invited to externally examine at The Royal College of Art,
 Dundee and Manchester Met to name but a few.

 4.4.6 Conference/Symposium Organisation

 Our partnerships have produced international symposia: Art Science Fiction (Leeds
 Art Gallery); Performance & Uncertainty (ICA; Tetley); Making Public (Leeds Art
 Gallery); and Yorkshire Sculpture International symposium, 2019, was organised by our
 PGR student Julia McKinlay, including talks by world-leading artists, curators, fabricators
 and educators.

 4.4.7 Reviewing

 Academics regularly peer-review for journals and publishing houses, including, amongst
 many others: Stansbie, Journal of Sport in Society; Gibbon, Journal of International
 Relations; Bamford, Journal of Global Discourse; Ashton, MIT Press; and Morris,
 Manchester University Press.

 4.4.8 Public Lectures/Keynotes

 Staff present nationally and internationally. To list a few: Jean-François Lyotard’s ‘The
 Differend: Phrases in Dispute’ at Indiana University, Bloomington, USA, 2018 (Bamford);
 ‘Sewing Borders’, the International Film Festival Rotterdam, 2018 (Hafeda - output:22);
 ‘The Irresponsibility of the Artist’: in conversation with Lisa Le Feuvre at Beaux-arts des
 Paris, organized by L’Ecole Superieure Nationale de Paris, 2016 (Lewis), ‘The

                                                                                     Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sophisticated Neanderthal Interview,’ The Hammer Museum, Los Angeles, 2014
 (Mellors); Keynote talk: Algorithm in Amsterdam, University of Amsterdam, 2014
 (Morris); Keynote Speaker Photo/Power/US-UK Nations at University of Nantes, 2015
 (Orr); ‘Decolonising artists’ non-western collections,’ Loughborough University, 2017
 (Kelly); Publishing as Performance Symposium, Royal Academy of Art, Hague,
 Netherlands, 2014 (Morris); ‘Ceramica: Moulding Futures,’ TATE, Liverpool, 2018
 (Wanner).

 4.5 Contribution to research base and wider society: International collaborations

 Recent collaborations include: The Art Tower, Mito, Japan, funded by the Sasakawa
 Foundation & British Council (Offeh in collaboration with curator Junya Yamamine,
 Contemporary Art Center) to present Stranger in the Village – an exhibition which
 explored themes of migration and settlement through dialogue with the expatriate LGBT
 community in Mito, Japan (output:45); and the Ministry of Culture, Santiago, Chile
 (Morris with Felipe Cussen, Institute of Advanced Studies, University of Santiago) invited
 to present Reading as Art (output:39) and share methods for presenting practice as
 research at doctoral level. Our academics act as advisors for the European Exchange
 Academy (Harrison, Hassall & Stirling) in addition to exhibiting, lecturing and presenting
 keynotes internationally.

 4.6 New Initiatives:

 4.6.1 Contribution to research base and wider society: Publishing Prize With YSI
       and publisher Information as Material, we inaugurated two £5000 prizes for staff
       and students to realise new work. Jo Hamill’s Gutter Words was reviewed for the
       TLS (07/02/20) and is included in the exhibition, Sensational Books, the Bodleian,
       taking place in 2022 (postponed in 2020 due to Covid-19). Publications launched
       at the HMI and distributed internationally by Cornerhouse.

 4.6.2 Contribution to economy & society. SET – Supporting Emerging Talent: In
       partnership with the HMI and New Contemporaries, we co-funded an annual
       scholarship for an emerging artist in 2019. The scholarship, awarded to Rafael
       Perez Evans, included accommodation, teaching experience with our Fine Art
       students, living allowance, international travel, and access to our facilities to
       produce an exhibition at HMI.

 4.7. Future

 All of the activities and events detailed above provide the opportunity for our researchers
 to network, develop collaborative research ideas, and disseminate current research
 findings to a wider community of stakeholders, both in the City region where we play a
 lead role in fostering the arts and supporting the growth of the creative industries,
 nationally and internationally where we have a developing reputation for innovation in
 practice as research in the arts. Our research centre facilitates high quality research that
 is being converted into meaningful impact. Our strategy has been to grow our research
 base and build the foundations for an exciting future where we are leaders in the field.
 The talent of our staff and research students is making it possible to realise this
 ambition.

 In the next REF period we will see the full realisation of our strategic plan as we engage
 our entire community of staff in research in readiness for a 100% submission. By 2028
 we will have transformed the subject group into one where research is at the heart of all

                                                                                     Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we do. But what matters is not so much the work we do individually but what our
 research allows others to do: its impact on local, national and international communities.




                                                                                    Page 23
