Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment:24 – Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Research at Sunderland in UoA24 is conducted across two groups – 1: Members of the
 Centre for Tourism Excellence (CERTE) which operates within the School of Hospitality, Events,
 Aviation, and Tourism, and 2: Members of the Exercise, Sport and Rehabilitation Therapies
 (ESRT) group, which operates within the Helen McArdle Research Institute for Health and
 Nursing Research, the focus for research in the School of Nursing and Health Sciences.
 1) Hospitality, Events, Aviation, and Tourism (HEAT)
 The HEAT-based research group currently delivers academic and applied research in three
 areas of specialism: (i) tourism, (ii) hospitality, and (iii) events. A fourth area – aviation – was
 recently added in 2019 and research activities in this area are a priority for development in the
 next five years. The Centre for Tourism Excellence (CERTE) was established in 2017
 following consideration of the outcome of REF2014 to provide a clear focus for research in the
 School. Research in CERTE is underpinned by a critical, interdisciplinary approach that mirrors
 the dynamic nature of tourism, hospitality, events (and most recently, aviation) in contemporary
 societies. It aims to contribute to the generation of knowledge and the development of the
 academic discipline (e.g.: generation of high-quality publications; organisation of international
 research events), as well as delivering applied research with impact on industry. CERTE
 operates as a platform for research led teaching and the provision of transformative education
 and knowledge dissemination. CERTE, as the research arm of the HEAT School, is an integral
 part of the Faculty of Business Law and Tourism (FBLT). The HEAT group was highly rated
 (ranked 2nd in the country) in the 2019 Guardian subject league table.
 2) Exercise, Sport and Rehabilitation Therapies (ESRT)
 The ESRT research group undertakes theoretical and applied research in: (i) sport performance
 (ii) health and rehabilitation, and (iii) education. The research is underpinned by the
 interdisciplinary application of practice to develop a greater understanding of current issues in
 exercise, health, sport, physical education and rehabilitation therapies, providing practical tools
 to enhance performance and health-related outcomes across sport teams, health services, and
 educational institutions. The ERST group works within the Helen McArdle Research Institute,
 within the School of Nursing and Health Science. The research institute was established through
 a substantial philanthropic donation (£2.5m) to the University and benefits from excellent modern
 facilities. The Institute is underpinned by an ethos of improving care through ensuring avoidance
 of unintended or unexpected harm to patients or people during the provision of health care, by
 promoting the adoption and integration of evidence-based practices, interventions and policies
 into routine health care. The Helen McArdle programme of research activities includes
 conferences, lectures and workshops designed to build research capacity and capability for
 Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professionals (into which the ERST group falls).
 Strategy
 Due to the diverse nature of the subject areas within both the HEAT and ESRT groups,
 interdisciplinary research is facilitated within and between the groups. Our research connects
 both the service industries and the sport, education, and health sectors, creating a genuinely
 interdisciplinary perspective. The main themes of our research are the following: Tourism;
 Hospitality; Events; Performance Sport; Health and Rehabilitation; and Education.
 The main themes of our research are as follows:
 Tourism

    •   Transport, lifestyle and travel mobilities

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     Applied theories and philosophies
    •     Culture, heritage and creative industries
    •     Policy, planning and sustainable development
    •     e-tourism, e-marketing & ICT
    •     Risk & crisis management


 Hospitality

    •     Operations and management
    •     Marketing and formulation of competitive advantage
    •     Corporate Social Responsibility
    •     Human resources management

 Events

    •     Service quality
    •     Event and festival experiences
    •     Alternative events
    •     Event impacts


 Performance Sport

    •     High intensity interval training
    •     Female elite rugby union
    •     Mental illness and elite athletes
    •     Cardiac screening in sport and exercise
    •     The female athlete


 Health and Rehabilitation

    •     Health related exercise
    •     Behaviour change in mental health workers and occupational settings
    •     Postural rehabilitation
    •     Aging Athlete
    •     Lifestyle behaviours including physical activity, sleep and health


 Education

    •     Coach education
    •     Youth sport
    •     Teaching and learning approaches in Sport & Exercise and Healthcare professions
    •     Professionalism
    •     Telehealth
    •     Philosophy of sport


 Research strategy (2014-2021) - HEAT
 Since 2014, research in the HEAT driven (since 2017) through CERTE, has taken forward the
 research strategy presented in REF2014 through: (i) publication of papers in high quality



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journals (ii) organisation/co-organisation/co-sponsoring of local and international research
 events (symposia; conferences), and (iii) involvement with the local community and enterprises.
 Over the period the unit has substantially improved its research outputs both in terms of
 quantity and quality, predominantly through a focus on improving quality and publishing in
 leading sector journals. The group has also sought to expand its networks and has done so
 through the organisation of international research events. The strategy has also included the
 expansion of research capacity with the employment of a Post-doctoral Research Fellow and
 two early career researchers (Postgraduate Academic Assistants), with full funding from the
 University for the latter two to complete their doctoral degrees. In addition, we have
 supported staff through group writing retreats, involved staff in organising and scientific
 committees for research events hosted by CERTE, supported staff participation in domestic
 and overseas conferences, and strengthened the research outputs of early career
 researchers through collaborations with HEAT researchers and sector collaborators from
 other institutions. Specific research activities have included:

    •   Since 2017: Hosting the annual “International Research Symposium in Tourism,
        Hospitality and Events” [IRS] which is held each May at the University of Sunderland.
    •   Since 2018: Co-organising (with the University of Derby) the biennial “Tourism
        Hospitality and Events International Conference” {THE INC]. In 2018 the conference
        was hosted by the University of Derby (Buxton, UK). In 2020 the conference will be
        hosted by NHL Stenden University (Leeuwarden, Netherlands).
    •   Since 2019: Established permanent membership of TNC (Tourism Naturally
        Conference) consortium. TNC is held annually, and the permanent consortium
        consists of seven universities across the globe (Colorado State [USA]; Derby [UK];
        Sunderland [UK]; Trento [Italy]; Piza [Italy]; Deggendorf Institute of Technology
        [Germany]; Central China Normal University [China]). The University of Sunderland
        aspires to host the event in 2021.
    •   2019: Organisation of a research seminar exploring quantitative and qualitative
        research analysis in Tourism. The event attracted external interest and attendance.
    •   2019: Co-sponsoring the 4th Caribbean- International Tourism Conference ‘Navigating
        the Destination of the Future’, which was held at the University of West Indies (Cave
        Hill Campus), Barbados and which was the product of a collaboration between 7
        international universities (University of Sunderland, University of the West Indies
        (Cave Hill, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago), University of St Martin, California
        State University, Northridge, University of Carolina, Wilmington and the University of
        Guyana.

 2014-2021 Strategy and Implementation
 As indicated, CERTE’s research has focused on three main areas of specialism:
 Tourism researchers have generated publications in this field which have appeared in high
 quality journals including: Annals of Tourism Research, Tourism Management and Journal of
 Travel Research. In addition, a special issue of the journal ‘Tourism Planning and
 Development’ (ABS 2*), was published following contributions from unit members to the THE
 INC 2020. In the tourism field, the work of Associate Professor Dr Nikolaos Pappas has
 contributed to the establishment of non-linear mixed methods’ analysis (with special
 reference to fuzzy-set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) while that of Professor
 Donna Chambers has advanced thinking around epistemological decolonisation. As an
 example of local impact and engagement, Chambers is conducting a funded project (2019-
 2020) on the legacy of the Tall Ships 2018 visit to Sunderland.



                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hospitality researchers have published a number of high-quality publications in this field. A
 special issue of the journal Hospitality and Society (ABS 2*) has been produced, connected
 with THE INC 2018 conference. As an example of local impact and engagement, a funded
 project (2017) assessing user accessibility at the Stadium of Light, home to Sunderland AFC,
 was conducted by CERTE member Dr Nicole Mitsche.
 Events unit members have published in sector leading journals in this field. In addition, four
 special issues (two connected with THE INC 2018 conference; two connected with THE INC
 2020 conference) have been published in the Event Management journal (ABS 2*) and a
 special issue of another journal Anatolia is being prepared from the 4th Caribbean
 International Tourism Conference. Furthermore, CERTE members have played substantial a
 substantial in the organisation and sponsoring of international research events (IRS; THE
 INC; TNC; 4th Caribbean International Tourism Conference).
 2021 and beyond: future strategy
 Having established CERTE as the research centre for the School of HEAT, the unit will
 continue to strengthen research through the next assessment period. HEAT has an inclusive
 approach to research, and encourages its staff to work across research subject areas in a
 multi and interdisciplinary context both within and across Faculties; and also with external
 partners. Senior researchers will continue to play an integral role in mentoring early career
 researchers and supporting them to connect with researchers globally via conferences and
 networks. More specifically, the future CERTE strategy aims to:

    •   Continue investing in the strengthening of multi and inter-disciplinary research
    •   Enhance collaboration between research staff within HEAT, the Faculty of Business,
        Leisure and Tourism, the University and externally.
    •   Further develop and expand collaborations with industry at regional, national and
        international level.

 These aims will be realised through the following objectives:
 Investing in high quality research: Continue to support the expansion of staff research
 capacity and capabilities through the generation of high-quality publications. University
 quality review processes, introduced since REF 2014, provide assurance that unit outputs
 are improving in-line with our strategic objectives.
 Over the next period we will continue to drive up the quality of our research outputs. For this
 reason, CERTE has identified two visiting professors, Elena Cavagnaro (NHL Stenden
 University); Richard Sharpley (University of Central Lancashire) to support early career
 researchers in the development and dissemination of outputs, with the aim of increasing the
 quality and volume of publications. Moreover, a substantial increase of PGRs in the
 forthcoming years is pivotal for achieving the aforementioned aims. We aim to increase our
 PhD cohort from nine to 15 within the next five years (the increase will be based on
 externally (and/or self) funded PhDs), also continuing to provide PhD funding opportunities.
 We will continue to organise research seminars and writing retreats to further strengthen the
 quality of the research outputs of research staff and PGRs. CERTE will organise at least one
 generic research training seminar (in qualitative and quantitative methods – SPSS; NVivo)
 on an annual basis, and also be involved in the organisation of funded specialized (i.e.: SEM;
 fsQCA; NCA) research training seminars from NCRM (National Centre for Research
 Methods).
 Extending collaboration: CERTE will continue to build on existing networks (e.g.: THE INC
 – University of Derby; NHL Stenden University) and consortia (e.g: TNC consortium), to
 further expand its activities through partnership development at both national and

                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international levels. In addition, it will seek further industry collaborations at the regional level
 through specific targeted partnerships (e.g. Stadium of Light; Newcastle Gateshead Initiative,
 Culture Sunderland, Creative Fuse North East and Northern Accelerator)
 New initiatives (five years): CERTE aims to enhance its external funding capabilities
 through collaborative bids to UK and international funding organisations (ESRC; Leverhulme,
 British Academy, Horizon, Newton). HEAT has already started building project teams from
 faculty research staff, and is developing networks on a national and international level. By
 way of an example, CERTE is currently leading a collaborative project funded through the
 institution’s Global Challenges Research Fund. This project aims to investigate the effect
 COVID19 has had on the tourism industry in Sri Lanka and the formulation of strategies the
 industry should employ in order to recover and adapt in a time of crisis
 Operational research management: The Dean of the Faculty of Business, Law and
 Tourism (FBLT) maintains strategic and operational responsibility for faculty research,
 supported by the Head of Faculty Research (FBLT) and the Professoriate. At departmental
 level, (HEAT) research strategy and operations are led by the Director of CERTE. On a
 monthly basis there is a faculty meeting with senior researchers, which develops and
 evaluates research activity at the faculty level, while CERTE has regular meetings with
 HEAT researchers to develop and implement strategies at the unit level. Staff are
 encouraged to publish and develop research initiatives, and also receive mentoring from
 senior academics (Professors; Visiting Professors; Associate Professors for Research).
 Research strategy (2014-2021) - ESRT
 The ESRT group is a compact research team that focusses its research in three key areas,
 based upon the academic expertise, collaborative experience and strength of the research-
 active staff. The three areas are: Performance Sport; Health and Rehabilitation; and
 Education. Research-active staff engage in activities within and across the three areas,
 bringing together shared methodologies and expertise that support interdisciplinary applied
 research. We aim to increase both the quality and quantity of research in these areas
 through the development of our research-enabled staff, increasing the applied and
 translational impact of our research, and expand collaboration with external partners to help
 identify and address key challenges.
 In the field of Performance Sport, we explore physical performance characteristics to
 understand and improve sporting performance at elite level, address the challenges faced by
 sports people in mental health and lifestyle, and examine sport and exercise impacts on
 physical abilities. The work of Dr. David Archer has contributed to the understanding of the
 demands of English Premiership and European professional football providing essential
 information for the development of evidence-based coaching and guidance for clubs and
 football associations such as the English FA and FIFA. Dr. Eddie Bradley has created the
 first measurement of the newly formed English women’s rugby union professional league
 competition, with the research currently ongoing in collaboration with the Rugby Football
 Union. Publications in this area have appeared in high quality journals including Medicine
 and Science in Sports and Exercise, International Journal of Sports Physiology and
 Performance, and Journal of Sport Sciences. The group intends to continue this work in the
 specific areas of: high intensity interval training, female rugby union, mental illness and elite
 athletes, cardiac screening in sport and exercise, and the female athlete.
 In the Health and Rehabilitation research area, we address the challenges faced by sport
 and rehabilitative practitioners in understanding lifestyle and exercise behaviours on physical
 and mental health, focus on the impact of exercise and health on specific populations, and
 examine the impact of rehabilitation in improving physical health. Dr. Sandra Leyland and
 visiting professor Dr. Alan Currie, lead an ESRT headed collaborative project with Cumbria,


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northumberland, Tyne and Wear NHS Foundation Trust, examining the role of exercise in
 treating patients with enduring mental health conditions and the role NHS staff play in
 facilitating the offering of exercise in this patient cohort, Dr. Paul Innerd has worked on a
 research project with Newcastle Hospitals NHS Trust on the effects of sleep and physical
 activity in overweight and obese patients, Dr Will Evans has created a cardiac screening
 project for youth footballers in collaboration with the Sunderland Foundation of Light, and Dr
 Lisa Board collaborated with Tyne & Wear Fire Service to address the impact of aging on
 physiological responses and health in firefighters. Publications have been published in
 journals such as BMC Public Health, Mental Health and Physical Activity, and Journal of
 Exercise Physiology. The group intends to continue this work in the following specific areas
 of health-related exercise, behavioural change in mental health workers and occupational
 settings, postural rehabilitation, the aging athlete, and lifestyle behaviours in physical activity,
 sleep, and health. In part these developments in research direction are driven by the recent
 expansion of the team to incorporation rehabilitative therapies, with an increase in academic
 expertise in physiotherapy and occupational health.
 In the Education field, we are examining teaching and learning innovations in Sport &
 Exercise Sciences, Rehabilitative Therapies, and Healthcare, and address the challenges of
 professionalism in both Sport and Rehabilitation. Dr. Paul Davis has published several
 critical essays across the sport philosophy spectrum, including sectarianism, gender and
 partisanism and the implications on society. This work has been published in journals
 including the Journal of Philosophy, Ethics and Sport Law and Journal of the Philosophy of
 Sport. Dr. Eddie Bradley has investigated pedagogic innovations in Sport & Exercise
 Sciences teaching such as competency-based learning and trustable professional activities
 to understand the impact on student behaviours and outcomes. The group intends to
 continue this work in the areas of: coach education, youth sport, teaching and learning
 approaches in sport & exercise and healthcare settings, professionalism, telehealth, and the
 philosophy of sport. This work is supported by research-active staff holding roles within the
 British Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences on both the Professional Standards
 Committee and the Steering Committee for the Special Interest Group in Learning and
 Teaching.
 2014-2021 Strategy and implementation
 Since the outcome of REF 2014, ERST has sought to increase its research outputs both in
 terms of quantity and quality, predominantly by focusing on the expansion of the group’s
 research capacity which, in 2014, was identified as a limiting factor. Collaborative internal
 and external research partnerships have been established. The School has supported the
 group by increasing the number of staff considered research active. This has been achieved
 through the increased number of staff pursuing and successfully completing research
 degrees (44% of all staff since 2014), increased employment of early career researchers into
 academic posts (Rachel Makin; Lora Nelson), collaboration between ERST researchers and
 with others within and outside of the Faculty, and support for staff participation in domestic
 and overseas conferences, and publication costs. We have sought to add to the spectrum of
 staff research skills – for example, since 2019, we have organised a monthly Faculty
 Research Seminar series concerning quantitative and qualitative research analysis, and we
 have also taken steps to improve the level of academic writing through regular group
 workshops and involvement of staff at national conferences that promote academic
 development, for example the SOLSTICE conference.
 In line with the strategy presented in REF2014, our research strengthens University civic
 responsibilities and commitments to our local community by enhancing the local economy
 and quality of life. We ensure that our research is fully engaged with our local community
 through specific outreach activities including:


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Since 2017: Organisation of community-based health and fitness assessment for staff
        within charity institutions such as Tombola.
    •   Since 2018: Assessment of cardiac responses during simulated and real emergency
        situations experienced by the Tyne & Wear Fire Service.
    •   In 2017, the co-organisation of Public Health seminars in conjunction with Public
        Health England and NHS Trusts in the North-East England.
    •   In 2017 and 2018, researchers within the team organised pedagogic-focused training
        workshops on digital learning technologies and new statistical programs for data
        analysis in health research.
    •   Since 2019, a Forces in Mind Trust funded project examining the role of performance
        enhancing drug use in Armed Forces veterans.
    •   Since 2020, an ESRC funded series of online courses for postgraduate students and
        postdoctoral researchers across the five North-East universities on the use of open-
        source software for research design and analysis

 2021 and beyond: future strategy
 The ERST group strategy for 2021 – 2028 aims to:

    •   Continue investing in the strengthening of multi and inter-disciplinary research in the
        priority areas described below.
    •   Build upon the existing collaboration between research staff within the ERST
        Department, the Faculty of Health Sciences and Wellbeing, the Helen McArdle
        Research Institute, and the University, to enhance research opportunities and project
        development
    •   Further develop and expand collaborations with industry at a regional, national and
        international level.

 These aims are supported by the following objectives:
 Investing in research: Continue to support the expansion of staff research capacity and
 capabilities by generating high quality research and publishing in high quality journals. We
 have developed targets and KPIs to monitor our progress in this area. The ERST group is
 supporting all non-research active staff to become research active. To facilitate this, all staff
 (3) who currently do not hold research degrees are being encouraged to begin doctoral
 programmes, of which one has commenced a PhD study and another has commenced a
 Professional Doctorate, alongside both members of technical staff in the department
 following a similar path. Further to staff development, the team is committed to increasing the
 recruitment of Postgraduate Researchers (PGR) in the forthcoming years to increase
 capacity. In this regard we aim to increase our PhD cohort from 10 to 18 within the next five
 years, primarily through internal and external or self-funded opportunities. We aim to identify
 and secure external funding streams to offer funded research opportunities through UKRI
 funding councils and collaborative partners such as the NHS and Sport England. We will
 continue to run monthly research seminars and plans for an annual writing retreat are well
 developed. The intention here is to further enhance research knowledge and skills of our
 existing and future staff and PGR’s, and strengthen the quality of research outputs by
 sharing good practice between members of the group (and more widely), drawing on the
 skills and experience of senior researchers and visiting professors.
 The ERST Group has an inclusive research approach and encourages staff to work across
 research subject areas in a multi and interdisciplinary context both within and across
 faculties and also with external partners. Senior researchers will continue to play an integral
 role in mentoring early career researchers and supporting them to connect with researchers

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 globally via conferences and networks.
 Extending collaboration: ERST already makes full use of its existing networks (e.g. NHS
 Trusts; FUSE – Centre for Translational Research in Public Health; Sunderland Foundation
 of Light) to conduct collaborative research as evidenced by the use of physical activity
 prescription for mental health patients project with the Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne &
 Wear NHS Trust, an ongoing study cardiac screening project with football players from the
 Foundation of Light, and a FUSE project in conjunction with both Newcastle University and
 Newcastle-upon-Tyne Hospitals NHS Trust, to develop therapeutic interventions of physical
 activity and sleep. We intend to further expand these activities through partnership
 development at both national and international levels. We will develop collaboration through
 specific targeted partnerships (e.g. Helen McArdle Research Institute; with the Foundation of
 Light; Forces in Mind Trust; Northumbria Police) and utilise regional and national funding
 opportunities for growth (e.g. Creative Fuse North East; Northern Accelerator; Sport
 England; Armed Forces Covenant; International Network of Sport & Health Sciences).
 New initiatives (five years): Our goal is to continue to strengthen our ESRT Research group
 input within the Helen McArdle Nursing and Care Research Institute to facilitate the
 continued development of research within the Faculty. The ERST group already has teams
 focused on specific research problems in the impact of physical activity and lifestyle on
 mental health in athletic and general populations, perimenopausal and menopausal women
 and physical activity patterns, and postural effects of clothing and equipment in occupational
 settings and is developing networks on a national and international level. The ERST group
 has recently expanded through the merging of the Sport and Exercise team and Public
 Health and Allied Health team, with a resultant increase in rehabilitation focused projects.
 Additionally, the Department is creating a critical mass of research active staff concerned
 with the development of the female athlete.
 Operational research management: The Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences and
 Wellbeing (FHSW) is the lead academic with responsibility for the strategic and operational
 issues concerning research, and is supported by the Head of Faculty Research and the
 Helen McArdle Research Institute (FHSW level), the collective Professoriate and the Pro
 Vice-Chancellor (University level). At ERST group level, research strategy and operations
 are led by the Team Leader. On a monthly basis there is a faculty meeting with senior
 researchers, which develops and evaluates research strategy at Faculty level. The ERST
 team has regular meetings with all researchers to develop and implement strategies at this
 level. Staff are encouraged to publish and develop research initiatives and receive
 mentoring from senior academics (Professors; Visiting Professors; Associate Professors for
 Research), for example, Visiting Professor (Dr Alan Currie, Cumbria, Northumberland, Tyne
 & Wear NHS Trust).

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The HEAT group consists of eleven members of academic staff, six of whom are research active
 and engaged in interdisciplinary, qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods research, and four
 of whom are currently undertaking doctoral degrees. Since 2014 two HEAT academics have
 been awarded PhDs. In order to further widen the research activities of the group, and
 substantially support the research focus of the academic staff, several collaborations have been
 established with Universities in the UK (e.g.: Derby; Lincoln; Northumbria) and overseas
 universities (Aegean, Greece; Colorado State, USA; CUT, Cyprus; Deggendorf Institute of
 Technology, Germany; NHL Stenden, Netherlands; Trento; Italy), as well as national and
 international organisations (e.g.: Institute of Hospitality; Tourism Management Institute [TMI];
 Association for Events Management Education [AEME]; Tourism Naturally Conference [TNC]
 consortium).


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The ESRT group consists of 22.3 academics, of which thirteen (13) are currently research active
 (61%) and engaged in qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research. Within the group,
 three are classified as Early Career Researchers (14%), and a further four (19%) are currently
 developing research opportunities in the newly incorporated subject areas of physiotherapy and
 occupational therapy. Additionally, one member of the group is being supported to commence a
 doctoral study in the area of Sports Coaching and another to commence a Professional
 Doctorate in Occupational Therapy. The development of research-able staff in the group widen
 the scope of the unit, building capacity for the future. ESRT academics work closely with elite
 level sport teams to deliver knowledge exchange. This enables practical research to be
 conducted where the teams, players and coaches are involved in identifying appropriate
 questions and guide the focus of the research. The data is continually fed back to inform training
 and performance. Similarly, research is delivered in partnership with the Helen McArdle
 Research Institute and local NHS trusts and hospitals, with the aim of developing an
 understanding of NHS practice and inform future policy.
 In both research groups, all academic staff are encouraged and supported to engage in research
 activities through the institutional research planning process and each member is required to
 complete and submit annual Individual Research Plans (IRP). The research plans enable all
 academic staff to access funding to support research activities such as conference attendance
 and publication costs.
 University development programmes (e.g.: writing retreats; financial support for attending and
 presenting research in domestic and overseas conferences; discretionary IRP workload
 allowances (equating to 160 hours per annum), highlight the institutional staff support for
 research. In addition, the university HR policies provide support through generous flexible leave.
 Staffing–future strategy (2021-2028)
 During the future assessment period HEAT aspires to:

    •   Continue to recruit research-active academics in tourism, hospitality and events, with a
        particular focus on the newly created research area of aviation
    •   Continue to mentor Early Career Researchers to develop their career goals so that they
        can reach their full potential.
    •   Continue organising/co-organising/co-sponsoring international research events through
        CERTE, also involving its ECR staff in the organising and scientific committees, and
        bringing them in contact with esteemed researchers throughout the globe.
    •   Increase the engagement of all staff in HEAT with major conferences (all staff can
        receive conference funding for at least one conference annually), from which they can
        develop research outputs with further support through research seminars and
        appropriate mentoring.


 During the future assessment period ESRT aspires to:

    •   Embed the group within the Helen McArdle Research Institute and develop the ERST
        research group to strengthen research capacity.
    •   Continue to recruit research-active academics in sport, exercise and health, with
        particular focus on the newly created research areas of rehabilitation and the female
        athlete.
    •   Continue to mentor Early Career Researchers to develop their career goals so that they
        can reach their full potential.
    •   Increase the participation of all ERST staff in major conferences (all staff can receive
        conference funding for at least one conference annually), from which they can develop
        research outputs with further support through research seminars and appropriate


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        mentoring and integration with national (e.g. BASES) and international (e.g. International
        Network of Sport & Health Sciences) organisations.

 Research students
 The HEAT group has nine postgraduate research students. Four of those PhDs are funded by
 the University (2 staff members and 2 PGAAs), whilst the other five PhDs are self-funded.
 currently working areas including working practices in aviation, destination image and
 gamification, risk and crisis management in hospitality, visitor experience through augmented
 reality, festival attendee wellbeing, sustainable coastal tourism, gender and hospitality and
 theorising tourism and mobility. Since the beginning of the REF (2014-2021), three members of
 staff have gained their PhD (one of them left the University in 2017, and currently works at the
 University of Northumbria).
 The ESRT group has 10 postgraduate research students currently working the fields of training
 in female triathletes and menstrual cycle, biomechanical assessment of horse-rider interaction,
 bone-loading in netball, teaching games for understanding in physical education, student
 volunteering and engagement, and performance- and image-enhancing drugs. Between 2014
 and 2020, a total of 9 students have completed postgraduate research programmes including 9
 PhD candidates. One of these was a current member of staff who completed the research
 degree as part of continued personal development and a further candidate who has
 subsequently progressed to become a full-time member of staff and continues to be research
 active.
 Table 1: Postgraduate research degree students in HEAT/ESRT enrolled on doctoral
 programmes (UoA 24)

      Academic Year           PhD Completions
        2014-2015                   1
        2015-2016                   1
        2016-2017                   2
        2017-2018                   4
        2018-2019                   1
        2019-2020                   -


 In both groups (HEAT; ESRT), a supervisory team is assigned to all PGRs. All PGRs are
 obligated to participate in training sessions related to research methodology, which are
 organised by the University. In each supervisory team, at least one member needs to previously
 have PhD completions.
 The University’s performance in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
 placed it 2nd out of 63 institutions in 2018 and 11th out of 103 institutions in 2019, indicating a
 strong research culture and positive postgraduate experience across the institution.
 Equality and diversity
 Equality and diversity considerations are of pivotal importance to both research groups. Over
 the assessment period, the groups have strengthened activity to embed equality, diversity
 and inclusive practices in both HEAT and ESRT. More specifically:
 The HEAT School consists of nine FTE academics. Five of them are women (55.5%) and
 four of them are men (44.5%). In addition, five of them are British born nationals (55.5%),
 and four academics (44.5%) originate from overseas (Austria; Greece; Jamaica; Turkey) and
 one is from a BAME background. There is also a mix of ECRs and more experienced
 academics. The HEAT department, through CERTE, has organised a number of
 conferences and symposia and it is our policy that equality and diversity issues are taken

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into account when inviting keynote speakers, panel chairs and members of the scientific
 committees. Our PGR students also represent diverse cultures from Malaysia, Nigeria,
 Greece, Hungary, and the UK.
 The ESRT department consists of 22.3 FTE academics. Fourteen (14) are men (63%) and
 eight (plus a 0.3 fractional post) are women (37%). In addition, one originated overseas
 (5%). Thirteen (13) are currently research active (61%) and engaged in qualitative, quantitative,
 and mixed methods research. Within the group, three are classified as Early Career
 Researchers (14%).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 During the current REF assessment period, the HEAT School was involved in two funded
 research projects. The first project (externally funded) was conducted on the validity and
 reliability of an accessibility survey for wheel chair users commissioned by the Stadium of
 Light. The second project was funded internally in 2019-2020, and focused on the legacies of
 the Tall Ships event held in Sunderland in 2018. Moreover in 2017 CERTE (the research
 centre of HEAT) was founded, and since then it operates as the research branch of HEAT.


 For the future, the HEAT group aims to increase external funding from national and
 international funding bodies, something that has already started to materialised. Specifically,
 since the beginning of 2021, CERTE is involved in a collaborative project funded by UKRI, in
 collaboration with an OECD partner (in this case we collaborate with ICBT in Sri Lanka). The
 project focuses on the impact of COVID-19 in travel, tourism, and hospitality industry.
 The ESRT group is part of the Helen McArdle Research Institute for health and nursing
 research, within the School of Nursing and Health Science. The institute was established
 through a substantial philanthropic donation (£2.5m) to the University and enables the ERST
 group researcher to conduct health related investigations. Additionally, in 2019, the main
 building for the ERST group, underwent a £6.2 million refurbishment to improved research
 capacity. During the REF 2014-2021 period, the ESRT Group was involved in a number of
 externally funded research projects. A project was commissioned by the Forces in Mind
 Trust (£46000) between 2018-2019 to investigate the role of physical activity to improve
 mental health in armed forces veterans and linked to the University of Sunderland – Army
 covenant. Another project, funded by the English Institute of Sport and the International
 Olympic Committee, investigated mental health in elite athletes and strategies to prevent and
 manage mental health issues during and after professional athletic and sporting careers.
 Moving forward, the ESRT Group aims to increase funding through the Helen McArdle Institute
 and secure external funding from the UKRI funding councils and collaborative partners. A recent
 successful example of this approach is an NHS funded project (£15000) to assess the impact of
 home working in the North East and Cumbria NHS Trusts on mental and physical health, with
 the objective to develop strategies that can be implemented at local and national level across the
 NHS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 HEAT
 During the REF assessment period HEAT was involved in the two aforementioned research
 projects, each of which related with regional concerns. It has also established co-operation
 through the organisation and sponsorship of international research events (THE INC; TNC; 4th
 Caribbean-International Tourism) with universities and research centers across the world. In
 terms of publications, HEAT researchers have collaborated with colleagues from other UK
 universities (e.g.: University of Lincoln; Northumbria University; Leeds Beckett University;
 University of Derby) together with international collaborators around the world (e.g.: University of
 Aegean; Technological University of Cyprus; University of Rome, Arizona State University).
 Other collaborative activity includes cooperation with colleagues in guest editorials (NHL

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stenden University; University of Derby, University of the West Indies), leading to a significant
 expansion of its collaboration networks.

 The academics of HEAT actively and significantly contribute to the development of tourism,
 hospitality, and events as fields of research by interacting with the private, public and third
 sectors, research centres, and universities across the world.
 The growing standing of HEAT staff is evidenced through their involvement in editing leading
 academic texts in their disciplines (i.e.: Global dynamics in travel tourism and hospitality
 [IGI=Global]; Emerging transformations in tourism, hospitality and events [Routledge]) and
 Tourism Research Frontiers (Emerald). In addition, staff have key roles on the Editorial boards
 of major journals - Professor Donna Chambers is a Managing Editor of Leisure Studies, and
 Associate Editor of Annals of Tourism Research and is on the Editorial Board of a new journal
 titled Tourism Critiques. Associate Professor Nikolaos Pappas sits on the editorial board of the
 Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Management. Professor Donna Chambers has also been an
 invited keynote speaker at numerous academic conferences and seminars both in the UK and
 overseas and is a peer reviewer for the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer Review College
 where she reviews large funding applications within her area of specialism. Associate Professor
 Nikolaos Pappas has undertaken several guest editorials for major journals in the field (i.e.:
 Event Management; Hospitality and Society; Tourism Planning and Development), he has
 delivered several keynotes in academic conferences and seminars in UK and overseas (i.e.: 11-
 13/12/2019: Keynote at 4th Caribbean- International Conference in Tourism ‘Navigating the
 Destination of the Next Decade’, University of West Indies (Cave Hill Campus), Barbados; 2-
 3/5/2019: Keynote at Postgraduate Research Conference, University of Derby, Buxton, United
 Kingdom), whilst in the past (prior REF 2014-2021) he was involved and led in several major
 projects funded by the European Union (i.e.: HERMES; Leader+; EQUAL). Researchers in
 HEAT have also undertaken reviews of manuscripts for a considerable number of journals in the
 field of tourism, hospitality events and leisure.

 ESRT
 The ESRT group deliver research in collaboration with a number of regional, national, and
 international partners. The group work closely with four local NHS trusts (Sunderland City
 Hospitals, Cumbria, Northumberland and Tyne & Wear, Newcastle City) to facilitate health
 related research projects. Sport and performance collaborations exist between the Sunderland
 Foundation of Light to provide player development and community involvement, while
 collaboration with DMP Sharks Women’s Rugby club and the RFU engage research within elite
 sports. ESRT group members are part of an externally funded collaboration with the English
 Institution of Sport (EIS), and research is conducted with collaborators in the International
 Network of Sport & Health Sciences.

 Both Dr Lisa Board and Dr Eddie Bradley work with the British Association of Sport and
 Exercise Sciences (BASES) and are both BASES Accredited Sports Scientists, with Dr Board
 awarded a BASES Fellowship (2016) for continued promotion of sport and exercise sciences in
 the UK and has recently appointed the Chair for the BASES Undergraduate Endorsement
 Scheme and sits on the BASES Professional Standards Committee, while Dr Bradley recently
 elected on to the Steering Committee of the BASES Special Interest Group in Learning &
 Teaching. Staff within the ERST group hold Qualified Teacher Status, are members of
 professional bodies including the British Psychological Society, the Institute of Engineering &
 Technology, the International Society of Biomechanics in Sport, the Royal College of
 Occupational Therapists, and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy are involved with leading
 academic journals, for example Dr Teri Taylor being an Editor for the International Journal of
 Therapy and Rehabilitation, and staff contribute as journal reviewers for several journals in the
 field, such as the Journal of Sports Sciences, the International Journal of Environmental
 Research and Public Health, and the European Journal of Sport Science.




                                                                                             Page 12
