Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)

  Unit of Assessment: 33. Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE

  In 2014, the Music, Dance and Drama submission from Canterbury Christ Church University was
  noted for its world-leading research in Composition, Historically-informed Performance and
  Musicology. During the submitting period we have built upon these successes with a heightened
  international ambition; a consistent growth in our PhD numbers; significant development of our
  Dance and Drama research; a new research sub-unit structure to support staff specialisms and
  the appointment of three internationally-renowned practitioners, to foster interchange between our
  research and the creative sector. The Unit is part of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Education.
  It was formally located in the School of Music and Performing Arts, which merged with The School
  of Media Art and Design in 2019, becoming the School of Creative Arts and Industries (SCANDI).
  The Unit works alongside the Sidney De Haan Research Centre for Arts and Health (SDHRC)
  and the Centre for Practice-Based Research in the Arts (CPBRA) and our specialisms are
  celebrated in the St Gregory’s Centre for Music, Anselm Dance and Theatre Studios and the new
  £13million Daphne Oram Building (opened by Sir Nicolas Serota in 2019), a testament to the
  University’s connection with this pioneering interdisciplinary composer and co-founder of the BBC
  Radiophonic Workshop, who taught at Canterbury Christ Church University in the 1980s.

  The Unit is overseen by a UOA Steering Group (Fragkou, Pickard, Rawson, Wright – also UOA
  lead) and a Research and Enterprise committee (formed of rotating members, including ECRs).
  Following a review in 2015, a sub-unit structure was introduced to vitalise, support and sustain
  our research and impact strategy over the submitting period:

  Composition, Improvisation and Sonic Art (CISA)
  Specialisms include: networks of notation, improvisation and technology (Ghikas, Redhead,
  Salem, Wright); contemporary jazz (Dean, Herbert, Stillman); analysis of improvisation (Dean);
  new music for nightclubs, film, games, theatre and television (Herbert).

  Embodied Identity (EI)
  Specialisms include: identity and language in theatre of the African diaspora (Igweonu); somatic
  research; gender in choreography (Atkinson, Maliphant, Pickard); social politics and identity
  with adolescent dancers; dance and widening participation; dance to health (Pickard); identity,
  language and precarity in European theatre (Fragkou, Lech, Paris); practice-based research
  with dynamic light structures (Hurst).

  Performance, Reception and Musicology (PRM)
  Specialisms include: archival research; historically-informed performance (Buurman, Price,
  Rawson); cognition and semiotics (McKay); music psychology; perception and education
  (Hawes and Varvarigou).

  1.2 PROGRESS ON THE AIMS OF REF2014




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  In the submitting period we have realised the aims outlined in REF2014 and have developed new
  areas of vitality:

  (i) The CPBRA was established in 2014, generating 29 interdisciplinary performance lectures,
  conferences, symposia and work-in-progress sessions to support senior colleagues, ECRs and
  doctoral students. Examples of outputs developed via CPBRA support include the Unrealtime
  project (Ghikas); Organ and Electronics project (Redhead), (Im)materiality of Film project
  (Stillman) and Sonnet (Pickard).

  (ii) Dance and Drama PhD candidates were recruited to the Unit for the first time and supervised
  by Fragkou, Igweonu, Lech and Pickard. Specialisms included African diasporic culture;
  choreography, dance and leadership; feminist actor training; the perception of soft power in
  Algerian TV drama; dance and disability.

  (iii) We have built on strong regional connections: staff across the Unit have contributed Dance,
  Drama and Music events for six artistic seasons of the Canterbury Festival, examples including
  Dean’s Hear and Now; Atkinson’s Exploring Somatic Sensation and Pickard’s Sonnet. Wright
  was seconded as Artistic Director (AD) for the Sounds New Contemporary Music Festival in
  2014, creating a 10-day festival with 25 interdisciplinary events featuring Stillman’s Leap of
  Death performance; a Migro Records showcase (Ghikas); Redhead’s Organ and Electronics
  concert and Hurst’s Etched performance.

  (iv) Pickard was seconded to SDHRC and expanded its reach beyond music, evaluating
  aspects of the national Dance to Health pilot which was ultimately rolled out as part of the NHS
  Arts on Prescription policy in 2018.

  1.3 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY (2014-2020)

  Building on this sustained commitment to the aims of 2014, the Unit identified and met five
  objectives for the submitting period:

  a) Building on Quality and Broadening Specialisms:

  In 2014, the disciplinary balance of our submitted outputs was 89% in Music-related areas and
  11% in Dance or Drama. The new sub-unit structure has sustained quality in Music and provided
  a catalyst for quality in Dance and Drama. In the current submission the balance between
  Music outputs and Dance/Drama outputs is 56% versus 44%, showing a greater disciplinary
  balance across the unit.

  b) Fostering Partnerships between the Academic and Creative Sectors:

  Building on our strong regional connections, we have developed partnerships with national and
  international organisations, via three Artistic Researcher appointments in 2016: Paris is co-
  artistic director of Curious Theatre and member of EI; Herbert is AD of Accidental Records &
  The New Radiophonic Workshop and member of CISA; Maliphant is AD of Russell Maliphant
  Dance Company and member of EI.

  This synergy between the academic and creative sectors has become a key strength of the
  Unit’s strategy, enabling dynamic opportunities for staff, sub-units and doctoral students. As an
  example, Herbert, in association with the PRS Foundation and BBC Radio 3, hosted the first ever

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Daphne Oram Awards for female and non-binary electronic artists at CISA’s Oscillate Festival
  organised by Stillman (see section 2).

  c) Generating Impact through Research Specialisms:

  The sub-unit structure has provided a focus for staff research and a base from which to generate
  impact:

  PRM was active in changing perceptions of previously-overlooked composers, musical clubs or
  social conventions via archival research and/or premiere recordings. Buurman worked on social
  dance and music in Vienna 1790-1830; Price worked on the Canterbury Catch Club c.1826; and
  Rawson’s work on Pepusch is captured in one of the Unit’s Impact Case Studies.

  EI focussed on embodied and interdisciplinary practice (Hurst, Pickard), professional
  performance and production (Lech, Igweonu, Paris, Atkinson, Pickard, Maliphant, Hurst);
  social politics and identity in ballet; dance and widening participation; dance and health (Pickard).

  CISA was active in influencing and shaping composition, improvisation and sonic art via the
  national and international reach of the sub-unit’s performances, compositions, recordings and
  festival creation (Dean, Ghikas, Herbert, Redhead, Salem, Stillman). Wright’s work in utilising
  club culture technology in contemporary concert music, improvised music and in multimedia
  theatre is captured in the second of our Impact Case Studies (ICS33.01).

  d) Embedding an Artistic Research Ethos:

  Building on the formation of CPBRA, the Unit has sought to fuse connections with the international
  field of Artistic Research, bringing a breadth and critical depth to the interdisciplinary practice-
  based research of our staff and students. Adding to the new Artistic Researcher appointments in
  Dance, Drama and Music mentioned above, the Unit co-hosts an annual international research
  seminar with The Music, Thought and Technology (MTT) research cluster from the Orpheus
  Institute for Artistic Research in Music (ORCiM) based in Ghent. In addition, we host the
  annual WinterSound Festival, presenting staff/student research to the international participants
  of the ORCiM seminar. Within the period, doctoral students presented work to delegates from 17
  countries and former PhD researcher Jackson contributed a significant article to ORCiM’s ECHO
  journal (2020).

  e) Maximising Global Reach:

  To develop a robust foundation for internationally-excellent and world-leading research, an
  emphasis on international networking (via global conferences, international journals, high-profile
  venues, festivals, companies, record labels and media outlets) led to a significant development of
  the Unit’s global reach. We presented papers across the UK, Africa, Asia, Europe and North
  America, including at The International Conference of the African Theatre Association, Barbados
  (Igweonu); The Association Recherche Internationale d’Iconographie Musicale Conference in
  Russia (Price); and The International Association for Dance, Medicine and Science, in Iceland
  and Canada (Pickard). Performances, compositions and installations were presented by
  Atkinson, Dean, Ghikas, Fragkou, Herbert, Hurst, Igweonu, Lech, Maliphant, Paris, Pickard,
  Price, Rawson, Redhead, Salem, Stillman and Wright in over 15 countries to a live audience



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  of over 100,000, and owing to the prestigious film and tv scores of Herbert, a broadcast audience
  of over 40 million.

  1.4 VITALITY AND SUSTAINABILITY

  In RAE 2008, 30% of our UOA submission was deemed internationally excellent or world-leading
  and this rose to 44% in 2014. Following these successes, a 70% increase in internal research
  funding was awarded from the University to the Unit; our research was further vitalised by a total
  of £45,797 recorded as research in HESA and £858,491 of income not returned as research in
  HESA, as detailed in section 3.

  To maximise global reach and generate impact, internal funding was strategically allocated to
  support the delivery of over 50 papers at national and international conferences, as well as the
  purchase of specialist equipment and costs associated with documentation or recording. To
  foster partnerships between the academic and creative sectors, the three Artistic
  Researchers were hired and supported via internal funding; the three sub-units were allocated
  £9,000 to support research events, whilst a total of £17,063 was allocated to staff research
  leaves, supporting the completion of outputs such as Price and Fragkou’s monographs and
  Lech’s Bubble Revolution performance for the Edinburgh Festival.

  At the University level, an Interdisciplinary Staff Group was established, giving high-level
  priority to interdisciplinary connectedness across the institution. At the Faculty level, the CPBRA
  enabled interdisciplinary exchange between music, dance, drama, film and visual art, leading to
  the 29 events mentioned above. To support the embedding of Artistic Research within the Unit,
  Redhead was seconded to co-direct CPBRA and targeted research funding (averaging £2,000
  per project) generated vibrant work at the interface of two or more disciplinary boundaries: Hurst
  and Maliphant’s investigation of dance and dynamic light structures (Etched, On Slow Violence,
  Silent Lines); Ghikas’s UnrealTime project, linking coding with improvised music; Stillman’s Bog
  Bodies, linking the materiality of film with compositional structure; Pickard’s dance and widening
  participation work with Avanti Dance and National Centres of Advanced Training and Atkinson’s
  work linking dance with neuroscience (Hanging Heavy).

  Following national and international initiatives (e.g. PRAG and SARA’s Research Catalogue), the
  Unit has gone beyond open access requirements for practice-based research. The CPBRA
  provides an open access archive of work in progress, and targeted funding supported the online,
  open access portfolios of Ghikas and Stillman. In addition, Wright was editor for the first online,
  open access journal for MTT at ORCiM (ECHO, 2020).

  1.5 FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS: 2021-2028

  Building on this dynamism outlined above, the Unit seeks to sustain and vitalise future activity via
  three main foci:

  1) Vitality via Interdisciplinary and Cross-institutional Exchange:

  (i) Greater interdisciplinarity (for example between dance and film, or between game technology,
  drama and sound design) can be achieved in SCANDI via collaboration with colleagues from
  UOA34. By sharing these unique research synergies with our entire community of UG/PGT
  students, we aim to increase the diversity of future doctoral studies. Scope for implementation at


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  PGT level includes a new suite of MA in Creative Arts and Industries courses (starting Sept 2021)
  containing modules focussed on collaborative practice and research networks.

  (ii) Our sub-units will foster connectivity to significant University developments beyond UOA33,
  for example new audio engineering work from CISA or technical theatre work from EI making
  innovative connections with the new £65 million Verena Holmes STEM Building (opened on
  International Women’s Day, March 8 th 2021). Existing work on Dance to Health policy (Pickard)
  has strong potential to connect with future work at the new £24.8 million Kent and Medway
  Medical School (opened September 2020).

  (iii) Cross-institutional exchange could become the basis of future UKRI bids connecting science,
  the creative and health sectors, and by appointing research leaders, ECRs and research students
  for work on these specific projects (strategically allocating funding to support and publicise this
  work, and supporting PhD students to deliver papers and performances allied to this cross-
  institutional activity), this could become a significant area of future growth for the Unit.

  2) Impact via Communication and Community:

  (i) To build a sustainable base for the Unit’s impact, we will develop a regional, national and
  international dissemination strategy for the Unit’s research, consolidating our databases of
  institutional, sub-unit and staff networks, thus sustaining and deepening our engagement with
  creative and health sectors.

  (ii) Creating a ‘public face’ for our research, we will support sub-units to broaden and deepen the
  annual WinterSound/ORCiM event, developing an interdisciplinary research festival open to
  international delegates and the public. We will partner this event with international Dance and
  Drama centres, further vitalising this area of doctoral provision. By aligning this festival with the
  work of the CPBRA/SDHRC and external partnerships (such as those represented by the Artistic
  Researchers) this could become a key part of future doctoral recruitment and subsequent
  research internships.

  3) Sustainability via Partnerships, External Funding and Research Internships:

  We will develop external research bids in collaboration with the partners mentioned above,
  strategically collaborating on writing joint bids and developing doctoral internships as part of our
  unique support for research students. For example, future scope for development includes
  doctoral student involvement in the University’s contribution to Medway’s bid for City of Culture
  in 2025.

  2. People

  2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY

  CCCU’s Strategic Plan for Research and Enterprise (SPRE) highlights the desire for an
  environment in which “research and enterprise that shapes disciplines and influences policy and
  practice is shared and co-created”’. Using the above objectives (a-e) as guiding principles, a key
  approach in the Unit’s staffing strategy is to support colleagues in making dynamic connections
  between their work within academia and their professional activities as choreographers,
  composers, theatre makers, performers, producers and organisers. This interchange


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  between the academic and creative and health sectors ultimately generates a vibrant diversity
  of research outputs and impacts as described later in Section 4.

  On the census date the 12.1 FTE of the submitting Unit was structured as follows, with all
  promotions mentioned taking place within the submitting period:

  Composition, Improvisation and Sonic Art (CISA)
  Dean (promoted to Principal Lecturer); Ghikas (Senior Lecturer); Herbert (0.2FTE Artistic
  Researcher in Music, joined 2016); Redhead (Senior Lecturer, left 2018); Salem (Lecturer, left
  2018), Stillman (Senior Lecturer); Wright (Unit and CISA lead, promoted to Professor).

  Embodied Identity (EI)
  Atkinson (0.5 Lecturer); Fragkou (Senior Lecturer); Hurst (Senior Lecturer); Igweonu (promoted
  to Principal Lecturer, left 2017); Lech (Senior Lecturer); Maliphant (0.2FTE Artistic Researcher
  in Dance, joined 2016); Paris (0.2FTE Artistic Researcher in Drama, joined 2016); Pickard (EI
  lead, promoted to Reader 2).

  Performance, Reception and Musicology (PRM)
  Buurman (Senior Lecturer, left 2017); Hawes (Senior Lecture, left 2020); Mckay (Reader, left
  2018); Price (Senior Lecturer); Varvarigou (Senior Lecturer); Rawson (PRM and PhD lead, and
  promoted to Professor).

  2.2 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

  The Unit places emphasis on staff support and wellbeing regardless of gender, race, disability or
  protected characteristics and follows the principles of the Athena Swan charter. We strictly follow
  institutional policies and initiatives in relation to equality and diversity as well as wellbeing and
  mental health (REF 5a). Four principles underpin our equality and diversity considerations:

  (I) all staff, including developing researchers, were eligible to apply for all funding opportunities.
  (II) we ensured that our Research and Enterprise Committee, which made decisions about funding
  applications, had a diverse membership reflecting the broader staff body.
  (III) mentorship was available prior to submission of applications, especially for new researchers.
  (IV) ECRs and developing researchers were prioritised in funding applications.

  The international ethos of the Unit is reflected in a dynamic mix of staff from Greece, Poland,
  Nigeria, the UK and the USA; the UOA Steering Group operates on the principles of 50/50 gender
  equality and an equal balance of 1FTE representing each of the key disciplines of Composition,
  Dance, Drama, and Historically-Informed Performance. The principals of the REF Unit Code of
  Conduct were strictly adhered to, and all panel members had completed the University’s training
  course on avoiding bias in evaluating research, and this was independently audited by REF Panel
  convenors.

  The Unit supports flexible working practices for staff including strategies for the return from
  maternity/paternity leaves, and during the covid-19 lockdowns from March 2020 until the census
  date, the UOA moved to flexible online timetabling of lectures and supervisions, to enable
  maximum flexibility for those colleagues with home-schooling /caring responsibilities. In addition,
  staff can access HR support for their wellbeing and to flexible working policies that facilitate
  balance between staff health, wellbeing and research.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  CCCU is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers. At the
  census point, 39% of our staff were either pre-PhD or within six years of receiving their doctorates
  and a key characteristic of our environment is therefore our desire to transform our ECRs into
  leaders in their respective disciplines.

  The Unit supports ECRs via teaching remission and funding to:

  (i) Solidify their research via PhD study. (Hurst and Price gained doctorates within the submitting
  period; Herbert and Maliphant undertook PhDs by Publication, supervised by Pickard and
  Wright, gaining doctorates in early 2021; Atkinson and Dean have ongoing PhD support)

  (ii) Generate outputs. Strategic allocations of teaching remission supporting early-stage project
  development (Atkinson’s Hanging Heavy, Stillman’s Bog Bodies and Leap of Death).

  (ii) For those gaining recent doctorates, the supervision of PhD students, mentored by a senior
  colleague. (Fragkou, Ghikas, Lech, Redhead and Pickard all became supervisors and were
  mentored in the submitting period, with Rawson acting as Director of PhD study).

  (iii) Develop successful bid applications for external funding. (As outlined later, Buurman was
  awarded a prestigious Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship in 2017).

  In addition, and as mentioned in REF5a, during the submitting period Unit staff had the opportunity
  to attend and gain teaching remission for a cohort-based Supporting Progression in Academic
  Research Careers (SPARC ) programme, comprising a mix of focussed workshops and
  mentoring, offered to University-wide annual cohorts of 20-30 ECRs and developing researchers
  aspiring to their first independent grant application, peer-reviewed article or other major project.

  All of the aforementioned support structures combine to transform our staff from ECRs to
  leaders in their fields. As an example of the outstanding support for ECRs within our community,
  Price’s development from pre-doctorate level to international keynotes in Russia and China
  all within the submitting period, and Buurman’s successful Leverhulme fellowship application to
  a scheme with a 14% success rate (source: Leverhulme guidance for applicants, 2020) is
  testament to our sustained support for nurturing research talent.

  Within the Unit, all staff with significant responsibility for research (including ECRs) set out
  individual research plans, including their training needs, which become part of their Annual
  WorkLoad Planning (AWLP). Based on the AWLP, internal mentorship / funding support is
  available for staff at the following levels:

  (i) individual researcher support: through an annual mentoring scheme, staff met regularly with
  the UOA Lead to discuss advice and support on current projects; to develop bids to the twice-
  annual internal funding call for conference, performance, equipment or research leave support;
  or to discuss School / Faculty support for external research bids. As examples, Lech’s Bubble
  Revolution and Redhead’s Organ and Electronics tours were both supported by initial dialogue
  with the UOA lead, peer-review by the Research and Enterprise Committee and subsequent
  internal and external funding as outlined in Section 3.

  (ii) sub-unit support: regular meetings / research seminars and conferences organised by CISA,
  EI and PRM enabled researchers to share work with similar disciplinary foci in small groups,
  developing shared goals / activities. As examples, EI facilitated dance workshops and a

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  symposium with visiting staff from The Limon School, New York City, attended by staff and PhD
  researchers. CISA’s collaboration with the Turner Contemporary Gallery in Margate led to
  Stillman’s Oscillate book publication, featuring articles from Herbert, Evan Parker, Kaffe
  Matthews and Mira Calix; our co-hosting of the first ever Daphne Oram Awards (2017) with the
  gallery enabled unit staff and doctoral students to engage in live workshops and debate with
  pioneering electronic artists such as Ewa Justka and Klein.

  (iii) UOA support: through internal, Unit-facing ‘research festivals’ all staff within the submitting
  Unit (including ECRs) presented conference papers, performances and installations, enabling an
  interdisciplinary dialogue across the Unit, ultimately leading to the development of the
  WinterSound Festival and ORCiM seminar.

  (iv) School-level support: all staff were actively encouraged to attend and feedback to the School
  Research and Enterprise Committee, have had the opportunity to shape and influence doctoral
  provision and embed research-led teaching within the newly-validated shared MA suite
  mentioned above.

  (v) Faculty-level support: the CPBRA provided both the aforementioned support for PBR, and
  key strategic Faculty funding for time and travel expenses (ultimately supporting attendance at
  the Missenden Bid Writing course) was particularly effective for Buurman, leading to external
  research income outlined in Section 3.

  2.3 STUDY LEAVES, SECONDMENTS AND SUPPORTING IMPACT

  To support the above objectives, three levels of internal research funding for study leaves
  were available throughout the submitting period: semester-long research leaves, to support the
  completion of substantial research projects (awarded to Dean, Fragkou, Hawes, Igweonu, Lech,
  Price); partial study leaves of teaching remission to complete commissions/performances
  (Stillman, Salem); and partial study leaves for the completion of PhDs (Price, Hurst). In
  addition, UOA and sub-unit leads worked closely with Programme Directors/Suite Leads to ensure
  maximum flexibility in the annual workload planning, fostering creative interchange between
  research and teaching, resulting in time and funding to support, for example, residencies at EMS
  Stockholm (Salem); an ACE-funded UK dance tour (Atkinson); an Irish Arts Council-funded UK
  tour (Stillman); PBR for the Edinburgh Fringe (Lech); an Albi Rosenthal Visiting Fellowship at
  the University of Oxford (Rawson) and over 200 performances across the UK, Europe and the
  USA (Dean, Ghikas, Lech, Price, Rawson, Redhead, Salem, Stillman, Wright).

  Unit staff are supported to integrate their work with the creative sector. As outlined above,
  Herbert, Maliphant and Paris lead internationally-renowned companies in their respective
  disciplines, but artistic leadership is to be found throughout the Unit: Atkinson is AD of Loop
  Dance Company; Salem is Co-director of Distractfold; Ghikas is AD of Migro Records; Wright
  was Musical Director for Network at The National Theatre (2017-2018) and was supported by a
  year-long, 0.2FTE secondment to act as AD for Sounds New in 2014. Supporting impact on
  national health policy, Pickard was supported by a year-long 0.2FTE secondment to the
  SDHRC, leading to policy impacts outlined in Section 3.

  2.4 SUPPORTING THE RESEARCH COMMUNITY: STUDENTS

  As a result of our ambitious objectives, we have fostered a 44% increase in our doctoral awards
  (13 students rising from 9 in 2014), and currently have the largest research community we have
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  ever seen, with 30 music, dance and drama PhD students. To support this growth in numbers,
  five University scholarships (totalling £35,100 each); four fee waivers (£12,363 each) and a
  combined SCANDI (UOA33 and 34) total of £257,094 for student costs (including software and
  equipment) supported our student success.

  The cohort of doctoral awards reflects our student recruitment to the sub-unit structure, with 7
  students focussing on PBR linked with CISA; 5 students focussing on performance or archival
  research linked to PRM, and our first doctoral award for the EI sub-unit completed within the
  period. Topics studied include practice-based research in composition and sonic art; historically-
  informed performance practice; feminist actor training; dance and disability; the perception of soft
  power in Algerian TV drama; dance and digitisation and African diasporic culture.

  Researcher-development structures at University, Faculty and Unit level have further
  supported our student’s success. In 2018, CCCU remodelled its Graduate School, and launched
  the Graduate College, creating a physical and digital community of over 3,000 students, a
  quarter of whom are research students. Student progress is managed by a supervisor and chair
  of studies, facilitated by the Research Degrees Manager software. The Graduate College offer a
  range of postgraduate research training seminars and digital resources to ensure that they are
  supported pedagogically, practically and creatively and in addition, the Graduate College offers
  additional financial support on an annual basis.

  At the Unit level, our PhD students made an active contribution to our annual series of research
  seminars (totalling 26 events, featuring leading scholars such as Eric Clarke, Catherine Haworth,
  Susan Hallam and Tom Perchard) and have engaged in research workshops with our Visiting
  Professor of Compostion Paul Patterson, vocalist Elaine Mitchener, turntablist Mariam Rezaei
  and choreographers Dam van Huynh and Ash Mukherjee. Partnerships with the Canterbury
  Festival and Sounds New led to important dissemination opportunities for practice-based PhD
  students, including public concerts and pre-concert talks: Redhead and Wright’s links with Radio
  3’s Late Junction led to broadcasts for PhD student Kakonoki (2018). The annual ORCiM seminar
  supports our students to engage with research at the global level; research student Stone worked
  as liaison between the CPBRA and ORCiM during our Time, History and Materials seminar, her
  compositions were performed as part of the WinterSound Festival and she has since gone on
  to be an active member of the international Wandelweiser community.

  As an example of our partnerships between the academic and creative sectors: Herbert,
  Maliphant and Paris offered additional seminars and interdisciplinary workshops to support
  research training, subsequently leading to former MMUS student Steve Beale working with
  Herbert as studio assistant on the soundtrack for the Hollywood film Disobedience, starring
  Rachel Weisz. In addition, our research students have gone onto high-profile achievements,
  awards and careers:

  (i) Books and Articles:

  Swadley (2015) was awarded the Ede and Ravenscroft dissertation prize (on the villancico in
  seventeenth and eighteenth-century Mexico); his dissertation was almost immediately cited in
  Ralph Locke's influential Musical Exoticism (CUP). Blackstone (2020) has published in the
  Journal of Theatre, Dance and Performance Training whilst Horner (2020) has had an innovative
  80,000 word book proposal on podcasting accepted by Bloomsbury.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (ii) Lectureships and Fellowships:

  Himli (2017) went onto a lectureship in sound at the University of Plymouth; Kakinoki (2017)
  became a Visiting Artist and Postdoctoral Researcher at UAL, funded by the Pola Art Foundation.

  (iii) Performances and Prizes:

  Inkpen (2019) and Jackson (2018) were awarded Faculty funding to attend the LABO arts
  residency with Champ d’Action ensemble in Antwerp (2017). This led to Inkpen’s
  [re]independence performance as part of the 2019 Canterbury Festival programme. As well as
  publishing within the ORCiM journal mentioned above, Jackson went on to perform across
  Europe with ensembles such as Apartment House, Lontano, Plus-Minus and Ictus. Brand (2019)
  has continued her trailblazing work on gender and free improvisation with a busy concert diary,
  recordings and teaching at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama; her work has been
  highlighted in Time Out, The Wire and featured on BBC Radio 3. Kakinoki (2018) went on to
  have works exhibited and performed at the International Conference on Live Interfaces (Porto);
  GENERATE! Festival for Electronic Arts (Tübingen); Tallinn Music Week Festival and DOMMUNE
  (Tokyo), as well as broadcasts on BBC Radio 3. Keventsidou (2019) has gone onto an
  international performing career that has taken her from the Queen Elizabeth Hall to Carnegie Hall
  in New York City. Peasgood (awarded PhD 2021) has developed a significant and successful
  career combining composition for community choirs and sonic art, winning the national BASCA
  Sonic Artist of Year Award in 2017 and Boakye (ongoing PhD student) was awarded a British
  Empire Medal for Services to Dance in 2018.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1 GENERATING RESEARCH INCOME

  Within the submitting period, the activities of the Unit were supported by external research income
  of £45,797 and vibrant streams of non-research income totalling £858,491. In terms of research
  income, Buurman’s successful application to the Leverhulme Trust resulted in her successful
  Early Career Fellowship, bringing £29,555 to the UOA. This was supported by internally-funded
  teaching remission, ultimately providing the groundwork for a forthcoming monograph on social
  dance in Beethoven’s Vienna; Wright’s work on Network was also supported by teaching
  remission and led to £12,476 of consultancy income from the National Theatre.

  Non-research income totalling £858,491 was widespread throughout the Unit. To enable impact
  on the creative sector, Lech was supported with teaching remission to write successful grant
  applications amounting to £2000+ from Polish Culture Worldwide, Polish Consulate General,
  Polonia Aid Foundation Trust and the Split Infinitive Trust, ultimately providing the basis for her
  Bubble Revolution project to tour to the Edinburgh Fringe. Rawson successfully attracted over
  £4,000 for his Venus and Adonis, Guretsky Concertos and Finger projects, from a combination of
  private donors via crowdfunding (£870), Gottfried Finger Gesellschaft Nurmberg (EUR500), the
  Handel Institute Research Award (£1000) and Dvorak Society (£2000). Stillman was given
  teaching remission to support his application to the Irish Arts Council, leading to the successful
  award of EUR11,540 for Bog Bodies and a further round of internally-funded teaching
  remission and rehearsal/recording costs supported the creative development of the project.

  Pickard was supported with a 0.2 secondment to SDHRC for the Dance to Health project,
  resulting in impact outlined in 3.2, further supported by £17,500 via the Aesop Foundation

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Aesop/Guy’s and St Thomas’ Trust. Salem was given teaching remission to write a successful
  application to a national open call, ultimately leading Manchester’s Cut n’ Splice Festival and
  attracting £20,000 of ACE support for a two-day festival in association with BBC Radio 3. Upon
  the successful award, teaching remission was also used to support his co-directorship of the
  Distractfold ensemble during this period of curatorship.

  To support partnerships between the academic to the creative sectors, staff are supported to
  work directly with their partner organisations to develop bids for external support. As examples,
  Atkinson’s artistic leadership of Loop Dance led to the successful development of a £15,000 ACE
  grant to support Exploring Somatic Sensation; Herbert’s Brexit Big Band project received a total
  combined funding of £45,000 from the British Council, PRSF, BPI-Music Export Growth Scheme,
  and Goethe Institute; Maliphant’s dance company gained significant recognition in 2018,
  becoming an ACE-funded National Portfolio Organisation with an annual support of
  £249,000, amounting to a total of £747,000 within the submitting period.

  3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

  To meet the Unit’s objectives to foster output quality across Music, Dance and Drama and to
  create impact related to research specialisms, our staff are supported by our organisational
  infrastructure and the cutting edge facilities on our UNESCO World Heritage site. As outlined
  in REF5a, the organisational infrastructure is fostered at the institutional level by the Pro Vice
  Chancellor (Research and Enterprise), at Faculty level by the Faculty Research and Enterprise
  Committee, at the School level by the Research and Enterprise Committee, at the UOA level via
  the UOA Steering Group and at the sub-unit level via the sub-unit leads, with each sub-unit
  developing impactful work in the areas of Composition, Dance, and Historically-Informed
  Performance. To support the generation of research, enterprise and knowledge exchange
  income, internal research funding is distributed via twice-annual staff bids, peer-reviewed and
  awarded by the Research and Enterprise Committee, and allocated to support projects likely to
  succeed in gaining external support. In addition, our sub-units were supported to develop their
  own research sharing initiatives. As an example, EI created the In Dialogue seminar series,
  supporting the outputs of Atkinson, Hurst, Maliphant, Pickard, Paris, Fragkou, Igweonu and
  Lech.

  To facilitate the embedding of Artistic Research across the work of the Unit, scholarly
  infrastructure includes the £23.5 million Augustine House Library, which won the prestigious
  Society of College, National and University Libraries Design Award in 2013. Unit staff have access
  to the Canterbury Cathedral Archives, an unrivalled resource deemed as having “outstanding
  significance to the UK”, and being internationally-recognised with a UNESCO Memory of the
  World Award in 2016. Access to the archives ultimately led to Price’s work on Canterbury Catch
  Club 1826: Music in the Frame, helping to establish the underpinning research to his monograph
  and eventually leading to the first ever catalogues of instrumental and vocal music linked to this
  important facet of Canterbury’s history. Digital infrastructure includes the CCCU Research Space
  Repository, supporting over 9,000 outputs from University staff, and the open access
  CPBRA archive of practice-based research.

  To foster quality and broaden specialisms, SCANDI boasts a wealth of outstanding research
  and performance facilities, including the Anselm Studios (comprising an 80 seater theatre and
  infrastructure for surround sound/technical theatre projects); St Gregory’s Centre for Music (a
  130 seater concert hall); the Coleridge Annexe Studio (for 16-channel sound spatialisation); the

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Maxwell Davies Building, honouring our former visiting Professor of Composition and former
  Master of the Queens Music; and the £13million Daphne Oram Building, opened by Sir Nicolas
  Serota in October 2019, featuring an 80 seat venue, two commercial recording studios, two 5.1
  surround sound studios, the Daphne Oram Gallery, and facilities to support interdisciplinary
  research with colleagues from UOA34, such as printmaking, animation or gaming technologies.

  To foster impact on the creative sector and building on our previous partnership work, we are
  supported by an Arts and Culture team overseeing the Daphne Oram Gallery (staff moved from
  the former Sidney Cooper Gallery in 2019), St Gregory’s Centre for Music and Anselm
  Studios and a technical team of 3 FTE. Via liaison with the Arts and Culture team, our
  performance and gallery spaces have welcomed 60,850 audience members within the
  submitting period. St. Gregory’s Centre for Music has hosted conference and concert
  audiences totalling 6,816, with conference delegates from across Europe, North America,
  Asia and Australia. Hurst’s work with dynamic light structures, Atkinson and Pickard’s dance
  research and practice-based research by Dean, Stillman and Wright have directly utilised the
  Anselm Studio spaces, leading to high-quality public engagement opportunities via the
  Canterbury Festival, Sounds New and WinterSound events.

  In addition to hosting live audiences from across the region, the Unit invested in recording and
  dissemination costs to stimulate impact upon international listeners beyond the UK. Following a
  competitive process, £34,679 of internal funding was allocated across the submitting period to
  support the creation and distribution of recordings and associated media, a strategy leading to
  Stillman’s Bog Bodies and Leap of Death gaining external funding and festival support, Dean’s
  Here and Now recording gaining an international recommendation from Apple’s I-tunes, and both
  Ghikas and Wright releasing outputs on Ghikas’ Migro Records label, leading to inclusion in the
  WIRE magazine Tapper series, reaching global readership of over 20,000.

  As a result of this dynamic combination of organisational infrastructure and facilities, staff from
  the Unit are well placed to produce internationally-excellent or world-leading research. The
  Russell Maliphant Company is one of the few ACE-funded dance NPOs in the UK; Pickard’s
  funded secondment to SDHRC supported her evaluation of Dance to Health, a national
  programme offered within the NHS Arts on Prescription strategy and she won the National One
  Dance UK award for Impact in Dance Research in 2019, as well as nominations in 2020 for the
  One Dance UK Applied Dance Science Award (2020) and for the International Association for
  Dance, Medicine and Science Dance Educator’s award (2019 and 2020). Buurman’s Early
  Career Fellowship helped her generate impact beyond UK academia, establishing her as a global
  leader in Beethoven studies, enabling her to make the transition from ECR at the start of the
  grant to the international directorship of the Ira F. Brilliant Center for Beethoven Studies
  (San Jose State University, USA) at the end of her fellowship.

  As an example of our internal funding being a catalyst for global impact, the underpinning
  research for Rawson’s Impact Case Study was supported by teaching remission and internal
  research funding, enabling him to undertake archival research, rehearsal, recording and
  dissemination that changed the perception of the relatively-overlooked composer Johann
  Chistoph Pepusch (1667-1752), allowing the composer’s work to be heard by global audiences
  for the first time in 300 years. This resulted in the premiere recording of Venus and Adonis, winning
  The German Record Critic’s Award in the Opera category (2016). Vickers wrote in Gramophone
  that “this excellent recording reveals that Pepusch is a significantly better composer than is
  normally assumed”.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  As an example of our facilities maximising global reach, the internally-funded £10,000 upgrade
  of the Coleridge Annexe Studio (turning a 5.1 space into a fully-operational 16-channel studio)
  supported Wright’s Impact Case Study, enabling the mixing and mastering process for
  Crepuscule In Nickelsdorf with leading saxophonist Evan Parker and Wright’s support for Eric
  Sleichim’s Olivier-nominated surround sound design as part of Network at The National Theatre.
  Crepuscule In Nickelsdorf received thirty-three 4/5 star newspaper reviews in English, Flemish,
  French, Polish, Spanish, German, Italian, Portuguese and Norwegian; Network starred Hollywood
  icon Bryan Cranston, was directed by Ivo van Hove, gained a live audience of 67,000 and grossed
  £2.5million at the NT box office, the show subsequently breaking house records ($22,952,693) at
  the Balasco Theatre on Broadway.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 STRATEGIES FOR COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS

  The sub-unit structures of CISA, PRM and EI have solidified our research foci, providing a robust
  base for dynamic national and international research networks during the submitting period.
  From the CISA sub-unit, Redhead developed the Music and/as Process research network;
  Wright’s work with Evan Parker was chosen as a case study for the EUR2.5million ERC-funded
  Interactive Research in Music as Sound: Transforming Digital Musicology (IRiMAS) project, led
  by Prof. Michael Clarke at the University of Huddersfield. In addition, Wright’s appointment as
  Associate Researcher at ORCiM solidified a relationship between Canterbury and Ghent,
  resulting in the annual co-hosted seminar for the benefit of CCCU staff and PhD researchers.

  Colleagues from EI have had leading roles in sustaining and developing their disciplines:
  Igweonu is president of the African Theatre Association, he co-convened IFTR’s African and
  Caribbean Theatre and Performance Working Group and served as member of IFTR’s executive
  committee (2011-2015). Paris served on the Faculty of Theatre and Performance Studies at
  Stanford, USA; Pickard is a member of the research committee for the International Association
  for Dance, Medicine and Science (IADMS) and leads the research strand at annual conferences
  for One Dance UK. Fragkou was a member of the Inside/Outside Europe Research Network,
  IFTR and served as co-convenor for TaPRA’s Performance, Identity and Community working
  group (2016-2019). She also co-organised the Performance, Ecology, Responsibility Conference
  with Lech and The Performing Risk Symposium with Pickard, laying the groundwork for her
  monograph Ecologies of Precarity in Twenty-First Century Theatre: Affect, Politics, Responsibility.
  Lech is a member of the British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies, IFTR, the
  Irish Society for Theatre Research and was appointed convenor for the Translation, Adaptation
  and Dramaturgy working group (2020-2023).

  Colleagues from PRM received international recognition from the research base: Rawson is
  a member of the Royal Musical Association, The Society for Seventeenth-Century Music and
  organised the 17th International Conference on Baroque Music at CCCU in 2016. He was a
  representative for Musicology on the steering committee of the Forum for Czech and Slovak
  Studies and member of the executive board for The International Society of Czech and Slovak
  Arts, Literature and Language. Price gained Honorary Membership of the Guild of Church
  Musicians and organised the 12th Music in 19th Century Britain Conference at CCCU in 2019. As
  an example of sub-units working together to the benefit of staff and students, Redhead (CISA)



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  co-organised, with Hawes (PRM), the Royal Musical Association / British Forum for
  Ethnomusicology Research Student Conference at CCCU in 2017.

  Following the strategic objective to maximise global reach, our staff have undertaken national
  and international consultancy: Wright was RAE 2020 Critical Friend to The Music Department
  of Hong Kong Baptist University (2018), Critical Friend for Quality at The Composition Department
  of the Royal Conservatoire of The Netherlands (2018); Critical Friend for the Music Departments
  of City University, The University of Plymouth and SARC, Belfast as well as sub-panel member
  for REF2014 and REF2021. In relation to her impact on dance, Pickard has received recognition
  from key research bodies, namely One Dance UK and the International Association of Dance,
  Medicine and Science. She has also been a consultant for Imperial Society for Teachers of Dance
  (ISTD), National Dance Centres of Advanced Training (CATs), Liverpool Hope University, Trinity
  Laban and Beijing Normal University (2017).

  Our leading roles in peer review and editorial board membership included the AHRC Peer
  Review College (Pickard, Wright); AHRC Futures Leaders, AHRC Covid-19 call Expert Group
  and Austrian Science Foundation (Pickard); Swiss National Science Foundation (Wright);
  American Philosophical Society, Early Music (OUP) and Brepols (Rawson). As Editor-in-Chief for
  Research in Dance Education, Pickard has significantly developed the international reach and
  number of submissions to the journal, with 45,630 article downloads in 2019, 22% higher than in
  2018. In addition, she has reviewed for Routledge, Cambridge, Oxford University Press, Dance
  Research, Journal of Dance, Medicine and Science, Public Health, Sport, Education and Society,
  Gender and Society and Psychology. Fragkou was an editor for the Journal of Greek Media and
  Culture (2017) and Skene online journal (2020). Redhead and Hawes were co-editors of Music
  and/as Process (2018), Wright was the editor for Archive[s], the inaugural issue of ORCiM’s
  ECHO journal (2020). Fragkou, Lech and Igweonu regularly reviewed book proposals and
  manuscripts for publishers such as Bloomsbury and Routledge and peer-reviewed articles for
  leading journals such as Contemporary Theatre Review and Coup de Théâtre. They were also on
  the editorial boards of African Performance Review (APR), South African Theatre Journal (SAT),
  Jibilika: Journal of Performing and Creative Arts (Igweonu) and The Theatre Times global portal
  (Lech).

  As evidence of sustained contribution to the research base, our staff have chaired sessions
  for the African Theatre Association (Igweonu), the International Association for Dance, Medicine
  and Science and One Dance UK conferences (Pickard); The Music and/as Process and RMA
  student conferences (Hawes and Redhead), International Conference on Baroque Music
  (Rawson); Music in 19th Century Britain (Price); Embodied Practice and Performance in the Arts
  (Pickard and Maliphant), With an Ear to the Past with The Limon School, New York (Pickard
  and Atkinson), Performing Risk Symposium (Fragkou, Pickard); Compositional Aesthetics and
  the Political at Goldsmiths (Ghikas, Redhead, Wright) and two ORCiM seminars: Time, History
  and Materials (2019) and Feedback (2020) (Wright). Within the submitting period we have
  externally-examined 14 PhDs at Royal Holloway and UEL (Fragkou), the RCM and Trinity Laban
  (Rawson), the Universities of Lancaster and Birmingham; Trinity Laban and the Royal
  Conservatoire of Scotland (Pickard); Brunel University, Southampton, Birmingham Conservatoire
  and the RAM (Wright).

  In terms of prestigious fellowships, as mentioned above, Buurman became a Leverhulme Early
  Career Fellow in 2017; Rawson was Albi Rosenthal Visiting Fellow in Music, Bodelian Libraries,
  University of Oxford (2019–2020). The quality of the Unit has also been recognised through

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  national and international prizes such as the Research in Dance Impact Award, One Dance
  UK (Pickard, 2019); The SouthBank Sky Arts Award for Dance (Maliphant, 2018); the Preis der
  Deutschen Schallplattenkritik (Rawson, 2016); the Kranichsteiner Musikpreis at Darmstadt
  (Salem, with his Distractfold Ensemble, 2014) and the BASCA Sonic Artist of the Year 2017
  (PhD student Peasgood), as well as nominations to BASCA (Salem and Peasgood), Music and
  Sound and Ivor Novello nominations for Herbert.

  4.2 STRATEGIES FOR SUPPORTING AND SUSTAINING IMPACT

  As mentioned in section 1, the sub-unit structure supports and sustains impact in changing
  perceptions of previously-overlooked composers, musical clubs or social conventions via archival
  research or premiere recordings (PRM); changing practice in dramatic/choreographic
  performance and production, widening participation in dance training and Dance to Health (EI);
  influencing and shaping composition, improvisation and sonic art, via national and international
  reach (CISA).

  The Unit’s staff are themselves bridges to a network of creative sector companies with
  opportunities to generate and share research with key audiences. As mentioned previously,
  Atkinson is AD of Loop Dance Company; Ghikas is the AD of the Migro records label; Herbert
  is AD of the Radiophonic Workshop and Accidental Records; Maliphant is AD of Russell
  Maliphant Company; Pickard is associated with Centres of Advanced Training, Dance to Health,
  and Avanti Dance; Paris is AD of Curious Theatre; Price was a lay clerk at Canterbury Cathedral
  (2014-2019); Rawson is performer and arranger for The Harmonious Society of Tickle-Fiddle
  Gentlemen; Redhead is a founder member of the Automatronic new music collective; Salem is
  co-AD of Distractfold; Stillman is leader of the Archaic Future Players and signed to Mute Song
  publishing, Wright is a co-founder of Trance Map, curates the WinterSound festival and has
  worked as a producer for Intakt Records (voted Jazz Label of the Year by the New York City Jazz
  Record, 2018 and 2019).

  Meeting the key objectives of maximising global reach and delivering impact, the Unit has
  sought to solidify its work via international keynotes, journals, performances and broadcasts.
  The Unit’s key strategy for supporting impact in the creative sector is to enable our staff (via
  teaching remissions, rehearsal or recording costs, research sharing events) to build synergies
  between their academic and creative roles, thus benefitting from academic and mainstream media
  mechanisms for dissemination (for example via conference advertising in the academic context,
  or via radio broadcast or newspaper reviews in the mainstream media context).

  As examples of impact on global academia, we have presented keynotes for the International
  Conference of the African Theatre Association in Barbados (Igweonu); Laboratory of Spring
  Conference in Torun (McKay); the Association Recherche Internationale d’Iconographie Musicale
  Conference in St Petersburg (Price); at the IMR and ORCiM (Wright) and Pickard was expert
  panelist at the International Association for Dance, Medicine and Science’s ‘Qualitative Research
  in Dance Education’ conference. In addition, Paris has been Visiting Professor / Artist in
  Residence in the USA, Canada, Europe, Asia and Australia at institutions such as the Chicago
  School of Art, the Tate Modern, and the China Academy of Art in Hangzhou.

  In terms of impact in print, Lech’s Claiming Their Voice: Foreign Memories on the Post-Brexit
  Stage (2020) was one of the six theatre-focussed publications among the Springer Nature 2020
  Highlights (a selection of the most impactful and popular articles/book chapters published in

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2020 by Palgrave Macmillan), Claiming Their Voice being the most downloaded entry. Dean’s
  Pat Metheny's Finger Routes: The Role of Muscle Memory in Guitar Improvisation (2014) broke
  records, becoming the most downloaded entry in Routledge’s Jazz Perspectives series, and on
  the census date had just short of 9,000 views.

  We have created over 700 performances for professional festivals and venues in the UK,
  Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Chile, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Holland, Ireland, Italy,
  Japan, Spain, Switzerland and the USA, reaching over 600,000 live audience members and
  over 40 million via broadcast. Prominent venues / partners for our performances have included
  the Royal Albert Hall; Muziekcentrum ann ‘t Ij (Amsterdam); St Merry Cathedral (Paris);
  Concertgebouw Brugge; Bern University of the Arts; Onassis Cultural Centre (Athens).
  Commissioners have included the BBC, The National Theatre, Transit Festival (Leuven), hcmf//,
  Tampere International Jazz Festival, Big Ears (Knoxville, USA), Sadler’s Wells, Les Théâtres de
  la Ville de Luxembourg and Lego. Our work was selected by hcmf// to engage with international
  initiatives: Wright’s Totem for Den Haag (submitted to REF2014, with new impacts in 2015) was
  presented alongside works by Rebecca Saunders and James Dillion to represent UK new music
  at the prestigious Pallacio Des Bellas Artes in Mexico City, part of the UK/Mexico government-
  funded dual year collaboration. Herbert’s Artistic Directorship of Accidental Records has
  connected his research with the Manchester International Festival, National Theatre of Wales and
  The Royal Court, reaching 100,000 audience members within the submitting period, whilst his
  directorship of The New Radiophonic Workshop has engaged a further 100,000 participants
  through the hosting of four Daphne Oram Awards (for female or non-binary creators in electronic
  music); his film and tv work has gained significant audiences topping 40 million within the period.
  As mentioned above, Maliphant’s directorship of the Russell Maliphant Company has led to NPO
  status for the company, resulting in funding of £249,999 per year, therefore providing a
  sustainable base for future partnership and impact work.

  Over the submitting period we are proud of our development: we have delivered on the strategic
  aims of 2014 and have developed our infrastructure to generate impact on international stages,
  screens and broadcast media across disciplinary boundaries. We have supported our PhD
  students to transition to international careers and win national awards; enabled our early-
  career researchers to flourish through international keynotes and the creation of record-
  breaking articles; have made deep connections with a leading European research centre and
  have embedded tight connections between the academic and creative sectors. We feel we
  are in a strong position to deliver on future strategies and to provide a dynamic and sustained
  contribution to our disciplines.




                                                                                            Page 16
