Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context, structure, research, open research environment, strategic aims and
 approach to supporting impact.

 Context

 The Unit, which is synonymous with the Liverpool Business School (LBS), Faculty of Business
 and Law, Liverpool John Moores University, comprises 32 researchers (31.4 FTE Category A
 staff) of which 8 are early career researchers (ECRs).

 This is a first time REF submission to Business and Management by the University. It follows an
 institutional directive in 2015 to support LBS in prioritising research as a key activity undertaken
 by its staff. Hence, since 2015, a major change initiative has been undertaken, involving the
 appointment of a completely new senior management team, new senior researchers at
 Professor/Reader level and a new organisational structure specifically designed to support the
 building up of a research culture in the Unit. Evidence of the success of this change initiative is
 the growth in volume of research active staff over the past five years.

 We have achieved this by:
    Supporting the research development of existing staff, including ECRs (see section 2.i).
    By judicious recruitment of new members of staff (section 2.i)
    The strategic support of research clusters and cross-cutting themes as vehicles for
       targeted and focused research development.
    Integration of the PhD and DBA programmes as key elements of the research
       environment (section 2.ii).
    Through specific cultural change initiatives, such as writing retreats, undertaken to build
       a vibrant research community in the Unit (section 2.ii).

 A key focus of the Unit is on developing a positive (broad and inclusive) research culture that
 supports staff at different stages of their research careers, including ECRs. The Unit submits 8
 ECRs within its headcount of 32 staff. This proportion (25%) is higher than the REF2014
 Business & Management benchmark of 20% and reflects the stage of evolution of the Unit. Led
 by Bryde, Director of Research and Knowledge Transfer in LBS, the research culture is built
 through a strategic focus on research and knowledge exchange (KE) that involves a planned
 cultural change management programme; policies and procedures for staff development,
 including support for attendance at external training events and conferences; workload
 allocation; formal and informal mentoring; internal funding allocation for research and KE
 projects; and support for applying for external funding. In addition, there is a focus on
 empowering staff to take responsibility and ownership of research/KE agendas and to feel
 emboldened to be innovative and take risks; and in doing so, contribute to the Unit through
 bottom-up initiatives.

 Structure

 LBS is formed of three schools: the School of Doctoral Management Studies (DMS), the School
 of Business and Management (B&M) and the School of Leadership and Organisational
 Development (LOD). DMS has responsibility for the doctorate programmes in LBS and,
 importantly, it has a wider remit in leading the change initiatives in relation to developing a
 research and knowledge exchange culture across the whole of LBS. B&M is responsible for all
 the full-time UG and PG programmes. LOD is responsible for the corporate and executive
 portfolio of programmes in LBS. Submitted staff within the Unit are located in all three schools.

 The structure ensures research and KE is at the forefront of activities in LBS reflecting the
 strategic framework of the university and that the necessary authority and responsibility is

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 present to enable research activities to be undertaken and for research active staff to be
 supported. Bryde, in a full-time and dedicated professorial role at director level, leads DMS. He
 is a member of the LBS senior management team and has overall line management
 responsibility for all the senior researchers in LBS i.e. professors/readers and for staff that have
 programme management responsibilities for the PhD and DBA. In addition, he has control of all
 LBS budgets relating to research-related activities, such as for staff development i.e. conference
 attendance and undertaking external research methods training, and for the development of the
 research/academic clusters, which funds most of this activity. He has strategic oversight of staff
 members’ career and personal development and research-related performance. In terms of
 providing research leadership, Bryde works closely with Hannibal, who has strategic oversight
 at Faculty-level, as Associate Dean for Research, Scholarship and Knowledge Transfer.

 The structure ensures there is leadership for research and KE of the Faculty at the most senior
 levels and that there is constancy and clarity in driving forward the research agenda in LBS. The
 stated purpose of DMS is to provide research leadership in all its guises and by example; to
 provide enabling structures to foster a sustainable and innovative research culture in LBS; and
 to provide excellent doctoral provision that contributes to research that is highly impactful and
 where theory is translated into practice. By sharing and communicating this with all staff, there
 is constancy and clarity. The LBS structure provides the organisational tramlines to enable the
 Unit to move at pace in creating a vibrant and supportive research environment. On route, it has
 ensured that research has been legitimatised, then prioritised, emphasised and recognised.

 Research

 Research in the Unit is primarily clustered around five areas of activity, which are:

        Projects, Operations and Workplace Management Research Group (POW) (Bryde,
         Douglas, Dubey, Durowoju, Grubic, Hannibal, Qu, Schiffling, Shaffakat,
         Stavropoulou, Tucker and Wilson). Led by Bryde and Hannibal, POW seeks
         solutions for the ever-growing challenges in projects, operations and the management of
         the workplace, and its research leads to alternative ways to improve organisational
         performance.
        Digital Marketing and Retail Research Group (DMR) (Bai, Bialkova, Kostopoulos,
         Tassiello and Valaei). DMR, led by Kostopoulos, focuses on digital marketing
         communications, consumer psychology and behaviour in digital environments, digital
         retailing strategies, omni-channel and multi-channel marketing, digital ecosystems and
         online communities and digital innovation.
        Small Business and Entrepreneurship Research Group (SBER) (Fillis, O’Brien,
         Shore and Del Real). Led by Fillis, SBER researches into the following core areas:
         entrepreneurship and business failure, entrepreneurship and Identity, small business
         management, growth and survival.
        Leadership, Education and Development Research Group (LEAD) (Stewart,
         Lawless and Harrison). Led by Stewart and Lawless, LEAD) focuses on the areas of:
         human resource development and leadership, leadership development, fair work and
         professional practice and education.
        International Business Management and Strategy Research Group (IBMS) (Akwei,
         Eltweri, Foster, Papagiannis, Sawan and Zhang). IBMS, led by Akwei, focuses on
         aspects of international business management and strategy, such as business in
         emerging economies, management of multinational enterprises and the effects of firm
         internationalisation on host countries.

 In addition there is a cross-Faculty research group, Tourism, Travel, Culture and Heritage
 (TTCH) of which LBS staff are full members (Fletcher and Maguire).

 The Unit supports both multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research through a Faculty-based
 research strategy which links to LJMU research themes of health & well-being, new technology
 innovation and societal challenges. Hence, they are active collaborators in projects with

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues from other Faculties as they apply interdisciplinary approaches to provide solutions to
 problems. For example, an EU Horizon 2020 Research & Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE)
 project, “Being Lean and Seen”, which Bryde leads, takes a multi-disciplinary approach to
 seeking solutions to the challenges of delivering projects successfully in the 21st century and
 colleagues from the School of Psychology lead a work package on the project researching
 psycho-social aspects of project management. They also contribute to work packages which
 bring together the partners from different disciplines of business and management to develop
 integrate delivery models. Qu works with colleagues from the School of Maritime Studies on the
 Horizon 2020 RISE “GOLF” project. Fillis brings his expertise in cultural entrepreneurship and
 digital marketing, including data analytics and big data to work in partnership with colleagues in
 the Faculty of Engineering and Technology to work on the “LCR Activate” project, which is a
 £5m ERDF-funded project led by LJMU in partnership with the Foundation for Art and Creative
 Technology (FACT) and the Liverpool City Region Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP). The
 project supports digital and creative small and medium-sized businesses in the Liverpool City
 Region by providing access to new technologies and expertise for the development of new
 products or tools. Grubic also works with colleagues from the Schools of Computing Science
 and Applied Mathematics through LJMU’s Data Sciences Research Centre, in which they
 contribute their business data analytics skills to research projects which seek real world
 solutions to topics such as: digital marketing, profiling and inference in public health, clinical
 decision support, Human resources (HR) analytics and sport analytics. Bryde and Wilson
 undertook an interdisciplinary study for an externally funded research project investigating the
 coping strategies used by project managers to deal with difficult stakeholders, combining their
 knowledge from their academic fields, operations management and psychology respectively.

 Open research environment

 Progress is being made towards an open research environment and the principles of open
 research are communicated to staff in the Unit and encouragement given to their
 implementation. The Horizon 2020 RISE “Being Lean and Seen” project is participating in the
 Open Research Data Pilot and is committed to a research data management plan and to
 uploading its data into a research data repository. The staff working on the project have use of
 the OpenAIRE portal as a route to disseminate findings.

 In terms of publications being made open access, there was a substantial rise in the items
 deposited in the open access institutional repository over the assessment period: 2 items in
 2014 and 26 in 2015, rising to 103 in 2019 and 126 in 2020 (up to 31 July 2020). Items made
 open access that aren’t peer-reviewed journal articles demonstrates staff going above and
 beyond the REF guidelines. For example, the 126 deposited items in 2020 included 13
 conference papers, 4 book chapters, 7 theses, 1 exhibition and 5 blog posts. The 7 theses
 reflect the fact that doctoral students are required to deposit their thesis to the repository.

 Strategic aims for research and impact during assessment period

 Five broad strategic aims have provided a focus for areas of development during the
 assessment period. These aims and the Unit’s achievements against each are detailed below:

       Building a strong and vibrant research culture: The overarching activity undertaken
        by the Unit has been to focus on building a strong and vibrant research culture whereby
        all staff at different stages of their research careers feel supported, valued and
        empowered. We have worked steadily since 2015 through a series of internal activities
        and innovative interventions to create this culture. More details of these activities are in
        section 2i. As well as internally focused activities, there is also a strong emphasis on
        creating a research culture through external partnerships and collaborations, both across
        the Institution with other Faculties and externally to the Institution.
       Growing research capacity within the UoA: A focus on increasing the number of
        research active staff, as defined by REF-related criteria, has led to 32 Category A staff in
        LBS being submitted to this REF, compared with four submitted to different UoAs in

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        REF2014. We have also focused on supporting the wider staff base. As well as the 32
        submitted staff in the Unit a further 31 members of LBS, are being supported in their
        research-related activities, with a view to them being research active in the next
        assessment period. As described in more detail in section 2i, specific support for all 63
        staff members, including Associate members of the research groups, to develop their
        research profiles and deliver outputs includes remission of teaching, mentoring, training
        and support for conference attendance. We have achieved notable success in having
        ECRs from all areas of research activity meet the requirements for independent
        researcher status: Bai and Tassiello [Marketing, Consumer Behaviour and Retailing
        cluster, Eltweri [International Business Management and Strategy], Maguire [Tourism,
        Travel, Culture and Heritage], Shore [Small Business and Entrepreneurship], Schiffling,
        Shaffakat and Wilson [Projects, Operations and Workplace Management]. We have
        also successfully supported mid-career staff members to re-engage in research-related
        activities and achieve SRIR status (significant responsibility for independent research;
        see section 2.i below for details).

       Enhancing the quality of outputs produced by the UoA: At the same time as growing
        the research capacity, we have focused on ensuring that staff target publications in
        highly respected journals within their specific subject areas, as evidenced by REF2. We
        have run internal seminars, hosted by our senior researchers who have experience in
        publishing in such journals. We have brought in external speakers, such as editors of
        peer-reviewed journals with high impact factors. We have funded staff to attend external
        training events on academic publishing run by such organisations as Economic and
        Social Research Council (ESRC), British Academy of Management (BAM) and Northern
        Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI). As at July 2020 27.8% of the Unit’s
        outputs are in the top 10% citation profile, which mirrors the institution’s position in
        relation to citations.

       Establishing groupings of research excellence: The Unit received formal Faculty
        approval to set up the five research groups: POW, DMR, SBER, LEAD and IBMS. These
        reflect the main areas of research strength in the Unit and provide focus for the
        recruitment of new academics. We recruited senior researchers during the assessment
        period to contribute leadership in the academic areas of different groups: Hannibal
        (2019) as Professor of Operations Management, Kostopoulos (2018), Reader in Digital
        Marketing and Fillis (2016) as Professor in Entrepreneurship. We have a Faculty-
        administered process to make internal funds available to each group, based on the
        approval of a twelve-month action plan, to support various activities, such as seminars,
        guest speakers and other group developmental activities.

       Increase research income: There has been a significant step change in research
        income generated, achieved by increasing both bidding activity and success rates.
        Notable success has been in securing funding from the EU. We undertook focussed
        initiatives to enable staff to target appropriate funding calls, develop high quality
        proposals and participate in collaborative applications with colleagues outside the Faculty
        and the Institution. In 2020 LBS created a dedicated Research Funding Coordinator
        position to provide specialist support to the Unit for these initiatives

       Delivering an excellent Doctoral Programme: We have significantly improved on-time
        completion rates for our PhD programme, from 40% in 2014 to the current level of 61%
        and average time to complete a DBA is currently standing at 4.2 years, which is well
        within the maximum registration period for the programme of 7 years. There is evidence
        of success in achieving this aim in the 2019 PRES Survey results. Doctoral students’
        confidence that they would complete within the expected timescale is 95%, which is
        significantly above the external benchmark of 82% for all institutions. Overall, 84% of
        students are satisfied with their research degree programme, again above the external
        benchmark of 81%.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future strategic aims

 Building on our successes detailed above, these are the next key strategic aims:

 1. Continue developing a strong and vibrant research culture, focused on research
 excellence and impact: We will continue to develop the research culture through internal
 activities and targeted support for the development of staff at different stages of their research
 careers. We will put emphasis on developing external collaborations, both internal and external
 to the institution.

 2. Continue to increase the volume, proportion and quality of publications of research-
 active staff: We will increase the proportion of SRIR Cat. A staff in the Unit, with a target of 50-
 60 FTE. We will continue to grow our publication numbers at levels that reflect improved
 research standing and increase our citation impact, with a target of 30% of outputs in the top
 10% citation profile (SciVal).

 3. Consolidate the established research groups: We will bring together the research groups
 into one formal research centre, which will facilitate a focus on cross-cutting themes, such as
 productivity, organisational scale-up and resilience, leadership, digital, innovation, enterprise and
 sustainability.

 4. Increase the breadth and volume of research and KE income: We will diversify the
 sources of research/KE income, with a focus on income generation through grant proposals from
 collaborative links with industrial partners. In particular we will seek to engage in the Innovate
 UK Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (MKTPs) scheme, with a target of at least 5
 MKTPs, bringing in approximately £180k of income for each MKTP (£900k total) – based on a
 typical duration of 24 months.

 5. Continue to provide excellence in our doctoral programme provision: We will establish
 international partnerships for dual/split site delivery of our doctoral programmes, to enhance the
 quality of provision and provide doctoral candidates with an international experience. Our target
 is to achieve a growth value of approximately 20% in student numbers, equating to about £200k
 in additional annual fee income from these partnerships.

 Approach to supporting impact

 The Unit is submitting 3 Impact Case Studies from a final shortlist of 5.

 Impact Case Study 1 (ICS1) - Improving patient outcomes through better project management of
 clinical trials (Bryde, Unterhitzenberger). Impact Case Study 2 (ICS2) - Creating operational
 benefits and service improvements in an NHS Trust through leadership development (Lawless,
 Coetse, Stewart and Wilson). Impact Case Study 3 (ICS3) – Building resilience and
 sustainability into transport logistic systems (Qu).

 The two cases not selected for submission are in areas of expertise that have emerging and
 growing levels of impact. Firstly, research led by Tucker, on customer performance
 measurement in the management of workplace and facilities; and secondly, by Harrison, on
 improving educational opportunities for communities considered “hard to reach” i.e. Roma.

 Targeted support has been provided to staff developing these impact cases and also to others in
 the Unit that demonstrated strong evidence of being able to put in place well-established
 pathways to impact. Since 2019 Hannibal acted as Impact Champion within the Unit, providing
 support through acting as a critical friend, undertaking internal review of cases etc. to the 5
 impact leads of potential cases. Internal funding totalling £2,785 was also allocated to 3 impact
 case leads to support the development of impact cases: Bryde (ICS 1), Lawless (ICS 2), and
 Tucker. Additionally, remission from teaching was given to the following staff to provide


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 additional headroom to develop impacts cases: Collins, Harrison, Lawless, Tucker and Qu
 (ICS 3).

 Six events to disseminate information about the impact agenda and to support individuals in
 developing their own pathways to impact were held in the Unit: May and October 2015, February
 2016, October and December 2018 and two events in May 2019. Staff also attended centrally
 run sessions on the topic of “the Building Blocks of Impact”. In addition, staff within the unit had
 approximately 50 one-to-one meetings with the institution’s Impact Officer to discuss issues
 around the impact of their research over the course of this REF cycle.


 2. People

 At the REF census date, the Unit comprised a research community of approximately 75
 academic members of staff, of which 32 have SRIR status. The demographic profile of the Unit
 shows a large proportion of early career staff i.e. of the 32 Cat. A SRIR staff, 25% are ECRs –
 and this proportion of early versus mid/later career is similar across the wider pool of 75 staff
 members. The Unit has a small number of Professors, 3 males and 1 female and of Readers: 4
 males and 4 females. Of these 12 members of staff, who undertake the role of providing
 research leadership, the age profile is that 50% are aged 50+. This demographic profile in terms
 of career stage and age affects current and future research activity. Firstly, a priority is being
 given to succession planning, for example the Director of Research is working closely with the
 female professor, who is aged under 50, with a view to a planned succession during the next
 REF cycle. In addition, the Unit is carrying a vacancy for a professor forward into the next REF
 cycle and is seeking to provide a promotion opportunity for an external candidate, ideally a
 female, which will help balance the age profile. Secondly, mid-career staff members have been
 appointed as deputies to the research/academic group leads, again with a view to a planned
 succession to take over the role of lead at an appropriate time. In undertaking this planning we
 have ensured there is no discrimination against a staff member because of a protected
 characteristic i.e. the appointed deputy of POW is a female from the BAME community.

    i.       Staffing strategy and staff development

 The staffing strategy and staff development activities are an integral element of the cultural
 change journey that the Unit has undertaken to build a vibrant environment in which research is
 flourishing. Whist we don’t have any contract researchers we support the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, in line with the institutional
 action plan.

 Staff development activities include regular research seminars, training and workshops on
 research methods and topical issues, such as publishing in highly ranked journals and forums to
 create supportive communities of practice and build social capital to the benefit of individual
 researchers. For example, the Unit holds monthly half-day writing retreats at a venue either off-
 site or virtually and each year there is a two-day residential writing retreat or a one-day virtual
 retreat. The total attendance at the 19 retreats held in the assessment period is 296, with an
 average attendance of 16 members of staff. Innovative interventions include a “Keywords
 Conversations” series, introduced in 2019, where researchers come together to examine, from
 different subject discipline perspectives, a specific keyword i.e. one seminar looked at the word
 “immateriality”. Another innovation introduced in 2019, is the “Reviewer and Reviewed in
 Conversation” seminar series, where two LBS researchers, reviewer and reviewed, meet for a
 chaired discussion of a journal publication Reviewer and reviewed engage in a conversation to
 give the audience a better understanding of arguments put forward in published works. All these
 internal activities are open to staff, students and any visiting research professors/fellows present
 at the time.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has been able to maintain staff development activities during the COVID-19 period by
 switching to online virtual modes of engagement and interactions. Between late March and July
 2020 6 online events were held by the research/academic clusters.
 Research Leadership

 A key focus has been the development of the research leadership skills of senior research staff
 in the Unit. Bryde and Hannibal attended the CABS/BAM Directors of Research Development
 Programme (DoRDP) in 2018/19 and 2019/20 respectively and this was a key development
 activity for them in effectively undertaking their research leadership roles. In 2019 Amoako (left
 in 2020), who had a leadership role in the area of entrepreneurship and small business
 management, was supported to attend the Research Team Leadership training in London
 organised by the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (LFHE). Tucker, who is the
 Programme Leader for the DBA and Research Lead for projects undertaken under the banner of
 workplace management and Bryde, in 2019 and 2017 respectively, were sponsored by the
 Faculty to undertake the Insights: Leading Research Teams programme delivered by the LJMU
 Leadership and Development Team and accredited by the LFHE. In 2018 Foster, the
 Programme Leader for the PhD, was one of 36 researchers to win a place on the international
 TRANSPEER programme. This was a European funded (Erasmus Plus Strategic Partnerships)
 project being delivered by LJMU in partnership with Karlstad University, Sweden, the Inland
 Norway University of Applied Science, Norway, and from Portugal ITQB NOVA and the Instituto
 Politécnico de Santarém (2017-2020) The programme developed a community of international
 researchers through building cohort identity and networking and by undertaking a range of
 training and development activities, covering such topics as leadership, coaching, mentoring and
 seeking research funding.

 Support for new staff

 All staff new to LBS are given time remission from teaching duties for a period of three years to
 enable them to transition to independent researcher status. This time remission equates to a
 20% of overall time, coupled with timetables that provide an individual with at least one and
 typically two days free of teaching. As staff develop their research careers and meet specific
 criteria, such as volume and quality of outputs and external grant funding secured, the time
 remission increases, up to a maximum of approximately 40% time.

 Support for mid-career staff to transition to independent researcher status

 The Unit provides a research-focused mentorship scheme, internal funding and remission from
 teaching for mid-career staff on the cusp of being research-active. These staff members, for
 whatever reason, have not previously had the time or space to achieve the status of
 independent researcher, but have demonstrated the capability and commitments to reach it
 within an agreed period of time. These members of staff are allocated a Role Development
 allowance. This allowance, which typically lasts three years, equates to the ECR/New to LBS
 allowance. A number of individuals are currently on the cusp of transitioning and staff that
 previously benefitted from this allowance and are now of Cat. A SRIR status are Foster,
 Harrison and Stavropoulou, gaining this status in 2019/2020.

 Mentoring Schemes

 Internal funding was available through the “REF Upskilling Project”, which ran in 2018/19 and
 2019/20. This was an institutional mentoring scheme for academic staff development designed
 to offer new, lapsed or lesser-published researchers not only the opportunity to learn and
 develop from more experienced and widely published researchers within the University but also
 financial support for their research projects and institutional support, such as support to attend
 residential writing retreats dedicated to REF Upskilling Mentees and Mentors. Since its
 conception, 8 staff members from LBS [Kok – left institution in 2020, Brown, Collins, Foster,
 Gao, Harrison, Scotto and Schiffling], have been successful recipients of funding through the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scheme. Total amount of funding is £28,640, with an average of £3,455 per person. The funds
 enabled staff to complete ongoing research i.e. by paying for data transcription or other costs of
 fieldwork and then submit papers to highly regarded journals. The below testimony from one of
 the mentees, Schiffling, is evidence of the success of the mentoring scheme.

 “The most obvious outcome of the REF UpSkilling initiative for me is that my mentor and I have
 managed to publish the paper we were working on together in an ABS 4-star journal. However,
 the true benefit is much more wide-ranging than that. In a year when teaching and its pandemic-
 related challenges could have easily taken over all of my working hours, my mentor helped me
 maintain a focus on research. When I was so overwhelmed I wanted to withdraw the paper
 during the final round of reviews, she patiently worked with me to not just revise this paper, but
 teach me about the ups and downs of the process, making me realise that I was not actually a
 failure, but that these feelings were quite normal and that there were ways to work through
 them”.

 Staff Development Opportunities

 LBS staff have been successfully encouraged to engage with the ACTivator (Attitude and
 Capability Toolkit), LJMU's award winning programme of researcher development workshops.
 Since 2017 48 LBS researchers, at different stages of their careers, attended multiple sessions.
 Total attendance on the workshops was 104, with a steady year-on-year increase: 19 (2017), 22
 (2018), 29 (2019) and 34 (2020). The highest attendance being on the workshops: “Surveying
 your funding landscape” [11 attendees] and “Funding applications – getting a yes” [10], which
 has contributed to the uplift in successful bids for external research funding by enhancing staffs’
 capability in this area. Other well attended topics covered in the programme include: “The give
 and take of peer review”, “The building blocks of impact”, “Collaboration that counts”, “Getting
 media savvy”, “Maximize your REF-readiness” and “Attending to you”.

    ii.     Research Students

 LBS offers a PhD and a DBA. The DBA is the longest standing Prof Doc in the Institution, with the
 first cohort starting in 2008. LJMU is a member of Executive Doctorate in Business Administration
 Council (EDBAC). As shown in Table 1 there were 133 new enrolments on the programme
 between 1/8/2013 and 31/7/2020, 71 on the PhD and 62 on the DBA. Growth has been achieved
 through a move in 2015-2016 to an annual intake to the DBA rather than a bi-annual one, which
 was the case prior to 2015, as shown in Table 1 with no intake in 2014/2015.
 The overall trend in terms of PhD completions within 4 years shows an overall improvement, with
 the rate being 40% in the first two years of the assessment period and 80% and 61% in the last
 two. All DBA candidates completed within the maximum registration period of 7 years, with on
 average 74% completing before the end of year 4.
 Three of the PhD students are on fully-funded LJMU scholarships and two are funded by Zurich
 University of Applied Sciences/ZHAW, Switzerland. Targeted initiatives have significantly
 impacted on the quality of the students. All students complete the ‘3i’s’ training course, run by The
 Teaching and Learning Academy, which is mandatory for any PGRs engaged in undergraduate
 teaching or demonstrating. Having completed the 3i’s students gain valuable experience in the
 classroom, under careful supervision and, during the assessment period, this experience helped
 5 PhD students to secure permanent lectureships in LBS on completion of their studies.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1: Doctoral enrolments and completions
                    1/8/13-   2014     –    2015-    2016 –     2017 –    2018 –     2019 –
                                                                                                Total
                    2014      2015         2016     2017       2018       2019       31/7/20

  Enrolments
  PhD – newly
                    10        10           10       7          12         15         7*         71
  enrolled
  DBA - newly                 No
                    12                     9        9          10         8          14         62
  enrolled                    intake
  Overall - total
  newly             22        10           19       16         22         23         21         133
  enrolled
  Completions
  **All PhD
                    4         7            6        9          6          6          6          44
  completions
  ***PhD
  completions
                    40%       40%          10%      50%        51%        80%        61%        47%
  within 4
  years (%)
  DBA
                    10        1            6        8          1          5          8          39
  completions


  Overall total     14        8            12       17         7          11         13         79
  completions
 *2019/20 has a lower intake because of deferred new starters for June 2020 due to the Pandemic
 ** Actual number of completions within the year. It includes any completion whether on time or not
 *** Actual PhD on time completions only, which is why as a % it is different to number of completions. It
 does not include the 2 PT students, both are still active and overtime.


 The majority of the PhD students are international (59), with particular representation from: the
 Middle East, especially UAE; China; Bangladesh; Africa; and Thailand. The DBA is designed as
 a boutique programme, with cohort size limited to 16 students. A new cohort joins the programme
 each year. The DBA cohorts have a mix of UK-based and international students, with those from
 Ireland, Germany, UAE and Thailand strongly represented amongst the international student
 body. All DBA candidates work at senior levels in their organisations and their research directly
 relates to an organisational issue, which provides a strong focus of undertaking highly impactful
 research and a direct route to translation to management practices.
 Support, development and training
 The diverse backgrounds of both PhD and DBA students provides for an enriched learning
 experience and sharing of cultures amongst the cohorts. By the nature of its structure, cohort
 identity on the DBA is very strong. To help build a similar identity and community of doctoral
 researchers on the PhD, in 2016 the Unit appointed Akwei to a newly created role as PhD Training
 and Development Tutor. She designs and delivers initiatives to build cohort identity and help the
 international students and their families settle into the Institution and the local area. For example,
 pre-COVID-19, social events outside the Institution and events within the Institution i.e. family
 picnics in a local park and an international event held each semester whereby staff, students and
 their families wear traditional national dress and bring food dishes local to their home countries for
 all to try. Akwei is from an overseas BAME community and can relate to the experiences of the
 international students that make up the majority of the PhD cohort. She also supports the students

                                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in terms of their career development, such as helping them in developing their research profiles
 and their networks, thesis writing, writing for journals and conferences and in gaining experience
 in the classroom; with a view to them securing meaningful employment, if a target, either within
 the Academy or beyond, on completion of their studies. Regular seminars are held for PhD
 students, such as a monthly Research Café, where students share their research and discuss
 ideas with fellow students and their supervisors. The success of this support is evidenced in better
 PRES outcomes, where the percentage level of agreement against 24 of the 26 comparable
 statements in the PRES survey increased from when measured in 2015 and then 2019.
 Noteworthy was an increase in confidence of completing on time from 82% in 2015 to 95% in
 2019, which is 13 percentage points above the global benchmark.
 The DBA programme also has a series of social events which are held during the four week-long
 residential workshops that students attend during the first three years of the programme, such as
 visits to local restaurants and evening events involving guest speakers. These events are also
 opened up to the PhD students to attend.
 All PhD students have access to individual desk space within a recently refurbished Doctoral Suite.
 Each student is invited and encouraged to join one of the Research Groups, if appropriate, and
 participate in the group’s activities. An annual Faculty doctoral conference provides a further
 opportunity for both PhD and DBA students to meet and share experiences. There are funds
 totalling £500 per student to attend conferences and requests to attend training events, seminars
 and writing retreats run by the NARTI, of which LBS is a member. Both PhD and DBA students
 are on the organising committee for the 2021 Annual Doctoral Conference, which is being hosted
 jointly by LJMU and University of Liverpool and part-sponsored by the ESRC – which was
 postponed from June 2020 due to COVID-19.
 All doctoral students are members of the Institution’s Doctoral Academy and have access to a
 wide range of support and development services, such as pastoral care. The Doctoral Academy’s
 Researcher Development Programme (RDP) supports PGRs throughout the doctoral journey,
 from getting started with research, enhancing personal effectiveness, through to engaging others
 and successfully communicating research. It is fully mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework, and as well as helping PGRs to develop research and transferable skills, the RDP
 also enhances the PGR community by encouraging peer networking across faculties.
 LBS PGRs who have received PG Conference Travel funds from the Doctoral Academy (£350 for
 international; £175 for UK) between 2015 and May 2017: Favour Evwehamre, Abdulhameed
 Aldurayheem, Abdulhameed Aldurayheem, Jaseer Noor Al Rhaman.
 As well as supporting students to attend NARTI training events, Akwei, the LBS PhD Training and
 Development Tutor runs training sessions for students that are bespoke to business and
 management. In 2018 an external appointment of a Lecturer in Research Methods for Business,
 Wilson, was made to the DBA team and this person provides a similar a role to the PhD Training
 and Development Tutor for the DBA programme.
 For the DBA cohorts, who mainly study remotely, innovative teaching and learning strategies have
 been put in place in order to enhance the level of engagement on the programme and to close
 any gaps in relation to cultural and learning disparities of the cohort’s profiles. Key strategies
 include: 1) Participation in ‘research café’ sessions during the residential workshops – here
 students are encouraged to talk openly about their research and are split in to small groups partake
 in a series of interactive workshops where each member conducts a short presentation based on
 the café theme, followed by open discussion with the group (since 2019); 2) ‘Virtual action learning
 sets’ - reflection and questioning on what has been learnt together, and apart, is facilitated and
 captured via an online platform with a multi-user collaboration tool. This ‘blending’ of methods,
 over a sustained period of time, enables students to move to a deeper level of knowledge and
 understanding of research methodologies (since 2014); 3) ‘Virtual writing retreats’ – this is an
 innovative take on traditional writing retreats, where candidates come together virtually at the
 beginning of the retreat to set goals of the session. They then ‘mute’ their microphones but stay
 visible on the screen to each other. They work in silence for a fixed period of time (usually 2-3
 hours) and reconvene at the end to discuss their outputs. Such retreats are being effectively

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 employed by DBA students located in different parts of the world. These retreats were introduced
 in 2019 and were facilitated by a staff member from the DBA team, but since 2020 they have been
 student-led.
 The Unit has been able to maintain support and switch to online modes for doctoral student
 development and training, post COVID-19. Monthly research cafes were held at the end of March
 and in May, June and July 2020 using Zoom and the Canvas online learning platform. In April
 2020 there was a Zoom PhD research day and in May a virtual 3-minute thesis presentation
 support workshop. Finally, in June 2020 there was a MS Teams meeting of the Narti Annual
 Doctoral Conference organising committee, with PGR students from the Unit in attendance, which
 reviewed 49 papers submitted by PGRs to the conference and then provided feedback to Narti on
 plans.
 Equality and diversity
 In recruiting new staff, the Unit has sought to achieve gender parity/balance, which has included
 having adequate female representation on interview panels. This approach has been effective.
 In 2017 the Unit appointed two new professors under an Institutional “Inspire” programme to
 bring in future research leaders who could help drive the research agenda and one of these two
 professors was a female. Further, the next appointment of a new professor in 2019 was also a
 female and this person, Hannibal, undertakes a senior research leadership position as Faculty
 Associate Dean of Research, Scholarship & Knowledge Transfer. The gender split of research-
 focused Professors and Readers in Liverpool Business School is 60% male and 40% female,
 which is getting close to our institutional target of a 50/50 ratio. Furthermore, ECRs are being
 submitted with an average of 1.8 outputs, compared to non-ECR Cat. A staff averaging 2,
 demonstrating that ECRs make a good contribution in terms of their outputs compared to mid-
 career and senior academics – the ECR gender split is 50% female/50% male.

 The Unit has availed itself of the dedicated institutional support for female members of staff with
 ambitions to achieve internal promotion to Reader or Professor, specifically signposting them to
 the Woman’s Professors Network, Women Readers Network and Women ECR Network. Faculty
 support is also given in the form of mentoring by a female professor – firstly Bettany [left in
 2018] and then Hannibal [since 2019]. In 2017 two female members of staff at Senior Lecturer
 level within the Unit were successful in their applications for promotion to Reader (Lawless and
 Otaye [left in 2019] and additionally one of them was from a black, Asian and minority ethnic
 (BAME) background. In 2020 a further two females SLs from BAME backgrounds were
 promotion to Reader – Akwei and Qu. Encouragement and funding are also given to females to
 attend the Aurora Programme and one member of staff, Unterhitzenberger [left LJMU in 2018]
 completed it. Female academics, including those in the Unit i.e. Hannibal, Schiffling and ECRs
 have also been able to attend two-day residential women-only writing retreats.

 In allocating Role Development allowances, see sub-section “Support, development and
 training” earlier in this section, the individual staff circumstances of female members of staff,
 such as periods of maternity allowance, are taken into account and if appropriate the
 qualification period can be extended. In terms of allocation of internal funding to support
 research, a gender balance has been achieved. For example, of the 9 staff members from LBS
 funded through the Institutional REF Upskilling scheme 5 were female researchers.
 The use of writing retreats has created structured and formalised communities of practice, that
 are particularly valuable to female researchers and this is reflected in the fact that of the 296
 attendance figure of staff attendance at all the annual and monthly retreats run by LBS, 185
 (63%) were female. The success of the support for female members of staff is reflected in that
 females are being submitted with an average of 2 outputs, compared to male Cat. A staff
 averaging 1.9.

 Additionally, staff members from BAME backgrounds are encouraged to attend the writing
 retreats, which is reflected in the fact that 54 of the total attendance was individuals from such
 backgrounds, with a particular success in encouraging male BAME staff members to attend – of
 111 males attendances 41 (37%) were from BAME backgrounds. Akwei, who is from the BAME

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community, sits on the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) Diversity Committee
 and through her involvement in this committee good practice is fed back into the Unit, through
 the promotion of good practice. Her standing in this area has been recognised by being invited
 to speak at a CABS event in 2020 at Kings College London “Workshop on tools for diversity in
 Business Schools”.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since embarking in 2015 on the major change initiative to build the research base, a concerted
 effort was made to consistently improve our research awards, in terms of total research income
 and size of award. Total research income for 2014 - 2020 is £1.624M. Of this income, £1.589M
 was received in the last three year of the REF cycle: 2017/2018, 2019/2020 and 2019/2020,
 which shows a step change in the size of grants and the level of income received and reflects
 the success of the change initiative. Notable successes were in securing two large grants from
 the EU. Smaller research grants were secured from a range of sources: BEIS Research
 Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, UK-based
 charities, UK Central Govt., local authorities, the NHS, Non-EU charities and private sector and
 professional associations. The growth of income coupled with the diversity of income sources
 demonstrates the Unit’s ability to secure funding, including major grants in partnership with
 national and international collaborators (see section 4.8 below for details of collaborating
 institutions), through effective engagement with key stakeholders involved in advancing
 management policy and practice in both public and private sectors. As well as producing
 publications in highly reputable journals the investment of income has contributed to the
 development of the Impact Case Studies i.e. ICS1 – funding from the Association of Project
 Management, ICS2 – British Academy of Management and University Forum for Human
 Resource Development and ICS3 – EU Horizon 2020, Norwegian Research Council and
 AECOM, UK.

 The Unit provided support for research grant applications through a Faculty Research College,
 which offers a rigorous internal peer review process. An internal peer review process is also
 provided within each of the Unit’s research clusters. In addition, each research cluster is
 allocated £500 per annum per group to support activities such as bringing in external speakers
 to talk about aspects of bidding for external funding. The Unit has a dedicated team of 3
 research administrative staff, with the team leader providing specific administrative support to
 the research cluster leads. In addition, since 2020, additional support is provided by the newly
 created position of Research Funding Coordinator within the Unit. There is also targeted support
 for the development of impact – as described in section 1.

 The new £38m Redmonds Building, which houses the Liverpool Business School (LBS), formally
 opened in 2013. The relocation of LBS into this new facility made a significant improvement to
 the research environment and, through the improved layout of office spaces, open plan areas,
 social spaces and meeting rooms, enabled staff and PGRs to more easily meet together and
 collaborate on research. For PGRs there is a dedicated room, with each student being allocated
 their own desk space. The Unit has also supported the purchase of specialised software,
 simulation packages and datasets to support researchers, such as Qualtrics, Planview LeanKit,
 Prendo and the Carbon Disclosure Project dataset.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The evidence of the Unit’s collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society is captured below.

 1. Conference organisation: Staff in the Unit have been active in conference organisation.
 Bryde organised a Special Stream for the EUROMA 2017 Annual Conference in Edinburgh, UK,
 in 2017 titled “"Project Management: "Meeting the challenges of managing temporary (multi)
 organisations", which was sponsored by the Association of Project Management. Since 2017
 Papagiannis has been on the EU Erasmus funded Scientific Committee of the Annual

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Practicum of Centro Di Ricerca-International Study Centre for Smart Organisations
 Management and Smart Territory Valorisation (SMARTER). Philips has been a Co-chair of the
 Problem Structuring Methods Special Interest Group for the Operational Research (OR) Society
 since 2018 and Chair of Social Media for Simulation Workshop 20 (SW20) of the OR Society,
 originally scheduled for April 2020 but postponed to 2021 due to COVID-19. Tassiello co-
 organised a special session on experimental designs at the Academy of Marketing conference in
 2019. In his role as Research Lead for the European Facilities Management Network (EuroFM),
 Tucker was responsible for leading and organising their flagship annual conference in Sofia,
 Bulgaria in 2018, and in Dublin, Ireland in 2019.

 2. Developing capacity in the wider academic and non-academic community: A focus of
 activity is on capacity development of academic and non-academic communities.

 Academic: Liverpool Business School hosted the 2018 British Academy of Management
 (BAM)/Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS), DBA Symposium on the topic
 “Developing, Capturing, and Using the Impact of DBA Research” and the CABS Annual DBA
 Conference in 2015. In 2019, with University of Liverpool Management School, it was selected to
 co-host the 15th Annual Doctoral Conference of the Northern Advanced Research Methods
 Training Initiative (NARTI), sponsored by the ESRC, which will be held once COVID-19 related
 restrictions are lifted. Bryde was an organiser of a Doctoral Symposium on “Addressing the
 Sustainability Agenda in the Gulf Region” on behalf of the Gulf Research Meeting (GRM), held at
 the University of Cambridge in 2014. Bryde and Tucker ran a World Café Series on
 “Supervision: Supervision of executive doctoral candidates” at the European Foundation for
 Management Development (EFMD) 2019 Annual Doctoral Programmes Conference, Lancaster
 University, UK; and in 2020 Tucker delivered a seminar on “Building Sustainable DBA
 Programmes” at the BAM/CABS, DBA Symposium, Sheffield Hallam University. Lawless sits on
 the Research Activities Committee of the University Forum for Human Resource Development,
 with a specific remit of mentoring ECRs and new/junior members of the Academy. Stewart and
 Lawless sat on the committee that awards the UFHRD Research Honorarium, which provides
 seed-funding for research projects being undertaken by ECRs. Wilson was shortlisted for the
 prestigious Innovation in Teaching of Research Methodology Excellence Award 2020, as part of
 the 19th European Conference on Research Methodology for Business and Management
 Studies, which was held in Aveiro, Portugal in June 2020.

 Non-academic: Bishop acted as a Community Engagement Specialist for the North West
 Regional Flood and Coastal Committee of the Environment Agency between 2014 and 2017.
 Bryde engaged with the wider non-academic community to raise awareness and capacity in
 project management, for example: Association of Project Management/ Pharmaceutical Industry
 Project Management Group (PIPMG) – 2019-2020; Constructing Excellent, Liverpool City
 Region – 2018; Pharmaceutical Contract Management Group (PCMG) – 2018; Partnerships in
 Clinical Trials (PCT) – 2017; Institute of Clinical Research (ICR) – 2016; Project Challenge –
 2016; Bio2Business – 2015; Association of Project Management – 2015. Bryde acted as a
 mentor and advisor to staff in a UK-based SME seeking to scale up their staff’s project
 management capabilities (2016-17). In 2015 he presented on aspects of sustainability to the
 Office of the Crown Prince Sheikh Nasser, Kuwait City, Kuwait in his capacity of Subject Matter
 Expert for Oliver Wyman, a global management consulting firm founded in New York City in
 1984. O’Brien acts as an academic advisor to Budget Traveller, a National Geographic readers’
 award-winning company and the Regulatory Council of Wineries, La Palma on aspects of
 entrepreneurship, such as business development and importing/exporting.

 3. Membership of peer review bodies, research committees and learned
 institutes/societies: Staff are active as members of peer review bodies, research committees
 and learned institutes in the UK and overseas. Akwei was the Research Committee Lead of the
 African Educational Research Network (AERN) Biennial Summit, Accra, Ghana, hosted by the
 University of Ghana-Legon in 2016. Bryde is a member of the Academic Research Review
 Group (ARRG) for the Association of Project Management (APM), which is responsible for
 quality assurance of submission for research funding and academic publications. In April 2020

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 he was appointed a judge for the APM’s 2020 Festival of Education and Research. He is a
 Member of the UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships (UKRI FLF)
 programme Peer Review College, 2018 – date. Bryde also reviews project management
 proposals submitted for research funding to the Croatian Science Foundation (HRZZ) and was a
 reviewer for the Austrian Science Fund (FWF) in 2015. Since 2019 Dubey has been a panel
 member of the Academy of Finland, evaluating applications for funding. Since 2017, Hannibal
 has been an Elected Council Member of the British Academy of Management and was Founding
 Chair of the BAM Operations, Logistics and Supply Chain Management Special Interest Group
 (until 2017). She was an Elected Board Member of the European Operations Management
 Association (EUROMA) 2014-2017. O’Brien acted as a Panel Judge for the 2015 National UK
 Awards of the Federation of Small Businesses. Stewart is President of the UFHRD and was
 Acting Chair/Executive Secretary from 2014-2018. He was a Member of the ESRC Peer Review
 College from 2014-2016 and since 2014 has been an Expert International Reviewer for the
 Russian Science Foundation. Tucker was an Elected Board Member and Research Chair of the
 European Facilities Management Network (EuroFM). Since 2013, he has been a Research
 Application Assessor for the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors Research Trust.

 4. National/international committee work [non-research]: The following are notable national
 and international committee work by staff in the unit. Dubey is a member of the Governing Body
 of the International Association of Innovation Professionals, US. Qu sat on the International
 Advisory Committee of Collaborative Conference on Territorial Sovereignty and Maritime Rights
 (2017). Stewart is the Co-Chair of the Examination Board of the Chartered Institute of Personal
 Development (CIPD) (since 2017) and Co-Chair of their Ethics Panel (since 2016). Until 2016
 he was also the Chief Examiner for Learning and Development. Since 2020, Tucker has sat on
 the Executive Doctorate in Business Administration Council (EDBAC) committee as an elected
 member.

 5. Visiting positions: Staff in the Unit hold visiting positions at various UK and overseas
 institutions. Bai is Visiting Scholar in the School of Resources and Environment, University of
 Jinan, Shandong, China (since 2017). In 2018 Bishop was a Visiting Research Fellow at the
 National University of Ireland, Galway and University College Dublin, Ireland. Dubey is Visiting
 Professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Jammu, India (since April 2020) and at Anhui
 University, Anhui Province, China. He was a Visiting Scholar at Charlton Business School,
 University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, US and DePaul University, Chicago, US in 2015. Fillis
 was Visiting Distinguished Thought Leader, of South Australia, 2018 and Distinguished Visitor,
 University of Tasmania, 2018. Grubic was a Visiting Researcher, Complex Systems Research
 Centre, Cranfield School of Management, Cranfield University up until 2019. Hannibal is an
 Honorary Senior Research Fellow at University of Liverpool School of Management. In 2014 was
 Visiting Professor for the Liikesivistysrahasto’s (LSR) Nyberg’s International Visitors’ Program at
 Aalto University, Helsinki, Finland. Papagiannis is a Visiting Professor at the University of
 Insubria, Varese, Italy. Nadal is Visiting Associate Professor at King Abdulaziz University, Saudi
 Arabia. Tucker was a Visiting Scholar at Georgia Institute of Technology (2014-16) and Texas
 A&M University (2017-18). Since 2014 Del Real is a Visiting Researcher at Euro-Mediterranean
 University Institute (EMUI)/Complutense University of Madrid and in 2014 was a Visiting
 Research Fellow at the Centre of Globalisation and Regionalisation, University of Warwick, UK.

 6. Invited lectures/keynotes: Notable invited lectures and keynotes delivered by staff in the Unit
 are: Akwei was a keynote speaker for the African Educational Research Network (AERN) Biennial
 Summit, at University of Ghana-Legon, Accra, Ghana in July 2018. Bryde delivered a keynote at
 SE16 Sustainability in Dubai, UAE in 2016 on “Delivering Sustainability in the Gulf Region: a meta-
 analysis of the drivers of change”. Dubey delivered a keynote speech at the 15th and the 16th
 Symposium of Production Engineering at Bauru, SP in Brazil in 2018 and 2019. Fillis was a
 keynote speaker at: the International Conference on Arts and Cultural Management Doctoral
 Symposium on 22nd June 2019 at Ca’ Foscari University of Venice. University of South Australia
 School of Management, July 2018; Tasmanian School of Business and Economics, October 2018;
 the University of South Australia School of Management Doctoral Symposium and the Academy
 of Marketing Symposium, 2019. Tassiello delivered a Keynote at Largo Consumo, Milan, Italy in

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2015 on Word of Mouth and Marketing. Tucker was an invited expert speaker at the Laing
 O’Rourke Centre for Construction Engineering at the University of Cambridge, UK. He was the
 keynote speaker at the 2017 Graduation Ceremony at the Institute for Facility Management, Zurich
 University of Applied Sciences, Switzerland.
 7. Research based awards, honours and prizes: Hannibal and Schiffling received the Chris
 Voss Highly Commended Paper Award at EurOMA Conference 2019 for a paper entitled ‘Swift
 trust – swifter distrust: Exploring coopetition in humanitarian supply chains’. Qu won the Best
 Paper Award for a paper titled “Measurement and Management of KPIs under Uncertainty: A
 Case of Shipping Management” at the International Conference on Quality, Reliability, Risk,
 Maintenance, and Safety Engineering (QR2MSE 2015), July 21-24, Beijing, China.

 8. Academic and industry collaboration [Inc. international and interdisciplinary]: Examples
 of academic and industry collaborations of staff are: Akwei works closely with external
 colleagues through the African Higher Education Centres of Excellence (ACE) Program,
 focusing on building research collaborations in relation to enhancing sustainability in the area of
 logistics on the African continent. Bryde has strong links with the APM and has undertaken
 three research projects funded by their annual Research Fund (2014, 2016 and 2019). He also
 works closely with the ICR and the PCMG to develop research-informed policy and practice for
 clinical trial project management. Between 2107-2020 Bryde acted as the Lead Coordinator,
 with LJMU as the Lead Partner, for a Marie Sklodowska Curie Research and Innovation Staff
 Exchange (RISE) Horizon 2020 Work Programme “Being Lean and Seen: meeting the
 challenges of delivering projects successfully in the 21st century” (€330,000). The four-year
 project involved a collaboration between the following academic institutions in UK, Germany and
 Malaysia: Liverpool Business School, University of Liverpool, Manchester Metropolitan
 University, University of Stuttgart, Konstanz University of Applied Sciences and Universiti Sains
 Malaysia. Furthermore, Qu is the lead for a management-related work package looking at
 operations risk management, as part of a €1.25m EU H2020 RISE/EC-Asia Research Network
 programme on “Integration of Global and Local Agri-Food Supply Chains Towards Sustainable
 Food Security” (GOLF), which involves collaborating with the following partners: Universities of
 Liverpool and Hull in the UK; Dallan Maritime and Zhejiang Universities, China; Wageningen
 University, Netherlands; Molde University College, Norway; Nong Lam University, Vietnam; and
 Thammasat University, Thailand. Tucker, as a previous winner of a Fulbright Scholar Award, is
 a member of the Fulbright Alumni and acts as a mentor for Fulbright Scholars undertaking
 international Fulbright projects between the UK and the US. He works closely with the
 International Facility Management Association (IFMA) and has acted as a guest speaker at
 luncheon events in Chicago and Atlanta, US. Through the Erasmus Programme, Del Real has
 ongoing collaborations with colleagues at: EM Strasbourg Business School, Switzerland;
 Universidade Europeia, Lisbon, Portugal; and Technology Arts Sciences TH Köln, Cologne,
 Germany.

 9. Examples of doctoral external examining: Staff are regularly invited to undertake external
 examining duties of doctoral candidates at institutions in the UK and overseas. Examples
 include Akwei Cardiff Met. Bryde Abu Dhabi University UAE, Bradford, British University of
 Dubai UAE, Loughborough, Man Met., University of Austin in Texas US, Birmingham, Liverpool,
 University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Salford. Douglas Salford, Herriot Watt, University of West
 of Scotland. Dubey Abu Dhabi University, UAE, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, India,
 Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, India, Liverpool, the University of Newcastle, Australia
 and the Ecole des Mines d’Albi-Carmaux, France. Fillis Liverpool, Birmingham, Technical
 University Dublin, Middlesex, De Montfort, Aberystwyth, Ulster and Brunel. Hannibal
 Loughborough, Huddersfield, Lancaster, Surrey, Liverpool. Kostopoulos Manchester Alliance.
 Lawless Manchester Alliance, Liverpool, Middlesex, Anglia Ruskin, Leeds Beckett,
 Gloucestershire, Leeds Beckett, Coventry, Northumbria. Shahgholian Salford. Stewart
 Edinburgh, Bath, Gloucester, Hull, Lancaster, Liverpool, University of Mauritius, Nottingham
 Trent, Portsmouth, Teesside, Waterford Institute of Technology, Ireland.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 10. Supporting collaboration and measures of success [visiting professorships, visiting
 research fellows]: The Unit has a number of visiting professors and visiting researchers, from
 overseas institutions that support the collaborative activities of the staff and provide specific
 knowledge and expertise to help the development of the research groups. These include
 Visiting Professors from the University of Tasmania, University of Applied Management Studies,
 Mannheim, Germany, VSB-Technical University of Ostrava, The Czech Republic and Muscat
 University, Oman; and Visiting Research Fellows from the University of Navarre, Spain,
 Universiti Sains Malaysia, Jimei University in China, University of Cagliari, Italy and Ankara
 Yildrum Beyazit University, Turkey.

 11. International networks [co-authorships]: Staff in the Unit have very strong international
 networks, as reflected in the number of journal papers co-authored with individuals from
 overseas. The countries include Australia, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, Greece,
 Italy, India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Tasmania, Thailand, Ukraine and
 USA. Data from SciVal shows a modest but steady increase in the number of publications
 including international collaborators in the last three years of the REF cycle: 47.9% (2017/18),
 49.3% (2018/19) and 50% (as at 31st July 2020).




                                                                                           Page 16
