Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Institute of Cancer Research (ICR)

 Unit of Assessment: UOA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Biological Sciences research at ICR focuses on the genetic and cellular mechanisms that
 underlie and drive cancer development and progression, and the response and resistance to
 cancer treatment.

 The research in this submission takes place in the Divisions of Cancer Biology, Structural
 Biology, Breast Cancer Research and the Centre for Evolution and Cancer (CEC) in the Division
 of Molecular Pathology. This grouping consists of 35 independent researchers and their
 associated research teams, totalling 222 staff on the REF census date including 98 postdoctoral
 researchers, 22 analytical scientists, 79 scientific officers/specialist technical staff and 58
 postgraduate research students/clinical research fellows.

 At the time of the REF 2014 submission we planned to:
      Expand programmes in cancer heterogeneity and evolution, since this has a major
         impact on treatment resistance and outcomes.
      Continue work into the causes and treatment response of breast cancers, with a
         renewed focus on advanced disease.
      Undertake structural analysis of molecules and molecular complexes relevant to
         cancer to provide insights into molecular mechanisms and guide therapeutic design.
      Increase understanding of cancer cell signalling pathways using new proteomic and
         imaging techniques for pathway and biological network analysis.
      Study alterations in cancer metabolism to provide new molecular diagnostic and
         therapeutic opportunities in collaboration with Imperial College London (Imperial) within
         the then newly established joint Centre for Systems Oncology and Cancer Innovation.

 We achieved much against these objectives whilst also going through a period of significant
 change and reinvestment (see also sections on People and Infrastructure below).

 In 2015, we conducted an organisation-wide consultation resulting in the ICR and our clinical
 partner, the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust (RM) publishing a new joint Research
 Strategy 2016–2021. Fundamental biological research predominantly sits in Pillar 1,
 Unravelling Cancer’s Complexity, but the delivery of our strategy also depends on extensive
 collaboration between researchers in UOA5 with the translational and clinical researchers
 returned to UOA1 and RM colleagues. The ICR’s appraisal and reward systems recognise those
 contributing to our collaborative and team science values.

 The consultation took place following several senior departures and the death of Professor Chris
 Marshall FRS. In our strategy we confirmed our intention to recruit world-leading cell, molecular
 and structural biologists and in addition to:
     Establish new strategic relationships with other academic organisations.
     Invest in cutting-edge microscopy.
     Expand knowledge of how cancer cells develop, and cope, with genome instability, and
        apply this understanding to identify new therapeutic targets and/or drugs.

 What we did:
 Professor Sir Mel Greaves FRS established the ICR’s CEC with funding from the Wellcome
 Trust (£2.15M) and investment by ICR. Successes to date include:
     Development of mathematical models/algorithms for predicting cancer clonal progression
         (Sottoriva).
     Development of deep learning tools for integrating spatial heterogeneity of tumour
         ecosystem and relating to prognosis (Yuan).
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Single cell genetics and clonal architecture/phylogeny in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia
        and acute myeloid leukaemia (Greaves).
       Aetiological drivers of clonal evolution in childhood leukaemia (Greaves).

 In the Breast Cancer Division, where multidisciplinary research spans from fundamental cell
 biology through to the identification of therapeutic targets and monitoring of therapeutic response
 leading (as described in UOA1) to innovative clinical trials, we:
      Identified BRCA1/2 hotspot mutations associated with the development of PARP
         inhibitor-resistant reversions (Pettitt, Lord).
      Demonstrated that ROS1 inhibitors are synthetically lethal in E-cadherin-deficient breast
         cancers (Lord).
      Elucidated a role for Wnt7a in the recruitment and activation of stromal fibroblasts to
         promote tumour aggressiveness (Isacke).
      Revealed that PIM1 kinase regulates cell death and chemotherapy response in triple-
         negative breast cancer (Meier, Tutt).
      Demonstrated the utility of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) sequencing to monitor the
         emergence of therapy resistant mutations (O'Leary).
      See also Strategy for Impact for examples of how these findings were translated.

 Professor Laurence Pearl FRS returned as Head of the Structural Biology Division and we
 invested over £4M, in addition to successful grant applications, to renew instrumentation to
 upgrade to cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM). Selected research highlights include:
      Crystal structures of the Brf2-TBP complex bound to natural promoters and
        demonstrating a Brf2 redox-sensing module capable of specifically regulating RNA
        polymerase III transcriptional output in cells (Vannini).
      Visualisation of transcription initiation by the RNA polymerase III complex and accessory
        molecules (Vannini).
      Elucidation of the structural basis of Cullin 2 RING E3 ligase regulation by the COP9
        signalosome (Morris).
      Revealing the molecular mechanism and function of filamentous polymerisation of the
        PARP enzyme tankyrase (Guettler).
      Elucidation of phosphorylation-dependent interactions in protein complexes controlling
        the G1 DNA damage checkpoint (Pearl).

 We recruited Professor Jonathon Pines FRS as the new Head of the Cancer Biology Division
 who has rebuilt the Division to have significant strength in genome damage research. We
 invested significantly in advanced light microscopy and proteomics facilities to support these
 activities and created a centre of excellence for Genome Stability Research (see People and
 Infrastructure sections). Our developing strength in the area of genomic instability is exemplified
 by our discoveries that the cohesin complex has an important role in repressing transcription at
 DNA breaks to prevent large scale chromosome rearrangements (Downs), and that the EXD2
 nuclease protects stalled replication forks and has a synthetic lethal relationship with BRCA
 deficiency that can be exploited (Niedzwiedz). Our investment in proteomics enables us to
 identify signatures for specific cancers, for example non-smoking related lung cancer
 (Choudhary). Our investment in cutting-edge microscopy combined with proteomics analysis
 revealed that Cyclin B1-Cdk1, the major regulator of mitosis, has an important role in
 maintaining genomic stability through binding and releasing the Spindle Assembly Checkpoint
 protein MAD1 from the nuclear envelope (Pines).

 We developed approaches to quantify the phenotype of single cells imaged in high-throughput
 which can be used during digital pathology to predict signalling activity in patients, and combined
 these approaches with mathematical modelling to understand how emergent behaviours such as
 cell cycle progression or size control are due to signalling dynamics (Bakal).

 We discovered that the PARK2 protein is altered in one third of all cancers and its loss activates
 the PI3K pathway through S-nitrosylation and ubiquitylation of PTEN. We further showed that
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activated PI3K signalling regulates arachidonic acid metabolism, uncovering a targetable
 metabolic vulnerability that largely depends on dietary fat restriction (Poulogiannis).

 Collaboration in the ICR/Imperial Centre for Systems Oncology and Cancer Innovation has
 continued successfully, and has led to Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Grand Challenge funding
 (£16M) for the Rosetta project (see Collaborations). Building on this experience of partnership
 working, ICR and Imperial established a joint Cancer Research Centre of Excellence (CRCE) as
 a vehicle for a broader strategic collaboration. Together we were awarded a CRUK Major Centre
 (£13M), in Convergence Science, to enable us to take a convergence approach to cancer
 research, harnessing the power of the engineering, physical and data sciences to transform
 understanding, detection, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cancer. We jointly recruited a
 Director for the Convergence Science Centre (Professor Axel Behrens) to take over from the
 founding Director Professor Paul Workman FRS.

 Research plans for the next period
 Tumour evolution and treatment resistance
 In November 2020, the CEC moved into the newly opened Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery to
 be co-located with the Cancer Therapeutics Unit to work jointly towards finding novel ways of
 overcoming or thwarting drug resistance. We will (1) continue to develop predictive algorithms
 for cancer evolutionary progression and model cancer clonal progression and drug resistance;
 (2) track emergence of drug resistance in patients through circulating tumour DNA; (3) develop
 artificial intelligence approaches to understanding cancer ecosystems through digital pathology;
 and (4) model (in mice) prevention of childhood leukaemia.

 The Breast Cancer Division will focus on therapy resistance to CDK4/6 inhibitors in estrogen
 receptor-positive (ER+) disease and sensitivity to CDK4/6 inhibitors in other breast cancer
 subtypes, and continue work in identifying therapeutic vulnerabilities in (1) lobular breast
 cancers; (2) PARP inhibitor resistance disease; (3) tumour-stroma crosstalk pathways; and (4) in
 DNA repair deficient and genomically unstable cancers, linking to the Centre of Genome Stability
 Research (see below) and translation into clinical trials.

 Convergence Science
 The initial focus of the convergence science research will be on developing technologies and
 methodologies that facilitate discovery research into fundamental principles of cancer biology,
 for example:
      Visualisation and characterisation of biological processes in longitudinal studies of
         cancer progression—including patient derived cancer organoid models—to track tumour
         heterogeneity and evolution.
      Understanding of the physical relationship between the tumour and its environment.
      Visualisation of therapies in vivo to understand mechanism of action, emergence of
         resistance and combination strategies.

 We are developing cross-cutting Centres to provide a platform for collaboration between
 investigators, both internal and external to ICR/RM, to address key areas of the scientific
 strategy, without changing our Divisional structure.

 Centre of Genome Stability Research (CGSR)
 The ICR is forming a CGSR to consolidate and enhance interactions between the ICR teams
 working on genome stability and DNA Damage Response (DDR). Research co-ordinated in the
 CGSR will exploit our understanding of genome stability deficiencies to identify novel targets,
 synthetic-lethal interactions and over-reliance on DDR pathways and other checkpoints that lead
 to selective effects on cancer cell viability. The CGSR builds on our track record in exploiting
 DNA repair vulnerabilities as a therapeutic approach (see Strategy for Impact).

 The Radiation Research Centre of Excellence (RRC)
 The ICR has been world leading in optimisation of radiotherapy regimes. Based on
 radiobiological studies, we challenged orthodox views on tumour and normal tissue radiation
                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 responses and re-defined optimal dose-fractionation regimens. We plan an intensive research
 programme studying the biology and immunology of the radiation response, capitalising on our
 involvement in the nationwide £56M CRUK Radiotherapy Network (RadNet), the emphasis in
 the CGSR on genome instability and DDR pathways and research in our newly formed Centre
 for Translational Immunotherapy, which aims to expand the crosstalk and collaboration
 between UOA1 and UOA5 clinicians and scientists at ICR and RM working on cancer
 immunology and immunotherapies.

 Strategy for impact
 Our highest priority is to achieve direct improvements for cancer patients through earlier
 diagnosis, more targeted and effective treatments, the reduction in side effects and enhanced
 quality of life. We aim for the most appropriate and effective exploitation and dissemination of
 our research to maximise speed to patient benefit; our approach to impact is driven by this
 philosophy. We participate in national policy development and work with cancer charities to
 support public awareness, political lobbying and fundraising. In pursuing our aims, we have
 considerable commercial impact in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors.

 To facilitate the translation of fundamental research discoveries we take whichever of the
 following approaches are necessary and most appropriate:
       Make the discovery widely available through open access publication rather than
         commercialisation.
       Develop our discoveries ourselves. The ICR has a strong culture of team working and
         is well-equipped to carry out drug discovery, translational research, experimental
         medicine and all phases of clinical trials to enable the swift translation of research for
         patient benefit and we work closely with the RM. Examples are:
              o The identification of synthetic lethality between E-cadherin deficiency and
                  inhibition of the tyrosine kinase ROS1 by crizotinib (Lord) led to a phase II clinical
                  trial (Turner, Okines (RM), (UOA1)) in E-cadherin negative lobular breast cancer.
              o The development of ctDNA molecular analysis in breast cancer (O'Leary)
                  evaluated in biomarker-led patient selection and efficacy endpoint clinical trials
                  led by the ICR CRUK Clinical Trials and Statistics Unit such as plasmaMATCH.
                  This has shown that ctDNA testing offers accurate, rapid genotyping that enables
                  the selection of mutation-directed therapies for patients with breast cancer, with
                  sufficient clinical validity for adoption into routine clinical practice (Bliss, Turner
                  (UOA1)).
       Accelerate the translational development of projects by supporting feasibility
         studies to establish the viability of an approach.
              o ICR researchers have access to Medical Research Council (MRC) Confidence in
                  Concept (CiC) funding and internal ICR Faringdon Fund awards, which provide
                  £50k-£100k for initial proof-of-concept studies.
       Partner early with industry to give access to increased resources, research tools and
         complementary skills.
       Set up commercial agreements that maximise ICR researchers’ freedom to operate and
         therefore ability to help multiple companies in the same field to increase the chances of
         success.
       Collaborate with biotechnology companies and the pharmaceutical industry to take
         research ideas through all phases of drug development and work with instrument
         manufacturers to develop the technologies for diagnostics and imaging.
              o Researchers in the Breast Cancer Division led ICR’s partnering with RM, King’s
                  College London (KCL) and biotech/pharma companies to co-develop the use of
                  PARP inhibitors in new combination therapies and indications.

 Relationship to UOA5 Impact Case Studies
 Non-exclusive licencing
     The AKT inhibitors impact case study is an example of issuing multiple licenses and in
        parallel pursuing an ICR-driven drug discovery programme to maximise the chances of

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        patient benefit. Six international pharmaceutical companies were licensed with reagents
        for their drug discovery programmes. The collaborative ICR and Astex Pharmaceuticals
        drug discovery research programme resulted in one lead series that was licensed to
        AstraZeneca who then selected capivasertib for clinical development. Capivasertib is
        now being evaluated in three phase III trials.
       Following the discovery that mutant BRAF is an oncogene, ICR and the Wellcome Trust
        Sanger Institute filed a BRAF patent. Twelve non-exclusive licences were granted
        leading to the development of multiple BRAF inhibitors, several of which now have global
        regulatory approval in multiple cancers as single agents and in combination with MEK
        inhibitors.

 Developing our discoveries ourselves, systematically taking the findings of discovery research
 through translational steps
 Biology researchers (Ashworth, Lord, Tutt, UOA5) expanded the understanding of BRCA
 function and provided evidence of sensitisation to PARP inhibition in BRCA-mutated cells. This
 idea was rapidly taken into phase I trials of olaparib (Tutt, de Bono (UOA1)). The ICR patented
 this discovery (Patent No: US8143241) and olaparib is now being used to treat ovarian, prostate,
 breast and pancreatic cancer patients across the world.

 Open research environment
 We support science being open, transparent and collaborative. The ICR is working towards
 compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data. We promote the principle through our
 Good Research Practice Guidelines (see below), through discussion, for example the topic of
 the 2020 ICR Postdoc Conference was “Open and collaborative science” and by providing public
 access to many of our unique tools and resources. Relevant examples include:
      Reversion mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 are associated with resistance to PARP
        inhibitors and platinum; we collated, codified, and analysed more than 300 reversions in
        a freely available database.
      Resources for the protein motif community: ProViz, PSSMSearch, SLiMSearch,
        SLiMPrints, switches.ELM and articles.ELM.

 Research integrity
 The ICR subscribes to, and is committed to upholding, the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. The ICR’s Good Research Practice Guidelines were developed and are promulgated
 to emphasise the importance of integrity and rigour in research carried out at, and in partnership
 with, the ICR, and to ensure that all researchers are aware of their obligations with respect to
 proper scientific conduct.

 A full review and update of the ICR Guidelines was carried out in 2017. Open discussion
 sessions were held on (1) publication and authorship; (2) robustness and reproducibility; and (3)
 openness, each led by a senior academic. All three sessions featured substantial research
 integrity content and their outcomes fed into the revision of the Guidelines. ICR’s Our Values
 were launched in Autumn 2018 and include “Acting with integrity”, our commitment to promote
 an open and honest environment that gives credit and acknowledges mistakes, so that our
 actions stand up to scrutiny.

 The ICR is committed to enhancing public understanding of the need for animals in cancer
 research and has signed the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research. In 2019, the ICR
 was named as a Leader in Openness by Understanding Animal Research, an independent
 organisation whose mission is to achieve a broad understanding of the humane use of animals
 in medical, veterinary, scientific and environmental research in the UK. Following the creation of
 regional Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB) Hubs by the Animals in Science
 Committee to share best practice, the ICR is a member of the AWERB South East Hub.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Team Leaders are recruited to support the aims of our research strategy; there is no fixed
 number of teams in our scientific divisions. Where we need to cement collaborative working we
 make joints appointments (Behrens, ICR/Imperial; Tutt, ICR/KCL). We also offer fractional
 contracts to grow expertise in particular areas (Brisken, Pearl).

 We maintain a healthy and sustainable demographic: in July 2020 our REF independent
 researchers fell into the following age bands: 26–40 (28.6%), 40–50 (28.6%), 50–60 (31.4%),
 >60 (11.4%).

 The ICR's research staff are recruited from throughout the world. Of those independent
 researchers returned to UOA5, and the postdoctoral scientists in their teams, 62.5% are non-UK
 representing 32 different nationalities.

 We have returned all staff with significant responsibility for independent research. Those
 involved in the review of outputs received training covering responsible use of citation analysis,
 unconscious bias in the assessment of research outputs, and other relevant equality issues.
 Choices of outputs for submission will not be used in relation to the assessment, career
 progression or promotion of individuals.

 Recruitment and career progression of Team Leaders
 Research excellence is the overriding criterion for academic recruitment.

 Over the period of assessment we recruited six tenure track Team Leaders and nine Team
 Leaders at the tenured, Reader or Professorial level.

 We have a bespoke pay policy which has enabled the recruitment of senior scientists from the
 UK and abroad and to attract the most promising early career researchers (ECRs). We also
 have a strong track record of successfully supporting the development of ECRs to grow into
 internationally recognised researchers.

 ECRs are appointed as ICR Fellows or as tenure-track Career Development Faculty (CDF). ICR
 Fellows are researchers with independent funding or an initial ICR-funded period to allow them
 to establish their research programmes and apply for fellowships and/or transition to CDF
 positions. CDFs are recruited on six-year contracts to lead their own teams, win grant funding
 and studentships and are reviewed at five years for transfer to a non-time-limited (NTL) Faculty
 contract.

 We provide all ECRs with support packages to enable them to “hit the ground running” and they
 have access to the Core Research Facility infrastructure (see below). ECRs gain supervisory
 and leadership skills through the EMBO Laboratory Leadership for Group Leaders course,
 Effective Research Degree Supervision, mentorship and peer-support through the CDF forum.
 The tenure success rate over the last seven years has been 70%.

 In 2015, the new Head of the Cancer Biology Division, Professor Jonathon Pines FRS,
 joined us from the Gurdon Institute at the University of Cambridge as the Chris Marshall Chair of
 Cell Biology. His research focuses on how the spindle assembly checkpoint controls the
 destruction of cell cycle regulators to ensure that the two daughter cells receive an equal and
 identical set of chromosomes when a cell divides; this equal segregation of chromosomes is
 essential to ensure cells remain genomically stable. Professor Jessica Downs, who joined in
 2016 from the Genome Damage and Stability Centre at the University of Sussex, studies the
 dynamic interplay between chromatin structure and genome stability, to understand how
 epigenetic disregulation promotes tumourigenesis. Two more teams joined in 2017. Professor
 Jyoti Choudhary moved from the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute to become Head of the
 Proteomics Core Research Facility and leads a team applying leading edge proteomics and
 proteogenomics technologies. Professor Wojciech Niedzwiedz, who was recruited from the
 University of Oxford’s MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, focuses on

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding how DNA replication and repair machineries function to help prevent
 tumourigenesis.

 Since 2018 we recruited a further five Team Leaders into this Division, all of whom are
 supported by personal fellowships. Dr Gideon Coster, recruited from the Francis Crick Institute
 (Crick), holds a Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship. His work investigates how difficult to
 replicate regions of the genome are copied accurately in healthy cells and how this goes wrong
 in cancer cells. Dr Norman Davey, recruited from University College Dublin, holds a CRUK
 Senior Cancer Research Fellowship and focuses on the role of short linear motifs within
 intrinsically disordered regions in directing protein-protein interactions in cell regulation. Dr Max
 Douglas, recruited from the Crick, holds a CRUK Career Development Fellowship, and focusses
 on the replication and processing of telomeres. Dr Christian Zierhut, recruited from the
 Rockefeller University, New York, also holds a CRUK Career Development Fellowship to study
 genome stability and innate immunity. Dr Jörg Mansfeld, recruited from the Technical
 University, Dresden, holds an ERC Starting Grant; he combines cell biological and biochemical
 approaches to reveal how the ubiquitin system controls cell cycle progression and exit into
 quiescence and differentiation.

 Professor Axel Behrens was recruited from the Crick to a joint appointment at ICR and
 Imperial as the Scientific Director of the CRUK Convergence Science Centre. His ICR-based
 research team uses multi-disciplinary approaches to study stem cell biology and the
 mechanisms underlying tumour cell heterogeneity.

 Investment into cryo-EM has facilitated the recruitment of three new Team Leaders to the
 Structural Biology Division. Dr Claudio Alfieri, recruited from the MRC Laboratory of
 Molecular Biology in Cambridge, holds a Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship to
 investigate the structure and function of the DREAM complex, which assembles at cell cycle
 gene promoters. Professor Vlad Pena, recruited from the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical
 Chemistry, Göttingen, and funded by the Wellcome Trust, studies the structural basis of pre-
 mRNA splicing and its mis-regulation in disease. Dr Basil Greber, recruited from the University
 of California, Berkeley, holds an MRC Career Development Fellowship and studies nucleotide
 excision repair.

 Dr Marco Bezzi joined the CEC from Harvard Medical School with the mission to leverage
 clinical data and build pre-clinical models for the identification of tumour evolutionary pathways
 that can be exploited for the improvement of patient care. He is generating a biobank of murine
 prostate cancer organoids with complex genetics that can be used to recreate heterogeneous
 tumours both ex vivo and in vivo.

 The Breast Cancer Division has supported the career development of Dr Ben O’ Leary through
 a PhD and into a National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Academic Clinical Lectureship
 where he focuses on the response and resistance to therapies in breast and head and neck
 cancers. Professor Cathrin Brisken was recruited from Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de
 Lausanne (EPFL) Switzerland, on a part-time contract to catalyse work in ER+ breast cancer,
 particularly in identifying and targeting mechanisms of resistance to hormonal therapy. Brisken's
 expertise in generating patient-derived pre-clinical models of treatment-resistant ER+ breast
 cancer delivers benefit across all the ICR and RM breast cancer research activities.

 During the assessment period Gerlinger, Guettler, Sottoriva, Vannini, Yuan were promoted from
 CDF to non-time limited (NTL) Faculty positions whilst others moved to more senior roles at
 other research organisations: Claus Jorgensen, CRUK Manchester Institute; Andrew Reynolds,
 Principal Medical Scientist at AstraZeneca; and Stephen Whittaker, Head of Oncology at Engitix
 Therapeutics.
 Senior researchers recruited to leadership positions elsewhere include: Alan Ashworth,
 President, Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Centre, University of California San
 Francisco; David Barford, Head of Structural Studies Division, MRC Laboratory of Molecular
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biology, Cambridge; Montse Garcia-Closas, Deputy Director, USA National Cancer Institute
 Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics; and Dale Wigley, Chair in Protein
 Crystallography, Imperial.

 Staff development
 The ICR has held the HR Excellence in Research award from the European Commission since
 2010 for our ongoing work in supporting researcher career development as defined by the
 Researcher Development Concordat. We have just successfully completed our 10 year review.

 The ICR provides a comprehensive framework to support the development of researchers at
 all levels including Team Leaders (see above), postdoctoral researchers, scientific officers,
 analytical scientists and students. Training is provided through a portfolio of courses supporting
 academic and personal development, including scientific techniques, statistics and
 bioinformatics training, presentation skills, project management and research methodology; it is
 delivered in various formats including e-learning and webinars to maximise accessibility. We
 have a research entrepreneurship and industry engagement programme to support our strategy
 for impact.

 We have a particular focus on supporting transition from PhD to postdoctoral researcher
 and postdoctoral researcher to independent researcher. An innovative residential
 programme, “The Pathway to Independence; Developing Future Scientific Leaders”, was
 initiated by the ICR and developed in collaboration with the Biotechnology and Biological
 Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute. The programme
 supports outstanding postdoctoral researchers at the point in their career when they are seeking
 their first independent research position. ICR attendees that now have independent positions
 are: Ahmet Acar (Team Leader, Middle East Technical University, Turkey); Alessandro Annibaldi
 (Team Leader, University of Cologne, Germany); Alexis Barr (Group Leader, MRC London
 Institute of Medical Sciences at Imperial); Katiuscia Bianchi (Senior Lecturer, Barts); Jerome
 Gouge (Sir Henry Dale Fellow, Birkbeck); Ute Jungwirth (Lecturer, University of Bath); Barrie
 Peck (Group Leader, Barts); Amine Sadok (Biology Director, Monte Rosa Therapeutics); and
 Chris Tape (Group Leader, UCL Cancer Centre).

 We surveyed our postdoctoral researchers who left ICR between 2009 and 2018: 93% of these
 alumni are in science or education-related roles with over 15% achieving independent academic
 roles.

 Research students
 We aim to create the biology research workforce of tomorrow: computationally literate, driven to
 create patient benefit, and skilled to work in a team science environment. Over the REF period,
 62 research students were awarded their research doctorate degree within UOA5. The ICR PhD
 programme offers studentships from CRUK, MRC and BBSRC (including four iCASE awards
 with industry over the assessment period), the Wellcome Trust, NIHR, EU training networks and
 other cancer charities as well as three studentships a year from the ICR itself. The ICR has
 taken the strategic decision to fund all science students for four years to allow sufficient time to
 complete high-quality research projects and skills training, and to match stipends to those
 awarded by major cancer charities to ensure we attract the brightest applicants. The ICR
 therefore supplements external awards where necessary. The ICR won funding for a Clinical
 PhD Programme in Cancer Research from the Wellcome Trust (2017, five intake years) and a
 joint CRUK Clinical Academic Training Programme with Imperial (2019, five intake years) which
 includes funding not only for clinical training fellowships but also an intercalated MBPhD
 programme.

 The ICR has a centralised two-day recruitment event, which involves the selection of students by
 supervisors and of supervisors by students (seeking an optimal match for both).

 The Academic Dean’s Team, under the leadership of the Dean of Academic and Research
 Affairs (Professor Clare Isacke), together with the ICR Registry, is responsible for the
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management of all education and training activities and ensuring that all students receive
 appropriate supervision, have adequate resources at their disposal and keeping a regular check
 on student welfare. All ICR supervisors undertake training in Effective Research Degree
 Supervision and attend refresher training every five years. Student progression is tracked via a
 bespoke iProgress platform. After their first year, PhD students submit transfer reports detailing
 their progress and outlining future plans. At the viva, an internal assessor, who is independent of
 the project, provides feedback on work achieved so far and plans for the future, and evaluates
 training needs. All students submit a report after 2.5 years highlighting progress and project
 risks, which is also independently assessed internally.
 Research students, who come from a wide variety of subject and educational backgrounds, are
 provided with two e-learning resources to develop the knowledge and skills that are necessary to
 excel in cancer research. “Perspectives in Oncology” is a modular e-learning website providing a
 basic grounding in cancer epidemiology, cancer genetics, cell biology, bioinformatics, medical
 physics, structural biology, cancer treatment and drug development. “Skills” is a blog-style
 resource giving advice in transferable skills at appropriate times throughout the four years.

 All students participate in mandatory Research Integrity training, which examines the issues and
 practicalities involved in ensuring their research meets the highest ethical standards.

 In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) 2019, Advance HE’s sector-wide
 survey, the overall satisfaction rate of ICR students was at an all-time high of 92%, compared to
 87–88% in surveys from 2013 onwards. This was top nationally (out of 103) for satisfaction in
 research degree experience and research culture. The ICR also performed well in other
 categories including professional development, research skills, supervision and resources. The
 ICR uses the survey results to work with our Student Committee to continue to enhance the
 learning experience and student support at the ICR.

 An ICR key performance indicator for non-clinical PhD students is thesis submission within four
 years and our submission rates are consistently >90%: of those who submitted in 2017/18 100%
 submitted within four years, in 2018/19 this figure was 97.3% and it was 93.0% in 2019/20.

 A specific focus over the period has been on the design and delivery of a Succeeding in
 Academia programme, aiming to support the transition from student to postdoctoral researcher.
 It is delivered by ICR Team Leaders and includes development of leadership skills and advice
 on funding applications and panel interviews.
 ICR student alumni can access career support for up to three years after graduating, and we
 hold regular career development workshops and events as well as alumni networking events, to
 maintain engagement of the community with ICR. Over the REF period, 88% of non-clinical
 students moved into science-based roles in academia or industry as a first destination post-
 graduation.

 Although the majority of clinical academic trainees are associated with UOA1, some opt to
 undertake their research in the UOA5 biology labs. We have a strong development programme
 for clinical researchers, which is significantly shaped by their input. Activities include:
      The Clinical Academic Forum—a network for ICR/RM clinical academics of all career
          stages promoting discussion on current challenges and career ambitions.
      Mentoring from senior clinical academics to support the transitions between clinical
          training and research.
      Bridge funding to help make the transition from research degree to clinician scientist.
      Post PhD, the ICR/RM lead the competitive residential programme: “Pathway to
          Independence: clinical academics in cancer research”. This biennial programme provides
          intensive coaching to prepare for academic independence and applications for clinician
          scientist awards. It has been attended by 52 participants nationally since its launch in
          2016. 50% of all 2016 participants now hold clinician scientist fellowships, clinical
          lectureships or principal investigator awards.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A 2018 survey of ICR clinical alumni (PhD and MD(Res)) who completed their studies between
 1983 and 2017 showed that 98% of clinicians who studied at the ICR were research active in
 their first role following speciality training with 38% of PhD respondents involved in laboratory-
 based biomedical research in their current roles.

 Equality and diversity
 We committed to an “open, equal and collaborative culture” as part of our 2016–2021
 research strategy, in recognition that equality and diversity of staff and students is integral to
 our research success. The ICR Equality Steering Group has oversight of all ICR equality
 programmes and ensures that they are integrated, and aligned with the ICR’s other strategies
 and programmes.
 The ICR renewed its Athena Swan Charter Silver Award in 2019; we apply as a Research
 Institute and do not hold separate departmental-level awards.
 We have three equality networks, all run in collaboration with the RM: The BAME Forum, The
 LGBT+ Network and the Network for staff and students with disabilities and health conditions.
 These groups work with the ICR and RM to develop a welcoming and inclusive culture for all.

 In a new initiative, the “BAME: Beyond the Statements” Project Board, in addition to its work
 on culture, seeks to address the under-representation of Black, Asian and minority ethnic staff
 in leadership roles and in research careers at the ICR.

 Our activities in equality and diversity focus on three core objectives:
 (1) Increasing the diversity of the student cohort
 Analysis of three years of ICR student recruitment data indicates that BAME candidates are
 less likely to be shortlisted than white candidates. The steps we are taking to address this
 include:
      Reviewing our guidance for applicants to ensure it is inclusive and clear what our
         supervisors are looking for.
      Reviewing our application form to focus on competencies statements and developing
         guidance for supervisors about student selection based on these competencies.
      Selection by the postgraduate tutors of additional applicants for interview from
         undergraduate Higher Education institutions underrepresented in the shortlisted pool.
      In our recruitment and promotional materials showcasing the diversity of the ICR and our
         partners.
      In 2020, we appointed Dr Yinyin Yuan as the Ethnic Diversity and Equality Champion on
         our Academic Dean’s team, providing oversight of the ICR-wide equality agendas to the
         Dean’s team and educational committees and acting as a point of contact for students
         about equality, diversity and inclusion issues.

 (2) Team Leader recruitment and promotion
 We monitor equality data and know we need to increase the number of female Team Leader
 applicants:
      We are applying a more proactive search to ensure diverse shortlists of candidates.
      We take career breaks/other circumstances into account in recruitment and promotion.
        For example, we support our female Team Leaders through the Women in Science
        Network, mentoring, and “stopping the tenure clock” for those who take career breaks.
      We provide maternity cover funding for Team Leaders. Dr Rachael Natrajan was the first
        to benefit from this scheme using the funding to recruit an individual to oversee her team
        and keep her research progressing which enabled work for two publications to be
        completed.
      We ensure that in all promotion and recruitment forms we provide the opportunity for
        applicants to declare any circumstances that may have affected productivity.
      We launched a new senior leadership development programme, which focuses on
        building and leading in a positive research culture to deliver ICR values.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Equality training and guidance
      All staff and students attend mandatory equality and supportive workplace training,
        covering bullying and harassment, equality and diversity and active bystander training.
        We completely revised the ICR’s equality training to include an annual refresher and
        emphasis on addressing issues through practical case studies.
      In 2018, we significantly revised our policy on bullying and harassment, commissioned a
        new independent hotline service to allow staff and students to raise issues in confidence,
        and introduced Wellbeing Advisors.
      Recruitment training, including addressing implicit biases, is mandatory for recruiting
        managers and all those participating in the student recruitment process.
      New policies and major revisions are subject to an Equality Impact Assessment.
      We offer all students and staff support mechanisms: employee welfare support,
        Wellbeing Advisors, maternity coaching, grants covering costs of childcare at
        conferences and training courses (including online conferences) and parent
        groups/support schemes.
      The “Women in Science Network” supports women to reach their potential and to help
        address the inequality in the number of women in the most senior research leadership
        roles. Topics explored include supporting high-performance teams, influencing skills,
        personal brand, leadership, and mentoring.
      We introduced training to equip us to hold conversations about race.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 UOA5 received £120.0M of research income over the REF period (£17.1M mean average p.a.),
 including £97.8M from UK-based charities, £5.9M from Research Councils, £6.6M from UK
 government and health research funding bodies, £3.2M from UK industry and other UK sources,
 £4.5M from EU sources and £2.1M from non-EU sources.

 Research in this UOA is underpinned by peer-reviewed external grant funding including:
     Breast Cancer Now (BCN), which accounts for £48.9M of the UOA’s income over the
       REF period, including the BCN Research Centre, project grant funding and a fellowship
       (Natrajan). After a successful review of the BCN Research Centre’s achievements and
       future strategy, funding was renewed in 2015 for five years and again for the period 2020
       to 2025.
     Cancer Research UK, which accounts for £30.4M and is derived from project grants and
       programmatic awards including: fellowships (see also People section); multiple
       Programme Grants (Downs, Greaves, Lord, Meier, Morris, Niedzwiedz, Pearl, Pines);
       one Grand Challenges Award (Poulogiannis); three CRUK Programme Foundation
       Awards (Bakal, Guettler, Vannini); two Career Establishment Awards (Sottoriva, Yuan);
       one Clinician Scientist Fellowship (Gerlinger); and collaborative Accelerator Awards with
       Fondazione Centre San Raffaele (Sottoriva) and with Imperial (Bakal).
     Wellcome Trust income of £12.6M, derived from multiple Investigator Awards (including
       Guettler, Pines, Sottoriva, Vannini), fellowships (see also People section) and a £2.1M
       award supporting the ICR’s CEC.
     Research Council funding including multiple MRC and BBSRC project grants, fellowships
       (see also People section), MRC CiC awards and one BBSRC Discovery Fellowship
       (Martin).
     European Commission funding including one ERC Consolidator Grant (Gerlinger) and
       ICR involvement in Innovative Training Networks.
     Project grants from funders including NIHR, Blood Cancer UK, the Lister Institute of
       Preventive Medicine, Sarcoma UK and Worldwide Cancer Research.

 Major infrastructure funding underpins out programmatic and project funded research:


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The ICR CRUK Centre award (£16M) supports technical and research posts that are
        crucial to the management and operation of our microscopy, proteomic, sequencing and
        flow cytometry facilities and bioinformatics core support.
       The NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) at the RM and ICR provides
        infrastructure for translational and experimental medicine research and is critical to
        enabling the impact of our biological sciences research to be realised. Substantial
        research income in-kind has been received from the NIHR over the review period
        including £72.4M associated with the NIHR BRC at the RM.
       The CRUK Convergence Science Centre (£13M) provides infrastructure posts,
        equipment and facilities available free to Centre-funded researchers and at cost or
        reduced cost to other ICR users.
       The Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery building (UK Research Partnership Investment
        Fund £30M, total cost £70M) has enabled the CEC to move to be co-located with the
        Cancer Therapeutics Unit. The new 7,325m2 of multidisciplinary research space houses
        cancer biologists, medicinal chemists, pharmacologists, clinicians, data scientists and
        evolutionary scientists.

 Infrastructure and Research Facilities
 There has been a major change since REF 2014 in consolidating and providing high-quality
 facilities and technical support for key resources including the formation of a Core Research
 Facilities unit, overseen by a Head of CRFs, operating across both sites to improve co-ordination
 and strategic decision-making.

 Over the period, ICR has invested over £10M in addition to grant funding from the CRUK Centre
 Core Grant and Major Centre grants in microscopy, proteomics, metabolomics, structural
 biology, genomics and bioinformatics.

 Core Research Facilities
     The Light Microscopy Cores (2.5 FTE) can analyse fixed and living cells at high spatial
       and temporal resolution using deconvolution wide-field fluorescence microscopy, total
       internal reflection microscopy, confocal laser-scanning microscopy, spinning disk
       confocal microscopy, and single plane light sheet microscopy. We were one of the first
       research organisations in the UK to acquire a lattice light sheet microscope.
     Through the Flow Cytometry and FACS Cores, researchers can access a range of flow
       cytometers/sorters, including two Becton Dickinson Symphony A3 flow cytometers and a
       Beckman Coulter MoFlo that can all measure up to 28 colours (seven lasers), and our
       expert team (2.5 FTE) provides help and support with experimental design and set-up.
     The Proteomics Core (3.5 FTE) offers three Orbitrap Fusion Lumos and one Fusion
       mass spectrometer and specialist experimental and data analysis expertise with strategic
       direction provided by an academic lead (Choudhary). This instrumentation enables both
       large-scale quantitative analysis of mixtures measuring 10,000 proteins and post-
       translational modifications per sample, and targeted analyses of cross-linked residues to
       map protein and macro-molecular structures. The Core supports projects from
       experimental design through to bespoke bioinformatics analysis of results. Recent
       projects included whole-proteome analysis to study the impact of mutations on cellular
       processes, proteomic post-translational profiling to monitor dynamic remodelling of
       tumours, and large-scale identification of protein-protein interactions.
     The Genomics Core Facility (formerly the Tumour Profiling Unit) provides access to
       state-of-the-art sequencing technologies and expertise in the molecular characterisation
       of tumours. Staff at the Core (6.8 FTE) apply a range of cutting-edge techniques to
       genomic, transcriptomic and epigenomic analyses. Through a partnership with Illumina,
       the ICR was the first academic centre in the UK to provide researchers with access to the
       NovaSeqTM 6000.
     The Core Bioinformatics Facility provides bioinformatics and software development
       support to our research projects (4 FTE). The Core helps prepare preliminary data for
       grant applications and has supported over 75 funded projects.

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Laboratory Support Services provide first line support to scientists including the
        collection of dirty glassware, wash up and sterilisation, biohazard waste collection,
        sterilisation and disposal, specialist sterilisation, pure water supply and media
        preparations.

 The Structural Biology Division manages research facilities for protein production, X-ray
 crystallography and electron microscopy. The ICR is part of the London Consortium for cryo-EM,
 with Imperial, KCL and Queen Mary University of London, which in 2017 was awarded Wellcome
 Trust funding for a Titan Krios cryo-electron microscope equipped with a Gatan K3 direct
 electron detector, housed at the Crick. The ICR has a 30% share of the total experiment time of
 this microscope, which has been operational since the end of 2019. We upgraded our in-house
 cryo-EM capability, with the delivery in 2020 of a new Glacios cryo-electron microscope
 dedicated to efficient cryo-EM sample screening and data collection. The instrument streamlines
 the cryo-EM workflow and vastly expands our in-house data collection capabilities enabling us to
 use experiment time at the Titan Krios most effectively.

 Major benefits in-kind
 The Structural Biology Division is awarded data collection time for macromolecular
 crystallography and small-angle X-ray scattering experiments at the Diamond Light Source in
 Didcot, UK, and the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France. In
 total, UOA5 researchers received access time worth £1.02M from Diamond and ESRF. These
 facilities provide X-ray beam lines specific for the investigation of macromolecular complexes
 and electron microscopy data collection time at the Electron Bio-Imaging Centre (eBIC) at the
 Diamond Light Source, equipped with four Titan Krios microscopes. During the review period,
 ICR researchers were awarded a total of 2,673 hours and additional access time to the
 synchrotron and a total of 696 hours of cryo-EM time.

 The RM/ICR BRC Generic Biobank, is a stand‑alone, ethically approved sample resource
 which includes plasma collected for ctDNA analysis. It has been pivotal to the delivery of a
 number of key national programmes, e.g. 100,000 Genomes Project, and is available to
 researchers for both discovery and translational studies.

 CRUK Convergence Science Centre Facilities
 The CRUK Convergence Science Centre supports infrastructure capabilities to address
 bottlenecks and facilitate translational research.

 An Organoid Culture and Biobank Facility for the advancement of patient-derived organoid
 cancer models and associated technology and the dissemination of organoid lines and novel
 techniques (2 FTE). Initial projects are improving the derivation rates of tumour types and
 subtypes that are not amenable to organoid growth under standard conditions. It will also focus
 on developing methods to increase the complexity of cancer organoid models, for example
 through co-culturing with immune cells. The facility will standardise new derivation methods and
 disseminate these to ICR and Imperial cancer research groups.

 A microfabrication and prototyping facility for the rapid production of microscale devices for
 pre-clinical in vitro studies. The Centre purchased an SU8 system for the mask-free production
 of polydimethylsiloxane multilayer devices at 2-micron resolution. Supported by a 1 FTE
 dedicated technician, the Imperial-based facility has access to a clean room and a range of
 equipment for the development of bespoke devices such as microfluidics, biosensors,
 electrochemical sensors and microneedles. The facility is linked with a larger clean room
 capability for the manufacture of medical devices, which includes 3D printing, laser cutting and
 electronics.

 A CODEX system with a dedicated technician for multiplex immunohistochemistry to support the
 development of machine learning and AI methods in digital pathology. The Centre also has


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to a Hyperion CyTOF mass cytometry imaging facility at the UK Dementia Research
 Institute at Imperial.

 The Centre supports a Perkin Elmer Muvicyte microscope allowing automated live cell imaging.
 This links with the CRUK Accelerator Award focused on developing advanced 3D culture
 imaging systems (see Collaborations). The Centre also supports an EVOS M7000 imaging
 system allowing automated multi-well imaging of cancer organoid cultures, which will be utilised
 by the Organoid Culture and Biobank Facility.

 Other operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Over the REF period, the ICR has invested in its High Performance Computing (HPC) and
 Research Data Storage (RDS) services, including the recent completion of a full infrastructure
 refresh (£500k capital investment for HPC, £3M for RDS). This recognises the increased
 demand for Machine Learning infrastructure, supports new research capabilities in areas such
 as cryo-EM and provides a new hybrid on premise/cloud capability as part of the ICR’s
 “Unlimited Computing” strategy. Ongoing investment is being made in a programme to further
 improve the ICR's research data management capability including new Peta-scale storage
 platforms, new software infrastructure, and specialist staff to support researchers with their data
 challenges.

 The ICR Library provides access to over 12,500 journals, with the majority online and the
 remainder through inter-library loan and publisher downloads. It also provides access to
 information, guidance on research data management and expertise to assist and train users in
 making use of the most suitable information available. The Academic Systems team manage the
 ICR's publication management system, Symplectic, which maintains a record of ICR authored
 publications, and the ICR's outputs repository, which provides free public open access to a
 range of ICR-authored outputs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 We recognise we cannot achieve our research ambitions in isolation. The ICR and RM
 relationship is a crucial ingredient in our ability to conduct research for patient benefit and to
 have the capacity and capability to deliver on our research strategy. During the REF period we
 reviewed the ways in which we work together and signed a new Joint Working Arrangement.

 We revised our Honorary Faculty appointment process through which RM staff have a
 formal academic affiliation with the ICR. Full Honorary Faculty status is equivalent to ICR NTL
 Faculty. In 2015, we introduced a new level of appointment, Associate Honorary Faculty, to
 better support those at the early stages of developing their research.

 We established:
    Joint Research Operational, Strategy and Executive Groups and a RM/ICR BRC
       Steering Committee to award project funding, and systematically review progress
       towards aims.
    BRC Theme Working Groups, combining basic, translational and clinical researchers to
       facilitate new internal (RM/ICR) and external collaborations. Each reports into the BRC
       Steering Committee and is supported by a senior operational manager.

 We signed two institutional-level strategic partnerships: with Imperial and the Crick. The ICR-
 Imperial Centre for Cancer Research Excellence provides a platform for collaboration across
 a range of areas including the £13M CRUK Convergence Science Centre. The formal
 partnership with the Crick enables ICR to appoint Crick Team Leaders as Honorary Faculty to
 support collaborative research and Crick Team Leaders to supervise research degree students
 registered at ICR.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Under the leadership of Professor Andrew Tutt, the BCN Research Centre brings together
 scientists and clinicians to focus on breast cancer biology, diagnosis and treatment. Professor
 Tutt also leads the BCN Unit at KCL creating a “BCN London” research programme with the
 BRCs at Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust (GSTT) and KCL.

 The CRUK Accelerator Award Scheme launched in 2015 to enable a collaborative approach
 to develop tools and resources to unlock new research into unanswered questions in cancer
 research. To date 21 projects received awards up to £5M, and the ICR is involved in 10.
 Researchers in UOA5 are involved in:
      The Crick-led Accelerator funding Clinical Research Training Fellows.
      The UCL-led Accelerator catalysing progress in cancer immunotherapy network.
      The Leicester-led project to accelerate drug discovery through a networked structural
        biology resource.
      The Milan-led Accelerator in single-cell cancer evolution in the clinic.
      The Imperial-led project to accelerate the ability to understand and target complexity and
        heterogeneity in cancer through automated imaging of 3D cancer.

 An ICR team is part of a winning consortium that won one of the first CRUK Grand Challenges.
 The collaborators, from the National Physics Laboratory, Imperial, AstraZeneca, Barts and the
 University of Cambridge, ICR (Poulogiannis), the Crick, and the CRUK Beatson Institute,
 received £16M for a project to use a variety of new mass spectrometry imaging techniques and
 instruments to study individual breast, bowel and pancreatic tumours.

 UOA5 staff are part of the Arizona Cancer Evolution Center, a US-UK collaboration supported
 through US federal government awards and aimed at understanding the fundamental nature of
 cancer by using evolutionary and ecological models. Other major consortia supported by US
 funding focus on the somatic evolution in breast cancer with American partners (Yuan) as well
 as on the creation of reference gene annotation for the human and mouse genomes with
 collaborators in Spain and the US (Choudhary). UOA5 researchers are also involved in
 international training networks funded by the European Commission with partners all over
 Europe (Germany, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Italy,
 Netherlands, Norway and Poland) that aim to tackle the challenges in cancer research in
 addition to fostering new skills in students (Davey, Guettler, Yuan).

 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 To achieve its scientific and strategic ambitions, the ICR seeks to influence the key decisions
 that shape the funding and regulatory environment. We reconfigured our Communications
 Directorate to include a greater emphasis on policy and are using our Research England
 Strategic Priorities Funding to offer research students and staff opportunities for secondments to
 policy organisations. We communicate with politicians, senior policy makers and funders, to
 encourage an environment that supports the translation of discoveries for patient benefit.
 “Search” is the ICR's supporter magazine and features news about research and fundraising
 achievements.

 We promote and increase our interactions with the business community to ensure that our
 research discoveries are developed in the timeliest manner. We showcase research partnership
 opportunities for commercial partners at meetings, events and conferences and via the
 Connections e-newsletter. Our first joint “Science Day” with AstraZeneca was held in November
 2019 and featured over 20 presentations from researchers from the ICR, RM and the company
 and brought together more than 100 delegates.

 Wider contributions to economy and society
 This UOA grouping has an outstanding track record in delivering against its mission and
 translating scientific discoveries into new therapeutic approaches, often through collaboration
 with industry partners (see Impact Case Studies). Other current collaborations with industry
 include working with Intelligent Imaging Innovations to develop pioneering technology in lattice

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 light sheet microscopy and Ocello, a biotechnology company, on patient derived tumour
 organoid cultures.

 We work with industrial partners in the training of PhD students to develop a future workforce
 that can translate science for the benefit of patients and society through iCASE studentships.
 The ICR’s MRC iCASE programme has had students working on projects in double strand break
 DNA repair and tankyrase regulation. The in-kind contributions are estimated to be over £200k
 and provide experienced members of industry research staff to co-supervise students, taught
 training courses in drug discovery and access to specialist industrial equipment, appropriate
 unpublished datasets, facilities and expertise.

 The new Centre for Cancer Drug Discovery forms the cornerstone of plans for a London
 Cancer Hub. The ICR and the London Borough of Sutton are working in partnership to create a
 global centre for cancer innovation; the Hub can potentially accommodate up to 100,000m2 of
 new space for private enterprises to share the Sutton site and could ultimately create 13,000
 jobs and contribute £1.2B to the UK economy annually. A high-quality incubator space for life-
 science companies, Innovation Gateway, will open in late 2021.

 Engaging with diverse community
 Through our public engagement work, we aim to encourage young people into science and
 establish lasting relationships with local communities. We work with partner organisations to
 increase the impact of our engagement work. Over the last three years, we conducted nearly
 200 public engagement activities, involving an average of around 150 staff members and
 students each year. Over 10% of our organisation is involved with public engagement annually.

 To drive longer-term change the ICR’s public engagement strategy includes activities aimed at
 groups currently under-represented in research (BAME and those from disadvantaged socio-
 economic backgrounds). We recognise that diversity in research is key to excellence, and
 actively encourage a more diverse and inclusive research workforce. We will focus our
 engagement work on promoting science careers within this group, working with local schools
 who have a high intake of students from low socio-economic backgrounds.

 The ICR collaborates with the London Borough of Sutton on a programme of local engagement,
 and is supporting a new Cultural Impact Award. In 2018, we worked with Sutton Central Library
 to create an exhibition of scientific images from the ICR and RM. We worked with the Science
 Museum to develop content and source exhibits for its new £24M Medicine Galleries and are
 working with them on a future exhibit “Living with Cancer” scheduled to open in October 2021.
 We worked with Understanding Animal Research to offer training on engaging with the public
 about animal research, and created guidance, FAQs and a fact sheet.

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, interdisciplinary research, and
 responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 Our researchers regularly participate in site visit assessments of other organisation and provide
 expertise for advisory board and conference organisation committees: UKRI Physics of Life
 External Programme Advisory Board (Bakal); British Society for Cell Biology Committee (Bakal);
 International Breast Cancer Study Group (IBCSG) Biological Protocol Working Group (Brisken);
 ELIXIR, Intrinsically Disordered Proteins, Community Lead (Davey); Human Proteome
 Organisation (HUPO) Proteomics Standards Initiative, Intrinsically Disordered Proteins Working
 Group (Davey); AZ-CRUK Functional Genomics Centre Triage Panel, Milner Institute (Downs);
 European Association for Cancer Research (EACR), Conference Committee (Downs); Institut
 Cochin, Paris, Review Panel 2018–2019 (Downs); EACR, Executive Committee (Isacke);
 American Association of Cancer Research (AACR), Annual Meeting Scientific Program
 Committee (Isacke); Academy of Finland, Cancer Research Panel, Chair (Isacke); Wallenberg
 Centre for Molecular Translational Medicine, Gothenburg, Sweden, Scientific Advisory Board,
 Member, 2015–2020 (Isacke); CRUK Manchester Institute, Scientific Advisory Board (Isacke);
 Oncode Institute, International Advisory Board (Isacke); NCRI Breast Cancer Clinical Studies
 Group (Lord); Chair of Gordon Conference on Cell Death (Meier); 2019 AACR Annual Meeting
                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Program Committee, Chairperson of the Metabolism and Cancer Section for the AACR Annual
 Meeting (Poulogiannis); Oxford Early Breast Cancer Trialists Collaborative Steering Group
 (Tutt); and St Gallen Early Breast Cancer International Consensus Panel (Tutt).
 Researchers on editorial boards include: Molecular and Cellular Proteomics (Choudhary); NAR
 Genomics and Bioinformatics (Davey); DNA Repair (Downs); Trends in Cancer (Gerlinger);
 Journal of Cell Science (Isacke); PloS Biology (Meier); Cell Death and Differentiation (Meier);
 Journal of Pathology (Natrajan); Molecular Oncology (Lord); EMBO, EMBO reports, PLoS
 Biology, eLife, Cell Biology and Editor-in-Chief for Open Biology (Pines).

 More widely, we train and support the career development of researchers that take on
 leadership positions elsewhere in the UK and abroad (see People section).
 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 We provide significant contributions to funding panels such as:
 CRUK (Downs, Clinical Career Committee; Tutt, Clinical Research Committee and Experimental
 Medicine Expert Review; Gerlinger, Tutt, Multidisciplinary Expert Review Panel; Lord, New
 Investigators Committee; Bakal, Pioneer Award Committee; Isacke, New Investigators
 Committee and Discovery Research Committee); Wellcome Trust (Pines, Chair Molecular Basis
 of Cell Function Expert Review Group; Choudhary, Multi-User Equipment Committee); European
 Molecular Biology Organisation (EMBO) (Alfieri, Short Term Fellowships Advisory Board); and
 BCN (Lord, Natrajan, Project Grant Committee).

 UOA5 researchers winning significant prizes and markers of esteem:
    Fellows of the Royal Society (FRS): Greaves, Pearl, Pines.
    Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci): Greaves, Isacke, Pearl, Pines,
       Tutt.
    Elected members of EMBO: Behrens, Meier, Isacke, Greaves, Pines, Pearl.

 In 2019, Pines was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award from SciGenom Research
 Foundation in recognition of his pioneering contributions in the field of cell cycle research. Other
 awards include: CRUK Future Leaders in Cancer Research Prize 2015 (Bakal) and 2016
 (Sottoriva); Addari Award for contribution to the field of BRCA1 and BRCA2 therapeutic
 discovery and patient care 2015 (Tutt); Merrimack Pharmaceuticals Prize in Systems Biology
 2015 (Bakal); CRUK Translational Cancer Research Prize 2017 (Gerlinger); CRUK Lifetime
 Achievement in Cancer Research Prize 2015 (Greaves); EMBO Young Investigator 2016
 (Vannini) and 2018 (Pena); Novartis Medal, Biochemical Society 2018 (Pearl); and Lister Prize
 2017 (Guettler).

 In 2017, Professor Mel Greaves FRS was awarded The Royal Society’s prestigious Royal Medal
 and in 2018, was awarded The Society of Memorial Sloan Kettering Prize. The outstanding
 nature of Professor Greaves’ research culminated in a knighthood for his services to children's
 leukaemia research at the end of 2018.




                                                                                              Page 17
