Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 8
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 School Structure and Context. The School of Chemistry (hereafter the “School”) is one of seven
 schools within the College of Science and Engineering (CoSE) at the University of Glasgow
 (UofG).
 Research Group Structure and Research Themes. In REF2014, the School made a joint
 submission with the Department of Chemistry at Strathclyde as WestCHEM. WestCHEM was
 created to strengthen chemistry research in the west of Scotland. Whilst WestCHEM still exists
 and our PGRs benefit from lectures and courses at either university, Glasgow Chemistry’s growth
 over this REF period in infrastructure and staff numbers has led to an expansion of research
 themes and a broader pool of major grant holders. The School has developed significantly and
 has further enhanced its unique and independent identity. Substantial new investment in Glasgow
 Chemistry has provided an expansion in staff, space and equipment, reflecting UofG’s confidence
 in the School. We have appointed and nurtured new staff, developed mid-career staff through
 promotion, and encouraged interdisciplinarity. Strategic investment has focussed on
 strengthening the research groupings, which can be demonstrated by the significant increase and
 spread of research council funding and by the increased quality of outputs (see below for full
 details). This has led to our decision to prepare an independent submission.
 To best exploit our wide-ranging research over this REF period, the School has been organised
 into six closely interlinked research clusters based around:
    •    Chemical Biology and Precision Synthesis (CB&PS), developing chemistry to
         understand biology (9 staff),
     • Chemical Photonics, working on spectroscopy, (chiral) plasmonics, biophysics, and soft
         condensed matter (7 staff),
     • Complex Chemistry, constructing complex functional molecular architectures not based
         on biologically derived building blocks (7 staff),
     • Energy Conversion and Storage (ECS), addressing the global challenges of climate
         change (7 staff),
     • Heterogeneous Catalysis, applying a fundamental understanding to catalytic processes
         to achieve sustainable development (4 staff),
     • Supramolecular, Electronic and Magnetic Systems (SEMS), focussing on the
         nanoscale self-assembly of functional materials (7 staff).
 Each of these has a cluster leader (Sutherland, Kadodwala, Cronin, Skabara, Lennon, and
 Murrie, respectively). We have identified and developed new research themes during the REF
 period, including setting up new clusters (ECS and SEMS), with the potential for future economic,
 environmental and health impact in the UK. The clusters were assembled around our research
 strengths and we aim to be deliberately unique (e.g., Chemical Photonics and Complex
 Chemistry). These clusters provide a dynamic and flexible organisational structure to
 accommodate and manage changes in research interests and funding patterns whilst ensuring a
 coherent research direction and strategy. All R&T academic staff reside in one cluster (affiliate
 membership of additional clusters is possible), although there are many cross-cluster
 collaborations (see below). We aim to go from fundamental research to real impact. As a single
 example, Kadodwala’s research on chiral plasmonics utilises close collaboration with other
 Schools and has developed over the REF period from fundamental research to increased
 industrial engagement. This has been enabled through mentoring of Karimullah, who was
 awarded a UKRI EPSRC Innovation Fellowship to work with companies including Horiba.
 Management Structure. The School’s operations are overseen and organised by the School
 Management Group (SMG) comprising the Head of School, Head of School Administration, Head
 of Technical Services, Head of Teaching, Director of Research, Impact Champion and each
 cluster leader. We have recently added an ECR representative to ensure that the voices of early
 career researchers are heard. Several key individuals report to SMG including the School’s Athena

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SWAN Champion (Thomson). SMG has also representatives from other committees e.g., Safety,
 Teaching, and Research.
 Research Strategy and Objectives. Our vision is to deliver internationally excellent and leading
 research that has the potential to produce the maximum economic, environmental and health
 impact for the UK; this has been an evolving process during the REF period and has directed our
 growth and recruitment strategy. Our research strategy is led by the School’s Research Committee
 (chaired by Skabara, Director of Research). Since REF2014, we have sought to achieve these
 objectives within the context of our strong engagement and College leadership of the Athena
 SWAN process, fully embedding principles and working practices that support Equality and
 Diversity. As a consequence, the School's Athena SWAN Bronze award was renewed in
 November 2018.
 Our strategic objectives over the current REF period changed from those prior to REF2014,
 reflecting our decision to focus on the School as opposed to a joint WestCHEM submission. Our
 objectives have been to:
 • increase the size of the School, with particular emphasis on providing critical mass in the areas
   of CB&PS, Complex Chemistry and ECS where we see potential for real growth in future years.
   Hence, we have strategically invested now with a view to the future. We have recruited
   internationally excellent researchers strategically to strengthen key areas, develop new areas
   and facilitate succession planning. Over the REF period, we have appointed Adams (2016),
   Docampo (2020), Draper (2018), Farnaby (2016), Gibson (2017), Hedley (2018), Jamieson
   (2016), Karimullah (2018), Köhnke (2020), Parrilla-Gutierrez (2020), Peveler (2019),
   Schmidt (2019), Skabara (2018), Thomson (2016) and Vila-Nadal (2019).
 • strategically foster a more engaged, interactive research culture, implementing new mentoring
   and internal peer-review processes and encouraging and rewarding collaborations across
   UofG.
 • enhance and diversify our research activities, funding base and funding sources significantly.
   We recognised that in REF2014 our research income was reliant on too few individuals and
   too few funding streams. Our strategic appointment and mentoring strategy has resulted in
   currently 20 staff holding 48 active EPSRC awards on 31/7/20. We have active grants from
   EPSRC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, MRC, Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, EU, as well as
   many industrial funders.
 • grow our already strong engagement with industry to maximise impact. We have invested time
   in developing new processes here (see Facilitating Impact section below).
 • strengthen and cement our international reputation as a leading centre for Chemistry world-
   wide. There has been significant investment from UofG in the Joseph Black (Chemistry)
   building, including £16.6M for refurbishment which simultaneously preserves the iconic
   architectural heritage whilst providing state-of-the-art facilities to undertake chemical research,
   including investment in new core instrumentation such as a new SQUID magnetometer, mass
   spectrometry, X-ray diffraction, thermal analysis, Raman and circular dichroism. We were
   awarded £693k in the recent EPSRC Core Equipment Award to invest in further infrastructure
   in 2021, linked to our grant income from EPSRC. We have targeted investment in equipment
   and start-up for new staff, including capital start-up, direct PDRA support and PhD studentships
   during the REF period.
 Progress and achievements since REF2014. Since REF2014, the key strategic change has
 been to focus on the School as an independent unit rather than as a component of WestCHEM.
 Confidence from UofG has resulted in significant investment, an increase in the number of staff
 and a re-focus on our research direction. The strength and success of the School’s research
 strategy is clearly demonstrated by £39.5M of research income in the current REF period. There
 is an increased number of high impact papers (staff have published >1200 papers in peer-
 reviewed journals; these include 51 Science and Nature group); these outputs along with the
 substantial investment in our building and infrastructure as well as 15 strategic new hires, places



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School on a clear, upward and sustainable trajectory. Specific research achievements in this
 period in each of our clusters include the following:
 Chemical Biology and Precision Synthesis: Strategic investment in chemical biology includes
 the appointment of Jamieson, Thomson and Köhnke, along with nearly £4M of investment in a
 multi-user state-of-the-art laboratory. Jamieson’s collaboration with Dstl on neurotoxic peptides
 is currently influencing government policy, leading to further funding. Thomson has quickly
 developed an international reputation for using computational design methods to create new
 peptide-based structures. He has been awarded an EPSRC first grant and is a Co-I on a cross-
 research cluster EPSRC grant with Kadodwala. The new appointments have complemented
 existing expertise. In addition, Hartley has an international reputation for developing probes to
 understand oxidative stress and redox signalling, resulting in funding from the BBSRC and
 Wellcome Trust, high impact publications (Nature, 2014 and 2018) and commercialisation
 partnerships (Cayman Chemical, Abcam, Tocris and Sigma) leading to one of our impact case
 studies. In the area of synthetic chemistry, Clark has been awarded funding (EPSRC and
 Leverhulme Trust) for the total synthesis of fused polyether, marine natural products.
 Chemical Photonics: Key achievements include new metamaterials (Nature Comms, JACS,
 ACS Nano etc), leading to a close link between Karimullah and Horiba, substantial funding
 (including an UKRI EPSRC Innovation Fellowship (Karimullah), a Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship (Kadodwala) and an ERC Advanced Fellowship (Wynne based on his pioneering
 liquid work (Nat. Chem., 2016)). A significant fraction of Chemical Photonics’ funding is derived
 from bilateral programmes with international bodies (National Science Foundation, Japanese
 Society for the Promotion of Science). The cluster has been strengthened over the REF period by
 University investment including laboratory refurbishments (£300k) and new appointments (Hedley
 2017; Karimullah 2018).
 Complex Chemistry: This cluster aims to define the area of ‘chemical informatics’ applied to the
 emergence of life, digitization of chemistry, and the development of chemical computers. The
 University has invested heavily in digital chemistry (around £5.5M over the last 5 years) with further
 investment planned. The strategic appointments of Draper (configurable materials, a Leverhulme
 Trust Early Career Fellow), Vilà-Nadal (theory), Parrilla-Gutierrez (programming) and Schmidt
 (polymer science) were made to provide key skills. The cluster has a prodigious output and has
 raised significant income (£17.8M over the REF period), including an EPSRC programme grant
 (led by Cronin), funding from DARPA, and funding for an international centre-to-centre grant.
 DeepMatter, a spin-out company has raised more than £10M to develop digital glassware and
 now employs over 40 people in Glasgow and Munich. Industrial interactions include more than 25
 companies building ‘Chemputers’, BAE investing in the chemical brain, Johnson Matthey investing
 in materials discovery and Samsung investing in autonomous digital chemistry.
 Energy Conversion and Storage: We recognise the growing opportunities in this area and have
 targeted recruitment to strengthen the area of organic electronics and photonics (Skabara, Acc.
 Chem. Res., 2019) and perovskite-based materials (Docampo, Nature Nano, 2014). Major grant
 successes arising from this grouping include a £5.5M EPSRC Programme Grant in Future
 Manufacturing (led by Skabara) that involves, the Universities of Cambridge, Sheffield,
 Manchester and Strathclyde and 13 companies and research centres, a Royal Society URF
 Fellowship (Symes) and EPSRC SUPERGEN programmes. Funded (H2020, Royal Society,
 EPSRC, GCRF) international collaborations involve world-leading groups in China, Taiwan,
 Japan, Brazil, Lithuania, Germany, Portugal, France, Poland, India, South Africa.
 Heterogeneous Catalysis: This cluster has exceptionally strong links with industrial partners.
 Over the REF period, members of the cluster have collaborated closely with Sasol Technology
 (UK) Ltd., Johnson Matthey, Syngenta, Huntsman Polyurethanes and Ineos Chlor. The section
 has strong links with the recently developed national catalysis consortia of universities, the UK
 Catalysis Hub; members sit on the Hub Steering group and are involved in several active research
 projects. Lennon’s strong industrial links are contributing to two of our impact case studies. In
 2019, the cluster, along with two industrial collaborators and a senior Central Facility scientist,
 launched a postgraduate degree programme in Industrial Heterogeneous Catalysis. Linked to this,



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gibson was a strategic appointment as a University-funded Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Fellow owing
 to her exceptional talent and track record (Science, 2017; Nature Catalysis, 2019).
 Supramolecular, Electronic and Magnetic Systems: This new cluster aims to exploit a wide
 range of molecular- and nano-systems. New appointments were targeted to provide key expertise
 including Adams (supramolecular systems, EPSRC Early Career Fellow 2015-2019), Farnaby,
 (lanthanide and actinide), Busche (a Royal Society of Edinburgh Research Fellow in molecular
 electronics) and Peveler (Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Research Fellow in sensing, diagnostics and
 chemometrics). Key contributions have been made in the areas of supramolecular materials
 (Adams, Nature Chem 2015; JACS 2018) metal-organic frameworks (Forgan, JACS 2015, 2019;
 Forgan was awarded an ERC Grant in 2016); single-ion and molecular magnets (Murrie, ACIE
 2019, Nature Comm 2016); structure and dynamics of DNA hairpins using single molecule
 techniques (Magennis, JACS 2015); transuranic organometallic complexes (Farnaby, Nature
 Chem. 2016); molecule-based flash memory (Busche Nature 2014) and detection of ultra-trace
 levels of small molecule analytes (Peveler, Nature Comm. 2016).
 Strategic objectives for the next five years. The School plans to expand its research activity in
 line with the above strategic themes. We are proactively seeking new funding opportunities,
 tackling UKRI Challenge areas and influencing policy. Immediate plans include:
 •   further enhancing our infrastructure and facilities with on-going investment in the Advanced
     Research Centre (ARC). The ARC is a university-wide interdisciplinary research building, with
     investment of some £113M. It is one of the key components of the vision for a modern
     research-led university, whose focus is on creating a space for radically new research
     collaborations to flourish. The School’s strategy for the forthcoming period is to maximise the
     current collaborations of Cronin and Jamieson with other Schools; these two research
     groups will therefore move to the ARC and co-locate with collaborators having been allocated
     ~1200 m2 of space. This will free up significant space in the Joseph Black Building, which will
     be refurbished to provide key interaction space and allow for expansion of staff in our core
     research areas.
 •   building our impact agenda in cases where translation of our research by both established
     (e.g., Cronin, DeepMatter) and new staff (including Jamieson, spin-out on antimalarials and
     Draper, smart windows technology) is possible. We will support such success, for example
     by providing sabbaticals and further investment such as PhD students.
 •   increasing our significant success with Fellowships to drive opportunities by mentoring
     potential Fellows at School and College level. Applications are strongly supported by direct
     contributions of £100k per application by the Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Fellowship Scheme.
 •   growing our PhD numbers further, particularly improving internationalisation by targeting
     recruitment fairs and expanding our strategic partnerships with overseas universities.
 •   further strengthening our equipment base
 •   further improving our ECR mentoring and our diversity balance (see Section 2).
 Facilitating Impact. The School has a strategy of strong engagement with industry and elsewhere
 to maximise impact. However, we recognise that this is an area in need of continuing improvement.
 To enable this, we actively manage the impact pipeline, with Hargreaves (our impact champion)
 continuously monitoring progress and potential cases within the School. Impact is firmly
 entrenched in the University’s promotion criteria and we will support further opportunities as
 discussed above. We target specific opportunities, helping direct the allocation of Impact
 Acceleration Accounts (IAAs) for example, as well as providing aid and advice in interacting with
 companies. For example, Jamieson’s work with Dstl was facilitated using an IAA, which allowed
 a funding gap to be bridged, led directly to a publication (Chem. Sci., 2018) and has now resulted
 in further funding from Dstl. IAAs have been used successfully by Adams, Cronin, Draper,
 France, Gregory, Jamieson, Lennon, Skabara and Sutherland in collaboration with companies
 including Hyaltech Ltd, Johnson Matthey, the NHS and Syngenta. For example, Draper’s transfer
 of a key process into Hyaltech Ltd, funded by an EPSRC IAA, was facilitated by a PDRA working
 at the company. Jamieson’s IAA with IRIS Biotech has led to a Innovate UK iCURe grant, with

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the synthetic output being protected (PCT/EP2019/062862) and subsequently licensed to IRIS
 Biotech GmbH (Germany). Skabara’s IAA with Plessey has led to the company funding a
 collaboration on microLEDs. Overall, IAAs have supported three of our impact case studies.
 The School currently has had active links with >85 companies as well as with NGOs and
 Government labs, and with non-academic NHS staff. For example, the Heterogeneous Catalysis
 Cluster has several key collaborations with a variety of companies who make use of unique
 facilities such as the bespoke Chemical Process Fundamentals Laboratory (CPFL), which allows
 handling of hazardous reagents and products such as phosgene. This has led to direct impact as
 exemplified by our impact case studies. Members of the School make full use of (inter)national
 and locally available funding to exploit research that has an impact on the economy, society, and
 developing countries. The School has launched spin-out companies such as DeepMatter (Cronin)
 which aims to digitise chemistry. We also encourage other routes to impact; for example,
 Sutherland in collaboration with GE Healthcare and NHS Scotland has developed a range of
 novel radioiodination methods that have been used to produce SPECT tracers for the medical
 imaging of neurological and cardiovascular disease. Further funding from Medical Research
 Scotland, GE Healthcare, with EPSRC KTA and IAA has resulted in a wide range of general
 radioiodination methods that are used by NHS Scotland and GE Healthcare. MRC-GCRF funding
 awarded to Wynne was used to develop malaria vector surveillance tools with partners in
 Tanzania and Burkina Faso.
 Supporting interdisciplinary research. Research in the School is highly multidisciplinary in
 nature. There is significant synergistic intra- and inter-cluster research that allows the School to
 attract significant UKRI funding. For example, several grants held by Kadodwala (Chemical
 Photonics) in the field of metamaterials involve Lapthorn, Cooke (ECS), Sutherland (CB&PS)
 and Thomson (CB&PS). Cronin’s Programme Grant includes Adams, Clark and Symes, all from
 different clusters, with the aim of making and discovering molecules using a chemical
 programming language that is run in a modular Chemical-Robot. This work demonstrates our
 approach of combining traditional concepts to provide unique and distinct flavours of chemistry
 within the School.
 Cross-School collaborations are encouraged. In order to foster cross-disciplinary research over
 this REF period, the Head of School organised research sandpits with colleagues from Physics,
 Engineering, Cell Engineering and the Institute of Molecular Cell & Systems Biology. Direct output
 from these sandpits include research proposals (e.g., France with Page (College of Medical,
 Veterinary & Life Sciences - MVLS) and publications (e.g., Symes and France) and the
 involvement of Chemistry staff into the Cell Engineering lifeTIME Centre for Doctoral Training
 (CDT) (e.g., Draper is on the CDT Management Team, PhD students awarded to France and
 Adams). Jamieson’s close link with Tobin (MVLS), initially funded by a University cross-discipline
 PhD studentship has led to a 2019 paper in Science and further funding via the Bill and Melinda
 Gates Foundation. Kadodwala has close links with Gadegaard (Engineering), with significant
 outputs (e.g., ACS Nano, 2017; JACS, 2018) and joint research income. Skabara’s EPSRC
 Programme Grant links to manufacturing, working closely with Dahiya (Engineering). In addition,
 the School has received 3 Lord Kelvin Adam Smith PhD scholarships, prestigious University-
 funded studentships designed for cross-disciplinary research, during the REF period. The
 University supports cross-disciplinary work with direct mechanisms for enhancing and funding
 interaction; for example, the College has provided Skabara with 2.5 PhDs to work with Dahiya
 (Engineering). A total of 19 PhD students are currently funded between Chemistry and other
 Schools at UofG.
 Open Research Environment. We are actively progressing towards an open research
 environment. The University library supports researchers in making publications and data open
 access through training, data management plan review and repositories for longer term storage
 of outputs. The library deposits items in institutional repositories, provides licencing advice, and
 maximises open access opportunities. The institutional repository and registry can be used for the
 long-term storage and sharing of data that underpin research publications. We are one of two UK
 HEIs that are signatories to the Concordat on Open Research Data. UofG has aligned its
 investment and policies to further a culture that supports integrity. An annual investment of >£800k
 ensures that research staff and students have access to expertise for designing and sharing

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, mandatory training on good practice for PGRs and ECRs, data storage, expert editorial
 support for developing publications, and tools for analysing their citation-based performance. In
 the School, we are developing open research approaches. For example, Cronin is using
 collaborative programming tools to allow chemists and software developers to work in real time to
 build a programming language for chemical synthesis (Science, 2020).
 Research Integrity. The Research Committee in charge of the topic in the School and we follow
 UofG processes. UofG’s approach to promoting a culture of research integrity through the roles of
 Integrity Champions and Advisers has been recognised as a beacon of good practice across the
 sector, and the model is currently being used as a case study for both the UK Research Integrity
 Office and the Royal Society. Within the School, staff and PGR students have mandatory research
 integrity training, provided by the University. Case studies for PGRs are tailored to the discipline
 and positive feedback on what students have done as a result of the training (e.g., discussed
 issues with their supervisor, signed up for ORCID, etc.). Integrity issues within the School are
 handled at the Section level in the first instance, with individuals able to talk to their Cluster Head
 for information and advice. The School has an Ethics Champion (Cooke) and the College also
 has an Integrity Champion (Hartley). A logbook of ethical issues that have arisen is produced by
 Cooke and discussed at the annual ethics committee meeting.
 2. People

 i. Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School has expanded and re-focussed over the REF period. A total of 15 new academic
 appointments have been made with a balance between established senior academics, to provide
 leadership and mentoring in new research areas as described by the clusters (Section 1) and
 ECRs to provide a critical mass in identified areas. Of the new appointments, 10 were ECR,
 bringing us to 24% of our staff being ECRs. We have recruited internationally excellent
 researchers as part of our strategy to strengthen key areas, allow new areas to be developed, and
 provide succession planning. For example, Gibson was employed with the aim of providing
 succession planning within the Heterogeneous Catalysis cluster. UofG’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith
 (LKAS) scheme was introduced in 2012 with the aim of attracting and retaining outstanding
 researchers as they establish their independent research career in order to attract emerging
 leaders. This Scheme has been used to support new staff (Gibson, Parrilla-Gutierrez and
 Peveler are fully funded by LKAS Fellowships), as well as providing a £100k top-up to strengthen
 Fellowship applications (Draper and Forgan).
 The School adopts a transparent recruitment policy where candidates, prior to being interviewed,
 are invited to give a presentation open to all staff and students, who are subsequently invited to
 give feedback on the candidates which is considered by the appointment committee. We believe
 that staff to input into recruitment decisions is important for the cohesion of the School. The School
 has a well-documented and effective induction process for all new staff.
 Several teaching-only appointments have been made over the period (Docherty, Odedra, Watts,
 all on permanent contracts) bringing the total number of such posts to 6. This has been done
 strategically to support research activity, improve the quality of undergraduate teaching, and give
 R&T staff more time for research. Our Teaching team has developed novel outreach and interface
 activities with the UofG; the School’s Outreach Group was highly commended at the STEM
 Inspiration Awards at the House of Lords (2019).
 Research in the School is comprehensively supported by 18 technicians. We have a strategy of
 providing technical support in all research laboratories to provide key support ranging from
 synthesis to running and maintaining equipment and providing long-term consistency of approach.
 The technical staff are active members of our research groups, for example being co-authors on
 publications (e.g., McIver, ACIE, 2017, Yu, Beilstein J. Org. Chem., 2020).
 Research Staff (PDRAs) are an important and integral part of the School. UofG is a signatory to
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The PDRA staff run their own
 monthly forum, providing amongst other things careers advice (e.g., career-based talks from an
 editor from Nature, an Anton-Paar sales representative, and a science teacher). These careers
 talks are open to PhD students and complement a suite of College-wide events (e.g., mock


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 employer-led interviews) and the dedicated Careers Adviser for researchers, who provides one-
 to-one and workshop support.
 The School encourages continued research activity by Senior Emeritus staff, who have
 contributed papers, generated research income and provided valuable expertise. For example,
 Jarvis is providing an impact case study on timber growth.
 Career development. The University offers a wide range of training opportunities for staff through
 a series of online and physical Continuous Professional Development (CPD) courses, mainly
 offered via the Human Resources’ section for Employee and Organisational Development. The
 courses include training in professional and organisational development, and IT training, as well
 as a set of mandatory training courses including health-safety-wellbeing, the General Data
 Protection Regulation (GDPR), equality and diversity, research integrity, and recruitment and
 selection.
 All staff have a Performance Development Review (PDR) annually. PDRs are based around a
 Portfolio of Activity that records staff activity and outputs, informs the discussion around workload
 and career development, and provides evidence for reward or promotion. PDR includes a
 discussion of strategy, direction, publishing and funding plans; this enables a managed approach
 to research development aligned with the School’s priorities. PDRs identify training and
 developmental needs that may be preventing an individual from seeking leadership roles, whether
 academic or outside the sector. Reward and Recognition is directly linked to the PDR for all staff;
 an exceptional rating results in an automatic increment in salary.
 The annual promotion round normally begins each January, with workshops run each December
 by the Head of School and the College HR director to explain the criteria and provide help
 throughout the process. Promotion for research and teaching staff is a competitive and well-
 defined process, requiring demonstration of a significant international research reputation, based
 on objective criteria and strong external support. In this REF period, Corr, Hargreaves, Hartley,
 Kadodwala, Lennon and Murrie have been promoted to Chair, Forgan to Reader in 2016 and
 Chair in 2019, Sutherland to Reader in 2016 and then Chair in 2020, Jamieson to Reader, and
 Miras and Symes to Senior Lecturer. Professorial zone movements are also annual and are
 based on clear criteria.
 UofG organises annual Emerging or Aspiring Leaders courses. These help more senior staff to
 prepare themselves for senior roles in research and/or school management roles, which we have
 used to help succession planning for major roles in the School and College. Over the period, these
 have been attended by 8 individuals, including Cooke (Head of School for most of the REF period),
 Corr, Hargreaves (Head of School from Jan 2021), Hartley (became the College Dean of
 Graduate Studies in 2019) and Wynne.
 The School takes great pride and care in developing the early career staff and pro-actively
 supports them in winning personal research fellowships. New Lecturers have reduced lecturing
 and demonstrating loads to aid with the transition to an independent research career (typically
 50%). All new staff receive an institutional induction and training, covering diversity, inclusion,
 safety, teaching and grant writing. New staff take the University’s Early Career Development
 Programme (ECDP), which supports the development of leadership and team management skills,
 as well as developing skills to improve individual research performance. Hartley is the College
 ECDP champion. ECDP aims to support newly appointed academics to develop their skills and
 progress in their career within a defined timescale, through the setting of annual objectives,
 mentoring, and networking. Tailored learning and development are provided in key areas
 (Learning and Teaching, Research and Knowledge Exchange and Leadership), aligned to
 promotion criteria. One of the programme’s biggest successes is the number of women who have
 been promoted in the College. Part of the ECDP course specifically targets development of an
 EPSRC-style grant application, guided by senior staff and using peer-to-peer review. A reward of
 £10k is provided for excellent proposals (awarded to Draper, Hedley and Thomson, whose
 grants were then funded by EPSRC New Investigator Awards and Farnaby). The Glasgow
 Crucible is a leadership and development programme that supports ECRs in taking the next step
 in their career, with the aim of encouraging researchers to be bolder and more ambitious in their
 funding applications and publications, to become familiar with the knowledge exchange agenda,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and to develop meaningful collaborations within and outside the Institution. Over this period,
 Boyer, Draper, Farnaby and Peveler have attended this course, with Hedley attending the
 Scottish Crucible course.
 The School has a formal ECR group that functions through peer support. The Director of Research
 (Skabara) meets with this group bimonthly to offer advice on career progression with an emphasis
 on research. This includes grant proposal writing, time management, maximising networking
 opportunities, working in medium-large consortia, and collaborating with industry. The School’s
 ECR Champion (Farnaby; this is a new post strategically created in the REF period to give ECRs
 a voice in decision-making committees) liaises with a College level ECR board and provides direct
 support such as guidance on the School/College/University Research Support structure to
 incoming ECRs in the School. ECRs are encouraged to take leadership roles to develop their skills
 and network. For example, Symes is the School’s Internationalisation lead, and Draper serves as
 a member of the management group for the lifeTIME Centre for Doctoral Training (led by MVLS).
 ECRs are represented on Safety, Teaching and Research committees.
 Evidence of the success of our approach to nurturing and mentoring ECRs can be found for
 example in the progression of Forgan from Royal Society University Research Fellow, winning an
 ERC Starter Grant (2016), and being promoted to Reader (2016) and to Professor (2019). Corr
 was hired as a Lecturer in 2013, promoted to Reader in 2016, won multiple grants and was
 promoted to Professor in 2018 before moving to Sheffield in 2018. Draper was awarded a
 Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship in 2017, a Lectureship in 2018 and an EPSRC New
 Investigator Award in 2019.
 We actively encourage career development for PDRAs and technicians. For example, McAulay
 (PDRA) took part in visNET, an EPSRC-funded Scottish multi-disciplinary network for female staff
 aiming to remodel the implicit ‘rules’ of networking and collaboration. McIver started a PhD in 2020
 after 37 years as a technician.
 Mentoring. The School has a defined mentoring policy for staff to provide significant personalised
 and career development support, extending the University-wide early-career and professional
 development schemes, with a transparent policy in place. PDRAs receive mentoring from their
 PIs, including advice on career progression, and technical feedback on job / fellowship / funding
 applications. New staff are supported by a studentship and start-up costs, as well as free access
 to the School’s equipment for 3 years in addition to a personal academic mentor from Chemistry
 to guide their research grant strategy and other aspects of research planning.
 We have instigated peer review and feedback of each other’s grant applications for both senior
 staff and ECRs as Director of Research support, leading to an improvement in funding success.
 Recruitment of senior staff with established track records of research funding act as mentors.
 Increased networking has helped mentors make new strategic connections for ECR staff and
 increased participation on funding panels which has helped mentors to develop their grant-writing
 skills and knowledge of strategic priority areas which has been passed on to mentees. As specific
 examples, Kadodwala’s Meta-Smart EPSRC grant was peer-reviewed by Skabara and Adams,
 Draper’s EPSRC NIA was peer-reviewed by Cronin and Skabara, Hedley’s EPSRC NIA by
 Skabara and Kadodwala, and Skabara and Adams held a mock panel for Karimullah’s EPSRC
 Fellowship. Successful proposals are shared internally.
 Extended Research Leave. Sabbaticals are encouraged, for example with Clark spending 4
 months at the University of Sydney and 4 months at ETH Zürich. Cooke will be on sabbatical for
 one year from January 2021. Research staff have spent time at companies to transfer knowledge.
 For example, Rossi, a PDRA working with Draper spent 6 months working closely between the
 School and Hyaltech. We are actively encouraging sabbaticals to enable our impact agenda (see
 Section 1).
 Equality and Diversity. The School's Athena SWAN Bronze award was renewed in November
 2018. We revamped and expanded the self-assessment team responsible for delivering the action
 plan and aim to achieve a silver award in the next 3-4 years by maintaining and building upon
 recent progress in equality and diversity (e.g., our recruitment of both UG and PGR students has
 reached near gender parity and we are actively working to improve our diversity in other areas)
 and focussing efforts further on professional and technical staff through, for example, endorsing

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and implementing the principles of the UK-wide Technician Commitment. We are aware that we
 have more to do in this area; for example, only 23% of PDRAs in 2020 are female, and we have
 been working with HR to revise our job adverts as one means to address this. Our current priority
 is to improve mentoring. For example, we are setting up peer-mentoring groups for PhD students
 and a cross-school/college mentoring partnership for technicians.
 We have appointed a Welfare Officer (Prunet) to give informal confidential advice and support to
 PGR students, implemented family-friendly working practises, such as policies to allow flexible or
 part-time working, ensured departmental events take place within core office hours enabling all
 those with parental or caring responsibilities to attend, and implemented access to the University’s
 Academic Returners Research Support Policy which provides grants to all individuals (women and
 men) returning after periods of parental or carers’ leave to facilitate their return to research. Corr,
 Draper and Gibson were awarded £10k upon their return to work. The School has a Disability
 Coordinator (Jackson), who is responsible for ensuring that the needs of disabled students and
 staff are met. The School has enabled students with a range of disabilities to fully engage with
 teaching (UG and PGR) both in lectures and the laboratories by, for example, modifying fume
 cupboards to operate with wheelchairs and at variable height and having one-to-one support.
 ii.Research Students
 To ensure a dynamic and thriving graduate programme that supports research excellence and
 establishes the best possible environment for our students, we have implemented several key
 strategic objectives that include excellence in the recruitment of students and in our research and
 training provision, internationalisation through student mobility, effective administration and
 communication that provides supportive infrastructure for students and academic staff. The
 realisation of these objectives has led to a significant growth in our PGR numbers from 119 in
 2013 (REF2014) to 146 in 2020 (44% international students), and we have maintained a high
 completion rate (average >89% completion on time for PhD students finishing during the REF
 period), which demonstrates the success of our mentoring and training. In the last three years, the
 proportion of female PhD students has risen too as a consequence of our renewed focus on
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and the renewal of our Athena Swan Bronze Award. We actively
 support those needing a flexible approach. For example, we have PGRs who are part time for
 family reasons and our mandatory PGR Supervisor training provides specific recommendations
 for how to promote inclusivity in research groups, PGR recruitment and conferences.
 PGR students are an integral part of the School’s activities and are represented on various
 committees within the School (Athena Swan, Safety, etc.) and the College, such as the Student
 Liaison Group (vital for student feedback and facilitates communication of initiatives and
 opportunities between the PGR convenor and the student body).
 We have increased our PGR numbers by targeting more diverse funding sources. Around one
 third of our studentships are provided through the EPSRC DTG and a College studentship bank
 (a strategic University fund specific to Chemistry to enable growth). Further studentships are
 funded by internal competitions such as the College Scholarship, the China Scholarship Council,
 and Lord Kelvin Adam Smith schemes. Much of the increase in studentship numbers has been
 through co-funding by industrial partners (including GSK, GE Healthcare, AstraZeneca, Syngenta,
 Huntsman, and Johnson Matthey; the University matches industrial funding to maximise our
 industrial engagement), funding from various charities (Cancer Research UK, Leverhulme Trust,
 Medical Research Scotland, Carnegie Trust, etc.) and through major ERC grants. We also have
 had Energy Technology Partnership (ETP) funded studentships where Industry and ETP
 contribute most of the funding e.g., Cooke (Merck). The School is involved in the EPSRC-funded
 CDTs in Intelligent Sensing and Measurement and in Engineered Tissues for Discovery, Industry
 and Medicine (lifeTIME). We are developing PhD programme partnerships with Universities and
 Research Institutes in China (Nankai University and Beijing University of Chemical Technology)
 and applications for Commonwealth funding to support PhD placements from India are also
 actively promoted. Applications from fully funded international students form part of our targeted
 growth strategy.
 Approach to PGR recruitment. Effective recruitment of high-quality students has been achieved
 through a college centralised marketing policy. Studentships are advertised on the web and via
 social media. Entry to PhD requires a research Masters degree, or a 1st or 2.1 Honours degree (or

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equivalent) in Chemistry or appropriate related discipline. Applications are rapidly disseminated to
 the appropriate supervisor for assessment to ensure recruitment of the best candidates.
 Applicants are assessed by reference and prior academic achievement, and then interviewed by
 a selection committee including the potential supervisors. The School aims to make a decision
 within one month of receiving an application. Retention of outstanding undergraduates is
 encouraged by PhD information sessions early in the final year of their degree. We have been
 extremely successful with highly competitive Carnegie Trust studentships, which are only awarded
 to students achieving a high 1st, allowing us to retain many of our best students. To encourage
 international applications, financial support has been provided for academic staff to carry out
 lecture tours and raise awareness of the School in Central and Southern America (Science without
 Borders, COLCIENCIAS and CONACYT), the Middle East and Northern Africa, leading to direct
 recruitment.
 Progress Monitoring and support mechanisms. A system of dual supervision, and the
 involvement of an additional member of staff as an assessor in the annual progression reviews
 means that all aspects of the quality of each student’s work are evaluated and that each student’s
 specific developmental needs are addressed. The cluster head is involved in the assessment of
 each student in their cluster to ensure consistency in approach and standards. This structure
 provides multiple points of contact within the School if the need arises. At the outset of their
 studies, PGRs are informed about the context of the training environment and how they can use
 the Researcher Development Framework (see below) to ensure they develop skills in the range
 of areas required to support their professional and career development. This is monitored for each
 student with an individual training needs analysis form that is discussed annually at progression
 to ensure key skills are being developed. Progress monitoring occurs in Year 1 and Year 2
 progression meetings, requiring a written report and a detailed viva by two staff. A thesis plan is
 written at the beginning of Year 3; our careful support and monitoring has ensured an excellent
 completion rate (>89%).
 Skills Development and Training. The development and training of our PhD cohort is central to
 our strategy for PGR excellence. All PGRs are part of the CoSE Graduate School, a large graduate
 school (~890 PGRs and ~1000 PGTs). The Science and Engineering focus of the Graduate
 School allows specific relevant training for the cohort.
 Students are enrolled in the CoSE Doctoral Researcher Training Programme which has a range
 of courses that complement their research and develop transferable skills. We require that 4 of
 their 14 necessary credits come from internal Chemistry courses which include lectures and
 practical training in addition to mandatory safety training. We provide mandatory face-to-face
 integrity and data management training to all PGRs. The programme is aligned with the
 Researcher Development Framework and includes leadership, project management and
 presenting with impact, data visualisation and animations, and public engagement internships.
 This training has evolved to include online modules, webinars (to accommodate students based
 off-campus or with limited accessibility), and discipline-specific content. We are passionate about
 fostering a research community and culture amongst our PGR students; the programme includes
 competitions (3-minute thesis, impact in 60 seconds, Science Slam), a PGR-led blog and other
 community building initiatives and opportunities to network with industry, as well accredited and
 short courses. Our students regularly organise and participate in Glasgow’s Pint of Science. These
 activities are supplemented by research networking, and social events within the school, e.g.,
 through the Alchemists Society (the School’s extremely active PGR-led society).
 All PGRs are required to attend research colloquia in their cluster area, as well as School
 Research Seminars (approximately 22 per year).
 Mental health and well-being are recognised as a general area of concern for PhD students. An
 environment conducive to good student well-being and mental health has been created through
 the communication of various counselling and psychological services at induction sessions, as
 well training for staff on recognising and addressing potential issues and a variety of well-being
 support ranging from sessions on ‘getting a good night’s sleep’ or ‘managing perfectionism’ to
 PGR gardening and lunchtime walks. Supervisors are supported through development workshops,
 to ensure consistency and to raise awareness of regulations and codes of practice. The CoSE
 Graduate School in conjunction with our PGR convenor and PGR committee is proactive in

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing a culture of equality and diversity in which training is compulsory for both supervisors
 and PGR students.
 All students are trained and mentored to produce high quality publications, as well as to present
 their work internationally. Our recruitment strategies have allowed the growth of PGR numbers
 while maintaining the high standard of research, as evidenced by the strong contribution of PGR
 research to this REF submission. PGRs can apply for School funds for international travel; we
 actively monitor the gender distribution of these awards. In this REF period, 46 students have
 benefitted from this, attending conferences across the world. CoSE funding is available for
 international mobility internships (1-3 months), allowing PhD students to develop new
 complementary research skills. Several PhD students have spent time at companies or with
 collaborators. For example, McGuire spent 3 months at Tulane University, New Orleans with
 Professor Donahue to prepare new multiple centre electron-spin qubits. Dos Santos spent one
 month at KAUST testing new molecules in organic solar cells and developing device fabrication
 skills. Gottardi carried out multiple 3-9 day visits at Merck fabricating several hundred test-scale
 organic solar cells. Lomax has been on secondment to the European Space Technology Centre
 in the Netherlands.
 The quality of our research students is clearly evidenced by their considerable success in gaining
 external recognition with various awards and prizes. Two exemplars of success are Cross as 1st
 place PhD student in the ABTA Doctoral Research Awards 2019: Science and Engineering (2019),
 as well as winning best oral presentation at the RSC Scotland and Northern England
 Electrochemistry symposium (Butler meeting) in 2019 and Poya who was awarded 1st place in
 the highly competitive 2019 SCI Scotland PhD student competition and selected to participate in
 the highly competitive Green Talents programme. We are proud of our successes, and these are
 disseminated to the College by a regular newsletter.
 In summary, we have many successes of which to be proud. Glasgow PhD students were co-
 authors on ~48% of REF-eligible outputs in 2019, average >89% completed on time, and
 graduating PGRs from the school are highly sought after and find employment in a variety of roles
 in academia, industry, government and charities. A recent snapshot of students graduating in 2020
 showed 43% progressing to an academic PDRA, and 40% to industry/government R&D.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding. Our growth and success have been achieved by a deliberate focus by the
 School on improving and diversifying income, increasing the number of grant holders, and a policy
 of hiring high-quality staff. We have targeted mentoring to achieve internationally recognised
 Fellowships and we have set up multidisciplinary research clusters to enable large grant
 applications. We also recognise that industrial links and smaller grants are equally important. This
 has included senior staff with established records, as well as ECR staff with high potential. This
 potential has been realised (e.g., with Draper, Hedley, Thomson all awarded EPSRC New
 Investigator Awards). We have been aided by a dedicated Project Coordinator providing cradle-
 to-grave support of grant management, as well as a dedicated Research Support Administrator.
 A dedicated College Research Development Manager provides College research support in
 Chemistry, e.g., assisting with funding applications, coordinating cross-College applications,
 contributing to ECR grant writing workshops etc.
 Since the last REF, there has been exceptionally strong funding generated across the School,
 emphasising our nationally and internationally leading activities. As specific examples, Complex
 Chemistry is backed by an EPSRC Programme Grant (which also involves individuals from other
 clusters), funding from DARPA (four separate grants), funding for an international centre-to-centre
 grant as well as a Platform Grant (Cronin PI, with Vila-Nadal as ECR co-I). This has enabled the
 development of the ChemPuter for example (Science, 2019). We have several examples where
 senior academics have successfully collaborated with ECRs, including for example Kadodwala’s
 EPSRC grant with Thomson. Major multidisciplinary manufacturing projects are led by Skabara
 through a Programme Grant (£5.5M) and a Platform Grant (£1.29M). Hartley is the chemical core
 of a multi-centre, multi-disciplinary team focussed on oxidative stress and redox signalling,
 particularly from the mitochondria, publishing with researchers in 15 different countries. His long-
 term collaboration with Murphy (Cambridge, Nature 2014), is backed up with a Wellcome Trust

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investigator grant. Hartley’s molecular probes are marketed world-wide by companies that
 specialise in biomedical research including Cayman Chemical, Abcam, Tocris and Sigma, leading
 to one of our impact case studies. Kadodwala is a member of a major (ca. £100M over 10 years)
 Japanese research initiative, a World Premier Institute in Chirality, which is based at the University
 of Hiroshima. Kadodwala in collaboration with Horiba Corp, a major scientific instrument
 manufacturer, has received financial support from the EPSRC-funded UK Quantum Technology
 Hub in Quantum Enhanced Imaging to establish the feasibility of developing an early-stage
 sensing technology for future commercialisation. This led to Karimullah being awarded a UKRI
 EPSRC Innovation Fellowship to commercialise aspects of this work. Cronin, Forgan and Wynne
 have all been awarded European Research Council (ERC) grants in the REF period. Adams held
 an EPSRC Fellowship during the REF period, and Kadodwala was awarded a Leverhulme Trust
 Fellowship.
 Infrastructure developments. The University is currently undergoing significant investment in its
 estate (£1B). The School’s success in developing infrastructure and facilities that support our
 strategic aims and underpin our research activity has been enabled by substantial University and
 external investment. This has resulted in an expansion of our research laboratories and equipment
 base. We have focussed on developing facilities that can help us to deliver research excellence.
 Developments have included:
 • £16.6M investment in the School, including refurbishment of our Grade 1 listed building. This
   includes newly refurbished laboratories within the School, providing state-of-the-art research
   facilities for wet chemistry and laser and microscopy laboratories, refurbished library and study
   space, and new kitchen facilities. Lab refurbishment for Skabara starts in January 2021
   (delayed due to COVID-19).
 • The ARC will open in 2021 and is located on the existing West End campus. The ARC will
   create a collaborative environment to attract, stimulate and enable interdisciplinary research,
   and will be the focus for researchers across the University to collaborate and interface with
   partners from outside the University. Cronin and Jamieson will move to the ARC, constituting
   a direct £3.6M investment supporting our research. These moves, along with Forensic Science
   moving out of Chemistry, will liberate significant new space within our building (~1010 m2). We
   will use this space to generate new social space to encourage further networking and School
   cohesion, as well as to allow for the forecasted further expansion of the School through
   Fellowships, increased PGR and PDRA numbers, as well as generating a new bespoke
   analytical centre.
 • Key donations, showing evidence of the external appreciation of our research strategy and
   capacity to deliver research excellence, two of which were for the Joseph Black Building
   infrastructure (£1,855,866 from Martin Bequest, £71,285 from McLean Bequest), as well as a
   donation for a studentship (£62,317 from the Ian Sword Studentship fund).
 The School has a strong base of shared facilities, including:
 • Significant NMR provision including four solution state spectrometers with automated sample
   changers capable of a wide range of NMR experiments and techniques. In 2016, the School’s
   NMR provision was upgraded with a Bruker 600 MHz NMR instrument, with an in-line flow loop
   that allows it to be interfaced with automated platforms. The NMR service is supported by a
   dedicated specialist technician.
 • Single crystal diffractometer and powder X-ray diffraction facilities. Many of our researchers are
   reliant on diffraction; during this REF period, we have upgraded our provision, for example by
   the purchase of a rotating anode Rigaku diffractometer. Our facilities are maintained and run
   by a dedicated crystallographer.
 • A range of analysis facilities including microanalysis (upgraded 2016), supported by one
   technician, environmental analysis by atomic absorption, pH, conductivity, chloride content,
   HPLC and GC (one technician), Confocal Raman microscopy using a Jobin Yvon LabRAM HR
   system with excitation lasers at 532 and 325 nm, Synapse CCD detection system, and Linkam



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    TS 1000 High Temperature Stage (one technician), mass spectrometry (upgraded with a new
    microTOFq and electrospray over the REF period) supported by two technicians.
 • Scanning electron microscopy, supported by one technician.
 • Quantum Design MPMS3 Evercool SQUID magnetometer, installed August 2019.
 • A Bruker ELEXSYS E500 EPR operating at X-band.
 • Full glassblowing workshop (recently augmented with a second glassblower).
 There is also significant specialist instrumentation maintained by individual research clusters
 accessible either to trained users or through collaboration. In addition, staff regularly make use of
 other University facilities. These include the state-of-the-art James Watt Nanofabrication Facility
 (JWNC), which houses over £37M of nanofabrication tools in a 1350 m2 clean room. This facility
 underpins key work in the School, particularly that of the Chemical Photonics cluster by
 Kadodwala and Karimullah.
 We have been particularly successful securing funding to access central UKRI facilities after
 competitive review; X-ray and neutron scattering experiments have been performed at Diamond,
 ISIS, ESRF, ILL, NIST and Elletrea (398 days).
 We use our facilities to deliver impact. For example, the Heterogeneous Catalysis Section has
 several key collaborations with a variety of companies who make use of unique facilities such as
 the bespoke Chemical Process Fundamentals Laboratory (CPFL), which allows handling
 hazardous reagents and products such as phosgene. The CPFL was commissioned in 2010 and
 is a manifestation of mature academic/industrial partnerships. Over this REF period, the initiative
 was promoted further by the School of Chemistry and the College of Science and Engineering to
 encourage our impact agenda, with direct financial support from two chemical companies:
 Huntsman Polyurethanes and Syngenta, who are partners in two of our impact case studies.
 The University strongly supports computational research through continual investment in
 computer clusters. The School has a local computer cluster, which was upgraded in 2019 to a
 total of 250 cores and 1.8 TB of memory. CoSE has recently upgraded its facilities; in 2019, CoSE
 invested in a shared computer facility providing ~600 CPU cores with 3.5 TB of memory and 20
 GPU units with 87k GPU cores. At a University level, a High-Performance Computer (HPC) facility
 is available as a central University resource for research and teaching purposes (~1200 cores, ~8
 TB of RAM, and 8 GPU units). Chemistry make regular and substantial use of the HPC, enabling
 research projects by undergraduates, postgraduates, and staff who require computational
 resources beyond that available locally. The University is a partner institution of ARCHIE-WeST,
 the regional supercomputer centre hosted by the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow. ARCHIE-
 WeST was established in 2012 with EPSRC e-Infrastructure funds and upgraded in 2018. It
 provides ~2600 cores and 15 TB of memory.
 Continued Library investment during the REF period means that electronic access to >600
 chemistry journals (including all ACS journals and a Gold level open access RSC subscription),
 thousands of scientific texts and access to online databases (e.g., SciFinder Scholar, Reaxys,
 Scopus, Web of Science) is available to enable our research.
 Our future funding strategy will build on the enhancement in our infrastructure and facilities
 achieved during this period and will focus on research themes highlighted in Section 1. In
 particular, we will exploit the new opportunities for collaboration presented by the ARC. Examples
 in place already include the collaboration between Jamieson and Tobin which has led to a recent
 paper in Science. As detailed in Section 1, we intend to also focus heavily on our impact agenda.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The School’s activity is based on interdisciplinary and collaborative research, with engagement
 nationally and internationally with both academia and industry on several levels, from leading large
 international research networks and projects through to individual collaborations with high-profile
 academics and industry.
 Academic Collaborations. Extensive successful academic collaborations exist. International
 academic collaborations are supported by the University’s Internationalisation policy, for example

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with travel grants (see Section 2). The School supports external links with joint students (e.g.,
 Adams has a PhD student joint with Edinburgh), by prioritising matched collaborations with
 industry for support, and by providing sabbaticals. Inter-departmental collaborations are promoted
 by the University’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) studentships, which explicitly require
 collaboration across Schools within the College (e.g., Wynne’s work on “Machine learning in
 spectroscopy”, analysing mid-IR spectra of mosquitoes using machine and deep learning to
 determine species, age, and other properties). In this period, staff have been involved in 7 EPSRC
 Programme grants, collaborating with academics across the UK. We lead and participate in 12
 European networks as well as numerous international networks. For example, Cronin has active
 DARPA grants with collaborators in Canada, the US and South Korea developing systems for the
 exploration of chemical space.
 Examples and evidence of interdisciplinary and international activities include:
  • a significant number of the papers published in the REF period have a non-Glasgow author
    and non-UK based authors. For example, for papers published in 2019, 71% had a non-
    Glasgow author and 48% a non-UK based author. As a specific example, Docampo has long-
    standing and very fruitful collaborations (Bein & Hartschuh, Munich; Dyakonov, Wurzburg)
    with funding from the German Ministry for Research and Education leading to many outputs
    (e.g., Adv. Energy Mater., 2018; ACS Nano 2016).
  • leading roles in international networks, including for example Skabara’s links on a FP7
    PIRSES, H2020 ITN grant and two H2020 RISE grants.
  • the EPSRC funded programme grants of Cronin and Skabara to develop a 'Universal
    Chemical Synthesis Machine' and transfer-printing for heterogeneous integration in
    manufacturing, respectively, as well as Cronin’s EPSRC Platform Grant to develop Complex
    Chemical Systems Platform Exploring Inorganic Intelligence and Skabara’s Platform Grant to
    prepare next generation processing of photonic devices.
  • Cronin is part of the NFOLD NASA network, aiming to detect extra-terrestrial life.
  • Kadodwala’s collaboration with Govorov (Ohio University) has led to the development of new
    metamaterials (Nat. Comm., 2016; ACS Photonics, 2018); Govorov is a partner on EPSRC
    funded project. Kadodwala was also a JSPS Visiting Professor (with Okamoto at Okazaki,
    2015), leading to a consortium grant (EP/M024423/1), and his Leverhulme Research
    Fellowship enabled a collaboration with Tagowa (Osaka, 2018).
  • Cooke has been involved in an ongoing successful collaboration with Rotello (University of
    Massachusetts at Amherst) since 1997. This collaboration has resulted in 73 joint papers. The
    work has been supported by EPSRC (£1.4M, EP/I00243X/1, EP/K034936/1) through the
    EPSRC/NSF funding partnership. The collaboration has widened to include Kadodwala and
    Samuel (St Andrews).
  • Forgan is part of the EPSRC IRC in Targeting Hard to Treat Cancer (£10M funding for 6
    years), a collection of materials scientists, cancer biologists, clinicians and surgeons seeking
    to develop new targeted treatments for pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma and mesothelioma.
  • Hartley’s group have helped elucidate the biological mechanisms responsible for reperfusion
    injury following a heart attack as part of his long-term collaboration with Michael Murphy
    (Cambridge, Nature 2014). In a close collaboration with Prof. Luke O'Neill (Trinity College
    Dublin), RCH developed cell-permeable 4-noctyl itaconate to help demonstrate a key negative
    feedback antioxidant mechanism in macrophages involved in inflammation, linking the Krebs
    cycle with the anti-inflammatory response (Nature 2018). The wider collaborative circle
    involved 13 institutes including Harvard and John Hopkins University in the USA, and GSK
    sites in more than one country.
 Industrial Collaborations. Over the REF period, the School has been working on how we
 maximise impact (see Section 1). Focussed industrial projects span a wide range of topics,
 including a number of active collaborations with companies in the Heterogeneous Catalysis cluster
 (Lennon, Gibson, Hargreaves, Jackson; see Section 1), materials for ocular surgery (Hyaltech,
 Draper), spinouts such as DeepMatter (Cronin), links with NASA (Cronin) and links with Plessey

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Skabara). Gregory has joint patents with Airbus Group. Several companies make use of facilities
 such as the bespoke Chemical Process Fundamentals Laboratory (CPFL), which has led to two
 of our impact cases. Köhnke is a named inventor in several patents that form a chunk of the IP
 foundation of Gyreox Therapeutics, which just received seed funding. Spray Solutions Co are
 funding a project based on the work of Peveler in collaboration with Clark (Engineering), to
 develop a proof-of-concept device. Sutherland has a long running collaboration with Molecular
 NeuroImaging LLC (recently bought by inviCRO), a medical imaging company based in New
 Haven, Connecticut to develop new PET imaging agents for inflammation associated with brain
 tumours. The ChemPuter (developed by Cronin, Science, 2019) is now in place in 25 different
 organisations including GSK; it is attracting funding from a range of companies including Google
 and has been awarded a NIH grant for a drug discovery challenge (Cronin and Vila-Nadal).
 Engagement with the Wider Community. In terms of wider contributions to the economy and
 society, examples include Wynne being awarded an MRC grant to study malaria-carrying
 mosquitos using infrared spectroscopy and neural-network data analysis, installing equipment and
 know-how in Tanzania. Symes worked with researchers in India on membrane electrolysers
 funded via the GCRF. By attending a Royal Society workshop in Kumasi, Ghana, Skabara
 established a link with the Chemistry Department at the University of Ghana. This led to a capacity
 building Leverhulme/Royal Society Africa Award (2014-2018), involving training of researchers in
 Ghana at Masters and PhD level, staff and student secondments to Glasgow and establishing an
 equipment base in Ghana for materials characterisation. We have engaged with the local
 community through activities such as Pint of Science, visits to local schools and presentations at
 Science fairs.
 Academics within the School actively take leadership roles within the community thereby
 contributing to the health and sustainability of the discipline, as evidenced through:
  • Organising, chairing and co-chairing of high-profile international conferences and meetings
    including for example MC14 (Adams, 2016), MC15 (Forgan, 2018), Electrochem2019
    (Symes, 2019) and Time-Resolved Vibrational Spectroscopy (Wynne, 2017).
  • Delivering 87 Plenary and >330 invited lectures at international conferences, as well as > 335
    invited colloquia.
  • Draper sits on the Women in Supramolecular Chemistry (WISC) committee. She has set up
    mentoring groups and a Parents Cluster group to support marginalised groups working in
    supramolecular chemistry.
  • Acting as advisors to the academic community. Staff act as panel members and Chairs for a
    wide number of UK and overseas funding programmes and facilities access, including for
    example Skabara as member of 3 Portuguese national panels (including 1 as Chair), 1
    TUBITAK research panel for fellowships and currently a member of the Royal Society
    Research Appointment Panel A(ii); Scientific Advisory Committees, Hargreaves as Chair of
    Panel 5, Diamond Synchrotron Access Panel (2018-2019; panel member 2015-2019);
    Gregory as Chair of Panel 9, Diamond Synchrotron Access Panel (2018-2019); Lennon as
    a member of Oak Ridge National Laboratory’s Neutron Sciences Directorate, Spallation
    Neutron Source, Chemical Spectroscopy Committee (2017-2020) and member of the
    Chemistry Facility Access Panel for Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble, Subcommittee 7,
    Spectroscopy in Solid State Physics (2017-2019).
  • Glasgow Chemistry PIs act or have acted as editors, board members, associate editors and
    editorial board members of many international journals, for example Journal of the American
    Chemical Society (Wynne), Applied Catalysis A (Hargreaves), Journal of Materials
    Chemistry A (Cooke) Journal of Materials Chemistry C (Skabara) leading to membership of
    the Royal Society of Chemistry’s Publishing Board and its Science & Publications Committee
    which oversee the publishing strategy of the RSC, Inorganics (Gregory), Biopolymers
    (Jamieson), Gels (Adams). Many staff sit on Editorial boards including Scientific Reports
    (Cronin, Ganin, Symes), Catalysis, Structure & Reactivity (Gibson), Chemical Physics
    (Wynne), and Editorial Advisory Boards including Chemical Science and Chemical Society
    Reviews (Adams), Organic Letters (Prunet). Our staff regularly referee for a range of journals


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and funding bodies. For example, three staff (Adams, Miras, Schmidt) were in the top 10
     reviewers for Chemistry (Publons, 2019).
  • Holding visiting Professorships at several international institutions including University of
    Sydney (Clark, who was also the Ernest Ritchie Memorial Lecturer), Kyushu University
    (Gregory), ETH Zurich (Clark), University of Nagoya (Skabara), Zhejiang University of
    Technology (Gregory), Inner Mongolia University (Jackson). Additionally, a significant
    number of staff (around 25%) hold (or have held) competitively-won Fellowships in the REF
    period including Adams (EPSRC Early Career Fellowship); Boyer (Royal Society
    Fellowship); Busche (Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellow); Cronin (ERC Advanced Grant);
    Draper (Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship); Forgan (Royal Society Fellowship and
    ERC Starter Grant); Gibson (LKAS Fellow); Kadodwala (Leverhulme Trust Research
    Fellowship); Karimullah (EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellowship); Peveler (LKAS Fellow);
    Symes (Royal Society Fellowship); Wynne (ERC Advanced Grant).
  • Contributing to a range of committees and special interest groups, such as Secretary for
    Macro Group UK (Adams, until 2016), Elected member of the RSC Materials Divisional
    Council (Cooke, 2015-2018), Treasurer and founding member of the RSC Interest Group in
    Porous Materials (Forgan), Treasurer of the RSC Surface Reactivity & Catalysis Interest
    Group (Gibson), Chair of the Surface Reactivity and Catalysis Interest Group (Hargreaves),
    Elected Member of the Chemistry Biology Interface Council (Hartley), Chair of the RSC
    Chemical Biology and Bioorganic Group (Jamieson), RSC ESR Spectroscopy Group
    (Sproules), Secretary of the RSC Electrochemistry interest group (Symes).
 The contribution of the School to the community has been recognised through a number of awards
 and medals in the REF period including: Adams, Macrocyclic and Supramolecular Group Prize
 (the Bob Hay lectureship, 2015); Macro Group UK Award for Contribution to UK Polymer Science
 (2015); Top Cited ISI (2018); Clark, RSC Bader Award (2015); Cronin, RSC Tilden Prize (2015);
 RSC Interdisciplinary Prize (2018); ACS Inorganic Lectureship (2018); Docampo, Top Cited ISI
 (2018); Draper, RSC Macrocyclic and Supramolecular Chemistry PhD Prize (2016); BTM Willis
 Prize (2020); Forgan, Sessler Early Career Researcher Award (2018); Gregory, IOM3 Kroll Prize
 and Award (2019); Schmidt, Polymers 2020 Young Investigator Award (2020); Skabara, Peter
 Day Award (2018); Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award holder (2014-2018); Wynne,
 RSC Chemical Dynamics Award (2018). On top of this, staff were elected to the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh over the REF period (Adams in 2019, Wynne in 2015) and Adams was elected as a
 Fellow of Learned Society of Wales in 2018.




                                                                                         Page 16
