Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies (UoA
 33)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit 33 at York St John University represents a sustained, developing, and dynamic body of
 research embracing: the arts and social justice; creative and compositional practice; and
 contemporary film studies. We are a unit comprising both experienced and early-career
 researchers (ECRs), along with a growing postgraduate researcher (PGR) community, that
 together forms an exciting research environment that has significant presence as a leading
 research unit within the university and on national and international platforms.

 This unit builds on and continues submissions within this subject area to Research Assessment
 Exercise (RAE) 2008 and Research Excellence Framework (REF) 2014. In RAE2008, 25% of
 the overall submission to UoA 65 was judged to be 3* and 4*. In REF2014, as UoA 35, the area
 again recorded one of the highest REF results for the university, with overall 36% assessed as
 3* and 4*, including 60% for impact. The unit’s submission to REF2021, predominantly located
 within the School of the Arts, is the largest yet, with contributions from 18 members of staff
 equalling 16.8 full-time equivalent (FTE) (increased from 10.2 FTE in 2014). This record and
 growth provides evidence for the strength and sustainability of research in the performing arts
 and screen studies at YSJU.

 The university’s institutional objectives – defined within YSJU Strategy 2026 – is to produce
 world-leading and impactful research with a particular focus on social justice. The submission
 from this unit, and the accompanying culture of vibrant, socially engaged and rigorous research,
 illustrates our leading contribution to delivering this strategy in a manner that is integral to the
 identity and philosophy of the institution.

 For the 2013–20 period, the research strategy for the unit has been to build upon our record of
 sustained delivery, encouraging all staff at whatever stage of their career to develop strong
 research identities within a supportive and collegiate environment. In doing so it seeks to nurture
 impactful research while working towards greater equality and diversity.

 Research strands
 The unit identifies strands of expertise in three areas: 1) Arts for social justice, 2) creative and
 compositional practice and 3) film studies. The first two strands are continuations of those
 articulated in the 2014 environment statement, demonstrating an enduring focus and
 commitment to sustained development. These areas have continued to be invested in through
 recruitment of academic staff, targeted use of quality-related (QR) funding, development of the
 PGR community and the emphasis on partnership-based, social-justice-orientated research.
 Together these strands compose three vibrant areas of national and international research.

 Strand 1: Arts for social justice
 This grouping incorporates research being undertaken in a variety of contexts, including arts and
 health, community music, theatre in prisons, disability arts and arts in education. Two key
 strategies have been instrumental in growing this research group. The first is the identification of
 practice and research centres, whose directors have been provided with time remission and/or
 administrative support. This includes:
     • Converge (arts and mental health partnership): Director Rowe
     • International Centre for Community Music (ICCM): Director Higgins
     • Prison Partnership Project (PPP): Director Conlon

 The latter two centres were both launched within this REF cycle (ICCM in 2015; PPP in 2013),
 with the unit consciously seeking to build on the experience and success of Converge (launched
 2008) as a centre for applied and community orientated research practice.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Second, the unit has developed this socially engaged research strand through partnerships with
 arts, education, health and criminal justice organisations. These have enabled the development
 of impactful research that directly informs and shapes professional practice and makes
 contributions to arts policy. Each of these research groups has been supported through QR
 funding to seed and support activity, with the partnerships also used to unlock matched funding
 opportunities and build collaborative doctorial projects.

 The two impact case studies – arts and mental health (Rowe) and community music research
 (Higgins) – are both orientated within this strand. In addition, other staff working in this strand
 include Hatton (arts and social care), Heinemeyer (storytelling, applied theatre) and Reason
 (theatre and disability, theatre and education).

 Research activity within this strand has been instrumental in leading university-wide policy. In
 2020, the university launched the Institute for Social Justice, appointing Reason as director.
 Mirroring this structure, the School of the Arts formed the Social Justice Collective, led by
 Conlon. These moves further embed and strengthen this area of activity, demonstrating its
 sustainability and ambitions to foster a unique culture of practice and research that drives the
 university’s social justice mission.

 Strand 2: Research in creative and composition practice
 This strand includes research conducted into and through music composition, music production
 and theatre-making that seeks to develop understandings of creative arts practice. This research
 is key to the identity of the School of the Arts, where creative practice is embedded within every
 level of delivery, from taught undergraduate through to research degrees. As a research area it
 is supported through a vibrant creative community of resident and visiting artists, hosted
 performances, and a pro-active approach to supporting the touring, documentation and
 dissemination of creative practice. Researchers attached to this strand include: Lancaster and
 McCaleb (music), Marrington and Wilsmore (music production), Hind and O’Brien (theatre).

 The school has utilised QR funding to support this strand through recognising the importance of
 touring, high-quality recording and collaborative partnerships – these partnerships are vital in
 exhibiting, performing and disseminating work in this area. Internal funding has therefore been
 used to match Arts Council funding and to underwrite costs associated with arts and
 compositional practice. For example, the unit has supported Hind in presenting work at the
 Freud Museum, London, and Defibrillator Gallery, Chicago; and Lancaster in producing
 recordings with Filharmonie Brno.

 It is important to note that although presented as separate strands, these two areas of activity
 inform and interweave. Development of creative and compositional practice is essential to the
 delivery of socially engaged practice, while the commitment to social justice underpins much of
 the work in creative practice.

 Strand 3: Research in film studies
 This strand comprises the film studies element of the unit, which includes six colleagues (Hall,
 Johnson, McDonald, Rawle, Selway, Stephenson) from the School of the Arts and the School of
 Humanities. This strand has a conceptual focus on the reception and cultural manifestation of
 transnational and independent cinemas, with colleagues working together to host significant
 conferences at YSJU in 2017 (Transnational Monsters) and 2018 (Men Writing Women: Women
 in the Work of Woody Allen and Beyond).

 The university has recognised the importance of film studies, having embedded connections with
 the film industry, which enables the strand’s research focus on increasing our understanding of
 contemporary film-making to have a ready audience and impact. This is manifested in a total
 investment to date of £217,000 into the Aesthetica Short Film Festival. Between 2015 and 2020
 YSJU has hosted events as part of the international festival, in collaboration with Hall and


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rawle, while members of staff from across the unit chaired panels with filmmakers, film festival
 programmers and industry executives.

 This research grouping is a central element of a YSJU partnership with the regional screen
 agency Screen Yorkshire and other Yorkshire-based higher education institutions (HEIs) on
 several schemes that promote collaboration between screen industries and related academic
 subject areas. Through these initiatives, members of this strand have participated in research,
 which includes partnership with local SME YorkMix to develop 360 video journalism, as well as
 providing funding in kind for XR Stories and Screen Industries Growth Network (SIGN) schemes
 that support growth in the local screen industries.

 Research management and support structure
 Research within the School of the Arts is managed by a school research and knowledge transfer
 lead (SRKTL) (Reason) as a professorial-level appointment who sits on the school academic
 leadership team (SALT) and University Research Committee (URC). The SRKTL has
 responsibility for supporting colleagues to develop and enhance their academic profile and for
 overseeing PGR processes. To facilitate this process and ensure transparency and fairness, the
 SRKTL is supported by a research working group consisting of academics from different subject
 areas across the school. An ECR sits on the research working group, which is constructed to
 have an equal male/female representation and has an active remit, to consider the impact of
 decision and funding allocations on questions of equality and diversity.

 Together the SRKTL and research working group administrate the internal school research
 budget. Funding is focused on projects that can deliver strategic aims, including increasing
 research capability; collaborative projects; seed funding and grant preparation; and impact and
 public engagement funding. Application to school QR funding is open to all academic staff, with
 ECRs particularly encouraged and invited to submit through meetings with the SRKTL. For
 example, as an ECR in 2019 Heinemeyer received £3,300 for an education for ecological justice
 research project. With mentorship from the SRKTL this will be extended in 2020–21 with cross-
 school funding, enabling this project to expand as an interdisciplinary enquiry.

 The research working group, along with the SRKTL, organises a regular series of school-wide
 research events, titled “Research Puddings”. These are structured to be cross-disciplinary, with
 each event including speakers from across the school, with senior researchers, ECRs, post-docs
 and PGRs presenting alongside each other. Each year between 12 and 16 papers are hosted by
 “Research Puddings”.

 Research goals and research impact
 The unit has three ongoing and underpinning strategic objectives:
     1. Develop the reputation of YSJU as a centre of excellence for research and practice in
        arts for social justice.
     2. Support the development of impactful research, particularly through establishing
        meaningful partnerships.
     3. Enhance the inclusivity, equality and diversity of the practice and research in the unit.
 Each of these objectives is based upon achievements made during the current REF2021 and
 provides sustainable but ambitious objectives for the next five-year cycle. The following
 discussion will examine the present and future orientation of these objectives in turn.

 1. Excellence in arts for social justice
 In adopting this strategy, the unit takes as fundamental YSJU’s mission statement “to stand up
 for social justice”. Work from across this unit (specifically Rowe, Conlon, Hind, Higgins) was
 extensively mentioned within the university’s successful application in 2019 for the Silver
 Watermark from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE). In 2020 the
 university has underpinned this mission through the launch of a new, university-wide Institute for
 Social Justice (ISJ), which will act to further enhance and profile the work conducted within
 schools and enable individual projects to draw down additional expertise, funding and resources.
 The appointment of Reason as director of the new institute indicates the centrality of work from

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this unit in the development of this initiative. The social justice focus is defined within the unit as
 conducting research that seeks to make a difference in people’s lives through its relevancy to
 policy and practice and through using arts-based knowledge to give individuals and community
 groups greater critical and political agency over the world in which we live. The launch of the ISJ
 was marked by the awarding of three PhD arts for social justice fee bursaries to this unit, with
 projects connected to 1) mental health, 2) environmental justice and 3) community music.

 The delivery of this research objective is based upon supporting the work of the arts for social
 justice research strand described above, including through: conscious and careful developments
 of research partnerships; staff time remission to develop and sustain these projects; and use of
 QR funding to support documentation and dissemination of practice. A mixture of internal
 investment and external funding has enabled the three centres described above to gain the
 necessary support structures to operate at a high level of quality and integrity. This includes
 dedicated administrative support (ICCM; Converge), post-doc researchers (1 FTE ICCM; 1 FTE
 Converge), graduate internships (0.2 FTE PPP) and PGRs.

 2. Impactful research/impactful partnerships
 This research strategy is guided by the articulation of impactful research within the university’s
 Strategy 2026 and the awareness of the centrality to the unit of strong industry and community
 partnerships, dating back to the successful impact case studies submitted in REF2014. Since
 that point the unit has continued to invest staffing, time and resources in supporting practice and
 research partnerships. This has enabled existing partnerships to flourish and also the
 establishment of new partnerships with organisations such as Freedom Studios, Mind the Gap,
 More Music and Clean Break. The returns and success of this investment is manifested in the
 two impact case studies: 1) Arts and Mental Health and 2) Shaping Community Music within
 Institutional and Higher Educational Practice. The case studies demonstrate the unit’s decision
 to invest in new appointments (Higgins was appointed professor of community music in 2015)
 and to support and nurture the community of practice that had developed around Converge –
 this case study references the work of three academics (Rowe, Heinemeyer and Reason) from
 within this unit and a further five from across the university.

 An underpinning ethos of the Converge model has been that of turning the university “inside out”
 – that is, to reverse the traditional conceptualisation of the academy as an enclosed space of
 specialised knowledge and instead make active connections with different external communities
 and bodies of knowledge. In this model the knowledge, skill and research of the university are
 shared with, and made accessible to, the community; who in turn are valued for their particular
 knowledge residing in lived experience and technical or practical expertise. Examples include
 Converge recasting its participants not as mental health service users but students attending
 courses on the university campus, or the PPP conducting work that takes students into prisons
 and also includes prisoners and released prisoners in panels and events taking place at the
 university. The investment in partnerships also connects to this ambition to open up and turn the
 university inside out, seeing them as relationships defined by mutuality and knowledge
 exchange, rather than one of knowledge hierarchy. The recent knowledge transfer funding
 award for Converge from Research England and the Office of Students (see Section 3) is
 indicative of the success of the vision, which has also informed the establishment and orientation
 of the new ISJ.

 Converge itself is based upon a close ongoing partnership with regional NHS Trusts and the
 investment in strong research partnerships will continue to inform the development of the unit
 going forward, with increasing emphasis on collaborative support for doctoral students and
 participatory research with community groups and creative partners. In April 2020, Converge
 successfully bid for £356,000 in funding from Research England and the Office for Students to
 conduct research and evaluation of Converge’s knowledge exchange activities. This project will
 run for two years from September 2020, with Rowe as PI and Reason as Co-I.

 A “partnership” is defined flexibly in response to context and need but where appropriate is
 underpinned by a formal written agreement and signing of a memorandum of understanding. As

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 part of its future strategy, the unit will actively seek to develop new partnerships with arts and
 community organisations that intersect with the other strategic objectives and help develop 1)
 our arts and social justice portfolio and 2) our inclusivity, equality and diversity objectives.

 3. Inclusivity, equality and diversity
 This unit recognises that working towards greater inclusivity, equality and diversity in its practice
 and research is an area that requires ongoing work and improvement. It is articulated as one of
 the three underpinning strategies both because it is central to our social justice strategy and also
 to ensure it continues to be our priority going forward.

 The unit considers its commitment to social justice research as part of its objective to work
 towards equality and diversity. The ethos of the research undertaken, which often engages with
 applied, community or socially engaged contexts, seeks to give value to the stories and
 experiences of those that are often excluded from dominant cultural discourses. To this end
 research engages with the arts in connection to mental health, prisons, young people, people
 with learning disabilities and more. Work within the unit seeks to actively engage such excluded
 communities within the academic research and publication processes through collaborative
 research and opportunities for research training. Reason has conducted research and
 development projects with learning disabled artists at Mind the Gap theatre company. As part of
 this learning, disabled artists helped design The Theatre Maker’s Doodle Book, which has
 subsequently been translated into Swedish and French and disseminated to 2,000 young people
 around York. In 2021 this partnership will also see the unit validating Mind the Gap’s Performing
 Arts Academy for learning disabled students as a YSJU-accredited Certificate in Higher
 Education, demonstrating the synergy between research and teaching strategies in this area.
 Conlon’s practice-research with the PPP engages with women in the criminal justice system,
 providing opportunities for women from diverse socioeconomic and black, Asian and minority
 ethnic (BAME) backgrounds to collaborate with professional arts organisations such as the
 Donmar Warehouse. This focus on providing high-quality arts or university experiences to
 vulnerable or marginalised participants and communities is also manifested in Converge, as part
 of which Rowe has provided research training to individuals with lived experience of mental ill-
 health. In 2017, Rowe established the Converge Evaluation and Research Team (CERT), which
 now has nine members and has co-published academic papers and evaluation reports. Between
 2017 and 2019, CERT’s income from external evaluations was £14,000.

 Looking forward, the unit’s research strategy is to ensure that the manner and focus of our
 research (what we research and how we research) is aligned with our focus on social justice,
 working to ensure that we engage with divergent voices, perspectives and audiences.

 Aligned with this outward focus, central to the unit’s strategies for the next research cycle is the
 aim to develop its equality and diversity structures internally, by ensuring that opportunities to
 engage with research, to access research funding and to receive appropriate career support and
 promotion opportunities are not subject to barriers due to gender, race or class. Central to this is
 supporting ECRs to access research support and enter our research community.

 Creative Centre
 The new Creative Centre, due to open Sept 2021, located at the heart of YSJU’s city-centre
 campus, will give the unit an opportunity to further embed its presence within the city of York and
 wider Yorkshire region. The centre will be used to provide enhanced opportunities to host visiting
 artists and researchers and as a base for the deliberate and sustained engagement with a
 diverse range of community-based projects. At present our socially engaged research practice
 operates “out there” in different community contexts and also increasingly seeks to blur the
 boundaries and hierarchies within the university by bringing participants onto the campus as
 performers, audiences and experts through experience and researchers. The Creative Centre
 will enable us to further this objective of opening up our university and our research to
 collaborators and co-researchers.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Creative Centre will support researchers located within strand 2 by providing new
 performance, production and rehearsal facilities and is expected to become a new base for
 activity within strand 3, including as a key site for the Aesthetica Short Film Festival. The
 university’s development of the Creative Centre demonstrates investment in this unit, allowing it
 to grow in a sustainable manner and with ever increasing confidence and public profile.

 Open research
 The unit’s approach to open access is aligned to that of the university, which is committed to the
 principles identified in the Concordat on Open Research Data. All research outputs, beyond the
 required journal outputs, are lodged with the institutional repository, Research at York St John
 (RaY), with staff provided training and support where necessary. In addition, where applicable
 we follow the university position that all research data should be made publicly available through
 the Research at York St John Data Repository (RaYDaR), except where there are legal or
 ethical reasons not to do so.

 Beyond these formal approaches, a commitment to an open-research culture is fostered in this
 unit through ambitions to make research accessible in forms appropriate to those involved and
 those implicated. Examples of this are providing researchers with guidelines to produce research
 reports for partner organisations and to participate in public-facing events (such as the York
 Festival of Ideas). As a specific example of this open-research culture, outputs produced through
 the partnership with Mind the Gap theatre company are also being disseminated in “easy read”
 versions for people with learning disabilities.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The staff development objective underpinning this unit is to support all staff to engage in
 research in a manner appropriate to individual needs and ambitions. The unit is guided by the
 university’s alignment with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 and all researchers submitted within this unit are on long-term contracts. All staff, at whatever
 level of research experience, are supported through the active use of personal development
 reviews (PDRs) which are conducted annually by the head of school, with the SRKTL feeding in
 on research objectives and targets. Having identified research targets, staff are supported in
 reaching these through: offers of research mentorship, either internally or externally;
 management of workload; engagement in research seminar series and working groups; and
 through access to internal QR funding.

 Within the REF period the unit has seen the promotion of one professor (Reason, 2014) and the
 appointment to a new role of professor of community music (Higgins, 2015) and the
 simultaneous establishment of the new ICCM. In 2014 Higgins became president-elect of the
 International Society of Music Education (ISME), the first community musician elected to this
 role, and his appointment by YSJU was designed to significantly increase the unit’s research
 profile and capacity in the field of community music, aligning with the social justice research
 strand described above, which had previously been primarily located within theatre. Meanwhile,
 two members of staff in Theatre (Rowe, 2013; Hind, 2014) and one in Screen Studies (Rawle,
 2015) have been promoted from senior lecturer to associate professor to recognise research
 achievements and provide support in the form of a reduction of teaching load by 45%. Taken
 together, these appointments represent significant investment in senior research roles within the
 unit, with these individuals forming a professoriate who take a lead role in areas such as
 research mentoring, postgraduate supervision, development of impactful research leading to
 REF case studies, developing a bid writing culture and provision of postgraduate training.

 The unit incorporates four ECRs (Hatton, Heinemeyer, Selway, Stephenson) whose progression
 is supported through an active mentoring scheme, opportunities to publish in collections edited
 by more experienced researchers and an active internal research seminar series. ECRs are
 specifically represented on the school research working group and given direct guidance by the
 SRL in applying for internal QR funding.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The unit’s engagement with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 is also illustrated by the support given to colleagues with practitioner or industry backgrounds
 who do not currently have significant responsibility for research but have aspiration to develop a
 research portfolio. At present a total of seven members of staff in the areas of theatre, music and
 music production (Birch, Burrows, Crowton, Dorey-Richmond, Hepworth-Sawyer, Johnson and
 Richmond) are undertaking practice-based PhD research. These are supported by the university
 through fee-waivers (if enrolled at YSJU) or fee-payments (if enrolled elsewhere) and through
 the allocation of one day a week dedicated to their PhD practice and full support in accessing
 PGR training opportunities. This represents a time and resource commitment to maintaining the
 growth and sustainability of research in this area and a refusal to see research as an activity
 separate from practice or from which any members of staff are excluded through contract or
 experience. Support for researchers transitioning from industry, including women following
 career breaks following maternity, also aligns with the unit’s inclusivity and equality objectives.

 The unit actively contributes to and draws upon the university-wide CPD programme of 40
 sessions annually that is aligned with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) and
 delivered primarily by members of the professoriate. The CPD programme includes focus on
 open and accessible research and includes support specifically for ECRs.

 Technical support
 The unit includes several practice-researchers, whose work requires technical facilities and
 specialist support. During this REF cycle the school has increased technical support from 5.38
 FTE in 2013–14 to 7.96 as of April 2020.

 PGR students
 During this REF cycle, YSJU was awarded RDAP (2015); prior to this PGR awards were made
 by the University of Leeds. This unit oversaw the award of the first YSJU PhD to one of its PGRs
 (Heinemeyer). Following the completion of her PhD, Heinemeyer was appointed a post-doctoral
 fellow to develop her practice-research in socially engaged storytelling, and subsequently in
 2020 to lecturer.

 While still relatively small, the unit’s PGR community has continued to grow. In the current REF
 period the unit has seen 6.5 PhD completions (compared to one in the REF2014 cycle). At the
 time of writing, the unit has 13 PhD candidates enrolled across all subject areas. This growth of
 PGR completions and current students has been achieved through a strategy of obtaining
 external funding for partnership or collaboration-orientated studentships. This has included a
 Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) funded collaborative PhD with York Theatre
 Royal, Converge (part NHS trust funded), Mind the Gap theatre company (funded by the Paul
 Hamlyn and Esmée Fairbairn foundations), More Music (part funded by More Music). The unit
 has worked with the School of the Arts to provide fee waivers to match external charity or third-
 sector funding and this strategy is in line with the unit’s impact and research strategy of
 partnership-orientated research. In 2020, the school combined with the ISJ to offer three fee
 waivers in the areas of arts and mental health, theatre and environmental justice and community
 music. Within Film and Screen Studies there has been a conscious focus on developing a
 research rather than taught master’s programme, with four completions in the 2013–19 time
 period and a total of nine MRes students currently enrolled.

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year and supervisory
 meetings are logged. It is mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of
 staff with experienced supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to
 successful completion). In addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to
 provide pastoral support.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Core parts
 of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity, General Data Protection Regulation
 (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright and Intellectual Property rights. These
 sessions are compulsory for all PGR students. A range of other central and local support is
 available to PGR students that include (1) access to centralised services (e.g. Student Services,
 Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services, Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900
 (£450 part-time) to support their research and professional development; (3) access to the YSJU
 Graduate Centre providing study space and a range of specialist software; (4) opportunity to
 complete a postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve associate fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support provided by the School and
 Research Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the year (e.g., Three Minute
 Thesis (3MT), and the annual PGR conference).

 At a school level, all practice researchers within the unit audit The Reflective Practitioner, a
 taught MA module providing a grounding in practice research methodologies.

 During the REF period, Higgins, Reason and Rowe have each co-published with and/or included
 the work of PGRs (Currie, Hall, Heinemeyer, Humphrey, Stannage) in edited book publications,
 while Higgins has also appointed two PGRs (Birch and Humphrey) as research assistants for
 ongoing national and international projects. In 2017, PGR Marshall Griffiths was awarded the
 Best Single Drama in the BBC Audio Drama Awards for work produced as part of her practice-
 based research. PGRs are invited to attend and also frequently present at the unit’s research
 seminar series “Research Puddings”.

 Equality and diversity
 The unit sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development;
 median gender pay gap <10%; 95% staff think the university is a good place to work). Equality
 impact assessments are reported to executive board and the governing body on a yearly basis.
 YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (currently applying for a Bronze Award), a
 Stonewall Top 100 Employer Diversity Champion (49th) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability
 Confident employer, and a Mindful Employer. There are also active staff networks available for
 staff to join that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and
 Disability staff networks.

 At present the unit is disproportionately represented by male researchers (11.4 FTE v 5.4 FTE).
 As a step in the process of counterbalancing this, three of the most recent appointments (Hatton,
 Heinemeyer, Stephenson) are all women and all ECRs. Supporting the development of the
 research trajectory of female ECRs is vital to the unit delivering on its equality commitments,
 including through providing access to QR funding for projects, assigning all new appointments a
 mentor and placing ECRs within PGR supervision teams and on the school-wide research
 working group.

 Both the school and the unit have poor representation of black, Asian and minority ethnic
 (BAME) staff. The process of decolonising the curriculum and ensuring that the staff and
 research base embraces and is representative of diversity is something that the unit will pursue
 going forward through actions including:
     • Subject areas identifying active targets to achieve in decolonising the curriculum.
     • A broader curricula and pro-active recruitment strategy helping ensure future recruitment
        attracts applications from BAME academics.
     • Future PGR fee waivers and bursaries actively promoted to BAME researchers.

                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Developing partnerships with organisations that will enhance the unit’s ability to work with
        under-represented individuals and communities.
 Movement on this last point has begun with a new partnership with Freedom Studios, Bradford,
 which will provide the location for the ISJ-sponsored PGR exploring questions of leadership and
 agency in ecological justice amongst BAME young people.

 The unit complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN development
 groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional
 levels.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Following REF2014, the unit sought to expand and develop a culture of applying for external
 research funding, including from research council and arts/industry sources. This has been
 supported by members of staff with successful experience of obtaining funding providing
 workshops and one-on-one support. The unit celebrates submissions, seeing these as the first
 step to future successful applications.

 The Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) recorded research income for the unit from
 2013 to 2020 is £297,784. The equivalent figure for REF2014 was £108,492; REF2021 therefore
 represents an increase of 174% of external research grant income.

 Research income aligns with the strands, centres and narratives described in Section 1, with
 four examples provided here indicating the partnership, practice and social justice research
 being conducted.
     • Conlon has brought in external funding from the charity sector for the PPP and applied
        theatre research working with schools and young people to support online safety
        (National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children [NSPCC], £39,903).
     • Between 2017 and 2020, Higgins’s work with the ICCM has brought in £103,820 in the
        context of community music. This includes participation in an AHRC network grant and
        the year of funding from JM International for a three-year $480,000 project, Ethno
        Research, exploring the transformational sociocultural and musical significance of Ethno
        music camps.
     • Throughout this REF cycle, Hind has consistently earned Arts Council England funding to
        support the development of her practice-based research, with a total income of £51,782.
        The resulting practice has toured nationally and internationally.
     • Reason’s work in arts for social justice has included high-impact engagement with
        creative industry partners. First, with an AHRC collaborative doctoral award (CDA) on
        participatory storytelling in conjunction with York Theatre Royal (2013–16, £55,000);
        later, in partnership with Mind the Gap theatre company conducting research into
        supporting and developing career opportunities for learning disabled artists (2018–20,
        £24,654).

 In addition to HESA-recorded research income, staff have brought in considerable income
 relating to project and partnership activity. Between 2014 and 2020 the total income recorded by
 the university finance office for this unit is £749,614. The three main areas of income are
 described here.

 Under the directorship of Rowe, Converge is an extended practice research project in arts and
 mental health in a university context, offering a range of educational opportunities to local people
 who have mental health problems. In a normal year, Converge offers 40 courses each year, with

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 over 150 people completing the courses. To support this delivery, Converge earns income from
 numerous funders, with the largest including Igen Trust (2014–20, £205,900) and NHS Trusts
 (2014–20, £341,200).

 The ICCM also collaborates with third-sector and industry partners, with examples including
 More Music (£13,000) and soundLINCS to work with looked after children (£4,868).

 Conlon and the PPP have worked with multiple partners in developing support for women in the
 criminal justice system. Between 2014 and 2020, The On the Out project brought in £24,575
 from Barnados, North Yorkshire Police and North Yorkshire County Council, with a further
 £4,500 from West Yorkshire Police for the Singing Project at HMP New Hall and HMP Askham
 Grange.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The centrality of this unit to the university can be discerned in the decision to invest in a new
 building to house the creative arts, including theatre, film, music and dance. This new facility will
 have specialist spaces supporting the teaching and research of theatre, dance and music. This
 will include enhanced ability to produce and document high-quality practice-based research.
 Between 2018 and 2020, £2m has been invested by the university in the design, development
 and groundwork for the new Creative Centre, which will have a total budget of £15m.

 To facilitate its key strategic aim of research with impact, the university launched its first
 dedicated RO in 2018. Its remit includes supporting grant applications, monitoring research
 performance, overseeing research governance and compliance, coordinating staff research
 training, and managing the PGR student experience. The RO is complemented by a new
 Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO), which is supports staff
 in increasing the range and scope of applied research, business development and knowledge
 exchange.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research conducted within this unit actively seeks to engage externally, with collaborative
 partnerships identified as a key strategy in developing impactful research and socially engaged
 practice. In addition, researchers within this unit contribute to the research base, the cultural
 economy and society through a range of activities, from editorial work, to performance, to grant
 reviewing.

 Arts for social justice
 Conlon is director of the YSJU PPP, which runs research and practice engaging with women
 and the criminal justice system. The PPP is unique in its sustained long-term presence within
 two women’s prisons, HMP Askham Grange and HMP New Hall. From 2015 to 2020, the PPP
 collaborated with the Donmar Warehouse, London, on the research and development of the
 Shakespeare Trilogy, with the director and all-female cast of three productions working with the
 PPP and women prisons. From 2018 this developed into the Shakespeare on Screen in Prisons
 project, funded by Arts Council England, with the PPP as a key collaborator in ongoing applied
 theatre research. Conlon and the PPP were awarded the Longford Prize in 2016 for work in the
 criminal justice system. In 2020, Conlon and the PPP hosted the Shakespeare on Screen in
 Prisons Symposium.

 From 2017, Conlon and Dorey Richmond developed the practice research project It’s Not OK,
 with funding and support from NSPCC. This theatre in education project examined questions of
 sexual harassment and cyberbullying with teenaged audiences and has toured nationally across
 England and Wales.

 Higgins joined YSJU in 2015 and launched the ICCM, providing a global forum through which
 community music research and practice could be nurtured and developed. The ICCM has
 developed a range of activity, including a growing number of PGR students, an annual student

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community music research symposium and collaborative research with a range of industry
 partners. In 2019, the ICCM brought in £384,000 of funding from JM International to conduct
 research into international ethno music festivals.

 The ICCM has hosted the Community Music Student Research Symposium annually since 2015
 and hosted the Community Music and Human Geography Symposium (2018) and Music and
 Social Intervention Research Network (2018). In addition, ICCM works in collaboration with its
 partners to develop and co-host conferences that respond to issues surrounding community
 music. Examples include:

    •   Breaking Boundaries, 2018, co-hosted with Teachers College, Columbia University, in
        New York City USA.
    •   Community Music: Intersections, Crossfields and Ecologies, 2018, co-hosted with the
        Free University of Bozen-Bolzano, Italy.
    •   Engaging in Community Music, Free University Bozen-Bolzano, Italy, 2017,
        co-hosted with the Free University in Bozen-Bolzano, Italy.
    •   Walking the Boundaries, Bridging the Gaps: International Community Music Conference,
        2017, co-hosted with Wilfrid Laurier University, Ontario, Canada.

 Reason’s work on audiences has included international collaborations with Teatercentrum and
 the April Festival, Denmark. In 2016, he co-organised Audiences are Now, a festival symposium
 in Copenhagen, and in 2016–17 he developed and distributed a resource in Danish and English
 titled Talking about Theatre. This included participation in an EU-funded Theatre European
 Engagement Network (TEEN). Between 2017 and 2020 he has developed an innovative
 audience research tool, titled “Where in your body?”, which has been adopted by companies
 including Scottish Ballet, Royal Danish Theatre, Rosie Kay Dance Company and Mind the Gap.

 Reason’s work in applied theatre has includes collaboration with Mind the Gap theatre company,
 which has focused on developing research, resources and insights into career and skills
 development for learning disabled actors. This has included a collaborative PhD studentship and
 the co-created development of a critical reflective resourced titled The Theatre Maker’s Doodle
 Book. The doodle book has been translated into Swedish and French for use by learning
 disabled artists in those countries. In Spring 2020, during the COVID-19 lockdown, Reason also
 worked with the City of York Council and Reconnecting Education, the Arts, Creativity and
 Heritage ([REACH] York’s Cultural Education Partnership) to develop a version of the doodle
 book for young people. Two thousand copies of this were produced and distributed to
 marginalised young people in the York area.

 Rowe is founder and director of Converge, a practice research project that has developed
 award-winning and internationally recognised projects that bring together the arts, university
 sector and mental health service users. Each year since 2014, over 300 people participate in
 Converge courses, which include theatre and dance. Over the last eight years Converge has
 received £384,700 in funding from NHS Trusts and the Converge model has been adopted
 internationally, with courses established in Leeds (in partnership with the University of Leeds,
 Leeds Trinity University, Leeds Becket University and Leeds Conservatoire and Newcastle (with
 University of Northumbria). Pacific University, Oregon, USA, have developed a partnership
 where each year a dozen doctoral students visit York to work with Converge. Converge has won
 or been shortlisted for multiple awards, including the Medipex NHS Innovation Awards, the York
 Cultural Awards and the Health Service Journal Award. In 2018, Rowe was awarded an MBE for
 “services to people with mental health problems in Yorkshire and the north-east of England”.

 In 2014, Reason and Rowe co-convened the Elusive Evidence Research Network and in 2017
 Rowe organised Releasing the Potential, Arts and Mental Health Conference, both at YSJU.

 Research in creative and composition practice
 Hind conducts a range of collaborative practice research. Together with Claire Qualmann, Hind
 has developed the Ways to Wander Project, exploring walking, performance and the printed

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 paged. This has resulted in two book publications, a five-week workshop series on Walking Arts
 Practice at the Tate Modern Gallery in 2017 and a public performance at the Kansas City Art
 Institute, Missouri, USA. Hind was co-convenor of Walking’s New Movement conference
 (University of Plymouth, 2019) and advisory board member for Performing Mountains
 Symposium (University of Leeds, 2018).

 Another ongoing partnership is the Gary and Claire projects, with performer and writer Gary
 Winters. As part of Gary and Claire, Hind collaborated with the Freud Museum in 2019–20 for
 the museum's centenary marking of Freud's seminal essay “Das Unheimliche”. As part of a
 season of events, Gary and Claire presented One Uncanny Sunday, a live performance and a
 lecture presentation with Freud museum members, staff and the public. This continued a
 collaboration between Hind and the Freud Museum dating back to 2012 when they were invited
 to share their work Ghost Track and Kong Lear for public audiences.

 Public performance by Hind include: Lost in a Sea of Glass and Tin (Claire Hind and Gary
 Winters) at York Theatre Royal (2019), Norwich Arts Centre (2019), Defibrillator Gallery,
 Chicago (2017); Dream Yards (Claire Hind and Gary Winters) at Flux Factory, New York (2018),
 Norwich Arts Centre (2016), School of the Arts Institute of Chicago (2014); and The Uncanny: A
 Centenary, public performance at Freud Museum, London (2019).

 The unit hosts an annual series of visiting performances under the banner “Performing House”,
 including performances by ATOM-r, Instant Dissidence, Clean Break, Third Angel, Mat Fraser,
 Karen Christopher and many more. The unit hosts artist talks and events such as the Queering
 Ritual International Conference (2017), Martin O'Brien’s and Suhail Ilyas’s film screening and
 seminar, The Unwell (2017), and ATOM-r’s performance, Rhinestone Cowboy (2020).

 Lancaster’s work in music composition has included numerous collaborative projects. For
 example: Rendez-vous in collaboration with Delta Saxophone Quartet (2018); Music of a
 Thousand Breaths with poet Abi Curtis and electro-acoustic composer David Power (2018);
 Confound Winter with poet Tess Kincaid (2015) and Rough Cut with violinist Peter Sheppard
 Skaerved (2015). Lancaster has presented compositions including Strike, performed by Avant
 Music Group Association Ensemble at Sha Tin Town Hall, Hong Kong (2015); Strata, recorded
 by Filharmonie Brno (conductor Mikel Toms) for CD release on the Ablaze record label (2015);
 Apocalypse performed by Danish National Vocal Ensemble at DR Concert Hall (2016) and
 Christian's Church, Copenhagen (2016), directed by Robert Hollingworth; Jump Cut at Kulas
 Hall, Berea, Cleveland, Ohio (2019); Swan at the Auditorium Steve Martland, Instituto Musicale
 Pietro Vinci, Caltagirone, Sicily (2019).

 McCaleb’s work in music performance with the New York Brass Band includes Glastonbury
 2017 and 2018 and Wilderness Festival 2017.

 Music academics have an ongoing collaboration with York Late Music to bring external
 professional performers onto campus to work with staff and student composers. Examples
 include Chris O’Gorman and Dr K. Sextet (2018–19), Anna Snow/Kate Ledger duo and Delta
 Saxophone Quartet (2019–20).

 Research in screen studies
 Wilsmore is a lead partner for the Mediale Festival, an independent, not-for-profit community
 interest company (CIC) delivering an international biennial media arts festival in York. The York
 Mediale in 2018 was UK’s largest media arts festival, and theatre, music and film at YSJU were
 key partners in programming, hosting and developing this new event. Wilsmore will be YSJU
 lead for the York Mediale 2020.

 This research strand has hosted two international conferences, designed to strengthen its
 identity and focus on avant-garde and transnational cinema: Men Writing Women: Women in the
 Work of Woody Allen and Beyond (2018) and Transnational Monsters (2017).


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to research base
 Researchers within the unit make contributions to their disciplines through a variety of activities.

 Editorial positions
 Hatton: guest editor of special issue of RiDE: Journal of Applied Theatre and Performance
 (2019).
 Higgins: senior editor of the International Journal of Community Music and on the editorial board
 for Metal Music Studies, Journal for Popular Music Education and College Music Symposium.
 Hind: on the editorial board of Journal of Writing in Creative Practice.
 Marrington: series editor for Routledge Perspectives on Music Production.
 Reason: on the editorial board of Participations.

 Research council reviewing
 Higgins: grant applications for The Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (2018, 2019).
 Reason has been AHRC grant review college member since 2016 and has also reviewed for the
 Austrian Science Fund (2020).

 Journal/book reviewing
 Heinemeyer: peer reviews for RiDE and Research in Education.
 Higgins: reviews manuscripts for Oxford University Press.
 Marrington: peer reviews for Oxford Handbooks Online and book proposals for Bloomsbury.
 McCaleb: peer reviews for Psychology of Music and book proposals for Routledge and
 Bloomsbury.
 Rawle: peer reviews for Humanities, The Journal of Arts Management, Law and Society,
 Transnational Cinemas and Somatechnics.
 Reason: peer reviews for Arts and the Market, RiDE, Journal of Dramatic Theory and Criticism,
 Poetics, Cultural Trends, Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, International Journal of Media &
 Cultural Politics, International Journal of Performance Arts & Digital Media.
 Reason: reviews proposals and book manuscripts for Bloomsbury, University of Toronto Press,
 Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan, University of Michigan Press.
 Wilsmore: peer reviews for Power and Education.

 Book reviews
 Hall: Film Studies journal and Transnational Cinemas journal.
 Hatton: New Theatre Quarterly and RiDE.
 Heinemeyer: New Theatre Quarterly.
 Marrington: Popular Music.
 Reason: Theatre Research International.

 External examining research degrees
 Higgins: PhDs at Monash University, Australia (2014), University of Sunderland (2016), SOAS
 University of London (2018) and Hochschule für Musik und Theater München, Germany (2018).
 Reason: PhDs at Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (2015), University College London (2016),
 Edge Hill University (2016), University of Kent (2017), London South Bank University (2018),
 Queen Mary University of London (2018), University of Exeter (2020) and Coventry University
 (2020).
 Rowe: PhDs at University of Sheffield (2019) and Queen Mary University (2020).
 Wilsmore: PhDs at Uiversity of Chester (2017), University of Sunderland (2019), Liverpool Hope
 University (2019).
 McDonald: MA by Research at University of Huddersfield (2014).
 Rawle: MA by Research at Canterbury Christ Church University (2017).

 Invited keynotes
 Selected examples:
 Higgins: Pan African Society for Music Arts Education, Seychelles (2019); Music Education:
 Transcending borders through acts of hospitality, Indonesian Music Education Conference,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Yogyakarta, (Oct 2018); Engaging in Community Music, Free University Bozen-Bolzano, Italy
 (2017); The Centre of Excellence in Music Pedagogy, Lavel University, Quebec City, Canada
 (2015).
 Hind: Ways to Wander the Gallery, performance lecture, Tate Modern gallery, London (2018),
 “Critical Encounters” public lecture, Federal University of Rio De Janeiro, Brazil (2015).
 Rawle: Independent Film (and Women) symposium, Liverpool John Moores University (2015).
 Reason: Cradle of Creativity, ASSITEJ festival, Cape Town (2017); Showbox festival, Oslo
 (2015).
 Wilsmore: The Newland Lectures, University of Hull (2015).

 Networks and memberships
 Hatton: fellow of the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust.
 Higgins: president of the International Society for Music Education (2016–18).
 Hind: member of the Walking Artists Network.
 Reason: member of two AHRC research networks, namely the International Network for
 Audience Research in the Performing Arts (2017–20) and Learning at the Intersection of
 Language and the Arts (LILA) (2020–22).
 Rowe: member of the York Mental Health Partnership board.
 Wilsmore: member of the York Cultural Education Partnership.




                                                                                          Page 14
