Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University of the West of Scotland
    Unit of Assessment: 23: Education
    1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy
    Following institutional re-organisation (Summer 2019), the Division of Education (Unit of Assess-
    ment 23) is now part of the UWS School of Education and Social Sciences (ESS).
    At division level, the provision of first-class teacher education at undergraduate and postgraduate
    levels, serving a geographical area blighted by social and economic deprivation, remains a strategic
    priority within the new institutional framework. This has paid dividends in recent years, as the four-
    year BA Education degree was placed 1st amongst providers of initial teacher education (ITE) the
    UK (n=84) in the Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2020, adding to the 1st place in
    the Guardian University Guide in the Summer of 2019. The ‘student experience’ is regarded as
    important in its own right, and, crucially, in promoting the quality of the Division and its contribution
    to the discipline. The focus on the student experience and on partnership working with local educa-
    tion authorities and third-sector education providers is reflected in the staffing profile of the Division.
    A relatively high percentage of the current staff complement (76%) has been recruited in early or
    mid-career from practice-based settings, i.e. from positions in primary or secondary schools, or early
    year’s provision. A number of colleagues within the school are thus currently being supported to
    undertake PhDs (n=4), Professional Doctorates (n=6) under the auspices of the Division of Educa-
    tion or EdDs in other HEIs (n=4) in order to further develop research capacity in a practice-oriented
    environment.
    It is a testament to the quality of research-led teaching that within the reference period for the current
    REF, three undergraduate students from the Division of Education have achieved external recogni-
    tion for the quality of their dissertations: in 2014, Stacey McCulloch received the George D Gray
    Award for the most distinguished undergraduate assignment, sponsored by the General Teaching
    Council for Scotland (GTCS); and in 2017 Rachel Frew achieved the same award. In 2016, Simon
    Taylor was awarded The Critical Writing Prize for ‘Mind the Gap: Encouraging Boys to Read’, which
    explored the reasons for boys’ underachievement in literacy.1 Notwithstanding these robust indica-
    tors of the synergies between research and teaching and the role played by students at all levels in
    enhancing the reputational range of the Division, it is important to record variables that have had a
    significant impact on the research environment, in order to set the progress that has been made in
    this area in context. Over the current REF period, staff student-ratios for the undergraduate courses
    offered in the Division have consistently been at an average of 23:1. This is considerably higher
    than those in other comparable providers in Scotland, where staff-student ratios are 16:1 on aver-
    age.2 A higher percentage of students at UWS are UK-domiciled than at other comparable institu-
    tions; and many are from non-traditional backgrounds, i.e., they are the first in their family to attend
    university. In post-92 institutions like UWS, a greater percentage of UK-domiciled students (14.6
    per cent) come from the 20 per cent most deprived areas, as measured by the Scottish Index of
    Multiple Deprivation (SIMD). According to the latest data available (2016-17), this compares to 8.5
    per cent in the four ancient universities in Scotland (Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and St An-
    drews).3 These data set the scale of the achievement detailed above in context. They are a testa-
    ment to the commitment of academic staff to providing first-class teacher education while engaging
    in ground-breaking scholarship, research and consultancy that serves the interests of the commu-
    nities in which they are located (see under 1.3.1 below for the future-oriented research trajectory,
    in line with the institution’s Strategy 2025).
    As one of the smaller ITE providers in Scotland, the cohort of staff in Education (UOA23) is currently
    40 FTE, of whom 19 (17.5 FTE) have significant responsibility for research (SRR). For the purposes
    of comparison, this represents a significant increase from 14 members of staff returned in REF
    2014. The staffing profile has remained relatively stable and cohesive throughout several institu-
    tional changes since REF 2014. At the time of the last research assessment exercise, the Division
    was a discrete School within a larger Faculty of Education, Health, and Social Sciences. In the

1
    https://thecriticalblog.wordpress.com/2017/05/08/mind-the-gap-encouraging-boys-to-read/
2
    http://www.sfc.ac.uk/web/FILES/statisticalpublications_sfcst042018/SFCST042018_HE_Students_and_Qualifiers_2016-17.pdf
3
http://www.sfc.ac.uk/web/FILES/statisticalpublications_sfcst042018/SFCST042018_HE_Students_and_Qualifiers_2016-17.pdf


                                                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 summer of 2014, the faculties at UWS were disaggregated and the School of Education was estab-
 lished as a separate entity until the merger detailed above (which took place in the summer of 2019).
 The recently-formed School of Education and Social Sciences (ESS) comprises three divisions:
 Education; Psychology and Social Work; and Social Sciences. Current priorities in relation to re-
 search development are to maximise opportunities for collaboration across disciplinary boundaries;
 to capitalise on opportunities presented by the merger to forge connections between Education as
 a distinctive field of inquiry and its foundation disciplines (psychology, sociology, history and philos-
 ophy); and to embed health, society and sustainability, the key research principles established by
 the University in the wake of REF2014 in all activities related to teaching, learning and research.
 Examples of research synergies that have come to the fore during the reference period for the
 current REF include the keynote lecture by Arnott, Professor of Public Policy at UWS, at the annual
 conference of the Scottish Educational Research Association (SERA) that took place at the Univer-
 sity of Dundee in 2016. This is evidence of strategic alliances between researchers with common
 interests across units of assessment, e.g., education policy (Gillies and Arnott) and governance in
 (higher) education (Gillies, Day, Pirrie and Murray).
 At an institutional level, Deuchar, who was previously Assistant Dean for Research and Interna-
 tionalisation in the former School of Education, has been instrumental in developing and leading the
 unique institutional collaboration with the charity Action Against Stalking, resulting in a pioneering
 development of the joint Centre of Excellence with the same name.
 1.1 Structure of Research
 The Education research is focused on internationally impactful teacher education, community edu-
 cation and holocaust education. It is organised around the following research groupings:
 (1) The School-Based Education Research Group (SBERG) has served as a focal point for re-
 search activity relating to compulsory schooling and the professional development of teachers. Sen-
 ior research staff, including the Dean (Gillies), Head of Division (Day) and the two Readers in the
 Division (Cowan and Pirrie), provide the leadership for research-informed education of the highest
 quality so their contribution to undergraduate teaching at all levels, as well as postgraduate teaching
 at Masters, Professional Doctorate and doctoral level is of vital importance for the SBERG’s effec-
 tiveness. This further ensures the provision of nationally-recognised high-quality research-informed
 teacher education that serves the continuing professional development needs of practitioners at all
 stages of their careers.
 (2) The Institute of Youth and Community Studies focuses on the interface between formal and
 informal learning contexts; social pedagogy; transformational community and youth work; commu-
 nity regeneration and health improvement across the life-course in areas in the West of Scotland
 that are blighted by high levels of deprivation. This activity, and the emphasis on exploring the full
 range of learner identities in a creative and interdisciplinary manner, underscores the central mis-
 sion of the Division outlined in the introduction above and in the research trajectory described below.
 Research conducted by colleagues in UOA23 reflects the key mission of the Division of Education,
 namely the provision of first-class teacher education at undergraduate and postgraduate levels,
 serving a geographical area blighted by social and economic deprivation. Key themes closely re-
 lated to educational practice at all levels of compulsory schooling, Higher Education and Community
 Education are educational leadership (Gillies, Day and Pirrie); reflective practice (Gillies, Pirrie
 and Day); citizenship education, with a specific focus on Holocaust education (Henderson-Bone,
 Cowan and Maitles) (see under 1.4 below); the development of scientific literacy (Day, Killen);
 religious and moral education (RMP) (Matemba); literacy and numeracy (Bignell, Webster);
 partnership working with local education providers (through evaluations of learning rounds and
 similar initiatives) (Bignell and Oates); community development in areas of socio-economic dep-
 rivation (Cross, Coburn, Wallace, Beggan) (see under 1.4 below), including early years provision
 (Gollek, Henderson-Bone); higher education policy and practice (Day and Pirrie). The latter is
 an active member of The Higher Education Research Group (HERG) at the University of Edinburgh,
 under the auspices of which she has presented interdisciplinary work relating to the culture of higher
 education:                 https://www.ed.ac.uk/education/rke/our-research/teacher-curriculum-peda-
 gogy/herg/events


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2 Review of REF 2014 and Current REF Period
 Increasing research activity of academic staff has been the key objective since REF2014. We have
 achieved major improvements during the current REF period, resulting in the diversification of the
 funding portfolio (>GBP1,000,000 total funding, including British Academy, British Association of
 Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes, Carnegie Trust, European Commission, etc.). In terms
 of specific initiatives beyond the REF2014 aims, the development in 2015 of a Professional Doc-
 torate based in the then School of Education is of particular importance for practice-based research
 (=36). It provides opportunities for professionals with extensive experience in particular fields of
 practice (teaching, nursing, social work, and advertising) as well as UWS colleagues from across
 the university to undertake professional doctoral studies. This exemplifies the broad educational
 mission of the Division, which extends beyond the provision of first-class undergraduate provision
 and serves the wider university community. The first graduate of the programme received the award
 in the 2019-20 session. The Professional Doctorate is of strategic importance in an institutional
 context in which many colleagues are recruited mid-career from practice (i.e., from education, health
 and social care). As noted above, several colleagues (n=6) within the Division are currently engag-
 ing with the Programme, which will also serve to increase supervisory capacity in the Division.
 During the period of the last REF, the transition of the university’s overall research agenda from its
 previous three-pronged thematic positioning to explicit alignment with the UN Sustainable Develop-
 ment Goals provided a very helpful and supportive context for the School and colleagues in UOA23
 to advance their current research ambitions. Therefore, developing from the original Centre for Re-
 search in Education, the main focus of which has been to increase research capacity, the newly-
 formed School-based Educational Research Group (SBERG) provided a transitional mechanism for
 research projects, training sessions, and seminars within the School, while also serving as a focal
 point for research collaboration and partnerships elsewhere in the university.
 A second grouping of colleagues in The Institute of Youth and Community Studies (henceforth The
 Institute) also drew expertise from elsewhere in the university and this was further bolstered by the
 appointment of the renowned critical pedagogue Professor Shirley Steinberg (2014-16); the devel-
 opment of a Master’s degree in Critical Youth and Community Studies; and the award of an honorary
 doctorate to Henry Giroux, an occasion which also involved seminars with research students and a
 high-profile public event held in the Summer of 2016.4 These were significant landmarks in the
 development of the research environment in the current reference period. The community-oriented
 focus of the Institute reaffirms the emphasis on partnership working and collaboration with local
 education providers referred to above, as does the collaboration with third-sector agencies in areas
 of high socio-economic deprivation. This is reflected in the nature of the research and consultancy
 undertaken by colleagues in the Division. The small cohort of staff (n=4) at The Institute add value
 to the surrounding communities by developing the community education workforce at local and na-
 tional level as well as contributing to the broader national debate on inclusive approaches to social
 justice and widening participation issues that are consonant with the broader mission of the School.
 1.3 Strategy: Next Five Years
 The synergies between teaching and research are key to meeting the strategic objectives of the
 institution. At the School level, the key principles that will inform the development of the School of
 Education and Social Sciences (ESS) in the years ahead are: (1) promoting and sustaining high-
 quality research activity; (2) providing a positive and engaging research culture for all colleagues;
 (3) supporting the career development of academic and professional services colleagues; and (4)
 providing a strong research base for our taught programmes at undergraduate and postgraduate
 levels.
 The Dean’s Executive Group (DEG) within the ESS, in which UOA23 and UOA20 are located, has
 begun developing its strategic plan for research on two fronts. Firstly, to continue to encourage
 research activities which underpin the first-class teaching offered by the School, maximising oppor-


4 Henry Giroux in dialogue with members of the then School of Education: https://vimeo.com/237066054




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tunities for cross-fertilisation and building on pre-existing synergies. Secondly, to stimulate and sup-
 port research that addresses societal challenges, locally and globally, with a view to having a posi-
 tive external impact, locally and internationally. The roles ascribed to senior members of UOA20,
 our colleagues in ESS, serve to support research synergies across the wider unit. DEG has estab-
 lished Research Governance Group (RGG) to bring together the different research strands with the
 overall remit for the development of the strategic plan for research. The group includes: (1) Re-
 search Quality role (with a particular focus on arranging and overseeing internal reviews for all grant
 applications and budgeting of all grant awards), and (2) Research Mentoring and Development role
 in support of the implementation of agreed objectives. All members of the DEG and all Readers and
 Professors, the two PGR co-ordinators in the ESS are members of the RGG, as are the two profes-
 sional services colleagues who deal with research and PGR activity. The RGG provides the inter-
 face with the UWS Research and Enterprise Committee and is the forum for discussions on re-
 search strategy, with specific attention to strategic research leadership; research quality and men-
 torship; research group leadership; and external partnership development. All members of the DEG
 and all Readers and Professors, the two PGR co-ordinators in the ESS are members of the RGG,
 as are the two professional services colleagues who deal with research and PGR activity. The RGG
 provides the interface with the UWS Research and Enterprise Committee and is the forum for dis-
 cussions on research strategy, with specific attention to strategic research leadership; research
 quality and mentorship; research group leadership; and external partnership development.
 Creating signature education research capabilities is at the centre of our strategic plans for the next
 five years. This will be achieved by building on the existing strengths through the following research
 objectives:
        To build upon key strengths in research on professional education from the early years to
         higher education, with a particular emphasis on teaching, in order to build research capacity
         in this area and develop synergies with colleagues in social policy and social work education.
        To develop exemplary collaborative research partnerships with third-sector organisations
         nationally and internationally, with a particular emphasis on building resilience in local com-
         munities and drawing on the strengths of colleagues in community education and social
         work.
        To collaborate with colleagues in health and social care to develop signature research that
         addresses the challenges in relation to mental well-building that have emerged as a result
         of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Underpinning the strategic plans, the creation of the new interdisciplinary School of Education and
 Social Sciences (ESS) in August 2019 brought together an academic base of more than 120 staff.
 This brings natural synergies between colleagues working in education and those in psychology
 and the social sciences, e.g., in relation to metacognition in the early years; the built environment
 of the school; and education policy. Most members of ESS are already active in the society research
 theme that is firmly embedded across numerous UN SDGs, which form the basis for future strategic
 direction of the institution as set out in Strategy 2025.5 Interdisciplinary research collaboration is
 reflected in the number of colleagues from beyond the Division of Education being returned in
 UOA23. A further encouraging sign of research synergies are proposals for UWS-funded research
 studentships from colleagues in Education and Social Sciences (e.g., Gollek and Calderwood on
 metacognition in early childhood, with a specific focus on children’s eye gaze and facial recognition).
 The commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion underlines the existing strategic mission of the
 Division, namely to create a culture that nurtures professionals that will make an important contri-
 bution to the social fabric of the communities they serve. Learning and Teaching is an explicit plank
 of Strategy 2025, and hybrid digital delivery options will be the basis for research involving educa-
 tionalists and social scientists.




5 https://www.uws.ac.uk/media/6217/uws-strategy-2025.pdf




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the Division, McGuigan and Longman, both of whom have a background in educational
 and developmental psychology, are a great asset to this UOA through their research contributions
 in psychology-informed teaching practices and their contribution to the research community within
 the Division. By the same token, colleagues such as Holligan and Leon-Solis from the Division of
 Education make a valuable contribution to the research profile of UOA20, the former researching in
 youth justice, crime and gangs, and the latter in European politics, with a specific recent focus on
 Brexit. These two colleagues make a significant contribution to teaching at all levels in the Division
 of Education, reinforcing synergies between the two UOAs that make up the broader School. The
 Dean’s Executive Group (DEG) in ESS promotes this type of interchange and collaboration to flour-
 ish. Although the pandemic has meant an end to on-campus seminars and physical interaction, a
 recent online School meeting had a session focused on research ‘dating’ and mentoring to stimulate
 cross-divisional collaboration; and intra-mural research seminars continue virtually, jointly co-ordi-
 nated by Matemba from UOA23 and his counterpart in UOA20. Staff across the School are encour-
 aged to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries and to challenge orthodoxies by producing a
 strong portfolio of critical socio-educational studies while fulfilling the mission of a university that is
 committed to serving the local community as well as pursuing an internationalisation strategy.
 The next phase of the institution’s development has firmly positioned UWS as ‘an anchor institution
 within the communities in which it is based’. This reaffirms our commitment to making a major con-
 tribution to the social, economic and cultural development of communities in the West of Scotland,
 many of which have been blighted by socio-economic decline (Renfrewshire, Ayrshire, Lanarkshire,
 and Dumfries & Galloway). UWS’ leading roles within the Ayrshire Economic Partnership, Lanark-
 shire Economic Forum and Renfrewshire Leadership Group will pave the way to sustaining our
 positive impact regionally. On the other hand, UWS’ leadership in professional development inter-
 nationally will provide a platform for a lasting impact globally (e.g. UK’s fastest growing Continuous
 Professional Development (CPD) portfolio for The State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs -
 SAFEA). The Division has been critically involved in the development of our CPD Centre’s portfolio
 of courses (including SAFEA), providing fertile grounds to achieve our objectives for the benefit of
 communities nationally and internationally. The role of the recently formed Research Governance
 Group (RGG) in informing the research agenda for the next seven years and in meeting the institu-
 tional focus on sustainable development goals (SDGs) is addressed in Section 1.6.1 below.

 1.4 Achievement of Impact
 1.4.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
 At the strategic level, the School of Education (now the Division of Education) took the decision to
 support two key areas of research in Citizenship, Values and Holocaust education, and Youth and
 Community research with the intention of delivering impact in wider educational and societal terms.
 Cowan and Maitles developed the highly impactful Vision Schools Scotland initiative.6 It builds
 upon the REF2014 strategy to enhance research in the area of Citizenship, Values and Holocaust
 Education. The key markers of the success of this original initiative is wider engagement with local
 authorities and primary and secondary schools across Scotland on key issues relating to Holocaust
 education. This work highlights Cowan and Maitles’ efforts to foster collaboration and close part-
 nership with teachers and pupils as they engage with the ideas, teaching materials and professional
 learning opportunities that have emerged from research on Holocaust Education conducted at
 UWS. As evidenced by the wider political and educational ambitions of this work, and the im-
 portance of bringing research and teaching relating Holocaust Education to the attention of policy-
 makers and practitioners alike, the Visions Schools Scotland team regularly engages with stake-
 holders from across the political and education spectrum to influence policy and classroom practice
 in terms of Holocaust Education. Research staff work with national (schools, local authorities, the
 Holocaust Education Trust) and international (Yad Vashem, Israel) partners to nurture research
 and improve teaching practice primarily in the area of Holocaust Education but also in the areas of
 values and citizenship education. (See related submission ‘Improving citizenship in Scottish schools
 through the prism of the Holocaust education’ ICS 1).



6 https://www.uws.ac.uk/research/research-impact-influence/holocaust-education-vision-schools-scotland/


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Community Education team Coburn, Beggan and Wallace engaged with a range of local com-
 munity partners to develop collaborative initiatives that focus on developing young people’s ability
 to critically engage with a range of issues that impact on their social, emotional, physical and mental
 wellbeing. These are all issues that the COVID-19 pandemic has thrown into stark relief, with mount-
 ing evidence that disadvantaged communities are particularly adversely affected. In addition, Co-
 burn, Beggan and Wallace have supported their partners working in local communities to engage
 constructively and critically with local authorities and other agencies to help transform their commu-
 nities. A commitment to social justice is also embedded in the Division’s approach to teaching and
 learning, not least because it is one of the key professional values in the Standards of both the
 General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS) and the CLD Standards Council for Scotland. The
 research interests of staff in the Division intersect with this value in the way staff approach teaching
 and learning at all levels. Colleagues in Community Education focus on social justice within their
 research. This has led to a number of community-based research projects which have both informed
 their teaching and led to impact on the community partners with whom they work (see related sub-
 mission ‘Transforming communities through critical community education’ ICS 2).

 1.5 Interdisciplinary Research
 Research in education is by definition interdisciplinary, in that it draws on the foundation disciplines
 (psychology, sociology, philosophy and history). For example, Day, McKechnie and Edgerton are
 investigating the utility of immersive technologies (virtual reality) for engaging initial teacher educa-
 tion students’ understanding of space in the classroom. Meeting the research objectives outlined
 under 1.3 above will entail embarking upon further ambitious interdisciplinary research projects that
 draw on expertise from within and beyond the university in relation to the foci identified in Strategy
 2025.

 2 People
 2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 Staff development has focused on fostering practice-oriented research among staff by involving
 them in professional development activities in relation to enhancing professional development in
 the teaching profession, as a means of addressing the educational inequalities manifest in levels of
 high deprivation.
 During the period of the current REF, there has been a strong focus on developing research capacity
 and activity in the School, e.g., through research seminars for members of staff and the growing
 number of PG students, organised and facilitated by the PG co-ordinator (Matemba), in association
 with his counterpart in UOA20 ; staff mentoring schemes; support for conference attendance from
 the divisional staff development fund, with priority given to costs (fees and travel) that relate specif-
 ically to valued research outcomes (e.g., peer-reviewed publications or grant applications) or for
 early career researchers (ECRs). At the time of writing there are 4 ECRs in the school, which rep-
 resents 21 per cent of the FTE staff complement with SSR. There is specific support for writing for
 academic and professional development purposes available, e.g., to support staff in preparing Fel-
 lowship applications for the Higher Education Academy, run under the auspices of The Centre for
 Research in Education. Arnott, on the other hand, is leading Research Mentoring and Develop-
 ment. In respect of the latter, staff in ESS have benefitted from participation in the Grant Accelerator
 and Crucible schemes, which are in-house initiatives specifically designed to facilitate career devel-
 opment and collaboration among early career researchers (ECRs) by offering support for grant writ-
 ing through a process of internal peer review (see also under section 2.5).
 The research structure, leadership and support mechanisms are specifically addressing the Scottish
 Government’s ambition for a research-informed teaching profession. This has provided significant
 opportunities for staff in the Division of Education to engage in research activity that is directly re-
 lated to addressing the challenges faced by the communities it serves. The Scottish Attainment
 Challenge focuses on areas of development that are central to the mission of committed and re-
 search-informed teacher educators: literacy, numeracy, health and well-being, with a focus on sup-
 porting pupils in the local authorities with the highest concentrations of deprivation in Scotland:
 North, South and East Ayrshire, Renfrewshire, North and South Lanarkshire, all of which are served
 by UWS campuses. To support this area of national policy and develop sector-leading in-house

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capabilities, Day, Bignell, Oates, Webster, and Killen have been working on a number of projects
 to support final-year ITE students and serving teachers’ efforts to improve classroom practice, with
 a focus on using evidence-based decision-making processes to improve educational outcomes for
 pupils in the SIMD 1-40 Category. At the in-service support level, this project has resulted in a
 critical-friend development programme which will be implemented in February 2021 in partnership
 with the South West Educational Improvement Collaborative (SWEIC). This work is supported
 by a collaborative research grant from the Scottish Government (GBP48,588). Oates’ work on sit-
 uated, collaborative professional learning, specifically professional learning communities (PLCs),
 the topic of her recently-submitted PhD, has informed and been informed by this ongoing staff and
 research development initiative and has resulted in published research outputs (with Bignell).

 2.2 Staffing and recruitment
 While new appointees are expected to have doctoral qualifications to support the rapidly expanding
 PGR cohort, recruiting early- to mid-career professionals has been at the core of our practice-based
 research orientation and a significant contributing factor to the success of our education pro-
 grammes. Nineteen individuals from a total staff complement of 40FTE have Significant Responsi-
 bility for Research (SRR). Research-active staff within the Division of Education have expertise
 across all sectors of education, from the early years through primary and secondary provision and
 Higher Education (HE), and youth and community education. The reorganisation of the School pro-
 vides further opportunities for staff from the Division to build upon and expand existing research in
 education and social policy; young children’s metacognition; and the social and material fabric of
 the school. The mentoring arrangements inherent in the Division’s involvement in The Scottish At-
 tainment Challenge provide enhanced opportunities for researcher development, as does the uni-
 versity’s sponsorship of a number of PhD scholarships that cut across research interests within
 ESS.

 2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
 In addition to the institutional support (i.e., ECR Forum, UWS Crucible and UWS Grant Accelerator
 programmes), the involvement of ECRs as Lead or co-supervisors on internally-funded PhD stu-
 dentships and the research seminars, senior academic staff (Professors and Readers) play a key
 role in mentoring ECR or those who enter academia mid-career after working as teachers. There is
 funding made available for members of staff, particularly those at an earlier stage in their careers,
 to develop research capabilities, networks and disseminate their work (including travel funding, time
 for research and interdisciplinary connectivity with other Schools).

 2.4 Research Students
 The major development since the last REF period has been sustained growth in the recruitment of
 international research students, particularly from Algeria. In the 2014-15 session, the first three
 PhD students on the Algerian government/British Council sponsored programme were recruited.
 The following session (2015-16) saw the arrival of a further seven students. Between 2016-17 and
 2018 -19 recruitment slowed with six students enrolling during that period. The 2019-20 session
 saw a marked increase in recruitment to this programme, with 25 students enrolling, resulting in
 a full complement of 41 PGR students from Algeria alone. The recruitment of this large cohort has
 helped create vibrancy and energy in our research culture. The first student, Dr Linda Merzougui,
 became the first of the programme in the whole of the UK to complete her doctorate. Her graduation
 in Paisley Abbey in July 2018 was attended by senior members from the Algerian Embassy in Lon-
 don. Since then, seven more Algerian PhD students have graduated, two are working on revisions
 to their theses, as are two other international students. A total of 30 (21 submitted for REF4a) PhD
 students have received their awards within the reference period for the current REF. These suc-
 cesses and the quality of supervision offered are major factors in the attractiveness of the School
 to the current cohort and are a testament to the internationally attractive research culture. Doctoral
 students are also allocated up to GBP1,500 during their studies to support costs they may incur
 such as conference fees, travel, and bespoke training.
 See Table 1 below for an overview of PGR recruitment and completions in UOA23 for the reference
 period for REF2021.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1: PGR recruitment/awards UOA23, 2014-2020

  Session              2014/15 2015/16        2016/17     2017/18     2018/19     2019/20      Total
  PhD Enrolment           7       12             5           4           5           35         68
  PhD Graduation          2       3              1           1           4           10         21
  Professional
  Doctorate                          15          12           9          N/A*        N/A*        36
  Enrolment
  Professional
  Doctorate                                                                            1         1
  Graduation

 2.5 Equality & Diversity
 The Division is committed to the University’s goals regarding Equality and Diversity, an academic
 researcher (O’Gorman) being its EDI champion in recent years but now superseded by a full School
 committee drawing on its broader strengths, and now bolstered by an Anti-Racist education working
 group. These include, in particular, as far as UOA23 is concerned, Mohammed who was part of the
 recent Scottish working group on diversity in the teaching profession, and is currently heading the
 Advance HE working group ‘Tackling Racism on Campus’. Mohammed was awarded the STUC
 Equality Award in 2019 and is Convenor of SAMEE (Scottish Association of Minority Ethnic Educa-
 tors), as well as Vice Convenor of the General Teaching Council for Scotland. Riaz, an associate
 lecturer and ECR, is Chair of the BERA Race, Ethnicity and Education special interest group. This
 local expertise is a highly valued asset for the School which has also supported staff through the
 prestigious Aurora Programme to train women for leadership in Higher Education. We have also
 supported colleagues (Henderson-Bone and Gollek) through the University’s ‘Grant Accelerator’
 programme (which helps ECRs develop and submit their first funding application). Staff returning
 from maternity leave have been supported via the University’s 'returners' scheme, which offers sup-
 port and up to £10K to help restart a new research project after an extended family related leave.
 Staff are also active founding members in the development of staff peer support networks, these
 include the LGBT+ network (UWS Liberty) and BME Staff Network. In addition staff have the op-
 portunity to join other support networks such as our women’ leadership network (UWS HigHER),
 disability or men’s network.

 Our recent success with the British Council/Algerian Government doctoral scheme has seen strong
 female recruitment, with 36 of the 41 recruits being female. All staff are provided with EDI and
 unconscious bias training.


 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
 Developing a diverse portfolio of externally-funded research is central to our income strategy as is
 the increased focus on collaborative work across UOAs. Research Services provide central support
 in developing research bids and identifying sources or research funding to continue research across
 all sectors of education: formal and non-formal and policy. The funding strategy has three priorities:
 (1) to identify sources of funding to advance the research portfolio of the research groups, (2) to
 support interdisciplinary research applications with staff from other disciplines and (3) to increase
 the value of applications and awards. All bids are scrutinised by two internal peer reviewers prior to
 submission, and supported and advanced by the professorial research quality lead for the Division,
 Clark. The results of this are detailed below and we are particularly enthused by the vibrancy of our
 ECR community:
 Henderson-Bone, an ECR in the Division of Education is involved in an interdisciplinary project
 with colleagues in the School of Health and Life Sciences to investigate how a socio-material
 approach can support dementia education. Longman, who has a background in cognitive science
 and psychology, was awarded a grant from the Experimental Psychology Society (GBP3,500) to
 investigate the formation of novel task sets, was successful in gaining an award of GBP10,000 from

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the British Academy to explore the transfer of ‘task schemas’ across unique tasks and secured an
 award of GBP12,920 from the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland. These recent suc-
 cesses indicate growing confidence among the ECR community within the Division. Henderson-
 Bone (ECR) was also awarded a grant of GBP8,759 from the Carnegie Trust Research Incentive
 Grant Scheme 2018/19 for a project entitled ‘Tracks of the Past’, developed from her PhD (‘A Trip
 to the Dark Side? A socio-material analysis of the spaces of Holocaust pedagogies at Auschwitz-
 Birkenau State Museum’). This study is in collaboration with Gibbs, a lecturer in politics.
 Antoniou (ECR) was awarded a grant of GBP750 from the British Association of Lecturers in
 English for Academic Purposes (BALEAP) to investigate supporting students’ learning experi-
 ences in challenging times. Cross was awarded GBP4,938 from the Scottish Funding Council to
 investigate the use of gaming in early education and childcare.
 Further, Day was awarded a grant of GBP48,588 form the Scottish Government to undertake
 research and partnership work in a project entitled ‘Exploring final year Initial Teacher Education
 students and probationary teachers’ ways of knowing and meaning-making through professional
 reflective practice’. Working in association with five practice-oriented colleagues in Early Childhood
 Education, Gollek (ECR) secured a grant of GBP108,456 from the Scottish Government to de-
 velop online modules for practitioner in early learning and childcare; and GBP164,700 from North
 Lanarkshire Council for professional development services in the area of early childhood practice.
 Another colleague specialising in early childhood practice (Mohammed) received an award of
 GBP479,009 from Skills Development Scotland to develop a Graduate Apprenticeship in Early
 Learning and Childcare. This focus on enhancing professional development in line with the strategic
 direction and practice orientation of the Division of Education is reflected in the Vision Schools
 Scotland project (Cowan/Maitles) funded to the value of GBP36,000 by the Association of Jew-
 ish Refugees.
 Smith's work has centred on continuing activities connected to his role as an expert consultant for
 the Council of Europe. In particular, he has undertaken further work related to the Council of Eu-
 rope's Pan-European Platform on Ethics, Transparency and Integrity in Education (ETINED) by
 completing field visits, with associated desk research and report writing, in Montenegro (March-
 May 2019), North Macedonia (October-December 2019), and Bosnia and Herzegovina (October-
 December 2019). This work focused on Integrity in Higher Education, producing an Evaluation Re-
 port of the Council of Europe/EU Project on 'Integrity in Higher Education in Montenegro', and sep-
 arate 'Baseline Assessments of Integrity in Higher Education' in North Macedonia and Bosnia and
 Herzegovina respectively. All such work has been completed within contracts between the Council
 of Europe and the University (GBP35,023). Since COVID-19-related restrictions from March 2020,
 the normal pattern of such work has not been possible. However, Smith is in discussion with the
 Council of Europe on using recent Council of Europe outputs as the basis of a synoptic thematic
 publication for the Council or with other publishing outlets.

 3.2 Organisational Investment
 Staff with SRR have an annual budget of GBP1,000 to cover the costs of attending one international
 conference and/or one local conference in their area of interest. A condition of these awards is that
 staff: (1) must present an output (or in the case of ECRs a poster, if applicable), and (2) that these
 must have the potential to result in highly impactful peer-reviewed outputs.
 In March 2017, as part of the Vice Principal’s GBP1,000,000 Fund for research (a university wide
 initiative to stimulate research), colleagues within the Division of Education were awarded
 GBP107,150 for the Scoping the Ambition: Supporting Family Learning project. This was a four-
 year, multidisciplinary project that drew on expertise from ten colleagues from across the University
 (specifically in Nursing, Creative Industries and Education). This project also included a fully-funded
 University PhD studentship. The funded PhD student is in the final year with a submission date set
 for early in 2022. One of the work streams of this projects (The Wee University) was shortlisted for
 the Herald Higher Education Awards in 2018 (https://www.uws.ac.uk/news/double-nomination-
 success-for-uws-in-herald-awards/) and was endorsed by Shirley-Anne Somerville MSP, Minister
 for Further Education, Higher Education and Science at that time https://www.millionplus.ac.uk/pol-
 icy/case-studies2016/changing-lives-the-wee-university-initiative



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
 Research activity within ESS is supported by two administrators, one at the School level (with a
 particular focus on research bids and awards) and one at the Division level (with a specific remit for
 PGR support). These colleagues also provide support in organising seminars, conferences, and in
 providing assistance in relation to conference attendance. They also support the RGG and provide
 a contact point between the School and all UWS central support services in matters relating to
 costings for grant applications and information gathering to support funding bids. Our growing pop-
 ulation of postgraduate research students has recently benefitted from the complete refurbishment
 of a dedicated learning suite with individual desk spaces and IT equipment, representing an invest-
 ment of GBP150,000 in 2019-20, with more planned in coming years. This space also provides
 PGR students with a physical meeting point and opportunities to exchange ideas.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Communities, Networks and Partnerships
 The School of Education (2014-2019) hosted a number of high-profile conferences during the ref-
 erence period for the current REF. Notable among these were the Scottish Education Research
 Association Annual Conference in 2017, the Democracy & Education conference and the Fou-
 cault@90 conference, both in 2016. The latter attracted renowned Foucauldian scholars from
 across the globe, including Mark Olssen (University of Surrey), Laurence Barry (Hebrew Univer-
 sity of Jerusalem), Mathieu Corteel (Paris-Sorbonne University), Robin Reames (University of
 Chicago), Gerd Christensen (University of Copenhagen), Stephen Ball (Institute of Education
 at UCL), Clare O’Farrell (University of Queensland) and Christina Malatzky (University of Mel-
 bourne).
 In addition, new links has been formed with the Western Norway University of Applied Sciences,
 which has resulted in a biennial research series and student exchange. The most recent engage-
 ments took place at UWS in late 2019, and the next events are scheduled to take place in Norway
 in 2021. International links with Bangladesh also led to a research seminar on Paisley campus in
 July 2018 where keynote speakers including the Bangladesh Minister for Education and the
 GTCS Chief Executive. This link with Bangladesh led to the creation of a bespoke MSc in Educa-
 tion for educators in that country. The first cohort embarked upon their studies in the 2017-18 ses-
 sion (T2) and the second in T3 of the 2018-19 session. Due to issues related to the COVID-19
 pandemic, two students from the original cohort who decided to pursue their studies at PhD level
 were not able to enrol. A third student, from the second cohort, began their PhD studies at the
 beginning of the 2020-21 session. The Division of Education is also partnered with the Universities
 of Glasgow and Strathclyde in the Educational Colloquium, which runs an annual seminar series
 for presenting research, and in 2019-20, for the first time, this had a dedicated programme featuring
 postgraduate students. For the past three years, Pirrie has organised an annual colloquium on
 Tilos, Greece (‘Philosophy as Lived Experience: navigating dichotomies between thought and ac-
 tion’), sponsored by the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (PESGB). Now in its
 tenth year, the event which attracts 20-25 participants annually has attracted delegates from 18
 countries, as well as generating a number of co-authored publications and two edited volumes of
 essays on a wide range of topics related to the philosophy of education.

 4.2 Contribution to Discipline, Economy and Society
 Involvement in external organisations of different scales is another set of significant contributions.
 Day is a past president of the Scottish Educational Research Association (SERA) (2017-19)
 and former Vice President (2015-17) and a member of the Scottish Government’s National Ad-
 visory Group for Educational Research in Scotland. He is also an active member of the Science
 Education Special Interest Group (SIG) of the British Educational Research Association. Anto-
 niou, an ECR in the field of English for academic purposes, serves on the committees for two SIGs.
 She is events and Webinar Officer for the Research SIG of the International Association for
 Teachers of English as a Foreign Language (IATEFL) and Social Media and Publications Officer
 for the Technology-Enhanced Learning SIG of BALEAP. Oates is Chair of the International Profes-
 sional Development Association, which has more than 200 members from 17 countries. Maitles


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was President of the Children’s Identity and Citizenship in Europe Association (CICEA) from
 2014 to 2019 and was on the Executive Committee of the EU-funded Jean Monnet Citizenship
 Network from 2012 to 2019. He also served on the Project Board of the Jimmy Reid Foundation
 (2014-2019). In 2017, Maitles was made a Fellow of the Educational Institute for Scotland (EIS)
 in recognition of his services to education through the promotion of Holocaust and human rights
 education. Further evidence of his substantial contribution to this field is that his book Understanding
 and Teaching Holocaust Education (London: Sage), co-authored with his colleague at UWS
 (Cowan), was awarded the CICEA/Jean Monnet Citizenship Network award for Best Publica-
 tion of 2017. Cross serves on the committee of the Scottish Community Learning and Devel-
 opment Council and is a member of the Social Pedagogy Development Network. Cowan is the
 founder, and Henderson-Bone a member, of Vision Schools Scotland, which is an innovative
 Holocaust education accreditation programme for primary and secondary schools in Scotland. This
 initiative is based on ground-breaking research on Holocaust and Citizenship education conducted
 over a number of years (Cowan and Maitles). Mohammed, who was named as one of ‘top 10
 people of 2020 in TES Scotland’ for her work on race and racism in educational institutions, is
 Vice Convener of the Council of the General Teaching Council for Scotland (GTCS). Gillies is a
 nominated member of the same professional body. Barrett, a secondary English specialist, and
 McAuliffe who has a special interest in educational inclusion and co-ordinates the Masters in In-
 clusive Education, participate in the Scottish Universities Inclusion Group. The specific remit of
 this group is map inclusive pedagogy in ITE (Barret et al, 2015). In addition, McAuliffe is one of
 three convenors of the SERA Inclusive Education network. Gillies was convenor of the Educational
 Colloquium, a joint initiative of the Universities of Glasgow, Strathclyde and UWS from 2015-2017
 and continues to serve on the committee. The Colloquium (http://www.educationalcollo-
 quium.co.uk/) is an initiative founded in 1954 to promote discussion and debate among MEd and
 doctoral students, those involved in ITE, practitioners, and representatives from Scottish local au-
 thorities. Gillies also launched A Brief Critical Dictionary of Education in 2010 and updates it
 regularly (http://www.dictionaryofeducation.co.uk). Although designed primarily for students on ITE
 courses, it is an essential resource for everyone with an interest in education, and averages 10,000
 hits per annum. In March 2019, Pirrie was invited to give a presentation on her book Virtue and the
 Quiet Art of Scholarship: reclaiming the university at the Institute of Education in London.


 4.3 Wider Influence and Contributions
 The involvement of staff in a wide range of activities underlines the strong practice-orientation of
 colleagues in the Division, as well as their commitment to fostering dialogue between different
 groups of educational stakeholders in order to enhance the research and practice environment.
 There are a number of colleagues in the Division who serve on the editorial boards of a wide range
 of academic journals, including Visual Inquiry: Learning and Teaching Art (McAuliffe); Education in
 the North (Cross); Educational Review (2000-2014), Genocide Studies and Prevention (2010-
 2015), Journal for Critical Education Policy Studies (2009-present), Citizenship Teaching and
 Learning (2014-2019) (Maitles); Gillies was Chair of the editorial board of the Scottish Educational
 Review from 2014-2020 and has served on the editorial board of Improving Schools since 2015.
 Matemba has been Deputy Editor of the British Journal of Religious Education since 2018 having
 been a member of the editorial board since 2015. Day currently serves on the editorial board of the
 Scottish Educational Review. Numerous colleagues in the Division are also asked to review for
 journals, book publishers and external funding bodies (the ESRC, the British Academy). Staff also
 serve the wider research community by acting as reviewers for a number of prestigious education
 journals, e.g., The British Educational Research Journal, the Journal of Education Policy, the Jour-
 nal of Philosophy of Education, the British Journal of Religious Education, the European Educational
 Research Journal, Improving Schools and the Scottish Educational Review.




                                                                                               Page 11
