Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: The Open University

  Unit of Assessment: D27 English Language and Literature

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  Overview
  Research in English at The Open University (OU) is produced by 31 researchers (28.9 FTEs)
  based in the Departments of English and Creative Writing (27) and of Language and Applied
  Linguistics (4). In the current REF cycle, established areas of research in Book History and
  Postcolonial Literature broke new ground with fresh initiatives; emerging areas like Creative Writing
  expanded substantially, especially in enhancing the impact of research in English; and areas of
  inter-disciplinary study – the Digital Humanities, Literature and Music, and the Gender and
  Otherness in the Humanities Centre – were led by researchers in English. Researchers in English
  have played a major part in the OU’s contribution to BBC programming, making substantial
  contributions to five television series.

  Research and impact strategy for English at the OU is generated by the Research Strategy Group
  (RSG), which comprises: a chair; one researcher representing Literature, Creative Writing and
  Language respectively; one researcher from each of the research groups; the impact lead; the
  postgraduate convenor; and the chair of the OU’s D27 REF panel.

  Overseeing all strategic planning for research in English, the RSG identified four priorities for the
  REF 2021 cycle:

     1. To strengthen the seven research groups. The vibrant intellectual communities
        generated by the two English research groups first established in the 1990s – the Book
        History and Postcolonial Literature Groups – have inspired the general adoption of research
        groups as the fundamental organisational structure for all research in English. There are
        now seven research groups: three based in English – History of Books and Reading
        (HOBAR); Postcolonial and Global Literatures (PGL); and Contemporary Cultures of
        Writing (CCW) – and four inter-disciplinary groups with substantial contributions by
        researchers in English: Literature and Music (L&M); Digital Humanities (DH); Medieval
        and Early Modern (MEM); and Centre for Gender and Otherness in the Humanities
        (GOTH). The activities and achievements of each of the groups are distinctive (detailed
        below), but they share the same broad commitments: to include researchers in English as
        active participants in collegial research communities; to nurture individual research
        specialisms; and to enable fresh research initiatives, collaborations and synergies. In 2014,
        six of the 21 researchers in English (including three professors) functioned as ‘individual
        researchers’ or in small, isolated groups; in 2021, all 31 researchers in English are active
        members of at least one of the research groups, with the majority members of two or more
        groups. In addition, researchers in English have provided crucial leadership for the inter-
        disciplinary groups – Da Sousa Correa as co-director of the L&M Group; Benatti as co-
        director of the DH Group; and Katritzky as director of the GOTH Centre.

     2. To integrate impact-generating activities into all research. All seven research groups
        have prioritised impact-generating activities as integral to their research outputs and
        projects. Embracing the OU’s long-standing commitment to public engagement and social
        justice, and building upon the successful impact case studies led by Towheed and
        Campbell for REF 2014, the impact of research in English is now evident in many more
        contexts in the current REF cycle (see Section 4). One important initiative to enhance the
        impact of all research in English has been the creation in January 2018 of the post of Media
        Lead in English. O’Reilly has taken on the role, mentoring all staff in writing for non-HEI
        audiences (for example, the readership of The Conversation); alerting colleagues about
        opportunities for disseminating their research at public events; and maintaining a lively


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         English blog, with 46 1,000-word contributions by colleagues and doctoral students, and
         55,000 comments posted by October 2020.

     3. To sustain and expand collaborations with partner institutions. Long-established
        partnerships with the BBC, the Institute of English Studies (IES) at the University of London,
        the British Council, the British Library and the National Association of Writers in Education
        (NAWE) have been refreshed and invigorated by new co-initiatives. Many new partnerships
        have been forged, including with the Milton Keynes Literary Festival, Bloomsbury
        Publishers, the Society for the History of Authorship, Reading and Publishing (SHARP), the
        Cowper and Newton Museum, and the AHRC-funded Open-Oxford-Cambridge (OOC)
        doctoral partnership. Strengthening collaborations is integral to the aim of ensuring the long-
        term impact of research in English (see Section 4).

     4. To increase external funding. The final aim of increasing the number and quality of bids
        for external research grants was adopted in order to achieve priorities 1-3. As a result of the
        commitment to increase external funding, the total number of bids submitted by researchers
        in English more than doubled from 17 in the REF 2014 cycle to 41 in the REF 2021 cycle
        (see Section 3).

  These four priorities have been pursued and realised in distinctive ways within each of the research
  groups.

  RESEARCH GROUPS IN ENGLISH
  HOBAR Group. Established: 2011. Directors: Towheed and King. Membership: 30, including 14
  entered under English for REF 2021 (Benatti, Brown, Gibson, Gupta, Haslam, Johnson, Jones,
  Katritzky, Parmar, Tagg, Towheed and Watson), with the balance comprising past and current
  OU PhD students (7), retired former colleagues (3), and researchers elsewhere in the sector. An
  expanded incarnation of the Book History Research Group which began in the 1990s, HOBAR was
  awarded three large external grants in the current REF cycle totalling £254,679, as well as several
  smaller awards (see Section 3). The funding has been used to enhance the research environment
  in different ways. For example, Towheed’s ICS (ICS 2: Transforming individual informal readers
  into communities of reader-researchers) has employed research associates Parmar (2016-21)
  and Blackburn-Daniels (2019-21) to work on the Reading Communities and READ-IT projects.
  Secondly, large-scale externally funded collaborations have been central to HOBAR’s activities,
  with the UK Reading Experience Database (UK-RED) extended in partnership with the French-
  funded ‘Reading Europe’] project (2014-2017) ultimately producing the Reading Europe Advanced
  Data Investigation Tool (READ-IT) (2018-2021). Thirdly, members of the HOBAR Group have
  participated in many events with direct impacts on the public, notably the Being Human Festival
  (2016--), the Imagine! Belfast Festival of Politics and Ideas (2017--), Book Week Scotland (2017--),
  the Milton Keynes Literary Festival (2018--) and the Cambridge Science Festival (2019).
  Complementing such efforts have been partnerships with organisations such as Verbal Arts
  (Northern Ireland) and the Brilliant Club Scholars Programme, which have developed pedagogical
  material on histories of reading for schools. Fourthly, the HOBAR Group has consolidated existing
  research partnerships (with the IES, Oxford Brookes and UCL), and established new partnerships
  (with SHARP and the European Network for Researching Books and Reading). HOBAR
  researchers have also organised numerous research events, including seven annual seminar
  series hosting over 50 speakers; four major conferences, as well as guest lectures, workshops and
  joint events with UK and European universities (see Section 4). Publications by members of
  HOBAR include three monographs (Brown, Gupta and Watson); three edited collections (Johnson;
  Tagg; Towheed and King); one scholarly edition (Haslam); and many journal articles and book
  chapters. In addition, Towheed is the co-editor of the discipline-defining series New Directions in
  Book History (Palgrave, launched 2014), which has published 33 monographs and edited
  collections and collectively registered 60,000 ‘uses’ (purchases, subscriptions or downloads) in this
  REF cycle. The vitality of HOBAR is evident in the research initiatives scheduled for 2020/21,
  notably the ‘Bookshelves in the Age of the COVID-19 Pandemic’ online conference co-hosted with



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  SHARP in November 2020, which attracted 30 speakers from 25 countries and 233 participants,
  and the Group’s ongoing ‘Reading and Wellbeing’ blog.


  PGL Group. Established: 1992. Director: Tickell. Membership: 33, including 8 entered under
  English for REF 2021 (Campbell, Doloughan, Gupta, Griffiths, Johnson, Parmar and
  Towheed), with the balance comprising past and current OU PhD students (8), retired former
  colleagues (3), and researchers from elsewhere in the OU and beyond. The retirements of
  Professors Allen, Fraser and Nasta early in the current REF cycle have been compensated by the
  additions to the PGL Group of Campbell, Doloughan, Gupta, Griffiths and Parmar. The global
  research interests of the PGL Group have inspired a wide variety of contributions to the research
  environment. The Group has integrated impact-generating events into its research projects, with
  members of the Group delivering 12 public lectures, and Parmar organising the five exhibition
  launches accompanying the UK tour of ‘The Heart of the Nation: India in Britain’ (see Section 4).
  Secondly, members of the Group have organised 22 international conferences, symposia and
  workshops, several of which included non-HEI audiences (see Section 4). Thirdly, members of the
  Group have published prolifically, with six monographs (Doloughan, Griffiths, Gupta (2), Johnson
  and Parmar), five edited or co-edited books, and numerous special issues of journals, journal
  articles and book chapters. Fourthly, members of the group have won research grants from external
  funding bodies to the total of £131,961 (see Section 3). Plans for future projects led by PGL Group
  members are well under way: Gupta has established a collaboration between Humanities and
  Engineering researchers on social/public concepts of artificial intelligence; Tickell has co-founded
  the British Chinese Studies Network, which has several public events in prospect, notably a major
  exhibition on British Chinese history with the British Library in 2023; and Johnson and Griffiths have
  set in motion an international project on re-reading British colonial periodicals in order to inform
  efforts to decolonise high school curricula.

  CCW Group. Established: 2011. Directors: Neale and O’Reilly. Membership: 22, including 12
  entered under English for REF 2021 (Bullock, Campbell, Doloughan, Giaxoglou, Hogan,
  Reardon, Richardson, Seargeant, Sweeney and Yeh), with the balance comprising past and
  current OU PhD students (4), and researchers from elsewhere in the sector. The rise in the number
  of Creative Writing researchers from four in 2014 to nine in 2020 has seen a much greater
  contribution from creative writers to the research environment. This contribution has been reflected
  in enhancing the impact of research in English, most notably in Campbell’s ICS (ICS 1 Supporting
  survivors in post-conflict zones through Creative and Expressive Writing). Members of the
  CCW Group have delivered readings and lectures at over 200 public events in the UK and abroad.
  Complementing these live presentations, CCW researchers have written extensively for popular
  readerships, most effectively for The Conversation (see Section 4). Secondly, the Group has forged
  productive long-term collaborations with several partner organisations, including the IES at the
  University of London, NAWE, Bloomsbury Publishers, the British Library and the BBC (see Section
  4). Thirdly, the CCW Group has organised 46 research events, including 13 conferences, three
  panel events hosting well-known writers, and thirty seminars. Most of these events have attracted
  academic peers, practitioners and members of the public. Fourthly, the CW Group’s members have
  published extensively, with seven novels (Bullock (2), Hogan, O’Reilly, Reardon, Richardson and
  Sweeney), two poetry collections (Campbell and Yeh), and two monographs (both by Seargeant).
  Plans for future activities are well-advanced – a £120,767 AHRC-funded project (awarded October
  2020) for adapting Campbell’s successful Expressive Life Writing methodology for post-conflict
  communities in Lebanon; an international conference on the ‘The Personal as Political’ in 2021;
  three seminar series on eco-writing, life-writing and ethnography; and a journal special issue on
  multimodality.

  INTER-DISCIPLINARY RESEARCH GROUPS
  L&M Group. Established: 2001. Co-directors: Da Sousa Correa and Samuels (Music).
  Membership: 14 members, including 3 entered under English for REF 2021 (Towheed and
  Benatti), six from Music, and the balance from other disciplines at the OU and beyond. During the
  current REF cycle, the Group has collaborated with the Oxford Lieder Festival to co-organise four



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  public engagement events. Members of the Group have published in total 11 outputs, notably Da
  Sousa Correa’s cutting-edge collection, which establishes the parameters of the field.

  DH Group. Established: 2012. Co-directors: Benatti and Perkins (Classics). Membership: 19,
  including 5 entered under English for REF 2021 (Paterson, Tagg, Towheed and Watson). During
  the current REF cycle, the DH Group organised 16 research events focused on research in English:
  Benatti’s six seminars on ‘Digital Books, Digital Readers’ (co-organised with HOBAR), and
  Watson’s three two-day international workshops, two online workshops and five conference panels
  on Romantic Europe: The Virtual Exhibition (RÊVE). The impact of English-based research in
  Digital Humanities has been enhanced by Watson’s ICS (ICS 3 Informing and enabling changes
  in exhibition practice on and offline in literary museums and archives). Inter-disciplinary
  events with substantial elements of English research have included 3 public engagement events
  and 26 postgraduate training events.

  MEM Group. Established: 2014. Co-directors: Clark (Art History) and Coffey (Music). Membership:
  37, including 6 entered under English for REF 2021 (Brown, Gibson, Katritzky, King, Lavery and
  Ziegler). Brown, Gibson and Katritzky have contributed to the research culture of the MEM Group
  as co-organisers, speakers and chairs at the three ‘Spaces and Places’ inter-disciplinary
  conferences run by the MEM Group (2017-19); King co-organised a conference on ‘Offensive
  Shakespeare’ in 2017; Gibson co-organised a conference on Walter Raleigh in 2018; and MEM
  researchers have published important work in the field, notably monographs by Brown and Lavery,
  and co-edited collections by Gibson and Katritzky.

  GOTH Centre. Established: 2019. Director: Katritzky. Membership: 56, including 12 entered under
  English for REF 2021 (Benatti, Brown, Campbell, Doloughan, Gibson, Gupta, Haslam, King,
  Lavery, Paterson, Towheed). GOTH is a re-launch of the Gender in the Humanities Group
  originally founded in the 1980s. Researchers in English have been prominent in GOTH, with
  Katritzky and the Group’s committee organising five research events (including a critical reading
  group, workshops, and a symposium), and raising £152,851 in 2019 and £19,100 in 2020,
  principally for a fully-funded doctoral studentship. During the REF cycle, Katritzky published 20
  outputs and Paterson 7 on topics related to the concerns of the GOTH Centre.

  2. People

  Staff composition and recruitment strategy
  The OU’s successes in teaching English to large numbers of students are based upon its dynamic
  research culture. During the current REF cycle, 36,191 students were awarded credits for OU
  English modules; 1,409 BA Honours degrees in English; and 1,069 MA degrees in English. The key
  to producing modules and degrees attractive to such large numbers of students has been the
  synergy between research and teaching. All staffing decisions are driven by the desire to sustain
  this synergy.

  The OU employs two main types of lecturing staff: (1) central academics, who are expected to be
  research-active alongside their teaching and administrative duties, and (2) staff tutors, who manage
  the University’s tutoring staff and are contractually permitted (but not required) to do research. The
  research environment is supplemented by individual research fellows and postdoctoral researchers.
  On the REF 2021 census date, there were 31 researchers in English with significant responsibility
  for research (28.9 FTEs) comprising 24 central academics (24 FTEs); 4 staff tutors (3 FTEs); one
  senior research fellow (0.6 FTE); one research fellow (1 FTE), and one research associate (0.3
  FTE). The majority (18) publish research in Literature, 9 in Creative Writing, and 4 in Language.

  Seven researchers in English left the OU during the current REF cycle: three professors and two
  senior lecturers retired; and two lecturers moved to other universities. A dual strategy has been
  followed to replace departed staff: (1) to appoint new staff at lecturer level, and (2) to promote
  established staff to senior lecturer and professor. Accordingly, nine full-time permanent central
  academics were recruited at lecturer level (Campbell, Giaxoglou, Hogan, Jones, King, Paterson,
  Reardon, Tagg and Yeh), as well as two 0.5 permanent central academic lecturers (O’Reilly and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Sweeney), two fixed-term lectureship appointments (Griffiths and Ziegler) and one 0.3 fixed-term
  research associate (Parmar). To meet increased administrative demands following the closure of
  seven OU regional centres in 2015, the number of staff tutors in English has increased from four to
  twelve, with three of the new staff tutors meeting the threshold for ‘significant responsibility for
  research’ (Bullock, Griffiths and Richardson). Of the new appointments, six are early career
  researchers (ECR; Bullock, Hogan, Griffiths, Reardon, Sweeney and Ziegler). All recruitment in
  English follows the OU’s Equality, Diversity and Fair Selection criteria and procedures (elaborated
  in the Institutional Environment Statement). In addition to requiring proven competencies in
  teaching, research and administration, the job specifications for all posts in English specify impact-
  generating experience and abilities as highly desirable.

  The second element of the staffing strategy – the promotion of existing staff – has led to the
  promoting of eight lecturers to senior lecturer (Campbell, Doloughan, Gibson, O’Reilly,
  Richardson, Tagg, Tickell and Towheed) and of two senior lecturers to professor (Brown and
  Haslam). As a result, a balance has been maintained across the grades (five professors, ten senior
  lecturers, eight lecturers, twelve staff tutors, two research fellows, and one research associate).
  Also attached to the Department of English and Creative Writing are eleven honorary research
  associates and the six emeritus professors, all of whom are active members of the research
  groups.

  The most striking development during the current REF cycle has been the increase in the number
  of Creative Writing researchers. Driven by the successful introduction of two undergraduate
  modules and an MA degree in Creative Writing, which together recruit about 2,000 students per
  year, the number of Creative Writing researchers has increased from three in 2014 (with one
  entered for the REF) to nine in July 2020. This represents an increase in Creative Writing
  researchers entered for the REF from 6% to 30% as a percentage of the staff returned for English
  Language and Literature.

  Staff support and development
  The University is committed to nurturing an open, supportive and integrated research environment.
  The Institutional Environment Statement elaborates upon how this commitment is expressed at all
  levels: the University code of practice prescribes the ethical principles of inclusion to guide all
  research practice, as well as the need to respect the values of diverse individuals and communities;
  at Faculty level, all new staff and PhD students are briefed on the procedures ensuring an open and
  equitable research culture, including the points of contact for raising concerns – discipline research
  leads, school directors of research, postgraduate co-ordinators, and the associate dean of
  research; and within each discipline, a combination of formal and informal mechanisms is in place
  to support staff in developing their research.

  All research staff in English complete an annual appraisal with the Head of Department. The
  appraisal addresses workload planning, with the balance between research, teaching and
  administration discussed and agreed with each individual researcher. Complementing the appraisal
  are annual research conversations conducted between the chair of the RSG (Towheed (2014-19)
  and Tickell (2019--)) and each individual researcher. These one-to-one research conversations
  address: plans for research leave; anticipated research outputs; scheduled research events and
  impact-generating activities; and potential bids for external research funding. A third level of
  individualised support is provided by a mentoring system in which all staff at the lecturer level are
  allocated a senior colleague as a research mentor. Mentors for early career researchers play a
  particularly important role, as they provide additional advice on adapting to the unique demands of
  the OU’s distance learning culture. The research mentor typically works in the same research field
  as the lecturer and provides advice on matters such as which journals and publishers to approach,
  which funding bodies to target for bidding, which conferences to attend, and which networks to
  cultivate. As a rule, the research conversations are scheduled for the winter (Jan-Mar); the
  appraisals for the spring (April-May); and conversations with mentors take place throughout the
  year.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The OU makes generous provision for research leave, research funding, and training in the
  development of research skills. The research leave system grants central academics 44 research
  days per year and staff tutors 22, with more days available on request. The OU’s teaching model
  enables considerable flexibility as to when research leave is taken. This flexibility facilitates long-
  term planning, with research leave scheduled for all individual researchers with an eye to the
  collective best interests of OU research in English. All OU researchers receive an annual research
  allowance of £500 to use at their own discretion. Supplementing this allowance, researchers are
  encouraged to bid for funding to attend conferences; to visit archives and libraries; to generate
  impact from their research; and to meet the costs of publishing outputs, notably those associated
  with supporting open access publishing. A simple system operates for processing all such
  ‘operational’ research bids within the School of Arts and Humanities, and bids for larger research
  projects are considered by the Faculty Research Board (see Section 3).

  The ongoing development of new research skills for ECRs, mid-career and professorial researchers
  is strongly encouraged. Complementing the opportunities provided for all OU staff (and outlined in
  the Institutional Environment Statement), researchers in the Arts have ready access to bespoke in-
  house media instruction for dissemination and impact-generating activities. Where appropriate,
  researchers are funded to undertake specialist media and digital training beyond the OU.

  Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)
  The quantity and quality of PhDs. The steady rise in the number of completed PhDs in English at
  the OU has continued, from 12 in the RAE 2008 cycle to 17 in the REF 2014 cycle, and up to 23 for
  the REF 2021 cycle. This increase has been achieved at a time when the overall number of
  completed English PhDs in the UK has been declining (HESA figures: 475 in 2013/14 to 395 in
  2017/18). At the same time, there has been a significant increase in the number of OU PhD
  dissertations published as monographs or novels. For REF 2014, two OU PhDs in English were
  converted into monographs; during the current REF cycle, 11 PhDs have been converted into
  books with major presses – six Literature PhDs and five Creative Writing PhDs: Helen Boyles,
  Romanticism and Methodism (Routledge, 2016), Helen Chambers, Conrad’s Reading (Palgrave,
  2018), Katia Chornik, Alejo Carpentier and the Musical Text (Routledge, 2015), Marion Dell,
  Virginia Woolf’s Influential Forebears (Palgrave, 2015), Toby Manning, John Le Carré and the Cold
  War (Bloomsbury, 2018), Patricia Neville, Janet Frame’s World of Books (Ibidem Press, 2019),
  Emily Bullock, The Longest Fight (Myriad, 2015), Sarah Butler (yet to graduate), Jack and Bet
  (Picador, 2020), Edward Hogan, The Electric (John Murray, 2020), Heather Richardson, Doubting
  Thomas (Vagabond Voices, 2017) and Emma Sweeney, Owl Song at Dawn (Legend Press, 2016)

  Recruitment. The recruitment of PhD students is overseen by the postgraduate convenor
  (Doloughan 2012-15, Haslam 2015-19, Campbell 2019--). Interviews are conducted by the
  postgraduate convenor and at least one of the potential supervisors (though more commonly by
  both), with fair selection, equality and diversity considerations embedded in the selection criteria
  and procedures. The University Human Research Ethics Committee scrutinises PhD submissions
  with an eye to advising students undertaking topics requiring such guidance. Successful applicants
  are drawn both from the two OU MA programmes in English and from other universities. During the
  current REF cycle, 645 students completed the MA in Literature, and 424 the MA in Creative
  Writing (which awarded its first degrees in 2018). Of the 23 PhD graduates, 9 completed OU
  English Masters degrees, with the balance from other universities.

  Infrastructure. OU PhD students receive infrastructural support: for full-time students, a desk on
  campus, a laptop, IT support and £1000 annually for their research trips, conference attendance
  and book purchases; and for part-time students, IT support and £500 annually for research
  expenses.

  Supervisory support. All PhD students have two supervisors, as well as a third-party monitor as
  an alternative route of advice. Aligned with the University code of practice for graduate supervision,
  all supervisors in English undertake: to provide written feedback within two weeks of receiving draft
  chapters; to meet students for regular feedback meetings (10 times/ year for full-time students, 5
  times/ year for part-time); to discuss in detail the feedback on draft chapters (with minutes kept of

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  all meetings); and to submit together with student input twice-yearly reports recording the progress
  of the thesis. A probation mini-viva (after 12 months for full-time students; after 24 months for part-
  time students) establishes whether students are making satisfactory progress and have a clear
  programme for timely completion. Supervisors also prepare their students to deliver presentations
  on their work at the annual PhD conference organised by the English Department. Supervisors are
  proactive in advising students about conference attendance, publishing possibilities, and their
  participation in public-facing, impact-generating activities.

  Skills training. A full programme of skills development and career preparation is available for
  research students at University, Faculty, School and Department levels. An intensive 2-day
  induction programme is run by the Graduate School and Faculty every autumn for all new PhD
  students, who are guided through the OU library resources; introduced to all research groups,
  networks and initiatives relevant to their dissertation topics; and informed of opportunities for further
  specialist training in both research skills and impact-generating activities. Discipline-specific skills
  training continues for the duration of the thesis, led by the two supervisors, with further input from
  members of the students’ research group(s). Individual researchers lead specialist PhD skills
  training events: Benatti (for DH students); Johnson and Tickell (for PGL students) and Watson (for
  HOBAR/ DH/ Romanticism students) – see Section 4 for details.

  Contributions to the research environment. OU postgraduate students contribute in many ways
  to the research environment. As far as possible, they are integrated into one (or more) of the
  research groups, participating fully in the groups’ events and activities. For example, PhD members
  of the HOBAR Group, Chambers and Choroba, co-organised seminars hosted at the IES
  (University of London); PhD members of the PGL Group participated in the planning and
  organisation of the four one-day conferences for UK and European PhD students in Postcolonial
  and Global Literatures (see Section 4); and PhD members of the CCW Group have presented their
  research at NAWE conferences and CCW seminars. OU Creative Writing PhDs continue to make
  long-term contributions to the wider research environment: five of the nine OU Creative Writing
  PhDs have secured permanent lectureships at UK universities.

  Equality and diversity
  Policy. Equality and Diversity are core to the institutional DNA of the OU. OU English is in
  synchrony with University commitments, ensuring that the valuing and advancing of equality and
  the improving of diversity are integral to all aspects of the research environment. The current
  constitution of the D27 research cohort is one indicator of the relative success of these
  commitments: of the 31 researchers, 19 self-identify as women and 5 as BAME.

  Recruitment. In common with OU employment practice, English scrupulously applies fair selection,
  equality and diversity processes at all stages of the job application and interview process. All
  members of interview panels undergo training in how to ensure equality of opportunity for all
  applicants.

  In the workplace. The university has a policy of flexible working that is interpreted generously to
  accommodate different personal circumstances. With both staff and graduate students living across
  the UK, unique demands are placed on day-to-day working patterns. Accordingly, measures to
  facilitate remote working have been adopted, principally that meetings can be attended remotely
  using University-approved software, enabling those with child-care or other caring responsibilities,
  as well as those with short-term workload pressures, to participate fully in all decision-making
  forums. In the same spirit, all meetings are scheduled to avoid time-consuming travel.

  Fixed-term staff. In line with OU policy, fixed-term staff in English receive the same research
  support as central academics on permanent contracts. Scrupulous care is taken in the annual
  appraisal meetings and in the research conversations to ensure that fixed-term staff take their full
  allocation of research time and receive the same mentoring support for external grant applications
  and in how to access internal research funding.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Staff tutors. Considerable flexibility is applied in managing the research trajectories of staff tutors.
  Research active staff tutors are encouraged to apply for more than their allocated 22 days of
  research leave (subject to operational pressures), and receive the same mentoring, support and
  access to internal research funding as central academics.

  Research students. The majority of OU English PhD candidates are mature students who come
  from a wide variety of educational backgrounds. The University and the discipline provide an
  exceptional level of support and pastoral care for PhD students, and supervisors in English are
  particularly experienced at developing the skills of students who begin their studies with less
  preparation than is typical at other institutions.

  REF 2021 Preparations. The OU’s English submission has been prepared by a panel of six (3
  men, 3 women), whose appointments have been ratified by both the Faculty and the University.
  The panel includes: the UOA lead, the RSG chair and impact lead, the three ICS leads, and
  representatives of Literature, Language and Creative Writing (several panel members represent
  more than one constituency). All members of the panel have received the Equality and Diversity
  training required by the OU’s REF 2021 Code of Practice. All members of the UOA were invited to
  submit their eligible outputs, and these were assessed in two stages: in January-April 2019 and in
  February-May 2020. Combining the two rounds, 154 outputs were assessed, with all outputs
  assessed by two members of the internal panel, and 115 outputs (75%) assessed by the external
  consultant-assessors. The scores of the internal and the external panellists correlated closely: for
  105 outputs, the internal and external scores were identical; for 28 outputs, the externals scored
  higher than the internal panellists; and for 21 outputs the externals scored lower than the internal
  panellists. The final selection process was concluded in November 2020. According to the
  processes set out in the Code of Practice, all members of the UOA were able to submit individual
  circumstances to the University to determine any reduction in the overall output submission pool. All
  decision-making meetings of the panel have been formally minuted by a member of the Faculty’s
  administrative staff.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Income
  In order to achieve the three strategic goals of strengthening the research groups, maximising the
  impact of research in English, and extending collaborations with external partners, a further priority
  has been to increase the funding required to realise these goals. Such funding has been derived
  from external and internal sources.

  External research funding. Bidding for external research funding is now firmly embedded at all
  stages of the annual research cycle: it is discussed during research conversations (Jan-March) and
  at annual appraisals (April-May); it is an ongoing conversation in all mentoring exchanges; and it is
  an agenda item at all department meetings. Overseen by the RSG Chair, individual researchers in
  English circulate draft bids among colleagues in proximate research areas, who provide detailed
  written feedback; colleagues in the School with relevant knowledge and expertise then comment
  upon revised drafts of the bids-in-progress; and the Faculty Research Office provides
  comprehensive administrative support. The Faculty administrators perform a range of functions:
  publicise opportunities for bidding; advise on the costing of bids; monitor ethical and legal
  considerations relevant to the bids; consult closely with Faculty’s Associate Dean for Research; and
  provide oversight of short- and long-term financial planning. Great efforts have been made to
  synchronise the input at Discipline, School and Faculty levels, with research in English benefiting
  demonstrably from these procedural improvements. In the current REF cycle, the number of bids
  for external funding has doubled from 17 (8 successful and 9 unsuccessful) in the REF 2014 cycle
  to 41 (12 successful, 27 unsuccessful, 2 pending) in the REF 2021 cycle. Of the unsuccessful bids
  for which feedback was provided, three of the large ones were ranked at 5*, which suggests that
  peer reviewers have assessed them as eligible for funding (even if overall the percentage success
  rate has dropped). A further development has been to seek out funding sources beyond the AHRC,
  British Academy and Leverhulme, with the successful bids of Benatti, Katritzky, Nasta and
  Towheed (listed below) attesting to progress in this direction.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  The successful bids for funding in excess of £10,000 were:
  Benatti, A Question of Style: Individual Voices and Corporate Identity in the Edinburgh Review and
  Quarterly Review, £17,158 from The Research Society for Victorian Periodicals (2017)
  Gupta, Framing the Financial Crisis and Protest: North-West and South-East Europe, £121,960
  from Leverhulme (2014 to 2016)
  Gupta, Entrepreneurial Literary Research, £10,000 from British Academy (2016 to 2017)
  Katritzky, Gender and Otherness in the Humanities (GOTH) studentship, £152,851 from
  Philanthropic Donations UK (2019 to 2023)
  Nasta, At the Heart of the Nation: India in Britain, £20,000 from the Nehru Centre (2017 to 2018)
  Tagg, Co-I on Translation and Translanguaging: Investigating linguistic and cultural transformations
  in superdiverse wards in four UK cities, award value: £1.6M; value to the OU: £13,407 from AHRC
  (2015 to 2018)
  Towheed, Reading Communities: Connecting the Past and Present, £78,432 from AHRC (2015 to
  2016)
  Towheed, Reading Europe Advance Data Investigation Tool (READ-IT), £159,089 from AHRC
  (2018 to 2021)
  Watson, Dreaming Romantic Europe, £36,257 from AHRC (2018 to 2020)
  In addition, a number of researchers bid successfully for smaller grants, notably Haslam (£5,127
  from the British Academy in 2014); Katritzky (£4,846 from the Wellcome Trust in 2015); and
  Towheed (£8,221 from the British Academy in 2018, and £600 from the School of Advanced
  Studies in 2017).

  Looking to the future, the prospects for future external research funding have been boosted by
  Campbell winning £120,767 from the AHRC in October 2020 for the project Expressive Life Writing
  and Telling During Crisis: Addressing Urgent Needs in the Akkar Governorate, Lebanon.

  Internal research funding. Researchers in English benefit from substantial internal funding. Since
  the re-structuring of the University in 2016, with the establishment of the Faculty/ School/ Discipline
  division, researchers in English have been able to supplement their annual £500 personal research
  allowance by submitting bids to two committees for further funding: (1) the School research
  committee, which considers bids of up to £2k for conferences (both organisation and attendance),
  archive visits, publications costs, and other such ‘operational’ research costs; and (2) the Faculty
  research committee, which considers larger bids of up to £5k to support longer-term strategic
  objectives like the development of external bids, impact-generating initiatives, and collaborations
  with external partner organisations, and makes its awards from the Faculty’s Strategic Research
  Investment Fund. There is no limit on the number of bids individual researchers can submit.

  During the current REF cycle, researchers in English have received generous internal financial
  support: the School research committee awarded £70,678 at an average of £17,670 per year; and
  the Faculty research committee awarded in the region of £37,000 at an average of £5,285 per year.
  Although there have been year-on-year fluctuations, internal investment on research in English has
  increased from £13,467 in the 2014-15 financial year to £28,846 (£12,103 Faculty Strategic
  Investment + £16,743 School funding) in the 2019-20 financial year. An additional source of internal
  research income was Campbell’s award from the OU’s Global Challenges Research Fund, which
  conventionally supports projects in development studies, but made an exception in awarding
  Campbell £12,371 in 2019 for her project on Expressive Life Writing and Post-conflict Communities
  in Lebanon. This award also signals the OU’s recognition that Campbell’s project exemplifies the
  University’s commitment to supporting research serving social justice.

  Funding for enhancing research impact. With the integration of impact into all aspects of
  research a priority, internal funding to support this commitment has been generous. Since 2015,
  Towheed has been the impact lead for English, attending external impact briefings; advising all
  colleagues about impact-generating opportunities during the annual research conversations;
  working closely with the leads of the impact case studies; and reporting on all impact-related
  matters at department meetings. With funding from the Faculty Strategic Research Investment
  Fund, Towheed has been supported by two impact consultants: Parmar (Oct 2018 to April 2019)

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and Blackburn-Daniels (Sept 2019 to March 2021). The impact consultants have compiled a
  comprehensive database of impact generated by all the researchers in English; gathered existing
  evidence of impact for the leads of the three impact case studies; supported and co-organised new
  impact-gathering activities in close dialogue with the three ICS leads; and assisted in the drafting of
  the three impact case studies and the Environment statement. Their contribution has been to raise
  substantially the profile of impact as integral to all future research-planning.

  Funding for PhD students. A limited number of studentships for PhDs in English at the OU have
  been awarded in this REF cycle: 5 funded by internal OU studentships (Borkett-Jones, Hogan,
  Manning, Sinha and Sweeney); and 2 funded by studentships from the AHRC-funded Consortium
  of the Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE) and OOC Doctoral Training
  Programme Schemes (Butler and Stewart). Two of the completed PhDs were OU associate
  lecturers who took advantage of the University’s fee waiver (Bullock and Harlow).

  Research infrastructure and facilities
  The University’s research is overseen by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, Enterprise and
  Scholarship, who manages the Research Office and Graduate School. Research in the Faculty of
  Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) is led by an Associate Dean. S/he chairs the Faculty Research
  Board, which takes a strategic overview of research activity in consultation with the heads of
  research of each school. Research in English is represented on the Faculty Research Board by the
  head of research for the School of Arts and Humanities. The Faculty Research Office works closely
  with the University’s central Research and Enterprise team and the Graduate School to support bid
  development, the management of awards, research student administration, and the distribution of
  internal funds for research.

  The Faculty’s commitment to sustaining research is evident in its support for the research groups,
  with the directors of the groups, as well as individual group members, able to access funding to
  support research and impact projects. The annual allocation of funding is: the HOBAR Group
  (£3,500); the PGL Group (£1,500); the CCW Group (£1,500); the Medieval and Early Modern
  Group (£1,500); and the Digital Humanities Group (£2,000). Examples of events supported by
  these funds are detailed in Sections 1 and 4.

  Library support at the OU is tailored to scholars who work remotely from the University’s
  headquarters at Milton Keynes. Staff and research students are provided with online access to a
  world-class collection of over 275,000 subscribed academic journals, 540 online databases,
  590,000 e-books and a vast selection of online newspapers, images, video and sound, with 24-hour
  helpdesk support and a range of face-to-face and online training facilities. An efficient inter-library
  loan system geared to providing online and print access to research materials (via pdfs of
  documents, articles, loan copies, etc.) complements the OU’s own library resources. Researchers
  in English have benefited especially from the library’s investment in all the databases essential to
  the discipline (Early English Books Online; Eighteenth-Century Collections Online; the Modern
  Language Association’s International Bibliography), as well to many more serving specific
  specialisms within English Studies: The Calendar of State Papers Online, Adam Matthews
  Medieval and Early Modern Studies Online, Mass Observation, Drama Online, Granta Online and
  the new ProQuest One Literature collections of black and world literatures. The multi-million-pound
  investments in online services include the University’s repository Open Research Online (ORO),
  with over 40,000 OU publications and over 70,000 full-text downloads a month from all over the
  world. All publications by researchers in English are included in ORO, and where possible, the full-
  text content of these publications is available freely online.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  The strategic commitments to enhancing impact-generating research activities and strengthening
  collaborations have been amply realised during this REF cycle, with the three impact case studies
  complemented by many more successes in sharing the benefits of research in English with a wide
  range of non-HEI constituencies.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  COLLABORATIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY AND ECONOMY
  Collaborations enhancing understanding, learning and participation.
  Towheed’s ICS 2 has had an impact on the understanding, learning and participation of four
  constituencies of informal readers. Complementing this case study, researchers in English have
  dedicated their efforts to generating similar kinds of impact in many more contexts.

  As consultants for BBC television. English at the OU has a long-established partnership with the
  BBC, which has flourished during the current REF cycle. Researchers have collaborated with the
  BBC in producing five television series and two individual programmes. Six researchers contributed
  to Series 1 and 2 of BBC4’s ‘The Secret Life of Books’ (broadcast 2014-15): Watson was the chief
  nominated academic for both series and the consultant on the programmes on Confessions of an
  English Opium-Eater and Swallows and Amazons; Brown the consultant on The Faerie Queen; Da
  Sousa Correa on The Mill on the Floss; Neale on Cider with Rosie; and Towheed on Edward
  Lear’s Nonsense Songs (viewership: 2.69 million). Johnson and King were the academic
  consultants for ‘Living Shakespeare’, an OU collaboration with BBC World Service Television and
  the British Council, which featured eight lectures by global figures, was screened on BBC World TV
  (viewership: 20 million) and published by the British Council in eight booklets (2016). Jones was
  the academic consultant for the BBC2 series ‘Icons: The Greatest Person of the 20th Century’, with
  responsibility for two of the seven episodes: ‘Artists and Writers’, and ‘Entertainers’ (2019)
  (viewership: 8.56 million). Neale and OU PhD student Harlow were the consultants for the three-
  programme BBC4 series Sleuths, Spies and Sorcerers: Andrew Marr’s Paperback Heroes (2016)
  (viewership: 2.39 million). The two individual programmes with input from OU English researchers
  were: Gibson as academic consultant for the programme ‘Shakespeare Live! From the RSC’,
  which screened on BBC2 Television in April 2017, attracting 1.7 million viewers; and Haslam and
  Neale for the BBC/OU drama on the Brontë sisters, ‘To Walk Invisible’ (2017) (viewership: 4.29
  million). Plans for future BBC collaborations are well-advanced, with Reardon and Watson the
  academic consultants for the BBC4 series ‘Write Around the World’ (due 2021), and Watson for a
  forthcoming documentary on Kate Tempest. In addition to the BBC collaborations, King was the
  consultant for the Sky Arts series ‘My Shakespeare’, a 6-part documentary on Shakespeare’s plays
  fronted by prominent actors. The series was screened on Sky Arts in the UK and on PBS in the US
  (2014) (combined viewership: 270,000).

  As contributors to online magazines. Researchers in English have been especially effective in
  extending the reach of their research through their contributions to The Conversation: O’Reilly’s 15
  articles have been read by 135,400; Seargeant’s 12 articles by 472,018; Campbell’s co-authored
  article by 16,597; and Hogan’s co-authored article by 90,729. In her role as Media Lead, O’Reilly
  has facilitated contributions to The Conversation by research associate Parmar (1 article) and PhD
  student Chappell (2 articles, which have had 64,483 reads) (figures 31 October 2020). In addition,
  researchers in English have published articles on their research in The Washington Post, Times
  Literary Supplement, The Daily Telegraph, The Times Higher Education Supplement, The
  Independent on Sunday, and The Irish Times. Seargeant’s contributions to online media deserve
  highlighting, as he has published 27 articles in different outlets, including The Huffington Post, The
  Daily Mirror, Forbes Magazine, The Telegraph, The Guardian, open democracy, The Sun and BBC
  News.

  As contributors to the OU’s free online teaching resources. The OU provides opportunities to
  communicate research in accessible forms to audiences of millions through several free online
  platforms. (1) The OU/ FutureLearn MOOC hosted Neale’s Start Writing Fiction course, which has
  had over 300,000 registered users during the REF period. (2) The OU’s YouTube channel hosted
  twelve of Seargeant’s short videos showcasing his research, attracting 6.5 million views since
  2014. (3) The Open Learn web platform has hosted short courses and samples of research by
  English researchers. The numbers of readers for the short course have been especially impressive:
  Brown and Gibson’s course Reading Shakespeare’s As You Like It (2017) has had 40,169 page
  views; Neale’s Start Writing Fiction (2015) has had 40,516; and Yeh’s Creative Writing and Critical
  Reading (2016) has had 118,522. Page views for individual contributions average about 700, and
  include the following: Brown, Songs of Love and Hate: On Leonard Cohen (2016); and Bowie as a
  conduit (2016); Da Sousa Correa, Women Writers: Katherine Mansfield (2015); Doloughan,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Women Writers: Jeanette Winterson (2015); Benatti, How technology can challenge our
  understanding of Frankenstein (2018); Giaxoglou and Seargeant, What effect is social media
  having on the way we mourn global tragedies? (2017); Haslam, Protest Banners across history,
  from Chartism to Hillsborough (2018); King, Shakespeare: For All Time? (2017) and Fakespeare:
  Rewriting the Bard (2019); and Seargeant and Tagg, Social media: fake news, filter bubbles and
  sharing wisely! (2018); Watson, Of skulls and hearts (2014), The author at home (2015); Poetry
  prescription (2016); and The Writer’s Room: J. K. Rowling (2017).

  As researchers hosting public engagement events. Parmar and Nasta organised the five
  exhibition launches accompanying the UK tour of ‘The Heart of the Nation: India in Britain’. The
  launch events attracted up to 500 visitors, and the associated website Our Migration Story, an open
  database of teaching materials for secondary school students, has had 2,079 unique page views,
  and was short-listed in the Research Impact category of The Guardian University Awards 2019.

  As researchers contributing to educational websites. In July 2016, Seargeant wrote and
  produced four 20-minute animations on ‘Shakespeare Speaks’ for the website BBC Learning
  English (September 2020: 483,730 unique uses of the webpages).

  Collaborations enhancing the impact of research on creativity, culture and society.
  Watson’s ICS 3 has had an impact on creativity, culture and society in the context of museum
  curation and exhibition across Europe, as has the research of many more English researchers in
  other contexts – details below:

  Radio. Neale was the principal consultant for the biennial BBC World Service International Radio
  Playwriting Competition, and negotiated the collaboration between the OU, the BBC World Service,
  the Commonwealth Writers Association and The British Council. Six plays were broadcast,
  attracting a total audience of 33 million (2014 to 2019). Researchers in Creative Writing have
  frequently been on radio: Bullock on BBC Radio London (2015); O’Reilly on regional BBC radio
  stations 23 times since 2014; Richardson on three occasions on BBC Radio Ulster (2018);
  Sweeney on five occasions, including twice on Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour (2016-8); and Yeh on the
  Radio 4 programme Poetry Please (2019).

  Public readings and lectures. A striking development in this REF cycle has been the 200+ public
  readings researchers in Creative Writing have delivered: Bullock (15); Campbell (25); Hogan (12);
  Neale (11); O’Reilly (6); Reardon (10); Richardson (35); Sweeney (51); and Yeh (40). A smaller
  number of researchers in Literature gave public lectures on aspects of their research: Gupta (4);
  Johnson (1); Katritzky (3); Tickell (1); and Towheed (2), Watson (5).

  Museums and libraries. In addition to Watson’s work with literary museums, other researchers
  have also developed similarly productive relationships. Campbell was employed by Manchester
  Museum to run a series of ekphrastic workshops (2019); Doloughan organised the European
  Literature Night with the British Library on three occasions (2014-16), with writers, translators and
  editors addressing large public audiences; Giaxoglou was the ‘Death Café’ organiser and
  facilitator’ (public events for people to talk about death) at the Stanley Picker Gallery (Kingston)
  (2015); O’Reilly collaborated with the People’s History Museum, Manchester to organise a major
  exhibition and conference on the anniversary of the Peterloo Massacre (2019); and Reardon
  supported an exhibition and lectures at the Corinium Museum, Cirencester (2014).

  Publishers. A collaboration between the CCW Group and Bloomsbury’s publication The Writers
  and Artists Yearbook has led to six public events, two in London, two in Edinburgh, and one each in
  Belfast and Cardiff. Organised by Hogan, Neale and O’Reilly, these events have showcased local
  writers, publishers and academics.

  Collaborations with an impact on social welfare, health and well-being.
  Campbell’s ICS 1 demonstrates the impact of her research on post-conflict survivors in Lebanon
  and Iraq. Most recently (in August 2020), the OU’s ‘Urgent Covid-19 Response Fund’ has
  supported Campbell’s work with a nurse practitioner graduate of the OU MA in CW at the North

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Tees and Hartlepool Foundation NHS Trust on a project ‘Creative Writing with Health Care Workers
  after COVID-19’. Three workshops with front-line health professionals explored how expressive and
  creative writing could aid the NHS response to the Covid-19 outbreak. Impact of a similar nature
  has resulted from Sweeney’s research into the connections between disability and literary
  creativity. Sweeney’s Arts Council England-funded writing residency at Mencap (commenced April
  2020) explores links between learning disability and poetry via mentorships and workshops,
  producing co-drafted poems by both people with learning disabilities and those supporting them.
  The poems and interviews are publicised via Mencap’s website, podcasts and social media feeds,
  with an ultimate audience reach anticipated by Mencap and the Arts Council of 840,500.

  Contributions with an impact on public policy and law.
  Campbell’s ICS 1 elaborates upon how her research has had an impact upon social policies in
  Lebanon and Iraq. More impact of this kind is evident in Seargeant and Tagg’s research into fake
  news, which has influenced the UK government’s education policies: both researchers delivered
  expert evidence in three stages to the Parliamentary Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Cross-party
  Committee enquiry into ‘Disinformation and fake news’ in 2018. Their evidence has thus informed
  government policy on digital literacy education in HE.

  CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
  Contributions to post-graduate training. Benatti organised four workshops for PhD students for
  the CHASE Digital Age training programme (2015-2019]), training over 100 students in total; and is
  organising a similar programme for the OOC Consortium. Johnson and Tickell co-organised four
  one-day conferences for PhD students in Postcolonial and Global Literatures in Britain and Europe:
  at the OU London Offices in 2014; at Kent in 2016; at Sussex in 2018; and at Southampton in 2019.
  Watson as President of BARS organised conferences for PhD students of Romanticism in 2014,
  2016, 2018.

  Collaborations with other universities. At the level of the research groups, the long-established
  collaborations of the HOBAR and CCW Groups with the IES, University of London have continued
  to flourish during this REF cycle: the HOBAR Group organised five seminar series with 36 seminars
  in total, and the CCW Group organised 12 seminar series with 36 seminars in total.

  Editorships of book series. Da Sousa Correa has been general editor of the Edinburgh UP
  Katherine Mansfield Studies series (one book per year); Johnson is the general editor of the
  Edinburgh UP series Key Texts in Anti-colonial Thought (three volumes to date); Tagg is the co-
  series editor of the new Routledge Focus series Language and Social Media; and Towheed is co-
  series editor of the Palgrave series New Directions in Book History (33 volumes since 2015).

  Journal editorships. OU researchers contribute to the editorship of journals, with several playing
  leading roles: Neale as the principal editor of Writing Practice: The Journal of Creative Writing
  Research; Paterson the editor of the Journal of Language and Discrimination; Tagg an associate
  editor of Discourse, Context & Media; and Tickell an associate editor of Journal of Postcolonial
  Writing and Wasafiri. Two have been reviews editors: Brown of The Spenser Review; and
  Paterson of the Journal of Language and Discrimination. Ten more serve on the editorial boards of
  18 international journals.

  Invited keynotes. OU researchers in English delivered well over 30 keynote addresses at
  universities in Britain and around the world: Da Sousa Correa (Basel); Doloughan (Beijing);
  Giaxoglou (Lausanne); Gupta (Campinas and Plovdiv); Haslam (King’s College, London);
  Johnson (Oxford Brookes); Katritzky (Glasgow, Mainz, Florence, Leeds and University College
  London); Tickell (Oxford University, Goethe University in Frankfurt, Auro University in Gujarat and
  Naples); Tagg (Aalborg); Towheed (Haverford College, Campinas, São Paulo, Le Mans, Oxford
  Brookes, Réunion, and Pretoria); and Watson (Chawton House, Sogndal, Kracow and Oxford
  University).

  Membership of research councils. Eight researchers in English serve as assessors for UK and
  international research councils: Campbell (the Arts Council of Northern Ireland); Giaxoglou

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (Flanders Research Foundation (FWO) and the ESRC (UK)); Gupta and Haslam (AHRC Peer
  Review College); Johnson (AHRC, Leverhulme and National Research Foundation of South Africa
  (NRF, SA)); Tickell (AHRC and Swiss National Science Foundation); Towheed (AHRC, NRF, SA,
  the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada and the Netherlands
  Organisation for Scientific Research); and Watson (AHRC, and the research councils of Norway,
  Spain, Switzerland and the Netherlands).

  Contributions to professional bodies. Benatti is an Executive Council Member of centerNet; Da
  Sousa Correa is on the advisory board of the International Association for Word and Music
  Studies, a trustee of The Katherine Mansfield Society, and an executive member of University
  English; Haslam is the chair of the Ford Society; Katritzky is on the steering committee of the
  Theater Without Borders Early Modern Theatre Collaborative; Neale was chair of the HE section of
  NAWE; Tagg is Secretary of the British Association of Applied Linguistics; Towheed is a founding
  member of the International Vernon Lee Society; and Watson has been President and Past-
  President of the British Association for Romantic Studies, and is founder and co-ordinator of
  European Romanticisms in Association (ERA) (2016-).

  Refereeing academic publications. Sixteen of the researchers in English regularly review
  submissions for over 70 international journals and for 20 leading publishers.




                                                                                       Page 14
