Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 18 – Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
     1. Context and Structure

 Lincoln Law School is a dynamic and growing research community. We are committed to making
 a difference to the understanding of law and cognate disciplines in areas of research strength,
 as well as working with research users to benefit society. Our research addresses significant
 real-world challenges, such as improving local policing strategies and addressing environmental
 degradation. This is enabled by strong trans- and interdisciplinary working practices both within
 and beyond the University. We actively engage with scholars in life sciences, psychology,
 politics and international relations, as well as legal practitioners, police, policy makers and the
 public. Our relatively small but diverse staff base has flourished by focusing its efforts on areas
 of core research strength, with five cross cutting research clusters within the School, and one
 University-wide research centre led by our legal academics (Lincoln Centre for Ecological
 Justice (LinCEJ) - Kirk).

 Central to our research culture and ambition is the research strategy (Sections 1.2 & 1.3), which
 embodies our guiding principles of nurturing and deepening research within a culture of diversity,
 collegiality, equality and fairness. This nests within the University strategy that pursues
 ‘purposeful research with impact’ that is relevant from the ‘local to the global’. Strategic
 leadership is provided by experienced researchers: Head of School (HoS - Hall), Director of
 Research (DoR – Harrison), Funding and Impact Lead (Barnes). This is channelled through our
 School Research Committee, membership of which also includes the PGR Director (Okoye), our
 five Research Cluster leads and PGR representatives. All our academic staff and research
 students are associated with one or more of the clusters, ensuring we provide opportunities to
 build research capacity, and feed our research insights into teaching and external engagement
 activities.

 We submitted only three researchers to RAE2008 and five in REF2014. In REF2014, our overall
 goal was to move from a teaching focused to research-led School. Initially, we sought to
 establish a strong platform for research growth by recruiting and developing excellent
 researchers and building a track record of publications and networks to enable more meaningful
 engagement with research users and establish the capacity for funding applications and further
 research growth. We have continued to enrich the vitality and diversity of our research
 environment by growing sustainably the size of our staff base and PGR community, and
 improving the depth of research support. During the last two years, the focus has been on
 capitalising on our growth, consolidating our strengths in key areas and converting this into
 better quality outputs and engagement. The success of this is reflected in the increased
 research footprint of the School in terms of funding (Section 3), outputs and engagement with
 research users (Section 4). The next step is for our continued growth to be supported through
 increased external funding and expanded research partnerships.

    2. Achieving our Strategic Aims for Research and Impact

 For REF2014, we identified eight strategic research goals. Following review and feedback, and
 to reflect the reinvigorated University Research Strategy (2016), we reframed these into four
 core goals: (i) strengthening research capacity and support; (ii) identifying and building areas of
 research strength; (iii) fostering interdisciplinary research networks and collaborations; and (iv)
 increasing the effectiveness of our engagement with research users. We recognised that our
 research base in 2014 was small and this needed to expand to provide for a more effective
 research environment, so this has been our overarching objective. These four goals have
 successfully shaped our routine research activities and research governance (Section 1.4),
 staffing and recruitment strategy (Section 2.1), our research investment and infrastructure
 (Section 3) and informed the setting of our future research priorities (Section 1.3).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   i.   Strengthening Research Capacity and Support

 Our core goal has been to sustainably grow the size and quality of our research base, and to
 improve, both qualitatively and quantitively, the financial and development support for our
 researchers, in order to create the time, space and conditions for generating innovative
 research, and academically and social purposeful research outputs. In mere quantitative terms
 this has been achieved. In REF2021, we are submitting 14 staff (13fte) compared to five (4.2fte)
 in 2014, an increase of over 200%. This amounts to almost 50% of our School staff base, with a
 further 11 early career academics on research development pathways. 20% of returned staff are
 ECRs.

 This growth has contributed to a sustainable research environment, with improved publications,
 increased engagement in funding activities, higher numbers and diversity of PGR students, and
 contributions to the discipline more widely. For example, in 2019, Kirk was appointed as
 Professor of Global Governance and Ecological Justice. As Deputy Chair and then Chair of the
 IUCN Academy, she coordinated links between over 200 law schools in 60 Countries, and so
 brings enormous experience and networking capacity to the School. This also provides a strong
 pool of potential collaborative research partners, particularly in developing countries where there
 is a need to develop capacity-building partnerships in line with GCRF funding priorities.

 Our research has yielded 18 books and 240 other outputs since 2014. We have increased
 external funding activity from four bids prior to 2014 to 27 bids since 2014, and an increase in
 income from an average of less than £2k per year to over £50k per year. Whereas a relatively
 small percentage (20%) of staff had PhDs in 2014 and only two were involved in the supervision
 of PGR students, these figures now stand at 65% and twelve respectively.

 The following mechanisms have been central to enhancing research capacity:
    • Incentives to support, retain, develop staff (including staff development programmes,
         promotion pathways, and performance incentives).
    • A transparent and flexible workload process that aligns research specialisms with
         teaching delivery, and that tailors research allowances to individual needs.
    • Proactive mentoring scheme, that provides either general or targeted support by
         experienced researchers from within or beyond the school.
    • A regularised appraisal scheme, with built-in research planning, review and feedback.
    • Appointment of research leaders in strategically important areas, with a view to
         mentoring researchers and leading research initiatives.
    • Consolidating and increasing competitive research funding through the School and
         College Research Support Fund (from £20k/year in 2014 to at least to £30k in 2019/20).
    • Proactive feedback on applications to build grant writing skills for external applications
         (e.g. Marie Curie Fellowship success).
    • Expanding our dedicated professional services research support team at College and
         University levels (Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies), who deliver funding
         intelligence, bid development support and review, as well as post award support.
    • Research leave scheme introduced in 2014 providing for one semester leave in six, and
         which has benefitted more than 50% of our research staff.
    • Provision of dedicated space and facilities for research activities, including co-location of
         office space with research students and cognate disciplines in social sciences.

    ii.  Building Areas of Research Strength
 During the REF period, building confidence and strong track records has been a first step
 towards enabling greater success in funding applications and engagement with impact users.
 This has been complemented by more intensive staff development support and a focus on
 interdisciplinary research. In order to further stimulate interdisciplinary research, income
 generation and external engagement, three Research Groups were established (‘Law in a
 Global Context’, ‘Conflict and Disasters Research’ (CONDIS)’ and the ‘Lincoln Centre for


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environmental Law and Justice’ (CELJ)), with targeted responsibilities for curriculum
 development and external income generation.

 Research groups are formally audited by the University Research Committee on a periodic basis
 to ensure they remain active and productive, and to identify areas for growth and investment.
 Following review our grassroots clusters have evolved to reflect current areas of disciplinary
 strength and so the former clusters have been reformed as (Corporate and Commercial law;
 Criminal Justice; Environmental Law; Human Rights; and International Law). Each cluster has
 around a dozen members (both academics and research students) and focuses on work-in-
 progress sessions, peer review and feedback, reading groups, event organisation, and research
 project development. This is a marked growth from three clusters with only a handful of
 members each in 2014 and is resulting in important scholarly innovations, such as Hall’s work
 on ‘greening criminology’. Our nurturing of homegrown researcher and investment in additional
 research active staff has allowed us to cultivate the number and membership of these research
 clusters.

 In 2018, Prof Kotzé joined the School on a 2-year Marie Curie Fellowship to develop our
 environmental law research profile. The success of this structured approach to strategic growth
 is reflected in the further appointments of Prof Barnes and Prof Kirk, post-doc (Porras) and
 PhD investment by the College and University (Cieselczuk, Akrofi) and the transformation of
 the CELJ into a fully-fledged University Research Centre, the LinCEJ.

  iii.   Fostering Networks and Collaboration

 Our key approach here has been to create time, space and opportunities for academics to meet.
 We have emphasised the benefits of networking in appraisals and supported it through research
 funding mechanisms. This has been supplemented by key strategic appointments of
 experienced researchers (e.g. Barnes, Hall, Harrison, Kotzé, and Kirk) with extensive
 international networks that can be shared with early and mid-career researchers. Much has been
 achieved internally through the research clusters/groups/centres, who meet monthly, as well as
 weekly coffee mornings that have done much to preserve a friendly and open working culture.
 These events have been maintained online during Covid. As a measure of the success, we can
 point to 67 outputs that have been co-authored, including 61 with partners outside of the
 University, and 39 grant applications generated from within the School, with a 27% success rate.
 Law staff have research partnerships and networks in over 50 countries and involving 100
 institutions. Specific examples include; Brookman-Byrne is collaborator on a $194,759 SSHRC
 (Canada) project ‘Civilian Casualties from Airstrikes—Counting, Accounting, and Accountability’
 with Professor Wilkes (Carleton University); Barnes completed a significant edited collection on
 Climate Change and Oceans Governance with MacDonald and McGee (University of
 Tasmania); Kirk’s innovative edited collection on the Impact of Environmental Law, co-edited
 with Osorio (University of Cebu, Philippines) and Steinberg-Albin (Pace Law School, USA); and
 Kirk’s collaboration on plastics and the law with Popattanachai (Thamasat University), which
 has led to a series of publications and current collaboration with WWF (Asia) on the
 development of a plastics strategy for Asian states. Our collaborative strategy has resulted in the
 School hosting events such as the British Society of Criminology’s Green Criminology Working
 Group launch and a series of internationally attended workshops on global ecological
 custodianship in the Anthropocene.

 Given the wider importance of global policy agendas like UN SDGs and industrial/challenge-led
 research, which demand cross disciplinary approaches to problem solving, we have worked
 closely with College and University research teams to stimulate growth in networking and
 collaboration across the University and beyond. For example, Law School staff regularly co-
 supervise PhD students with colleagues in other Schools (e.g. Hall, Harrison, Vacca).
 Colleagues sit in cross disciplinary research Ethics Panels and Peer Review panels on a regular
 basis. Our vibrant seminar series attracts academics and experts from the UK and
 internationally. This is supplemented by regular College and University level research events. In
 the last four years, the College has run over 40 events, including data management

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 masterclasses, bid development for ECRs, widening participation in research workshops, and
 research away days. Hall, Kirk and French have led on some of these events, sharing their
 expertise and experience. An annual College Research Showcase celebrates our research and
 enables research across discipline. Recording of events allows us to disseminate our research
 more widely (e.g. Hall). We have also collaborated with Lincoln’s School of Social and Political
 Sciences on joint writing retreats from which we can identify at least 10 of our submitted outputs
 drew benefit, including monographs by Hall and Shucksmith. Members of the School have also
 collaborated on a major Horizon 2020 Grant in Collaboration with the School of Life Sciences to
 investigate farm systems that produce good quality water supplies for drinking (£22,000 to the
 Law School).

 Full details of our activities and progress on this objective are set out in Section 4 below.

  iv.   Improving Engagement with Research Users

 Recognising the important difference our research can make outside academia, we have
 pressed the need to have early and regular engagement with research users, and supplemented
 this with development events and mentoring to build confidence in engaging with research
 users. The majority of colleagues now engage with stakeholders in developing, disseminating or
 implementing their research (See further Section 3). This is a marked change from 2014, when
 our outward facing research was centred around the work of Peysner and Stone. It will provide
 a strong platform for transformational change in society.

 Our links with the legal profession are manifest in Le Roux-Kemp’s research in criminal
 procedure. She also authored the first comprehensive treatise on Hong Kong criminal
 procedure, which is a benchmark piece for practitioners. Okoye’s research on microfinance is
 informing lawyers’ understanding of problems in the Nigerian banking sector.

 Through our criminal justice cluster, we have developed extensive links with the police, which
 enables our research on criminal justice to inform policy, as well as informing at least a dozen
 publications. This partnership has also resulted in one police funded PhD scholarship. Harrison
 (formerly Hall) is the University representative on East Midlands Police Academic Collaboration
 (EMPAC), a project which sought to help the police connect with the academy and make more
 evidence-based decisions. Hall is also a member of the Lincolnshire Police Ethics Panel. In
 2020, Harrison completed an evaluation on the use of body worn cameras in Humberside
 Police and currently sits on the Humberside Police Steering Group overseeing the
 implementation of the report’s recommendations.

 Our research is informing public policy and practice at the national, EU and global level. For
 example, Barnes has been invited to give evidence on eight occasions to Parliamentary
 committees on aspects of fisheries regulation, which was used to scrutinise and inform the
 Fisheries Act 2020. Hall’s baseline analysis of prosecutions for environmental crime is used to
 inform practitioners through the European Network of Prosecutors for the Environment. Since
 2017, French has been a member of an expert group advising UN Environment and the UN
 Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute on environmental crime. Ryland worked as a
 member of Working Group 16 of the International Organization for Standardization to develop a
 Technical Specification on animal welfare management related to the food supply chain.
 Turner’s research on environmental rights was used to frame the mandate of the UN Special
 Rapporteur for Human Rights and the Environment (2015-18).

 We frequently provide advice and support to civil society. For example, Brookman-Byrne is on
 the steering committee of Drone Wars UK, advising on legal aspects of armed drone use.
 Barnes advises the WWF-US on the regulation of marine resources and informs their advocacy
 work on reform of Regional Fisheries Management Organisations. Kirk is on the advisory board
 of the Island Waste Management Global Alliance and is working with WWF (Asia) on tackling
 plastics pollution. Gilgan provides informal advice and support to Protection Approaches and the
 European Centre for the Responsibility to Protect.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      3. Future Strategic Aims and Goals for Research and Impact
 Our research governance and support structures are proving effective, but they will benefit from
 ongoing review as we expand our research capacity. Over the last six years, our research
 priorities have focused on enhancing outputs and building capacity to deliver impactful research.
 In order to make a step change in research to the position where a significant number of
 colleagues are engaged in externally funded research programmes, we are putting in place
 support for periods of research leave and seed corn funding to specifically support project
 development with external stakeholders. This will be reinforced by enhancing the rigour of peer
 review processes. We will continue to grow our research capacity through strategic
 appointments, with particular focus on early career researchers who can engage in the above
 research programmes. Researchers will be supported by experienced mentors (Barnes,
 Harrison, Kirk, Kotzé). We will enhance our capacity to engage in challenge-led
 interdisciplinary research. At a grassroots level, we are developing with the College and
 University tailored training programmes that develop specific skills in research methodology. We
 are engaged in leadership and delivery of University level research programmes aligned to our
 research strengths: ‘Sustainability’, ‘Communities’ and ‘Health and Well-being’. Externally, we
 will incentivise through workload and merit rewards regular public engagement in high profile
 events such as the Lincoln LiGHTS festival and the ESRC Festival of Social Science.

 In line with the University strategy, we are committed to delivering purposeful research that has
 a real-world impact and which generates transformational change. Accordingly, we will focus on
 three main areas, two of which build on existing strengths:

    i.   ‘Articulating, representing and delivering ecological justice’
 Building on our acknowledged strengths in international and environmental law, a principal focus
 of future research activity will be developing the LinCEJ into a truly interdisciplinary research hub
 with an international reputation for research excellence. In line with the University ‘Sustainability’
 research theme, Kirk as Director of the LinCEJ, with support from Barnes, French and Kotzé
 will champion cross disciplinary approaches across the arts, social and physical sciences to
 position the LinCEJ as a vehicle for thought leadership in tackling the global challenges
 presented by threats to planetary boundaries and complex problems such as plastics pollution,
 energy efficiency and marine governance. Partnerships are being established with the World
 Maritime University, Arctic University of Tromsø and University of Helsinki to target funding with
 a view to establishing LinCEJ as an internationally recognised centre of excellence.

   ii.  ‘Enabling criminal justice through policy interventions’
 Harrison is leading funded research (including a PhD scholarship) into the most appropriate
 education pathways for Lincolnshire Police. She is also leading on creating a professional
 network between the University of Lincoln and Lincolnshire Police which will focus on research,
 knowledge exchange and people (including internships).

   iii. ‘Health, Well-being and Security’
 Following a significant University investment in a new medical School, Le Roux-Kemp (medical
 law and ethics) and McCardle (disaster law) will work with colleagues across the university
 under the ‘Health and Well-being’ Research Theme to develop new areas of research with
 health practitioners. Harrison, with other colleagues across the College, is working with the
 Prison Governors Association to explore the health and well-being of prison officers and
 managers. This will all directly impact on policy decisions.


 2. People
     1. Staffing Strategy
 Our core strategy has been to sustainably grow our research capacity by developing and
 appointing ambitious scholars that are keen to engage with vital academic, policy and social
 agendas. The strategy has been driven by a policy of: (i) strengthening our existing subject
 specialisms and recruiting staff committed to engaging research users; (ii) expanding our senior

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff contingent to provide leadership and mentoring for our research community to our ECR and
 mid-career researchers; and iii) emphasising interdisciplinary perspectives and tailoring research
 skills necessary to engage with research agendas within and beyond law. This has been driven
 according to our core guiding principles of collegiality, diversity, equality and fairness.

 Our recruitment process, designed in line with the Athena Swan Charter, ensures we appoint
 diverse scholars of distinction and potential. The process is headed by the PVC Research, with
 strong input from preeminent external academic advisors. Our interview panel is further
 complemented by an internal advisory panel comprising academics at different career stages, so
 is inclusive, collegiate and developmental.

 During the REF2021, 24 new and replacement appointments have been made in areas of
 strategic growth. To strengthen our growth in global environment challenge research we have
 invested in 3 new professorial appointments in the last 2 years: Kirk (Global Governance &
 Ecological Justice), Kotzé (Earth System Jurisprudence) and Barnes (International Law). The
 appointment of talented ECRs has allowed us to deepen research in complementary areas, such
 as intersectionality and human rights (Ali, Hudson, Kang-Riou & Saenz-Perez), humanitarian
 law and responsibility to protect (Bird, Bohm & Gilgan), international human rights law and
 migration law (Gilgan), international law (Brookman-Byrne & Melling) and global health
 governance and disaster law (McCardle & Shucksmith). To strengthen research in criminal and
 social justice we appointed Professors Hall (Law and Criminal Justice) and Harrison (Law and
 Penal Justice) as well as Frisso (transitional justice) and Hunt (criminal justice). We also
 appointed an Associate Professor, specialising in medical law and ethics (Le Roux-Kemp). In
 the commercial and corporate area, we have appointed Hedlund (commercial trusts) and
 Azinge (financial regulation), as well as ECRs: Cardinaels (insolvency and corporate rescue),
 Iqbal (Corporate Governance) and McCullagh (corporate social responsibility). These
 appointments represent an additional investment of £819,705 in staffing since 2014. During this
 period, 6 staff were given Merit and Achievement awards.

    2. Staff development

 Recognising the growing need to improve staff retention, progression, and enable staff to take
 advantage of external research opportunities for research, the School revamped its research
 development support, which previously vested in the HoS, by establishing a Staff Development
 Committee in 2018. This has enabled a wider degree of involvement in research support, as well
 as promoting opportunities for research training and development that meet wider individual and
 department specific needs. The DoR, with institutional support from the College and University
 Research Office, coordinates the delivery of our research development programme. The six key
 elements of this are:

    •   Annual Individual Research Performance Meetings. Meetings with the DoR to discuss
        annual progress and research plans for the medium to longer term. These developmental
        meetings are used to help identify general research support needs. Colleagues receive
        constructive feedback, advice on career progression and are directed to wider support
        such as mentoring and development activities. This is complemented by internal and
        external peer review of outputs prior to submission.

    •   Workload. Whilst maintaining a high-quality student experience (TEF Gold) and growing
        our teaching portfolio, we have also been able to improve the quantity and quality of time
        available for research through an agile and targeted workload system, with all research
        staff securing a minimum workload allowance of 25%, with a further allowance of 15% to
        accommodate wider scholarship, research and development activities. Timetabling policy
        guarantees staff at least one full day free of teaching for research.

    •   Funding. We dedicate a share of non-pay budget to specifically fund research activity in
        the School. The fund is generally non-proscriptive, allowing staff to use it for a wide
        range of research and impact activities, including conferences, hosting small events and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        equipment. The application process is overseen by the DoR. This is mirrored by a
        research budget at the College level and overseen by the College DoR. Since 2014,
        researchers have been funded to attend around 90 conferences and other events,
        equalling an investment of roughly £120,000 delivering significant returns, as set out in
        Section 4. In addition, the University provides ‘Staff Mobility Awards’ to help initiate
        research partnerships, with an award supporting Hedlund’s research trip to the Pontifical
        Bolivarian University in Medellín.

    •   Research mentoring. All new staff are provided with a general mentor to help them settle
        in. Additionally, staff participate in a voluntary, structured research mentoring system that
        is tailored to their individual needs (e.g. grant writing, research collaboration, research
        leadership) as identified through annual appraisals and research meetings. Since 2014,
        we have increased our number of early career researchers so effective mentoring is of
        critical importance in development support. Where experience does not exist in the
        School, we offer external mentoring. Training is available to mentors and mentees to
        assist making the most of the system.

    •   Research Leave Scheme. Under the generous scheme, staff can apply for sabbatical
        once every three years to be relieved of teaching and administrative duties for up to half
        a year to dedicate to research or impact-related activities. Since 2014, this has allowed
        for the completion of three published books (Hall, Okoye, Shucksmith) and at least 10
        papers. As a result of our successful research growth strategy, we have doubled the
        availability of sabbatical opportunities since 2016.

    •   Research Development Activities. We have expanded the range and effectiveness of
        research development activities. Perhaps the most important element of this is a system
        of intensive peer review of work-in-progress, especially for ECRs. This iterative review of
        work is provided by senior staff and designed to test/build the quality of papers before
        submission. Fortnightly work-in progress sessions provide vital opportunities to raise
        awareness of research and general formative feedback and build an active research
        culture where colleagues (including PhD students) are confident about sharing research
        at any stage of development. These are complemented by periodic ‘cake and feedback
        sessions’ which focus on collective appraisal of the quality of research outputs so also
        provide training in research quality assurance. Two-day fully funded residential writing
        retreats have run three times/year, sometimes in collaboration with the School of Social
        and Political Sciences, which have allowed time to be spent on collaborative, cross-
        disciplinary projects. The residential events have successfully enabled a project on digital
        policing (Hall). Organisation and leaderships of such events is split equitably between all
        staff and PGR students to provide further developmental opportunities. We coordinate
        these events with College and Central research development activities, which focus more
        on cross-cutting initiatives, such as challenge-led bid development and Covid Response
        priorities and bids, some of which have been led by law academics (Harrison). To
        encourage future researchers, every summer we fund an ‘Undergraduate Research
        Opportunities’ scheme for UG/PG students to undertake paid research work with
        academic staff. This has resulted in collaborative publications, e.g. Cooper co-authored
        a paper with a student on the availability and usage patterns of water taps in rural
        villages in South Africa, with the student conducting much of the analysis of video-
        recorded data.

     3. Support for PGR students
 Since 2014, we sought to grow our PhD programme in areas of research strength, focusing on
 the development of researchers with the skills to engage in challenge-led, interdisciplinary
 research. This is delivered through a robust system of team supervision, in-school training,
 complemented by a University-wide doctoral training programme. Since 2017, we have invested
 in scholarships to attract researchers of outstanding potential. Growth in active research staff,
 the promotion of Lincoln’s research and enhancements in PGR support enabled us to more than


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 double the number of enrolled students from six FTE in REF2014 period to 13 in REF2021.
 compared to only one completion in the REF2014, five students have completed in REF2021:

 Year                            Number
 2013/14                         1
 2017/18                         2
 2018/19                         2

 All PGR students have at least two supervisors. Wider skills development and research
 experience is enabled by interdisciplinary supervision, with around 20% of students having
 supervision from experts in non-law disciplines. We require records of all supervision and
 progress meetings to be kept and logged with the School Office (then the College). Our
 Postgraduate Research Committee, chaired by our Director of Postgraduate Research, monitors
 student progress. This process allows us to identify skill gaps and support needs, and we can
 direct students to additional support through School and Doctoral School training. To enable
 transparency and student input into our PGR system, the Postgraduate Research Committee
 has an ex officio student representative (Smith).

 Our PGR students are treated as equal members of our research community. We provide
 dedicated office space and associated IT facilities within the School building alongside staff,
 facilitating a sense of community and regular interactions. All students are members of at least
 one research cluster/centre, where they often lead activities and benefit from collective research
 support. As well as facilitating participation in School research development activities, we fund
 PGR specific events like ‘writing bootcamps’, support a PGR-run blog, and run an annual PGR
 conference with joint sessions with other College Schools to encourage interdisciplinary
 collaboration. The School’s Research Fund is also used to support PGR students to undertake
 research and conference attendance.

 In addition to the extensive support provided through the Doctoral School Researcher
 Development Programme and the University Careers Service, we run dedicated support for
 PGR skills and career development in the School. This includes workshops on methodology,
 project development and publishing, as well as networking opportunities. We actively encourage
 our PGR students to chair research events, to build confidence and networking skills.
 Supervisors and members of research clusters support a range of activities, such as reviewing
 blog posts, inviting submission of short publications (e.g. current legal developments in journals
 where they have editorial influence) and co-author publications with PGR students. The School
 also provides PGR students with regular teaching opportunities (e.g. Ciezielczuk, Kyarisiima &
 Welch, with Mccullagh appointed to a full-time post). We have a strict policy of capping
 teaching hours by PGR students to ensure their research progress is not affected. Teaching is
 also subject to preliminary training and quality assurance, and supervisor consultation. Teaching
 experience includes participation in staff meetings and away days.


     4. Equality and Diversity
 Focusing on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) issues is a core activity in the School. It
 informs our research activities. Our EDI Committee Chair (Gilgan) and EDI Advocates have
 developed an EDI strategy and monitor our progress against our EDI targets, as well as broader
 University and College specific goals. The School also works closely with the University,
 reflecting its collaborative approach to EDI, led at institutional level by The Eleanor Glanville
 Centre (EGC). The EGC coordinates our institutional engagement with the Equality Challenge
 Unit’s Athena SWAN/Gender and Race Equality Charters, and it provides centralised support
 and sharing of best practice.

 As part of our current efforts to secure Athena Swan accreditation, we have introduced a number
 of key policy measures to enhance EDI:


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Senior leadership roles should reflect a diverse staff base. As a result, three of our six
        senior school leadership roles are held by female colleagues or BAME colleagues,
        including two main research roles (Harrison – DoR (previously McCardle) and Okoye -
        PGR).
    •   Timetabling of research activities and allowances (e.g. sabbaticals) must have regard to
        individual colleagues’ health, care and family commitments, maternity/paternity, religious
        commitments and part-time status. Colleagues returning from maternity leave are
        provided with time and mentoring support to help resume research activities.
    •   We foster an open and welcoming environment for colleagues and students of all
        sexualities and have a number of openly gay, lesbian and bi-sexual staff members and
        students.

 These EDI policies and processes are generating positive change on staffing profiles and
 working conditions, where we perform well against institutional and sector (HESA) benchmarks.
 All Category A staff are on permanent contracts. We have worked hard to develop a
 representative gender balance, with female colleagues comprising 50.8% of staff in the UoA,
 which is above the institutional (36.6%) and sector (45.9%) average. A similar balance exists in
 our PGR cohort (47% female / 53% male). Since 2019, two of three professorial appointments
 have been female (Kirk & Harrison), changing what had previously been an all-male
 professoriate for a number of years. 23.8% of colleagues are BAME, compared to the institution
 (18.4%) and sector (17%) average. A strong proportion of PGR students come from BAME
 backgrounds (35%). We acknowledge that we need to do more to ensure that BAME colleagues
 are fairly represented at senior staff grades. To this end we have revised our EDI strategy to
 include a BAME talent action plan, identified role models internally and externally for BAME
 colleagues to use as mentors, and engaged more proactively with the Joint EDI Partnership run
 by the EGC. We have sought to underpin our commitments to equality and diversity through our
 research activities, such as invited papers on cognate issues, such as labour rights (Velluti,
 2014), and our work on environmental justice. Reflecting our continued commitment to diversity
 and inclusion, Azinge and Gilgan hosted a highly successful workshop in 2020 on ‘Decolonising
 the Curriculum: A Step Towards Closing the Attainment Gap’, which highlighted the structural
 changes required to redress the imbalance in equality and opportunities, as well as sharing best
 practice to this end.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
     1. Research Income
 The degree of external funding activity has increased significantly, with an increase in external
 funding from a modest total of £12,119 in REF2014 to £326,842 in REF2021, a growth of over
 2500%. We have successfully pursued a diverse range of funding streams including the AHRC,
 the ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, the European Commission and government tendered contracts
 (including research conducted on behalf of the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
 Affairs). This growth demonstrates our research ambition. Our commitment to maximising the
 impact of our research is reflected in the outcomes of these projects.

 Our goal is to maintain a trajectory of growth in income that will enable us to support new staff
 appointments, fund doctoral and post-doctoral positions, and engage more widely with research
 users. Acknowledging our relative inexperience and track record of major programme funding,
 our research income strategy is built around five principles, designed to establish a platform for
 growing externally research income:
     • Focusing our research and research support on a small number of areas of research
        strength that are aligned with external funding priorities;
     • Investing in support for individual researchers to build funding skills and experience;
     • Increasing the proportion of collaborative bids through extended networking opportunities
        and researcher training;
     • Improving the quality of funding bids through rigorous peer review and research planning;
        and
     • Building the research track record of the applicants.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We invest time and resources to raise awareness of multi- and interdisciplinary research needs
 in areas of climate change, health, wellbeing and human rights, trust and global governance,
 global engagement and delivery of UN SDGs. Support includes School and University funding
 sandpits, workshops delivered by the research councils, and a strategy of strategically targeting
 internal funds to seed corn suitable projects. An example of the success of this was the pump-
 priming of support to French to collaborate with Kotzé, which resulted in the successful
 application of over £150k to support the appointment of Kotzé on a Marie Curie Research
 Fellowship to work on a project on Earth Systems Law in the Anthropocene. This in turn has
 resulted in a series of collaborative outputs and new funding applications, as well as contributing
 to the expansion of the Lincoln Centre for Environmental Law & Justice into the Lincoln Centre
 for Ecological Justice. To build on this success we appointed Kotzé on a continuing basis as
 Senior Professorial Fellow in Earth System Law (2020), an innovative post reflecting an
 important and burgeoning area of research. This has consolidated our research power, as well
 as plugging the Law School into an international research network (Earth System Governance
 (ESG) Project of which he is a Senior Fellow and assistant editor of the Network’s flagship
 journal, Earth System Governance). The ESG encompasses 4 research centres, more than 65
 lead faculty members and 270 research fellows, as well as a considerable communication and
 outreach capacity. Our work with ESG shows our capacity engage and lead on research that is
 interdisciplinary-focused and international in reach.

    2. Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 Considerable investment in research infrastructure is provided at a University level, which has
 benefited us through enhanced library resources, a Research & Enterprise Office, EDI support
 through the EGC, and engagement support through PEARL and the Impact Literacy Institute.

 Our School administrative structure is designed to support our goal of securing diverse and
 sustainable research streams. The DoR (Harrison) is responsible for developing research
 culture and support structures. She is supported by a funding champion. In 2020, we appointed
 Barnes to this role, with a strong track record of securing research income (e.g. CI on £1.1m
 EPSRC Plastics in the Circular Economy grant at University of Hull). Both roles receive 40%
 workload allowance and involve delivery of workshops, mentoring, and peer review of funding
 bids. The School also has an experienced and dedicated ethics lead to help staff and students
 with applications (Le Roux-Kemp).
 Acknowledging the need for specific expertise in law to enhance funding skills and confidence,
 we invested in several strategic senior appointments with strong funding track records (Barnes,
 Hall, Harrison, Kirk, Kotzé & Le Roux-Kemp with combined, prior awards of over £2.5m). This
 expertise is being channelled into mentoring, peer review and leadership of new funding
 initiatives (e.g. 2021 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship). In parallel, we are investing time and
 resources in colleagues to develop appropriate scale projects (e.g. BA/Leverhulme small grants
 and similar for ECRs), involving more colleagues in bid development and work package design,
 and initiating small internally funded projects to generate experience in research leadership. This
 is complemented by the growth in University professional research support services, with five
 colleagues in the College Research office and central University Research & Enterprise
 providing a suite of services, including training, consultancy advice, bid and project management
 support.

 Our funding ambitions are reflected in a growth in external funding applications from
 £500,000/year in 2015/16 to £5.5 million in 2019/20, with a particular focus on collaborative bids
 with natural and social sciences to target global challenge type calls. This is building a critical
 mass of projects and experience for continued funding initiatives. In line with our strategy, our
 focus is now on quality assuring bids through an expanded and robust peer review process.

 To accommodate the growth of Lincoln Law School, we moved to improved premises in a
 central campus location where we benefit from shared working spaces with our PGR students,
 enjoy close proximity to fellow researchers in social and political science, and where we can
 accommodate visiting researchers (typically, two-three per year).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff enjoy full on campus and remote access to electronic resources, including all the main
 legal databases. We have grown our campus library resources, and ensured access to leading
 electronic databases to enable remote research activities. This is supplemented by membership
 of the SCONUL scheme that enables access to other libraries and resources, a generous
 interlibrary loans scheme and growing University Research Repository, which also helps us
 service our commitment to open access. Our dedicated Law Librarian (Williams) provides
 advanced training and support to staff and students, as well as guiding the procurement of legal
 resources.

 The School has a dedicated online Hub for the distribution of information and advice concerning
 research income and grant-writing. During the Covid-19 lockdown, we quickly moved to
 establish online platforms for bid-development work. This facility also allows staff within and
 beyond the School to collaborate on bids. The School gives dedicated office space to research
 assistants and we finance access to all the key repositories and legal databases which allow
 legal research to be conducted effectively. We provide access and training to a full suite of
 research software, including NVivo and SPSS.

 Through our research budget (available to all research-active colleagues and colleagues with an
 interest in becoming research active), we have supported between 2-6 small projects each year
 for sums between £2,000-5,000 each. For example, in 2019, we funded Bohm and Brookman-
 Byrne to host a Law and Society Association Panel in Washington DC. Brookman-Byrne’s
 appointment as Rapporteur and consultant to the International Bar Association’s Human Right
 Institute on ‘Resolution on the Use of Drones for the Delivery of Lethal Weapons’ complemented
 his consultancy work for Drone Wars UK and, in 2020, led to a bid to the BA/Leverhulme
 scheme for support for a project on the use of discourse strategies to justify airstrikes.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Since 2014 we have successfully met our goals to maximise the impacts of our research, from
 the local to the global. In additional to examples in Section 1.2(iii), we are making a significant
 contribution to the research base as well as the activities of governments, industry and the
 profession, and civil society organisations.

 We make a significant contribution to sustaining academic research. Collaboration with other
 parts of the University and externally facilitates new ideas and interdisciplinary research: The
 LinCEJ works with the Centre for Water and Planetary Health and the International Institute for
 Rural Health (Kirk); Barnes delivers workshops on engaging with Parliamentary Committees
 and collaborates with ParliLinc (Lincoln Centre for Parliamentary Studies); Harrison leads
 research collaboration between Law, Criminology, Psychology and Health & Social Care.
 Beyond the University, Kirk was the Chair of the IUCN Academy of Environmental Law; French
 was Chair of the International Law Association Study Group on Due Diligence; and Gilgan co-
 convenes the 'Intervention and R2P' Working Group at the British International Studies
 Association. We have made strategic use of visiting scholar opportunities to develop research
 partnerships, collaborative publications, and joint funding bids (e.g. French/Kotzé). Visiting
 appointments include Professor Townend (Maastricht), sharing expertise in research
 governance and collaboration between law health/life science; Professor Kostakopoulou
 (Warwick), sharing expertise in governance and citizenship in the EU; and Professor McKay
 (University of South Australia), sharing experience in comparative environmental law and water
 security. Our visiting lecturer and seminar programme reinforces our wider engagement with
 leading thinkers and practitioners. For example, His Excellency, Judge Weeramantry, former
 Vice President of the International Court of Justice, delivered the annual Lincoln Centre for
 Environmental Justice in 2015.

 Programmes of collaborative research beyond the University include: ‘Earth System Governance
 Network: Task Force on Earth System Law’, the largest social science research network on
 global environmental change (Kotzé is a co-scientific coordinator); SafeSeas, a 16 partner

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 network concerned with security at sea (Barnes); Brexit and the Marine Environment (Barnes
 partners with University of York, New Economics Foundation; feeding into the work of UK in a
 Changing Europe); Humanitarian Protection in an Age of Asylum (Gilgan, with University of
 York); and Financial Crimes in Africa (Azinge with collaborators at Leicester/Warwick). Azinge
 co-organised the inaugural conference of the Global South Dialogue on Economic and Financial
 Crime Network, at the IALS in London (2020). We have consolidated a body of our research
 (Barnes, Kirk & PhD cluster) into a new programme: ‘Governance of Areas Beyond National
 Jurisdiction’, connecting our researchers to academic initiatives around the negotiation of a
 multilateral treaty on the sustainable use of resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction (with
 Utrecht, Strathclyde OneOcean Hub, the World Maritime University and University of Tromsø).

 We view it as important to feed research into wider development and support activities.
 Hudson’s work on the ‘Article 26 project’ concerning rights of asylum for students resulted in the
 publication of the Guiding Principles on Sanctuary Scholars in UK Higher Education. We co-
 organize seminars and training events with the BIICL (Barnes). In 2018, we hosted a Global
 Ecological Custodianship workshop led by Kotzé to explore innovations in international
 environmental law, the outcomes of which fed into an IUCN colloquium in 2018. During
 REF2021, staff have externally examined PhDs in the UK and overseas at more than 30
 institutions. Some of our research informs pedagogical texts, such as Hedlund’s The Law of
 Succession.

 For a small department, we have a significant academic footprint, reflecting our wider
 contribution to the sustainability of research in the UK and internationally. Our staff serve on the
 editorial/advisory boards of more than 20 journals, including: Journal of Environmental Law,
 Transnational Environmental Law; Review of European, Comparative and International
 Environmental Law; New Zealand Yearbook of International Law, Journal of Environmental Law
 and Policy; Prison Service Journal; the Journal of Banking Regulation; and the International
 Journal of Law, Language and Discourse. Kirk is Associate Editor of Brill Research perspective
 in the Law of the Sea. We have conducted peer review work for leading journals in law and other
 academic fields: British Journal of Political Science, Legal Studies, International and
 Comparative Law Quarterly, British Yearbook of International Law, Environmental Politics,
 Global Responsibility to Protect, International Review of Victimology, Journal of Law and
 Society, Modern Law Review, and Political Geography. Since 2014, our staff have edited 14
 collections of essays and two journal special issues, helping shape research agendas in fields of
 environmental law, green criminology, international law, ocean governance, and victimology. We
 have proactively sought to include ECRs in these projects to help build academic profiles within
 and beyond the School. We conducted peer review work for most of the major UK and overseas
 research councils and foundations: the AHRC; the Australian Research Council, the Canadian
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, the ESRC, the Netherlands Organization for
 Scientific Research, Norwegian Research Council; Pew Trusts, the South African Academy of
 Science, the Swiss National Research Foundation, and UKRI. Staff have delivered more than
 100 conference and papers. This includes papers at major international conferences, including
 International Law Association (Bohm, French), the European Society of Criminology (Ali, Hall),
 the European Society of International Law (French, McCardle), the Law and Society
 Association (Le Roux-Kemp), the Society of Legal Scholars (Hedlund) and the Socio-Legal
 Studies Association (Okoye). And invited papers at UK and overseas institutions: e.g. University
 of Strathclyde (Barnes); Chinese University of Hong Kong (Hedlund); University of Toronto
 Mississauga (Kirk); Lewis and Clark Law School, USA (Kirk). As an indicator of the value of
 these scholarly engagements, Hall was honoured with the annual Denis Szabo prize for his
 ‘significant and original contribution to the field of criminology’ by the Société de criminologie du
 Québec.

 We are actively engaged with international and domestic policy development. French was an
 invited member of UN Environment and UN Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute
 expert group on combating environmental crime, specifically informing its work on international
 environmental issues. Barnes, Kirk and Gilgan are experienced contributors to Parliamentary
 enquiries on matters such as the Arctic, Sustainable Seas, Fisheries Management, human rights

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and foreign policy. Azinge was invited to and advised the Nigerian National Assembly on the
 current Sickle Cell Bill (2020), through the Sickle Cell Aid Foundation. Hall advises East
 Midlands police services and police and crime commissioners on the commissioning of support
 services for victims of crime. Harrison was supported by the Prison Governors Association to
 conduct research into the well-being of their members. Barnes is a member of Seafish’s Expert
 Panel and has worked with them to deliver industry workshops.

 We seek to inform the work of the legal profession and practitioners with our research expertise.
 For example, Le Roux-Kemp was commissioned to write the first systematic treatise on Hong
 Kong criminal justice procedures and practices, generating excellent feedback from the local
 profession. Barnes assisted the Bali Process and International Office for Migration to compile
 their Practical Guide on Protecting Migrants at Sea for use in training government agencies.
 Azinge advised the Nigerian Securities and Exchange Commission on amendments to the
 Investment and Securities Act 2007 in light of the Investment and Securities Bill 2021.

 We maintain excellent links with civil society organisations, providing pro bono and consultancy
 services. For example, Kirk is a member of the IUCN Commission on Environmental Law,
 Committee on Oceans, Coasts and Coral Reefs, the Lincoln Climate Commission (Research
 Committee), and the advisory board of the Island Waste Management Global Alliance; Kotzé
 was a Judge on the Permanent Peoples Tribunal on Human Rights, Fracking and Climate
 Change; Barnes advises the WWF-US on global fisheries regulation; and Brookman-Byrne
 advises Drones Wars-UK on the legal use of armed drones.

 Public engagement is an important aspect of our work. We collaborate with the School of
 Political Sciences to deliver ‘Pop Up Science Parks’ to present research in community settings
 around Lincolnshire. In 2018, French spoke on global environmental challenges at ‘Pint of
 Science’ events in Lincoln and Nottingham. We secured two ESRC Festival of Social Science
 grants (2017 & 2019): (i) Hall in collaboration with Lincolnshire Police and Crime Commissioner
 (PCC) ran an event to engage all local regional victims support organisations is discussions
 around development of services for victims of crime in the Lincolnshire region (This facilitated
 collaborative research links with the Lincolnshire Police and Lincolnshire PCC leading to an
 impact case study); (ii) Brookman-Byrne organised a very successful public workshop at
 Lincolnshire Bomber Command Centre (opened in 2018; supported by the University and a
 £3.1m Heritage Lottery Fund grant) on military drone use, connecting Lincoln’s rich air force
 history with contemporary developments. Bohm published research on cycling safety as part of
 an ongoing research project pushing for improvements in safer infrastructure with the Lighting
 Research Group at Sheffield. Barnes has advised BBC journalists preparing ‘fact checks’ on
 Brexit policy. In a more creative vein, Hedlund published a legal fiction book: The Lawyer in
 Medellín, and Melling and Shucksmith hosted an interactive law and art talk at The Collection
 Gallery.




                                                                                           Page 13
