Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 Languages and Linguistics at Edinburgh (LLE) is a vibrant and interdisciplinary community of 95
 researchers (92.8 FTE), whose research explores the structural, historical, cultural and social
 dimensions of language and of languages from every part of the world. Our objective is to
 produce innovative language-based research that can contribute to cultural enrichment, inter-
 community understanding, and social justice. Over the REF period, LLE has grown by 31% (22
 FTE), reflecting a strategic decision to invest in new posts, enhance research support at all
 levels, and exploit opportunities for collaborations across disciplinary and departmental
 boundaries. This strategy has created one of the largest and most geographically, linguistically,
 and methodologically diverse groupings in the UK, bringing together scholars from Modern
 European Languages, Celtic & Scottish Studies, Asian Studies and Islamic & Middle Eastern
 Studies, Linguistics and English Language. LLE researchers are based in the schools of
 Literatures, Languages and Cultures (LLC) and Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences
 (PPLS), both part of the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (CAHSS). They
 collaborate closely through research, impact activities and joint PGR supervision, and share
 structures for research management, support and investment.
 Key achievements over the REF period include:

    Investment in outstanding early career staff, through the appointment of twelve lecturers on
     open-ended contracts, and five Chancellor’s Fellows, appointed to research-intensive,
     tenure-track posts.

    An almost doubling of external funding, from £8.9m in REF2014 to £15.6m over the current
     REF period, including three European Research Council grants.

    Winning 22 prestigious fellowships, including two AHRC Leadership Fellows, one BA Mid-
     Career Fellowship, one Leverhulme Research Fellowship, five BA Postdoctoral Fellowships,
     four Marie Curie Fellowships, five Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, one ESRC Future
     Leader, two Newton International Fellowships, and one ESRC Fellowship.

    A 46% increase in PGR completions, to 162 in the current REF period.

    A step change in our impact, including: expanding the Bilingualism Matters Centre (with 26
     branches across the world promoting bilingual education); founding new film festivals
     (Iranian Film Festival, Scottish Queer International Film Festival); making key interventions in
     Gaelic-medium education and policy; and pioneering advances in speech technology.


 1.2 Research Strategy
 Our research strategy over the REF period has focused on three overarching priorities that allow
 us to exploit the opportunities for collaboration and coordination enabled by the scale and
 breadth of our unit.
 (1) To set innovative intellectual agendas and support researchers in meeting contemporary
 intellectual, social and political challenges. This has been achieved through a series of new
 appointments, and investment in three main interdisciplinary themes (elaborated further in 1.3),
 leading to significant achievements:


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Data-Driven Research and Digital Humanities, including pioneering work on speech
        technology and voice synthesis, and computational modelling of language evolution. This
        area has been boosted by a major investment by UK and Scottish Governments and the
        University in data driven and digital research through the £661m innovation component
        of the Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal and the Edinburgh Futures
        Institute.

       Multilingualism and Translation, encompassing innovative research and impact
        promoting the benefits of multilingualism and language learning and setting original
        research agendas in Translation Studies and translation practice.

       Language and Marginalised Identities, where our research and impact has expanded to
        address urgent issues around minority languages, migration and diaspora, social
        marginalisation, and the legacies of genocide, slavery and colonialism.
 (2) To share our knowledge to enhance critical engagement and effective policymaking. We
 have invested in expert support (see Section 3.1); rolled out specialised training programmes in
 knowledge exchange and impact; and forged close partnerships with schools, government, local
 and international festivals and the creative industries (see Section 1.4).
 (3) To support colleagues at all career stages to build rewarding careers and achieve their
 potential in a flourishing and inclusive research environment. We have introduced a
 comprehensive package of peer and professional support, generous protected research time,
 and seed funding, with a particular focus on supporting our large cohort of ECRs (see Section
 2.1). We have also transformed our recruitment, training, integration and support for PhD
 researchers, building a vibrant community of Post-Graduate Researchers (PGRs) (Section 2.6).


 1.3 Research Themes and Achievements
 Data-Driven Research and Digital Humanities
 Scholars working in this area employ world-class data-driven research methods to set original
 agendas in Linguistics and to address urgent issues in health and well-being.
 Major successes in this area include:

       Working with the Centre for Data, Culture and Society at the Edinburgh Futures Institute,
        Cummins and Rohde have analysed recordings of emergency calls, enabling potentially
        life-saving improvements in training ambulance call handlers.

       Two ERC grants (K.Smith, €2m, and Culbertson, €1.4m) in the Centre for Language
        Evolution produced key findings on linguistic complexity and language learning.

       The AHRC-funded From Inglis to Scots (FITS) project (PI Los, 2014-18, £1.02m) has
        produced ground-breaking online resources for research on the evolution of the Scots
        language.
 Supporting these achievements is investment in four centres, focused on language evolution,
 historical linguistics, speech technology, and Data, Culture and Society.
 The Centre for Language Evolution (CLE) explores the co-evolution of language and cognition
 in the human species, and their development in individuals. Since 2014, a combination of
 University support (£10k per year) and success with prestigious external funding (including two
 ERC grants) has expanded the Centre to 13 staff and 14 associate members. K.Smith’s ERC
 Consolidator grant, The Evolution of Linguistic Complexity (€2m), combined computational
 modelling and experimental methods to investigate how languages gain and lose complexity,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and the cognitive and interactional mechanisms underpinning high-profile claims about the
 relationship between social and linguistic complexity. Culbertson won ESRC funding (£506k)
 and an ERC Starting Grant (€1.4m) to explore how new languages are learned by diverse
 human populations, leading to international collaborations, including with linguists in Kenya on
 an understudied village language, Kîîtharaka. S.Kirby led an international team (UK, USA,
 Germany) with expertise in language evolution and sign language linguistics investigating how
 the mechanisms of cultural evolution create language structure (ESRC £640k). The centre has
 also collaborated closely with colleagues in Psychology, Cognitive Science, Informatics, and
 Physics at Edinburgh, producing, inter alia, co-authored publications presenting models of
 language change that have shaped theoretical discussions in historical linguistics and
 sociolinguistics.
 The Angus Macintosh Centre for Historical Linguistics (AMC), led by Los and Molineaux
 Ress, uses digital humanities methods to advance historical linguistic scholarship, including the
 creation, curation, and sharing of online resources. It incorporates eight staff, five PGRs, and
 visiting scholars and is the hub of an international network comprising 165 researchers across
 the UK, Europe, Africa, Asia, the Americas, Australia, and New Zealand. Activities include a
 biennial AMC lecture and a biennial AMC Symposium attracting delegates from the UK, Europe,
 Asia, and the Americas. The From Inglis to Scots (FITS) project (PI Los, 2014-18, £855k) not
 only traced the complex evolution of the Scots language, but also developed and provided an
 online resource for researchers beyond the AMC (funded by the British Academy (BA) and the
 University’s Moray Endowment Fund). The AMC has attracted outstanding postdoctoral fellows
 including Alcorn (erstwhile Co-PI of the FITS project and Deputy Director of the AMC, now Chief
 Executive and Editor-in-Chief of the Scottish Language Dictionaries). The Centre has also
 regularly contributed to knowledge exchange events such as the University’s annual Festival of
 Creative Learning; has taken part in joint KE events with the National Library of Scotland, for
 example on reading and transcribing Scottish medieval manuscripts like the Buke of the Howlat;
 and has produced an Infographic Video on the Origins of the Scots Language, with voice-overs
 in English and in Scots. The Centre hosts a range of open online resources, including Linguistic
 Atlas of Late Mediaeval English (eLALME), Linguistic Atlas of Early Middle English 1150 to 1325
 (LAEME), Corpus of Narrative Etymologies (CoNE), and Linguistic Atlas of Older Scots, Phase
 1, 1380 to 1500 (LAOS).
 The Centre for Speech Technology Research (CSTR), a collaboration between LLE and the
 School of Informatics, has expanded over the REF period through two new appointments
 (Richmond and Lai). CSTR has pioneered technology to provide people diagnosed with
 progressive speech loss a personalised synthetic voice (Speech Synthesis for Spoken Content
 Production, EPSRC £666k). This technology is now commercially available from CSTR spinout
 SpeakUnique and uses CSTR’s ‘speech bank’ containing thousands of healthy voices from
 donors. Richmond is leading new research on assistive speech technology, this time to provide
 speech therapy via ultrasound. These assistive and clinical technology strands complement
 research that benefits industry sponsors directly, including code and data delivered to Samsung,
 strategic consultancy to Amazon, technical advice provided to Huawei, and through CSTR's
 other spinouts (Quorate, Cereproc, and Speech Graphics).
 Beyond these centres, we support significant projects that exploit the potential for digital
 humanities and data-driven research, fostering collaborations and interdisciplinary research
 agendas, in particular in new media (Ryazanova-Clarke, Zhao) and data methodologies (Lamb,
 Martin, King, Ota). Lamb and Martin have developed extensive Gaelic-language corpora as a
 resource for research into language development and identity. Ota has attracted funding from
 the ESRC (£466k) to study the impact of infant-directed vocabulary on early language
 development. The project allowed him to create a major longitudinal corpus of linguistic
 interaction between caregivers and infants from age nine months to 21 months.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Centre for Data, Culture and Society (CDCS), founded in this cycle within the University’s
 ground-breaking new Edinburgh Futures Institute and Data-Driven Innovation (DDI) Programme,
 supports digital innovations in the humanities. It provides training courses in digital methods
 aimed at early career researchers and PhD students, and runs a lively interdisciplinary series of
 research seminars and workshops. The Centre website also serves as a pooled resource for
 digital datasets which are likely to have interdisciplinary relevance for people doing historical or
 digital humanities research. Through CDCS, Cummins, K.Smith, and Zhao participate in
 significant data-driven projects that include Cummins and Rohde’s project applying machine
 learning and discourse analytic techniques to the training of ambulance call handlers and the
 work of the Gaelic Algorithmic Research Group (PI Lamb), which brings together Celtic linguists
 and Speech and Language processing specialists in computational research on the Gaelic
 languages.
 Multilingualism and Translation
 The scale of our unit has enabled us to develop collaborative projects promoting the value of
 multilingualism and language learning and setting new research agendas in Translation Studies.
 Our scholars work to create inclusion and understanding across linguistic cultures, to intervene
 with policymakers nationally and internationally, and to make visible the achievements of
 translators and the effects of translation where they are often invisible or ignored.
 Major successes in this area include:

       A series of EU projects, including Dunbar’s collaboration with 20 universities in 16
        countries as part of the Horizon 2020 Mobility and Inclusion in Multilingual Europe project
        (€120k; project total: €6.4m), developing policy proposals for EU strategies to support
        multilingualism in Europe.

       The 26 hubs worldwide of the Bilingualism Matters Centre have used funding from
        diverse sources to explore and evidence the wider social and psychological benefits of
        bilingualism in diverse cultural contexts.

       Our work in translation as creative practice has led to shortlisting for literary prizes
        including the International Man Booker (Mackintosh and Macintyre, 2020) and awards
        including the Wales PEN Cymru Translation Challenge for Susam-Saraeva (2017).
 Our research on bilingualism is supported by the Bilingualism Matters Centre, founded and
 directed by Sorace. Bilingualism Matters engages colleagues from across LLE and Psychology,
 including Chondrogianni, Dunbar, Puzey, and Soler Montes, and is supported by two
 administrative staff (1.3 FTE). Major research projects include Advancing the European
 Multilingual Experience (AThEME, funded by EC FP-7 framework €5m, with £350k to UoE) and
 Cummins's Leverhulme Trust project with Sorace (£128k), which has illuminated the role and
 limitations of bilingualism as a means of overcoming cognitive bias in decision-making. Sorace’s
 partnership in the EC Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency’s Lifelong Learning-
 funded project on bilingual migrant families addresses the challenges and opportunities faced in
 learning new language in new homes and places. The Centre has a strong public face, reaching
 over 12,000 people since 2013 by presenting popular bilingualism events each year in
 Edinburgh (Science Festival and Fringe Festival) and internationally through its centres across
 the world (see Case Study 6).
 A strategic decision to support research through translation has led to significant achievements
 in creative practice, alongside ground-breaking interdisciplinary insights. The Adventures of
 China Iron by Gabriela Cabezón Cámara (translated by Mackintosh and Macintyre), was
 shortlisted for the International Man Booker Prize in 2020, and Norwegian children’s books
 translated by Puzey have been nominated for international prizes every year from 2015 to 2019.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A cluster of researchers in our unit has collaborated in developing projects that explore the
 ethical responsibilities of the translator in the face of experiences of violence and historical
 trauma, and that lead Translation Studies into productive encounters with other disciplines.
 Bosseaux led the European Commission-funded project Whose Voice Is It Anyway? which
 brought together writers, translators and interpreters in a novel collaboration to discuss the role
 of voice and emotions in translation and interpreting, from literary translation to courtroom
 interpreting. Israel (AHRC Translating Cultures Innovation Grant, £198k) has applied translation
 perspectives to examine the role of translation in the movement of religious concepts across
 languages and the ways in which this impacts religious conversion. Deane-Cox’s work on the
 translation of French Holocaust memoirs (BA postdoctoral fellowship, £297k), and Davies’ work
 on the ethics of translating testimony and on the work of interpreters in Holocaust trials, have
 shown how translation research can also set new agendas in Memory Studies: Davies
 presented this research as the 19th annual Holocaust Memorial Lecture at Glasgow University in
 2019. Work in Translation Studies has also had significant impact in the delivery of social
 services in the UK and Turkey (Boisseaux, Susam-Saraeva) (see Section 1.4).
 The focus on translation has also provided new insights into the development and reception of
 Scottish Literature. Through his BA Postdoctoral Fellowship on Walter Scott’s early
 translations of German dramas, Wood has shown how translation studies can shed new light on
 the development of the historical novel and Scottish national consciousness in a pivotal age. He
 developed these insights in an international framework by hosting the conference Configuring
 World Theatre (June 2019), funded by an IMLR/OWRI Regional Conference grant (£2500), as
 part of the OWRI initiative Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community. Lacore-Martin
 has analysed poetry by and about Mary, Queen of Scots, with support from a Carnegie Trust
 grant, to show the international dimension to the image of the female monarch in the Early
 Modern period; while Bodammer has explored the image of Robert Burns in the German-
 speaking world through the neglected work of nineteenth-century female translators. Joseph is
 part of an international team that has produced the first anthology of English translations of work
 by the French linguist and theorist Henri Meschonnic, together with a collection of essays on the
 unique problems posed by translating his work and their methodologic solutions for dealing with
 them.
 Languages and Marginalised Identities
 Our scholars produce innovative research and impact in collaboration with marginalised and
 minority communities, interrogating issues of language, power, literacy, cultural identity and
 social exclusion.
 Major successes in this area include:

       As founder of the European Ethnological Research Centre (see Section 1.4), West
        has worked with volunteers across Scotland in the production of ethnographical
        knowledge about their own communities, laying the foundations for a comprehensive
        ethnology of Scotland.

       Engaging with stakeholders in minority and endangered languages, J.Kirby’s ERC
        Starting Grant (€1.5m) has examined the emerence and evolution of linguistic tone, and
        has contributed to the creation of new artworks.

       Frith’s innovative research mapping memories of slavery (funded through an AHRC
        network, £44k), has had a significant impact on campaigns for reparations for slavery
        (see Impact Case Study 1).
 LLE has supported a range of research projects in this area, displaying broad disciplinary and
 geographical breadth. Gleghorn (AHRC Leadership Fellowship, £168k) has worked with


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Indigenous filmmakers in Latin America to show how they have responded to Western
 conceptions of authorship and authenticity in their work. Ribeiro used £101k AHRC follow-on
 funding for the project Visibilizing Afro Cultural Connections and Geopolitical Dynamics in
 Nicaragua, Colombia, San Andrés and Providencia to demonstrate the hidden contribution of the
 African diaspora to political struggles in the Caribbean. Scott explored the Buddhist revival in
 modern China through his Leverhulme Trust ECF, producing a major study of the reconstruction
 of Buddhist monasteries as a driving force in the revival of Buddhist traditions and practice.
 Research in this area has also explored the intersections of language, gender, class and
 sexuality. Pak-Shiraz has led innovative research in making visible marginalised gender
 identities in the Islamic world, exploring Iranian women’s experiences of public spaces, in a
 project supported by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (£7.5k). Pak-Shiraz went on to co-found the
 first Edinburgh Iranian Film Festival (see Impact Case Study 2). Dawson’s AHRC Leadership
 fellowship research (£193k) built on her work with the Scottish Queer International Film Festival
 in exploring working-class LGBTQ+ representation in cinema. Pedriali and Savettieri’s project
 Fatherland as Motherland: Unstable Gender and Nation in Italian Great War Literature (Horizon
 2020, €183k) demonstrated the interplay between nationalism and gender by bringing together
 literary studies, political history, and gender and cultural studies.
 J.Kirby (ERC Starting Grant, €1.5m) has found evidence that individual differences in the
 perceptual integration of acoustic information may play a larger role in the emergence of
 linguistic tone than previously assumed. This research has been followed up by his innovative
 AHRC project (£128k) investigating the phenomenon of phonological register in Southeast Asian
 languages. Remijsen’s research programme on West Nilotic languages was supported by three
 grants (total £624k) from the Leverhulme Trust and AHRC, to develop literacy programmes
 through a collaboration with Shilluk and Nuer language communities in South Sudan.
 Scholars in Celtic and Scottish Studies have mapped the history and identity of Gaelic
 speakers in Scotland and beyond, expanding the international horizons of research into the
 Celtic languages and informing minority language policies in Scotland and the European Union.
 McLeod was Co-I on an AHRC research network (£5.5k) exploring possibilities for language
 revitalisation at times of dramatic social change, which demonstrated that an international
 perspective on minority language policy is vital for achieving political aims. Lamb has attracted
 funding from the Faclair na Gàidhlig funding scheme (£24k), Bòrd na Gàidhlig (£19k), and the
 Carnegie Trust (£40k) to make the resources of the Linguistic Survey of Scottish Gaelic
 available for corpus-based study. Dunmore (British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship, £317k)
 applied sociolinguistic methods to gain a new understanding of the attitudes of new speakers of
 Gaelic towards language ideologies concerning the ‘native speaker’ status of minority language
 speakers.


 1.4 Impact Strategy
 Our impact strategy aims to promote public understanding, encourage advocacy, and improve
 local, national, and international policymaking and pedagogy in the areas of language evolution,
 multilingualism, minority rights and the cultural legacy of colonialism and slavery. We have built
 deep, creative collaborations across the breadth of our research themes, co-creating impact with
 key national and international partners in government and international organisations, public
 services (education, health, care), museums, festivals and creative industries, and charities and
 community groups (detailed in Section 4).
 In order to realise these goals, our support has focused on three main areas outlined in more
 detail in Section 2:



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (1) Mainstreaming knowledge exchange and impact (KEI) activity in academic careers,
 review and mentoring processes, recruitment and progression.
 (2) Expanding specialised support for knowledge exchange and impact, investing in new
 staff to provide training and support, and creating academic leads.
 (3) Providing seed-funding and support for dissemination and engagement.
 These initiatives have supported impacts in a range of ways, illustrated through the following
 representative examples:
 Identifying and enhancing the impact potential of existing projects with pro-active
 internal support. The internal CAHSS KEI fund (£4k) enabled Israel to create teaching packs
 targeted at Highers/Advanced Highers students on religious conversion which drew on her
 research project Conversion, Translation and the Language of Autobiography. Internal funds
 have also supported the impact of Bradley’s research on GDR theatre censorship: she was
 awarded £7.5k to commission the playwright Peter Arnott to translate her insights to the stage in
 the play Ensemble. The funding supported teaching replacement, workshops at the Playwrights’
 Studio (2014), a reading at the Scottish Storytelling Centre, a day-long event at the 2017 Being
 Human Festival, where the film Writing Ensemble (dir. Susan Kemp) was screened, further
 screenings in Glasgow and Berlin, and a meeting between Glasgow Film Theatre, Arts and
 Business Scotland and FilmHub Scotland to produce an educational package. This internal
 support was instrumental in Bradley’s successful bid for AHRC Follow-On funding (see Case
 Study 7).
 Nourishing a KEI project throughout its life. Long-term, secure KEI support allows us to
 engage with our partners as co-creators rather than recipients of new knowledges. This
 approach has been pioneered by the European Ethnological Research Centre (EERC), led by
 West and funded by the Scotland Inheritance Fund (£1.2m), which has developed an agenda for
 democratising ethnological research. Internally funded collaboration between EERC and
 Dumfries and Galloway Council Libraries and Archives has led to the creation of ‘reminiscence
 packs’, designed to stimulate discussion with members of local communities involved in the
 EERC’s research projects. Long-term support for the Centre for Language Evolution (see
 Section 1.3 above) has enabled K.Smith and Culbertson to run a series of workshops on
 language evolution in primary schools, introducing 600+ children aged 7-11 to linguistics,
 language change, and language evolution.
 We have developed innovative KEI projects with external partners and audiences, working
 with them as co-creators of knowledge. For example, as co-founder of the Scottish Queer
 International Film Festival, Dawson worked to create inclusive spaces for LGBTQ+ and working-
 class creativity. Susam-Saraeva’s work has empowered mothers in Turkey through the provision
 in translation of information about home births and natural birthing techniques, and by collecting
 and sharing autobiographical birthing narratives. Bosseaux’s research on the ethics of
 translation in cases of gender-based violence has supported her work with community groups in
 Glasgow supporting victims of domestic abuse.
 Our flexible and responsive support structures allow our scholars to respond rapidly and
 flexibly to new challenges and opportunities. Most recently, this agility has been demonstrated
 by the award to Hall-Lew, in collaboration with Cowie and Lai, of funding for a project (Lothian
 Lockdown) based on video diaries created by residents of the Lothians during the COVID-19
 crisis, and which is aimed at informing responses to future crises. The support includes funding
 from the British Academy (£10k), ESRC (IAA Impact Booster £10k), £5k of University funding
 and a £5k in-kind contribution from Museums & Galleries Edinburgh.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Research Ethics, Integrity and Open Research
 Much of our research involves working with human subjects and concerns sensitive issues
 associated with individual and communal identity, human rights, and social justice, making it
 essential that our research meets the highest standards of ethics and integrity in planning,
 conduct and dissemination.
 The College Research Ethics Committee has since 2016 rolled out a standardised, on-line
 system for research ethics reporting. Each project requires rigorous evaluation of the ethical
 implications of the research involved. Led by school research ethics directors newly appointed in
 this REF cycle, we have done detailed work in tailoring general advice for specific application to
 ensure that policy at all levels protects the safety, integrity, and rights of researchers and
 participants in all cases. For example, in 2016, we developed an online training module in
 research ethics; all research students are required to complete the module, an innovation that
 will be replicated elsewhere in the University.
 We are committed to building academic resources, including datasets, databases and archives
 that are available to the research community, according to the principle ‘open where possible,
 closed where necessary’. Our Ethics Officers promote best practice in data management and
 Open Research among LLE researchers. The University adopted a proactive approach to Open
 Access that requires us to make open all outputs published since 2016, in advance of the
 specific requirements of REF and UKRI, and OA compliance rates across LLE are above 95%.
 In engagements with industry, we are committed to the Open Source agenda which we
 implement where possible. For example, Cereproc, a spinout from the Centre for Speech
 Technology Research, has released the materials for generating a non-binary digital voice to the
 Open Voice community (see Section 4.2).
 The shift in research culture has been embedded through a range of processes. Researchers
 are, for example, invited during annual appraisals and research reviews to prioritise Open
 Access journals and venues when developing the most appropriate publication plans with
 international collaborators, and to aim to reach the widest possible audiences for their published
 work.
 In preparing new projects, researchers develop data management plans in consultation with the
 Technology Support Officer, who advises on technical issues, and the University’s Data Support
 Team, to identify the best methods of data management (DataStore, DataSync or
 DataSafeHaven) and fill any gaps in training.
 The Directors of Open Research provide School support and encouragement for grass-roots
 initiatives supporting Open Research practices among LLE researchers, such as the Edinburgh
 branches of ReproducibiliTea and EdinbR, which offer forums for sharing best practice in
 sharing research data and code. We also offer a more formal program of training and resources
 for data driven Open Research, including regular refresher training for all staff provided for all
 staff by the Data Support Team, and a range of specialist practical courses run by the Centre for
 Data, Culture, and Society (targeted primarily at ECRs but open to all).


 1.6 Future strategy
 Over the next REF period, we will foster innovative collaborations that apply linguistic and
 language-related research to address urgent societal challenges. One key area of growth will be
 in data driven and digital research, where we will deepen our engagement with the Edinburgh
 Futures Institute (EFI) and the Centre for Data, Culture and Society. This strategic aim is already



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 moving forward with the appointment of J.Watson from her Leverhulme Fellowship to a newly
 created tenure-track Chancellor’s Fellowship in the Digital Humanities in January 2021.
 We aim to develop further research capacity in Speech and Language Processing, aimed at
 enhancing grant capture, PG recruitment, and our leadership in areas relating to speech
 technology. We will intensify our collaborations with industry partners through our research
 centres, building on the success of the Centre for Speech Technology Research and its
 spinouts; and we will enhance our geographical reach in the areas of Multilingualism and
 Translation, with an appointment in Global Literatures in 2021.
 The Coronavirus pandemic and its effects have reinforced our commitment to building a
 research environment responsive to the diverse needs of our researchers. We will develop a
 responsive strategy to target support to individuals and areas that are worst affected. This will
 include mentoring for staff whose research programme has been adversely affected by Covid
 and strengthening our commitment to enhancing EDI within our research activities, gaining a
 better understanding of the factors that impact researchers’ ability to carry out research (for
 example, caring responsibilities and health vulnerabilities that intersect with but are not limited to
 Covid). EDI research student representatives, who will facilitate support groups for research
 students with protected characteristics, are being introduced in 2020-2021.
 In line with the University’s Climate Strategy, and in response to Covid, we will accelerate the
 implementation of our vision of research innovation that is environmentally responsible.
 Accordingly, we will intensify work already underway to audit our research travel, with the aim of
 reducing our carbon emissions while still supporting excellent research and research careers,
 and capitalise on new priorities and methods for fieldwork, collaborations, conferences, and
 archival research, embracing new opportunities for data collection and inclusive networking and
 dissemination via online platforms.



 Section 2. People
 Our community of researchers has expanded by 31% since 2014 and maintains an even
 balance between 11% Grade 7 fellows, 24% Grade 8 lecturers, 36% Grade 9 senior
 lecturers/readers, and 29% professors.
 Our recruitment and retention strategy has strengthened the depth and quality of our research
 profile, while also expanding our disciplinary range in light of our strategic priorities. We have
 made outstanding appointments in Data-Driven Research and Digital Humanities (Kastner,
 Lai, Soler Montes, Zhao), Multilingualism and Translation (Arribert-Narce, Chondrogianni),
 and Languages and Marginalised Identities (Dawson, Frith, Gleghorn, Gordon-Burroughs,
 Ribeiro). We have also strengthened our disciplinary profile in formal Semantics and
 Pragmatics (Uegaki).
 Our unit adheres to the Principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, striving to ensure that research staff can develop their careers to their full
 potential. Staff at all career stages benefit from flexible, proactive structures of academic and
 professional services support.


 2.1 Targeted support for ECRs and Postdoctoral Researchers
 Newly appointed staff are given a teaching and administration load reduced by 30% for one
 year, with mentoring during the first three years of their appointment, beyond the usual cycle of
 annual review and research appraisal. They receive targeted training and support in


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 understanding the funding environment, formulating bids, and writing and publication
 strategies. They develop a portfolio of research leadership roles, for example in leading research
 seminars and interdisciplinary networks, creating a media profile, or moving into postgraduate
 supervision and administration roles.
 As ECRs and Postdoctoral researchers, Arribert-Narce, Culbertson, Cummins, Dawson, Frith,
 Gleghorn, Lai, Maldina, Remijsen, Ribeiro, Rohde, Savettieri, Soler Montes, Uegaki, J.Watson,
 L.Watson and Wood have all received targeted internal support and mentoring, leading to
 significant grant capture and international collaborations during the REF period, and to keynote
 addresses at an early career stage (Lai, Soler Montes, Ribeiro, Uegaki, Arribert-Narce).
 We target internal funding support to ECRs in order to further their research careers and add
 value to existing projects: small sums tailored flexibly to specific needs provide an effective
 boost at key stages in a project’s life. Culbertson received £1.6k in internal seedcorn funding to
 support her successful ERC Starting Grant bid with the Centre for Language Evolution (see
 Section 1.3). Gleghorn received a total of £5k from the Research and Impact Funds from 2016-
 18 for the project AfroLab. The funding provided training workshops and a forum for Afro-
 Colombian film professionals to meet with academics, state officials and activists. Frith and
 Dawson (both ECRs) received targeted seedcorn support for successful Research Networking
 and Leadership Fellowship bids, respectively; and internal research funding has been used to
 support international research trips essential for preparing a publication (Arribert-Narce,
 Dawson) or costs for placing monographs by ECRs with the right publishers (Wood, Maldina). A
 further ongoing project supported by the Discretionary Fund has been the Edinburgh German
 Yearbook, which provides opportunities for ECRs to gain editorial experience in curating an
 innovative contribution to their discipline with a prestigious publisher (Camden House): as
 postdoctoral fellows, both Wood and J.Watson gained experience as editors of a Yearbook
 volume.
 Targeted internal funding allows us to support ECRs in developing the potential for excellent
 impact projects from the beginning of their careers. For example: Dawson received £6.6k of
 internal funding support since 2015 for Femmes on Film, a documentary about femme and
 queer feminine representation. Arribert-Narce has received support from the Research Fund
 (£1.3k) and Impact Fund (£2.7k) to build his international collaboration on Post-Fukushima Art
 and Literature.
 Our unit has had significant successes since 2014 in attracting excellent postdoctoral
 research fellows. We follow the Concordat recommendations, providing opportunities for
 fellows to develop their careers in all facets of their work. They have access to advice and
 support from the research office, training from the Institute for Academic Development, and the
 same funding for conference attendance and impact activity that is available to all staff. They
 attend sectional, departmental and school plenary meetings as full voting members.
 Postdoctoral researchers have an annual review with their line manager and an annual research
 appraisal with one of the research appraisals team, as well as regular meetings with a mentor
 who is not their PI or line manager; in this way, the support team are able to help the colleague
 to identify promising projects for funding bids, to develop a portfolio of research leadership roles,
 for example in leading research seminars and interdisciplinary networks, creating a media
 profile, or moving into roles in postgraduate supervision and administration.
 Postdoctoral Fellows have full access to internal research and KEI funding, and have made
 excellent, creative use of it. For example, Savettieri won a Marie Curie Individual Fellowship
 award (2015-17) for the project FatherlandMotherland, and benefitted from a £2.8k School KEI
 grant in 2016/17 to hold a two-day event and exhibition on WWI legacies and national identity
 against the backdrop of Brexit, and a public debate at the Scottish Parliament.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We are committed to supporting our postdoctoral fellows in transitioning to open-ended contracts
 in areas of strategic importance: Soler Montes and Dawson progressed from postdoctoral and
 teaching fellowships to lectureships (and promotion to Senior Lecturer in Dawson’s case).


 2.2 Review, Mentoring and Training, and Sabbatical Leave
 Research Reviews: In addition to their Annual Review, staff benefit from an annual Research
 Appraisal, in order to assess progress, identify new opportunities and agree any necessary
 support. This is also an opportunity to check up on the OA status of publications: one of the
 reasons for the very high OA compliance rate in LLE. Using data from these reviews, our
 support team works pro-actively with researchers, Heads of Department, academic research
 officers, mentors and reviewers to identify areas where support may be necessary. We are thus
 able to identify at an early stage projects that will benefit from external funding and to support
 colleagues who may lack experience in preparing bids.
 Targeted mentoring and training is also offered to all colleagues who require specific support,
 especially if they have been through a period in which their research career has encountered
 challenges. Mentoring from senior staff is offered for all colleagues preparing major research
 applications, and School Research Directors offer weekly drop-in sessions (in person and on-
 line) for anyone requiring specific advice or support. All funding applications to external bodies
 are peer-reviewed within the school during the process of development to ensure the strongest
 possible case is made. A weekly Research Office newsletter alerts colleagues to training
 courses, new funding opportunities and collaborative projects, and reports notable success in
 publication and grant capture. Colleagues can access training with the Skills Centre, a hub for
 Career and Professional Development to support researchers in developing new methodological
 and analytical skills. We have invested in researcher capacity building by introducing an
 undergraduate Volunteer Research Assistant scheme, where undergraduate students work in
 close collaboration with faculty members on their active research projects, for example by
 helping with data collection and analysis. In 2015, we introduced a successful initiative to
 organise and promote group ‘writing retreats’ for output and grant applications, at which
 colleagues congregate to work individually within a supportive space, with occasional breaks to
 discuss issues that arise. Groups are accompanied by a member of the Research Office, who is
 on hand to provide advice. Writing retreats have led to successful major funding bids by, for
 example, Gleghorn (AHRC Leadership Fellowship, £168k).
 Sabbatical Leave: All research-active colleagues are entitled to apply for one semester’s
 sabbatical leave after every six semesters. Applications are reviewed and approved by the
 School Research Committee; appraisal, support and mentoring processes ensure the quality
 and appropriateness of applications for sabbatical leave before submission, meaning that staff
 have well developed and feasible plans and are able to make the most productive use of their
 leave. The Head of Department, in consultation with research officers, is also able to
 accommodate exceptional circumstances when planning sabbatical leave. For example, while
 Dayan was Head of the Department of European Languages and Cultures, he was able to take
 leave at 50% over two semesters in order to continue in his administrative role while completing
 his monograph, The Music of Dada. Our clear view of translation as research activity in its own
 right means that colleagues are able to apply for sabbatical leave for major translation projects:
 the International Man Booker nominated translation by Macintyre and Mackintosh was a result of
 this policy.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Internal Funding for Research
 Since 2014, we have enhanced our internal funding support for research at all stages of a
 project’s life.
 School Level: All staff benefit from funding for conferences, trips and other related costs, as
 seedcorn funding to launch major projects, and as targeted funding to add value to existing
 projects (for example through publication subsidies or conference hosting). We have increased
 the standard individual annual allowance for research expenses to £1k, from £750 in 2014, with
 discretionary funds for particularly important or original projects that incur costs over £1k, and we
 have introduced a range of other internal funds and initiatives for targeting specific areas of
 strategic importance. For example, Small Project Grants have awarded £67k in seedcorn
 funding to staff since 2014, with major successes including pilot data being used to strengthen
 applications by Culbertson (ERC Starting Grant, €1.4m awarded), King (EPSRC, £533k
 awarded), and K.Smith (ERC Consolidator Grant, €2m awarded).
 College Level provides a Challenge Investment Fund for initiatives that explore new areas of
 cross-disciplinary expertise. These have included experimental research workshops (Dayan:
 Edge of Words), data-driven research (Lamb: Machine-assisted Transcription for Handwritten
 Gaelic Narratives), and projects driving forward the University’s internationalisation strategy
 (Kruse, Nordic dialogues). Sorace (with Hugh Rabagliati in Psychology and Sue Fletcher-
 Watson in Clinical Science) received a grant for Bilingualism and Autism: Exploring Parent
 attitudes and Developing Novel Methods, allowing them to conduct interviews with the parents of
 bilingual children with ASD, assess their understanding of the child’s development, and propose
 improved strategies for communicating the benefits of bilingualism.
 University Level: The University’s Moray Endowment Fund provides up to £2.5k annually per
 project to support innovative research. Molineaux-Ress was awarded £2k to trace spelling
 conventions used for representing the sounds of Older Scots and Sorace £1.5k to disseminate
 findings related to the Language, Place and Identity project (Carnegie Trust, £48k). A.Smith
 received £2k for bibliographical work on the monograph arising from the AHRC-funded project
 Refiguring the Canon of Twentieth-Century Russian Poetry, ensuring that recent developments
 in Russian nationalism could be included; Soler Montes was granted £995 to launch his project
 The Political Past: Temporal and Spatial Dimensions of the Grammar Used in Latin American
 Political Discourse, which gained funding from the Santander ‘Kick Start Research Fund’
 (£2500), leading directly to major international collaborations (see Section 4).


 2.4 Internal Support for Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI)
 Our support for KEI activity is strongly embedded throughout our structures. Impact is a criterion
 in promotion applications, playing, for example, a defining role in two recent promotions to
 Personal Chair. The KEI potential of research is a key aspect in appointments. For example,
 L.Watson was appointed to a lectureship in 2018, with a remit to pursue collaborations in
 performance and creative musical composition. Her project ‘Rebellious Truth’, a collaborative
 exploration of modern interpretations of traditional music, creative process and practitioner
 perceptions has been supported with internal KEI funding (£3k) enabling the project to grow its
 public profile. In applications for research leave, KEI has the same status as any other kind of
 research activity.
 We have enhanced our financial and mentoring support and expanded specialised
 professional support services (2.5 FTE professional services KEI managers, alongside
 academic KEI directors and departmental impact coordinators), to ensure that impact
 considerations are fully integrated throughout the research lifecycle, from envisioning the


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 potential for change, through deepening existing collaborations and developing new
 partnerships, to collecting and cataloguing evidence of impact for use in peer learning, case
 studies, funder reports, and project evaluations. LLE staff have dedicated web support officers,
 who help academics with webpage design and organizing the online interface of their research,
 also increasing its KE/impact potential.
 The College and School KEI teams provide advice and training for staff on a range of themes,
 such as pitching a project, and working with industry, business, cultural organisations and
 policymakers. Further support is offered by School Marketing and Communications Managers (2
 FTE) who promote research to wider public audiences via webpages, blogs, and podcasts (e.g.
 forward.thinking.ppls.ed.ac.uk), news stories, and social media, and offer guidance and support
 to researchers in developing their own communications strategies. Since 2014, we have funded
 two Impact Fellowships, providing a buyout for experienced academic staff to work with
 colleagues in developing the impact of their research, as well as running workshop, information,
 and advice sessions.
 This tailored support is complemented by regular in-school training events addressing public
 engagement, media training, KEI for beginners, evaluating public engagement and KEI, working
 with business or policymakers and an annual ‘Insight to Impact’ training programme designed to
 help researchers identify the impact potential of their research, develop a project plan, and
 stream to relevant sources of support within the School and College.
 We have developed extensive internal seed funding opportunities for KEI at College and
 School level to expand and deepen engagement, to fund events and teaching buyouts, to
 support communication and collaborations with external partners and audiences, and to use
 targeted funding support to add value to projects. The Schools’ KEI schemes award up to £1k to
 projects (or more if the project merits it). We have also introduced an Impact Start-Up fund,
 which provides small sums (c.£300) to facilitate exploratory meetings with potential partners.
 Each departmental Impact Coordinator also has access to a discretionary fund to support
 projects that may need extra funding at critical moments ensuring flexibility and rapid response.
 Colleagues can also access funding from CAHSS KEI and Impact Booster funds (up to £5k) to
 develop projects, support applications for external funding, or enhance the impact of current
 projects (16 projects since 2014, total £53k). Consistent and responsive internal support
 combining these sources of funding allows our scholars to build creative and impactful
 partnerships. For example, Frith was able to enhance significantly the impact of her AHRC-
 funded project Reparations for Slavery using £7k from internal funds to host a major
 international conference in Edinburgh, bringing together academics and activists to address the
 question of reparations for slavery, to develop a project website and interactive map, and to fund
 two representatives of the International Network of Scholars and Activists for Afrikan
 Reparations to attend the UN Regional Meeting for Africa in October 2019.


 2.5 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 We are committed to ensuring that all colleagues have the freedom and autonomy, as well as
 the support and security, to pursue careers and flourish as individual researchers and in
 collaboration with others. We currently hold Athena Swan Bronze awards.
 Following data held by HR, 60% of Grade 8 staff, 48% of Grade 9 staff (Senior Lecturer and
 Reader), and 37% of Professorial staff are female; BAME staff form 16.8% of our FTE. Other
 protected characteristics are not recorded in this document due to sensitivities around personal
 data. The proportion of non-UK staff in our unit is 46% (an increase from 36% in 2014), and our
 postgraduate student body is similarly international. In recognition of the work that still needs to



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 be done on equality and diversity, we have devoted resources to innovative support and training
 programmes, and staff in LLE have played leading roles in initiatives across the University.
 In 2017 both schools appointed an EDI Director who chairs the School EDI committee and
 ensures that EDI is embedded in all areas of our work. The EDI committees hold several annual
 events promoting training and support for researchers affected by all areas of the Equality Act,
 as well as migrant status, socioeconomic class, neurodiversity, and cultural diversity. Resources
 are advertised to promote Mental Health Support and Work-Life Balance, and include workshops
 led by local experts and external partners.
 In line with UoE’s Occupational Health policy, Parental Leave Policy, Maternity Leave toolkit,
 and Caring for Carers strategy, returnees from extended periods of leave can request a phased
 return, a reduced teaching load to increase their opportunities for development and research,
 and temporary or permanent changes to their working hours. All staff have the right to request
 flexible working arrangements. We have also established a Menopause support group and taken
 the lead in promoting Transgender awareness training within the College.
 Innovative policies developed in LLE have been impactful at university level, such as an Other
 Protected Characteristics mentoring scheme (led by Ota), which connects researchers with
 shared protected characteristics, offering support for navigating career milestones where they
 are often disadvantaged. This initiative influenced the creation of university-wide BAME Staff
 mentoring programme (led by Hall-Lew). The LLC Race Hub provides staff and students with
 materials for self-study and self-reflection. It includes glossaries, audio, visual and written
 resources as well as links to further resources and aims to increase race literacy in order to
 facilitate conversations and give members of the University community who wish to engage in
 anti-racist work the means to examine their own biases, articulate their position, challenge
 preconceived ideas and support BAME staff/students. Desnain has instituted antiracism
 workshops and training in awareness of unconscious bias.
 Staff and postgraduates in LLE have drawn on their own research to lead inclusive policy and
 practice within the University. Bodammer’s research in Disability Studies has had a significant
 impact on University accessibility policy and curriculum design; she has written accessibility
 guidelines for LLE, co-led with a PhD student (Drake) workshops on inclusive curricula and has
 reported to the Linking Education and Disability (LEAD) Scotland project and the Advance HE
 project “Improving outcomes and experiences for disabled students at Scotland’s colleges and
 universities”. Our unit actively recognises the particular needs of staff who are LGBTQ+; in 2017,
 we acted as the hosts for the Staff Pride Network to provide training for those wishing to become
 LGBTQ+ Allies.
 We have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff as an opportunity to
 enhance our commitment to EDI and to supporting research careers at all stages. In preparation
 for REF2021, we adopted a rigorous, fair and transparent approach to selecting outputs, fully
 accounting for special circumstances affecting colleagues’ research activity. EDI training and
 training to identify unconscious bias were built into the output selection process. We instituted an
 independent EDI oversight group to review the distribution of outputs across staff by gender and
 career stage. The review found there was a proportionate distribution of outputs submitted by
 career stage, reflecting our support for research careers at all stages (grade 7: 11% of staff and
 9% of outputs submitted; Grade 8: 24% of staff and 25% of outputs; Grade 9: 36% of staff and
 31% of outputs; Grade 10: 29% of staff and 35% of outputs). It also found that staff self-reporting
 as female were at no disadvantage in the number of outputs submitted




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.6 Post-Graduate Researchers
 PhD students form an integral and valued part of our research culture, and provide impetus and
 inspiration in developing new activities, collaborations, and impact work. Over the REF period,
 we have seen a substantial increase in PGRs on course, and completion numbers for doctoral
 students in LLE have risen by 46% since 2014: 162 students successfully completed a
 programme of doctoral study. In 2014 researchers in European Languages and Cultures and
 Celtic & Scottish Studies moved into newly refurbished premises in 50 George Square (see
 Section 3.2) which host a postgraduate suite and resource centre.
 Applications for PhD study are rigorously reviewed by a panel of experienced supervisors, and
 we run information sessions for prospective applicants and supervisors, offering advice on
 formulating project proposals, targeting appropriate funding and scholarships. In addition to
 grants from the AHRC and ESRC, our PhD researchers have had outstanding success in
 capturing funding from the Carnegie Foundation for the Humanities; two recent PhD students
 have won the Robertson Medal for the strongest application to the Foundation. The AHRC
 consortium for Celtic Studies has also funded five PhDs in Celtic and Scottish studies.
 The University offers the Edinburgh Global Research Scholarships for overseas students, and
 CAHSS offers the College Research Award Scheme. Since 2014, nine students from our unit
 have been awarded these prestigious scholarships. There are a number of other dedicated
 fellowships and scholarships that our postgraduates have drawn on: Wolfson Foundation
 Postgraduate Scholarship (1), Edinburgh Global Scholarships (3), China Scholarships (3),
 Carnegie Trust (2), John Orr Scholarship in Romance languages (1), Sasakawa Studentship (3),
 Gaelic PhD Scholarship (2), PhD Scholarship in Belgian Cinema (2), Islamic and Middle Eastern
 Studies PhD Scholarship (2), Irish Language PhD Scholarship (2), Alwaleed PhD Scholarship
 (2), OWRI Russian Scholarship (1), LLC PhD Scholarship (1), LLC Masters Scholarship (1),
 Georg Heuser Scholarship in German Studies (2). We also provide the E.F.K Koerner
 Scholarship for specialist projects in the History of Linguistics.
 All doctoral students are supervised by a principal supervisor and one or two second, or co-
 supervisors, often beyond LLE for interdisciplinary projects. Colleagues continue supervision
 during research leave, while the use of supervisory teams ensures continuity and stability in
 unforeseen circumstances. Agreed records of meetings are made, to allow engagement to be
 overseen and any necessary interventions made promptly.
 All students have an Annual Progress Review and Training Needs Analysis which includes a
 reviewer from beyond the supervision team. We provide a package of induction, training and
 guidance for doctoral students, as well as providing support for their independent development
 of collaborative research activities. Students attend a tailored Research Methods course and a
 programme of Professional Development workshops on presenting, publishing, grant
 applications, research ethics, KEI and careers in and beyond academia. School postgraduate
 teaching contracts allow them to gain experience of undergraduate teaching: these contracts
 include funding for attendance at mentoring meetings with course organisers and at staff
 meetings, where they can contribute to curriculum review and planning processes. Students also
 have access to the training programmes of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH) and Scottish Graduate School in Social Sciences (SGSSS), for AHRC and
 ESRC-funded students respectively. Comprising consortia of universities across Scotland, and
 jointly funded by the Scottish Funding Council, SGSAH and SGSSS facilitate funding, training
 and support for doctoral students, including internships and travel funding, seeking to enable
 postgraduate students to attain the highest international standards of scholarship and early
 career achievement.
 PGRs draw on the PhD Collaborative Research Fund and the student-led Initiative and
 Training Funds to develop networks, thematic clusters and projects that benefit the PG

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 community. They set up and run autonomous collaborative structures, such as the regular Work
 in Progress Seminar, with funding support, and participate in the activities of research groups on
 an equal basis, whether in presenting, organising or leading sessions. The management team of
 each research group includes at least one ECR, postdoc or postgraduate representative, and
 postgraduate students are fully involved as innovators within the research environment. For
 example, The Language and Violence Group has since 2015 brought together researchers
 from testimony studies, nationalism and ethics, and spanning a chronological range from
 Medieval epic to testimonies by survivors of totalitarian violence. It provides opportunities for
 postgraduates (Fernández, Leworthy, Robinson-Self, Jacobs) to organise events, and has
 provided the impetus for the creation of the postgraduate-led Connecting Memories project,
 founded in 2018. They organise a series of lectures and workshops, as well as an annual
 conference, that bring together scholars working on memory from a variety of disciplinary
 perspectives. The group now produces the regular Connecting Memories podcast, generating
 audiences for research during the COVID-19 lockdown.
 Similarly, the Linguistic Circle (a weekly series of talks by invited speakers) is jointly organised
 by PhD students and staff. Postgraduates also run an annual Modern Languages Postgraduate
 Conference, which has become a significant international event, attracting PhD students from
 across the globe, and an annual Postgraduate Linguistics Research Conference, in which all
 Linguistics PhD students in year 2 or later are expected to give a paper, and which is open to
 and attracts PhD students from across the UK, Europe and beyond. Postgraduates also
 organise events for Language in Context and the other linguistics research groups.



 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Total research income from all sources since 2014 is £15.6m, nearly doubling since the previous
 REF period. This success is the result of continual evaluation and improvement of support
 mechanisms, as well as the strategic approach to staff support outlined in Section 2.
 Grant successes include a series of large grants from the EU and UKRI, which have supported
 major collaborative projects and research centres (see Section 1.3). We have also supported
 staff in winning smaller grants from a range of sources, to prepare the ground for larger bids,
 build expertise in the process of making grant applications, or provide targeted, strategic support
 for initiatives that produce excellent outcomes with a modest outlay. Since 2014, we have
 diversified our sources of support: in addition to large grants, our staff have won awards from the
 British Academy, The Carnegie Trust, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and from subject-specific
 schemes: British Academy for Japanese Studies, Daiwa Foundation, Great Britain Sasakawa
 Foundation, Japan Foundation, Institute of Latin American Studies.
 We have made significant investment in our research support teams (from 5 FTE in 2014 to
 9 FTE in 2020), with specialist staff providing support for funding bids, project development, KEI
 and media strategy. Academic Research Directors and School Research Offices (ROs) work
 together with colleagues to identify opportunities to support their work through funding bids and
 to grow smaller projects into larger ones. The ROs provide in-house advice and support for
 funding bids, and, alongside the academic Research Directors, pro-actively identify research that
 has the potential to attract funding. They regularly communicate updates on the funding
 landscape and hold regular workshop events to draw attention to specific calls and funders.
 Beyond this, ROs manage a thorough process of internal peer review of applications by
 experienced colleagues. A ‘critical friend’ scheme operates for colleagues who would benefit
 from regular mentoring when writing applications, and heads of department may reduce teaching

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 loads if a grant application is deemed to be of strategic importance. Colleagues who submit bids
 that are unsuccessful are offered support in order to move the project in new directions and seek
 different forms of funding. We have developed a workflow model for supporting colleagues
 through the process of reworking their project applications.
 LLE has set the priority of using internal funding sources to support interdisciplinary projects that
 have the potential to grow further and fulfil strategic goals, including enhancing grant capture.
 Since 2014, the LLC Research Fund has awarded £21.5k for such projects, supporting the work
 of the informal interdisciplinary research groupings Film and the Other Arts, Cultural Encounters,
 Language and Violence, and Connecting Memories, which have provided a flexible forum for
 discussing work in progress, formulating funding bids, or providing professional experience for
 postgraduates. For example, Schmid’s AHRC-funded network Film and the other Arts (2015-17)
 arose from the work of the Film and the Other Arts research forum, which provided a space to
 workshop and test the outlines of the project bid. Other positive outcomes of these groupings are
 set out in Sections 2.6 and 4 of this document.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 LLE staff are housed in recently refurbished buildings in the central campus. Previously housed
 separately, the departments of European Languages and Cultures, Celtic & Scottish Studies,
 Asian Studies and Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies are now co-located in 50 George Square,
 renovated in 2014 at a cost of £15m. The building offers advanced technical facilities, specialist
 film-screening rooms, a class library and resource centre, a PGR suite, improved accessibility
 and accessible gender-neutral toilets. The new physical environment includes common spaces
 which contribute to the vitality of the research environment by encouraging freer social and
 intellectual exchange. An investment of £2m in the Scottish Studies Archives, a resource of
 international significance for research, KE/impact and teaching, has provided state of the art
 accessible archive storage and research facilities in their George Square premises. The Centre
 for Data, Culture and Society is housed in the Edinburgh Futures Institute, benefitting from major
 investment by the UK and Scottish governments in data driven research (see Section 1.2).
 Researchers have access to a range of state-of-the-art Linguistics research facilities, some
 housed in the Dugald Stewart Building in the central campus area, some in nearby buildings that
 house research groups with which we closely collaborate (e.g. Psychology, Informatics). These
 include:
       The Cognitive Neuroscience suite, including EEG and fMRS, non-invasive brain
        stimulation, eye tracking and motion tracking facilities
       The Developmental Lab, a state-of-the-art facility for infant/child research on the
        development of language and cognition
       A total of 12 sound-deadened booths for running perceptual and psycholinguistics
        experiments
       A Speech Production facility, namely two Carstens Electromagnetic Articulographs with
        simultaneous acoustic recording, palatography and data analysis software
       Recording studios, a range of acoustically isolated rooms including a near-anechoic
        chamber
       Custom web servers to allow LLE researchers to run state-of-the-art online behavioural
        experiments, rapidly recruiting large numbers of participants through crowdsourcing
        websites like Amazon Mechanical Turk and Prolific.


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research benefits from Edinburgh’s world-class collections and archives. The University
 Library has rich holdings in manuscripts, print and digital collections (currently 2m print books,
 185k e-journals and 1.4m e-books), which staff may supplement by ordering works for their own
 or PG research. Interdisciplinary research in our unit is also supported by the new Law Library
 and New College Library (Religious Studies). Scotland’s copyright library, the National Library of
 Scotland, is based close by in central Edinburgh. It contains unrivalled holdings in Scottish
 material. Its holdings in the European languages, literatures and history, Scottish Studies, and
 Linguistics enhance what is available in the University libraries.
 LLE hosts a number of special collections and archives beyond those named above. The
 Princess Dashkova Centre (Director: Ryazanova-Clarke, Research Fellow and Manager:
 Argent), with its library of Russian books, databases and multimedia facilities, has supported
 research and public engagement in Russian Studies, and the Karin McPherson GDR library
 collection is a significant resource for research in East German literary history.
 This combination of newly refurbished accommodation, world-class research infrastructure,
 internationally significant specialist collections and outstanding library facilities provides an
 outstanding context for collaborative work and research of international significance.



 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our scholars are at the forefront of driving new research agendas and collaborations. Our unit
 has supported excellent ECR scholars who have used Chancellor’s Fellowships (Culbertson,
 Frith, Gleghorn, Remijsen, Truswell) and AHRC Leadership Fellowships (Dawson, Gleghorn) to
 engage new partners at national and international level, which in the case of Frith has led to an
 impact case study. Network schemes (AHRC, ESCR, Leverhulme, Royal Society of Edinburgh)
 have been an important source of funding for focussed collaborations. School and College KEI
 and research funding has supported scholars who are leading collaborative initiatives. The
 following sets out the different modes of collaboration in projects led by our scholars, illustrated
 with representative examples.


 4.1 Scholarly collaborations, leadership and contributions to our disciplines
 In order to foster a shared intellectual agenda across our broad range of research, we have
 established the Language in Context Research Group, which brings together work on applied
 linguistics, discourse analysis, and linguistic anthropology, with particular emphasis on minority
 language policy in Scotland and other countries in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas. With
 financial support and scholarly participation from across LLE, the group organised a ground-
 breaking panel on Women Pioneers of Language Study, as part of the 2019 Annual Meeting of
 the Henry Sweet Society for the History of Linguistic Ideas.
 Our scholars draw creatively on the networking funding schemes offered by the AHRC and
 Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE), as well as other local, national, and international sources of
 funding. AHRC-funded projects include the following, beyond those already mentioned in this
 document: Ryazanova-Clarke is strand leader in the AHRC Open World Research Initiative
 project Cross-Language Dynamics: Reshaping Community, Goerke has gained £41k from the
 AHRC for the Holy Places in Islam network, and Ribeiro has received £2k from the Institute of
 Latin American Studies for a workshop series on approaches to research on Cuba. Heycock was
 one of three leaders, along with colleagues at Glasgow and QMUL, of the AHRC-funded Scots
 Syntax Atlas (2015-2019, https://scotssyntaxatlas.ac.uk/) a major undertaking which has yielded



                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 not just an unparalleled research resource but a novel conception for the presentation of
 linguistic data that has begun to inspire similarly spirited projects in other parts of the world.
 RSE-funded networks include the following: Astley received £2k from the RSE to bring together
 scholars for workshops on Buddhist commentarial literature of eighth and ninth-century East
 Asia, and Maldina has used RSE small grant funding (£4k) for a project proposing innovative
 readings of Dante’s sources for his Divine Comedy. Iosad was awarded £3k by the RSE for a
 project on The Phonetics and Phonology of Short Vowels in Irish and Scottish Gaelic, together
 with Máire Ní Chiosáin of University College Dublin (2015).
 Beyond these networks, A.Smith was Co-I on the collaborative project with the University of
 Exeter Reconfiguring the Canon of Twentieth Century Russian Poetry (AHRC, £110k), and
 Uegaki holds a Network Grant from the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research for
 Internationalisation in the Humanities: Searching for Semantic Universals in the Modal Domain
 (2018-2021, €58k). Gleghorn is a member of the Leverhulme Trust network The Phantom on
 Film: Screen adaptations of Le Fantôme de l’Opéra (2016-18) and has led the project Creativity
 in Contemporary Latin American Culture (2014-18).
 Research in Multilingualism and Translation has produced successful collaborations: Bodammer
 has put together a multifaceted project in the Cultural Encounters group, building on research
 into cultural exchange, translation, and representations of disability in Romantic literature. This
 involves collaborations with the Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz, with a colleague from
 Mainz, funded by Erasmus, working permanently in LLE to support the collaboration, a lecture
 series, a successful British Academy postdoctoral award (Wood), and student exchange
 projects. This has led to conference presentations (German Studies Association and British and
 Irish Association for German Studies, 2019), an upcoming publication in the Goethe Yearbook
 (vol. 28, 2021) and to her appointment as member of the editorial board of the Peter Lang series
 Disability, Media, Culture. This range of activities, with research excellence arising from
 collaboration, led to her promotion to Reader in 2018.
 Davies is building a collaboration with the Fritz-Bauer-Institut, Frankfurt, to investigate the work
 of interpreters at Holocaust trials, including a presentation at the public celebration of the award
 of UNESCO World Heritage status to the documentation of the Frankfurt Auschwitz trial (2018).
 Edinburgh is a partner on the AHRC funded project Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals,
 Transforming Societies, centred at Cambridge, with Sorace serving as member of its Board of
 Directors and Joseph featuring as plenary speaker at its 2019 conference on Multilingual
 Identities.
 Macintyre, Mackintosh, Gleghorn, Ribeiro, Soler Montes and Gordon-Burroughs all collaborate
 in the activities of the Centre for Contemporary Latin American Studies (CCLAS), funded by
 Santander. The Centre fosters research collaborations between University of Edinburgh and
 institutions and organisations in the public and private sectors, promoting the development of
 new outlets for knowledge, including knowledge exchange and knowledge transfer activities.
 Since 2014, we have organised an average of five international conferences per year. Our ECRs
 have an excellent record in organising conferences that take their disciplines in new directions:
 Savettieri (Mobilising Identities/Identities in Motion, Edinburgh, 2017), Arribert-Narce (Post-
 Fukushima Art and Literature in Japan and the West, Edinburgh, 2017), Soler Montes
 (Geographies of Spanish, online, 2020), L.Watson (Pedagogies, Practices and the Future of
 Folk Music in Higher Education, 2018), Frith (Reparations for Afrikan Enslavement, Birmingham
 2018; Returning to Source, Benin, 2018), McElvenny (Form and Formalism in Linguistics,
 Edinburgh 2018).
 As well as organising events in Edinburgh, colleagues in LLE have been involved in organising
 international conferences and events at universities across the UK and beyond. J.Kirby


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 organised Singing in Tone: Text Setting Constraints in SE Asia, as part the International
 Congress of Phonetic Sciences 2015, Glasgow, and Honeybone has served as Convenor and
 Main Organiser of the 22nd-28th Manchester Phonology Meetings (2014-2020). Further afield,
 colleagues have organised conferences in India (Israel, Narratives of Transformation, Indian
 Institute of Technology, New Delhi, 2015), France and Switzerland (Joseph, Centenary of
 Saussure’s Course in General Linguistics, Paris 2016, Geneva 2017) and the USA (Ryazanova-
 Clarke, 47th Annual ASEEES Conference).
 Several of the international events organised by colleagues form part of series. The Annual
 Colloquium Thinking About Mythology in the 21st Century has run since 2013, organised jointly
 by the departments of Celtic and Scottish Studies and Scandinavian Studies. Messina and
 Pedriali co-organised the 2019 Biennial Conference of the Society for Italian Studies UK, which
 saw over 300 delegates come to Edinburgh for a 3-day event. Matthes has been involved in the
 organisation of the annual Association of German Studies conference throughout the REF
 period and has participated in the AHRC OWRI Cross-language Dynamics initiative, organising
 a conference on the politics of contemporary German culture (April 2019). Whose Voice is It
 Anyway is a series of annual events run by Bosseaux from 2016 to 2019. Honeybone and Iosad
 established a Symposium on Historical Phonology held biennially at Edinburgh, with four
 symposia having taken place since 2014. Los and Molineaux Ress, together with other
 colleagues who collaborate with the Angus McIntosh Centre for Historical Linguistics, organised
 the 20th International Conference on English Historical Linguistics in 2018. Cummins and Rohde
 ran the 8th biennial Experimental Pragmatics Conference (XPRAG) at Edinburgh in 2019, and
 McElvenny and Joseph, with other members of the Language in Context Research Group,
 organised the 2019 Annual Colloquium of the Henry Sweet Society for the History of Linguistic
 Ideas.
 Our scholars’ international reputations have led to invitations to take up visiting professorships
 and lectureships across the world: Israel was ECAF visiting fellow, École française d’Extrême-
 Orient (2014), Pedriali was visiting professor at the Department of Romance Languages and
 Literatures, Harvard (2014-15), Dayan was Obel Visiting Professor at Aalborg University (2015-
 19), Joseph was visiting professor at the École Normale Supérieure, Paris (2017), and in the
 European Summer School for PhD Students in History of Linguistics, University of Lausanne,
 Switzerland (2018). Gisborne was visiting professor at Beijing University (2016) and, together
 with Trousdale, at the Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt (2019). Matthes held visiting
 lectureships in Trier and São Paolo (the latter through Erasmus+ staff mobility), and Soler
 Montes and Hall-Lew were UK-Mexico visiting scholars in Guadalajara (2017). Cowie was
 visiting lecturer at the Indian Institute of Technology, Palakkad, Kerala, and Ota was invited
 lecturer at the Summer School in Linguistics, Kroměříž, Czechia (2019). Susam-Saraeva has
 been Bank of Montreal Visiting Scholar in Women’s Studies, based at The Institute of Feminist
 and Gender Studies, University of Ottawa, Canada (2018).


 4.2 Cultural-political partnerships, contributions to economy and society
 Our scholars understand that social change is best effected through long term engagement and
 partnership building, both locally and internationally. Beyond the contributions to society,
 industry and economy already mentioned, such as our interventions in language policy in
 Scotland and internationally, we are engaged in partnerships across all our areas of excellence.
 The Centre for Speech Technology Research has built consultancy partnerships with industry
 sponsors, including Samsung, Amazon and Huawei, and provides benefits to industry through its
 spinouts Quorate, Cereproc, and Speech Graphics. Cereproc specialises in creating characterful
 bespoke synthetic voices: for example, it has developed with Accenture the word’s first non-
 binary voice for digital assistants, thus increasing diversity and avoiding the problems of bias

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 that arise with gendered voices. The materials have been released to the Open Source
 community to encourage adoption. Cereproc has also worked with LEGO to provide a voice for
 its audio assembly instructions.
 Cultural-political collaborations in Decolonial Studies are a particular strength in our unit,
 reflecting the success of strategic appointments since 2014. Soler Montes leads the
 collaborative Political Past project, investigating the grammar used in Latin American political
 discourse, and has gained Santander funding to develop collaborative research in contemporary
 Latin American Studies. Working with Ribeiro, Gleghorn has used an AHRC Leadership
 Fellowship to work with indigenous filmmakers in Latin America (Afro-Lab: Challenges and
 Opportunities for Afro-Colombian Filmmaking, Medellín, 2017). Gleghorn and Ribeiro are Co-Is
 on the international collaborative project Visibilizing Afro Cultural Connections and Geopolitical
 Dynamics in Nicaragua, Colombia, San Andrés and Providencia. Coombes leads the
 ‘Diaspolinks’ network with the Universities of Caen, Paris 10, and South Australia, which
 promotes research into migrant communities and their cultural production. The network brings
 together specialists in literature from the Caribbean, Africa and South Asia. Frith has founded an
 international network on Memories of Slavery, supported through internal impact and KE funds.
 She is also Associate Director of the Scottish Centre for Diaspora Studies and convenes the
 web project Cartographie des mémoires de l’esclavage. Our size and diversity also allow us to
 create synergies between disciplines: Sinclair’s innovative research on Occitan exiles from the
 Albigensian Crusade (Carnegie Trust, £6.5k) has added historical perspective to our research on
 diasporic identities.
 In the area of multilingualism and language policy, McLeod has received Scottish Government
 funding for a working group on corpus planning in Gaelic. One of the principal activities of
 Sorace and Bilingualism Matters involves supporting their member branches’ political lobbying
 and advocacy for multilingual education and minority language support. Bodammer serves on
 the Scottish Parliament’s cross-party group on Germany, engaging regularly with ministers in
 order to promote the value of language learning and cultural exchange.
 The range of languages and expertise represented here means that our scholars have built deep
 partnerships with many cultural institutions in Edinburgh and beyond. We work with local
 cinemas on annual film festivals (French, Spanish, Iranian), with the National Library of Scotland
 on exhibitions (Angus Macintosh Centre, Section 1.3), and lead events at book festivals. We
 have close ties with Scottish museums, which draw on the expertise of colleagues in Celtic,
 Scottish, and Scandinavian Studies, and with organisations in Scotland’s dynamic cultural
 scene, such as the Scottish Storytelling Centre (West, Wood). West is also Chair of Traditional
 Arts and Culture Scotland, board member of The Gordon Duncan Memorial Trust and member
 of the Saltire Society national council.
 Our unit supports collaborations with cultural practitioners in which artistic creativity and
 research enrich and inspire each other. Schmid led the AHRC research network Film and the
 Other Arts: Intermediality, Medium Specificity, Creativity (£31k), bringing together academics
 and practitioners. Dawson initiated the first Scottish Queer International Film Festival in 2015
 and was on the jury for the MIX Copenhagen LGBTQ+ Film Festival in 2019. Matthes drew on
 internal KE funding to run a theatre workshop with the director Neco Çelik Bradley’s expertise in
 East German Studies, theatre and censorship has led to numerous invitations to speak,
 including consultancy for the Unicorn Theatre on Bertolt Brecht (2014) and for Stuart Nash, the
 Artistic Director of the National Performing Arts Studio of Kenya, on his production of Brecht’s
 play The Caucasian Chalk Circle for the Kenya National Theatre. The play premiered in Nairobi
 on 15 May 2018, ran for ten performances, and went on regional tour to eight towns and cities.
 The Kenyan Ministry of Education recommended the production to schools and paid for tickets




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 for over 1,000 students from underprivileged schools; for many it was their first experience of
 theatre, and they responded very enthusiastically.
 Davies’s work on Anselm Kiefer and Walther von der Vogelweide has been used in the design of
 an exhibition of Kiefer’s work at the Galerie Thaddeus Ropac, Salzburg (opened summer 2020).
 L.Watson’s Rebellious Truth has benefitted from successful funding applications from a range of
 external high impact sources: Celtic Connections Commission (£5k); Tasdagh (£700);
 Transmission Fund Authentic Artists Programme (£1.5k); Hope Scott Trust (£2k).


 4.3 Scholarly organisations and journal editorship
 Our scholars have served in editorial roles for a range of scholarly journals: The Edinburgh
 Journal of Gadda Studies (Pedriali), Forum for Modern Language Studies (Mackintosh,
 Matthes), Language & Communication and Historiographia Linguistica (Joseph), Siefar and New
 Historia (Genieys-Kirk), Journal of Linguistics (Heycock) German Monitor and The Brecht
 Yearbook (Bradley), Language Sciences (Trousdale), The Literary Encyclopedia, Hécula.
 Revista de la Fundación Castillo-Puche, and Andavira (Grohmann), Phonology (Iosad),
 Laboratory Phonology (J.Kirby), Translation Studies, Chronotopos (Susam-Saraeva), Plays
 International and Europe (Genieys-Kirk), Mai: Feminism and Visual Culture (Dawson). They
 have edited special issues of journals including Frontiers in Psychology and International Journal
 of Bilingualism (Chondrogianni), Glossa (J.Kirby, Hall-Lew and Honeybone), Language &
 Communication (Hall-Lew), Language Policy and Cahiers de l’Institut de Linguistique et des
 Sciences du Langage (Joseph), Languages, Society and Policy (Trousdale), Discourse, Context
 & Media and Internet Pragmatics (Zhao). They also edit book prestigious series for publishers
 such as Peter Lang (Schmid, European Connections series, Bodammer, Disability Media
 Culture), Multilingual Matters (Puzey), and Brill Approaches to Translation Studies (Israel). Our
 unit also hosts the Edinburgh German Yearbook (General Editors Davies and Matthes), one of
 the major Anglophone publications in the field of German Studies.
 Joseph is President of the Cercle Ferdinand de Saussure and serves on the Boards of the
 Infrastructuralism project at the University of Copenhagen and of the Société d’Histoire et
 d’Épistémologie des Sciences du Langage (Paris). K.Smith is Chair-Elect of the Cognitive
 Science Society. Heycock is President of the Linguistics Association of Great Britain, Schmid is
 President of the Association of University Professors and Heads of French, and Davies is Vice
 President of the Association for German Studies, Great Britain and Ireland (AGS). Matthes was
 elected conference secretary for the AGS as ECR in 2013, serving until 2019. Susam-Saraeva
 has been Co-Vice President of the International Association for Translation and Intercultural
 Studies (IATIS, 2010-15), Chair of ARTIS (Advancing Research in Translation and Interpreting
 Studies, since 2016) and Academic Director of the ARTIS International Research School (a joint
 initiative of ARTIS and the Baker Centre for Translation and Intercultural Studies at Shanghai
 JiaoTong University) since 2018. Dayan is on the board of the International Association for Word
 and Music Studies, Genieys-Kirk sits on The Center for The New Historia Scholars Council, and
 Perkins on the board of the British Association for Japanese Studies.


 4.4 Awards, media appearances and contributions to public debate
 The excellence of our research and creative practice has been recognised through a series of
 prizes and honours, including Heycock and Sorace becoming Fellows of the British Academy,
 Schmid becoming Chevalier dans l’ordre des palmes académiques and Grohmann becoming
 Académico correspondiente extranjero, Real Academia Espanola. L.Watson was MB Alba Scots
 Singer of the Year in 2016. Hämeen-Anttila won the 27th World Award for the Book of the Year in


                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Iranian Studies, 2017, and Dayan was awarded the R. Gapper book prize for his The Music of
 Dada: A Lesson in Intermediality for our Times. Pedriali organises the regular Edinburgh Gadda
 Prize for research in contemporary Italian Studies; the 2019 prize was awarded at the public
 event Speaking in Cultures at the Scottish Parliament, with Pulitzer Prize winner Jhumpa Lahiri
 as keynote speaker.
 Many of our scholars have developed significant media profiles, contributing their expertise to
 debates on urgent issues from an internationalist perspective. An extensive range of Media and
 Communications training courses is offered via the Institute for Academic Development, and
 each School employs a Media and Publicity Officer who provides guidance and opportunities for
 developing a public profile.
 We are particularly proud of the role of ECRs and postdoctoral researchers (Culbertson,
 Dawson, Deane-Cox, Puzey, Ribeiro, Soler Montes) in raising the profile of our research and
 contributing to a research culture that sees communications and media strategy as a central
 feature of research, rather than as an afterthought. Media appearances by our scholars reflect
 the focus of our research expertise in the areas of history and memory controversies,
 campaigning for minority and language rights, commentaries on contemporary politics from the
 perspective of linguistic and cultural expertise, and literary and cultural exchanges.
 We have a significant pool of expertise on the legacy of experiences of violence, dispossession,
 slavery, and genocide, and drawing on this, Grohmann, Soler Montes, and Saval have
 participated in media controversies concerning the legacy of Francoism in Spain, and Frith has
 commented regularly on the political debates surrounding slavery reparations. Dawson has built
 a significant media profile in campaigning on LGBTQ+ issues and on the issue of working-class
 creativity and access to cultural capital. Gafaranga is an authoritative voice on multilingual
 education in Rwanda as well as in African diasporic communities in the UK.
 McLeod, Dunbar, and Lamb have a long record of media interventions in debates about the
 standing of Gaelic in the Scottish political and educational system, while Matsumoto-Sturt, Soler
 Montes, Götzkes and Puzey have campaigned for the improved teaching of foreign languages in
 Scotland.
 Pullum has for many years been a leading presence in linguistics in the media and online
 through his blogs for The Chronicle for Higher Education, Language Log, and Lingua Franca,
 where he has a very wide following (hits well into six figures) for his regular interventions into
 matters of linguistic prescriptivism.
 Hämeen-Anttila, Perkins, Ribeiro, A.Smith, and Ryazanova-Clarke, and Hinde (PhD student),
 Macniven, Puzey and Thomsen regularly comment in the media on the politics of the Middle
 East, China, Japan, Cuba, Russia, and the Nordic countries, respectively. Our translators and
 translation scholars (Bosseaux, Davies, Deane-Cox, Mackintosh, Macintyre Susam-Saraeva)
 regularly discuss their work, and have raised the public profile of translation and translation
 research at Edinburgh since 2014.




                                                                                               Page 23
