Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 5 – Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Our overarching aim is to facilitate transformative research in the biological sciences and
maximise its impact. During the current REF period we have developed and expanded the research
and impact strategies articulated in REF2014 to more effectively deliver on our objectives. We have
made substantial new investments in research infrastructure and staff, and improved support for
staff and students, underpinned by our pursuit of equality and diversity. We have strengthened our
commitment to public engagement in research, to open and reproducible research, and to the
highest standards of research integrity. Transformative research often requires interdisciplinary
approaches and our research strategy aims to provide an outstanding environment for such
collaborations.

Major achievements in this REF period:
   • Recruited 55 of our current ECRs and 39 more experienced researchers since 2013/14, to
       ensure the sustainability of our research base.
   • Increased average annual grant income from research council, charities, EU government and
       UK industry categories by 16%, 40%, 55% and 300%, respectively, compared to the previous
       REF period.
   • Planned and secured >£320M of investment to build three major new centres that will form
       hubs for new interdisciplinary research themes.
   • Invested >£10M in research facilities to provide access to advanced technologies and to
       facilitate academic and commercial collaborations and partnerships.
   • Awarded or renewed funding for nine major Doctoral Training Programmes to train the next
       generation of biological researchers.
   • Increased commercial activity: 438 patent applications, 354 licensing/options deals, 204
       Consultancy agreements and 12 companies (that collectively raised >£175M in investment
       and currently employ ~220 people).
   • Re-invested the University’s share of profits from the sale of UOA5 spin-outs Natural Motion
       and Oxitec (sold for $658M) in new research initiatives and graduate studentships.
   • Provided the academic leadership for the University’s successful bid for a devolved ‘Enriching
       Engagement Centre’ from Wellcome, to promote public engagement with research.


1.1 Structure and context
Coordination across UOA5 is provided by the Medical Sciences Division (MSD), which links UOA5
to the clinical departments returned in UOAs1, 2 and 4, and from the Mathematical, Physical and
Life Sciences Division (MPLS), which links UOA5 to the physical, mathematical, computational
and engineering science Departments aligned with UOAs 7-12 (Figure 1). Strategic leadership and
administrative responsibilities within UOA5 are devolved to six Departments and the unit of
Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM). Our research is broadly organised into nine Thematic
Research Groups (Figure 1) that reflect core areas of research strength and that include Centres
and Institutes that are physically located within or adjacent to their host Departments. By design,
these Research Groups are inclusive, with many of our researchers active in more than one,
promoting collaboration and ensuring cross-disciplinary synergy. This environment supports
flexible and sustainable research, and our aim is that while these Research Groups will evolve over
time, we maintain their strategic focus and the critical mass required to attract new talent and external
grant income.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This structure creates a stimulating environment that allows us to respond effectively to emerging
opportunities and challenges. There is perhaps no better illustration of this than in our contributions
to Oxford’s research response to the COVID-19 pandemic (Section 4.8).


Figure 1: Contributions to the Unit’s multidisciplinary Research Groups (right)
from Departments in two Divisions and in GLAM (left). Breadth of ribbons
denotes number of submitted researchers (headcount) by primary group, except for
other UOAs where they show relationships only.




1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
The University of Oxford Strategic Plan outlines our institutional mission, objectives and values
(see Institutional-level Environment Statement [REF5a, hereafter IES]. In UOA5, a particular
emphasis in our REF2014 submission was to increase inter-Departmental cooperation and
collaboration to better deliver on our strategic objectives, and we have made great progress in the
current REF period. This is evidenced by the unprecedented level of investment in joint building
infrastructure (Section 3.1) and joint research facilities (Section 3.2) and by the successful renewal
or creation of several cross-departmental Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs, Section 2.1.4).
Most notably, during the current REF period UOA5 Departments worked closely together, and with
other UOAs, to plan three major new research initiatives and to secure capital investments for new
buildings to house them:
• the Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin Institute (DCHI; £92M, 13,000m2 building opening in 2021)
• the Institute of Developmental and Regenerative Medicine (IDRM, £32M, 5,900m2, opening
    in 2021)
• the Life and Mind Building (LaMB, £202M, 25,000m2, opening in 2024).

This strategy of cooperation has supported transformative research in areas such as bacterial and
viral epidemiology and pathogenesis, and fundamental structural, molecular, cell and developmental
biology, and our new buildings will provide exciting opportunities for future strategic growth. For
example, to emphasise fundamental biological principles, and also the ‘whole biology’ nature of

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
global challenges in areas such as biodiversity, environmental sustainability, food security and anti-
microbial resistance, the Departments of Plant Sciences and Zoology will merge in 2022 to form a
unified Department of Biology, and will be housed in the LaMB. The co-location of the Department
of Experimental Psychology (UOA4) in the LaMB will generate a unique combination of expertise
and the opportunity to focus on the interface between Biology and Human Behaviour in areas such
as such as bio-inspired engineering (‘hacking nature’), living with biodiversity, and conflict resolution.
The DCHI will spark new interdisciplinary collaborations with researchers from Chemistry (UOA8)
and Physics (UOA9) to address fundamental molecular mechanisms at the interface between the
physical and life sciences, and thereby also with Computational Science (UOA11) and Engineering
(UOA12). The IDRM will enhance our translational research capacity (another major goal articulated
in our REF2014 submission), bringing together researchers from UOA5 and UOA1 to focus on
interdisciplinary approaches to heart, brain and immune system development and pathology.

The LaMB and DCHI sites are located in the heart of the biological and physical sciences area in
central Oxford, while the IDRM is located on the Old Road Campus site – ideally situated to promote
interactions with researchers and clinicians at the Churchill and JR Hospital sites and at several
research Institutes in UOAs 1, 2 and 4 (Figure 2). The opening of the Rosalind Franklin Institute
(RFI) building on the Harwell Research Campus in 2021 [IES 2.5] will provide further opportunities
for interdisciplinary collaborations; its focus on technology development in the life sciences
synergises with our investments in bioimaging, Cryo-EM and Omics technologies (Section 3.3).



Figure 2: Schematic illustration of the cluster of UOA5 activity
in central Oxford, links to other discipline groups and
facilities, and the new institutes deepening those
connections. (IDRM denotes the Institute of Developmental and
Regenerative Medicine, LaMB the Life and Mind Building, and
DCHI the Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin Institute).




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During the current REF period, the ten strategic aims set out in our REF2014 submission have been
developed and rationalised into six strategic aims for REF2021 that are necessary to fulfil our
overall mission. These are:

Aim 1: Invest in infrastructure to support transformative research
Aim 2: Support a diverse and talented pool of staff
Aim 3: Train the next generation of biological scientists
Aim 4: Maximise the commercial impact of our research
Aim 5: Maximise our Impact on Public Policy
Aim 6: Promote public engagement with research (PER)

These aims reflect our response to the University’s Strategic Plan and the University’s objectives in
the context of UOA5. Future research and impact strategy are discussed in more detail in Sections
1.4 and 1.5, but first we describe these aims and provide examples of some of our major
achievements in the current REF period. We refer where appropriate to our impact case studies
(ICS) in REF3 and institutional environment statement (IES) in REF5a.

Aim 1: Invest in infrastructure to support transformative research
World-class research requires world-class infrastructure, and we strive to ensure that our facilities
are modern, well-equipped, and designed to maximise interdisciplinary interactions.
• Developed communal research facilities in CryoEM, Advanced BioImaging, Molecular
    Biophysics, Stem Cell Research and Genome Editing, with over £10M total funding (Section 3.3).
    These facilities are run by expert core staff, and they allow our researchers easy access to
    advanced technologies. They also act as hubs to promote collaborations and partnerships locally
    and internationally (Section 4.1).
• New buildings. Strategic planning to meet our evolving needs led to the scoping, refinement
    and sustainable business cases for the LaMB, DCHI and IDRM buildings, which together will
    provide over 43,000m2 of research space. The research mission of each benefitted from an
    intensive collaborative effort to identify key research themes and leadership, and ultimately
    enabled capital investment being committed. The size and clarity of these strategic endeavours
    will strengthen interdisciplinary research over the next REF period.
• A new postgraduate college to support interdisciplinary training. Extensive cross-
    Departmental and cross-Divisional collaboration led to the establishment of Reuben College
    [IES-3.3], sited in the heart of the UOA’s Central Oxford location. This is Oxford’s first post-
    graduate College dedicated to STEM subjects, and UOA5 researchers McKeating and Milner-
    Gulland were among the first Fellows to be appointed in 2019. This science-focused collegiate
    environment will promote interactions between UOA5 Fellows and students and researchers
    from other STEM subjects, stimulating the exchange of expertise and ideas across disciplines.

Aim 2: Support a diverse and talented pool of staff
We aim to nurture a diverse mix of outstanding early-, mid- and senior-career scientists working
across a broad range of disciplines. Creating an environment where our staff are supported in their
personal and professional development is not just a responsibility, but is essential if we want to
achieve our goals. More detail is given in Section 2.2.
• Increased leadership, creating eight new Professorial posts to recruit and/or retain senior
   leadership in Immunology, Genomics, Cell Biology and Metabolism, Evolutionary Microbiology,
   Epidemiology and Biodiversity.
• Appointed 28 other research faculty to help sustain and develop our nine major Research
   Groups (Section 1.3).
• Strengthened career support for staff, adopting several new practices such as inductions for
   all new staff and a framework for annual personal development reviews. We also focussed on
   improving communication and access to information. Approximately 88% of UOA5 staff said
   they were satisfied in their job in our most recent internal surveys.
• Targeted support for junior researchers, including mentors, postdoc associations and in
   excess of £500k seed funding to help develop ideas and independent projects.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Increasing staff diversity. In REF2014 we had started on our path to advance equality and
    diversity, but we now incorporate this as a core strategic goal. We have adopted ambitious action
    plans, made training in unconscious bias compulsory for all staff and strengthened our ‘family
    friendly’ provision. As one example of outcomes, the proportion of researchers self-reporting as
    BAME increased from 11.6% in 2013 to 15.1% in 2020.

Aim 3: Train the next generation of biological scientists
We aim to support the UK research pipeline by training Post-Graduate Research (PGR) students,
and a major goal in our REF2014 submission was to increase student numbers. Despite several
significant UOA5 funding agencies reducing support for studentship programmes, we increased the
number of students trained in UOA5 to an average of ~126 students/year, compared to ~110/year
in the previous REF period. Section 2.2 gives details.
• Renewed or initiated several Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs). UOA5 researchers
     were involved in successful renewal bids for five existing DTPs and four successful bids for new
     DTPs (Table 1, Section 2.2), bringing in an average of ~£15M/yr in studentship funding during
     the current REF period.
• Increased internal funding for PGR students. Some of the profits from the sale of two UOA5
     spin-outs (Natural Motion and Oxitec) were used to endow in perpetuity four PGR scholarships
     per year in UOA5. Approximately 18% of students starting in any MSD programme in 2016-2019
     received internal funding. In early 2020, the University committed to increase internal Clarendon
     Scholarship funding to £8.5M/yr, (an increase of £1M/yr) to help compensate for the reduction in
     studentship programmes from several funders.
• Introduced additional support mechanisms for PGR students. Supporting student health
     and well-being is increasingly recognised as an essential part of our mission and we have
     supported several new initiatives (e.g. compulsory training in student mental health issues for all
     PGR student supervisors).

Aim 4: Maximise the commercial impact of our research
We encourage our researchers to maximise the commercial impact of their work and to ensure they
are properly supported to do so. Our Impact Case Studies (ICSs) provide examples of how
fundamental research in UOA5 has been translated into patents (02MIGLUSTAT, 20FLU), licences
(07BRAHMS), technologies, drugs and spin-out companies (10OXBIODYN, 11OXBIOMED,
12OXITEC) that are having a real-world impact in the pharmaceutical industry and in public health
(18EPIDEM). The economic impact of several spin-out companies formed in the current REF period
is highlighted in Section 4.2.1.
• Allowed researchers time to pursue commercial activities: our researchers can take up
    external appointments for up to 30 days/yr without loss of salary. In early 2020 the University
    introduced a scheme to increase flexibility further [IES 3.1], and a UOA5 researcher has already
    taken up this opportunity to devote more time to their company.
• Oxford University Innovation (OUI): we encourage engagement with OUI, the University’s
    technology transfer company [IES 2.1], for example by organising monthly “drop-in” sessions in
    all UOA5 Departments. This has contributed to an increase in our commercial activity: during the
    current REF period we generated on average 64 new IP disclosures and 59 national patent filings
    per year, compared to 49 and 30, respectively, in the previous REF period. Currently 155 UOA5
    staff are active in some form of commercial consultancy, 76 of whom first became active during
    the current REF period. UOA5 researchers spun-out twelve companies, raising >£175M in capital
    investment and employing >220 people (Section 4.2.1).
• Oxford Sciences Innovation (OSI) [IES 2.1]: UOA5 researchers have taken great advantage
    of this unprecedented commercial investment fund. For example, Lab282, a partnership between
    OSI and Evotec, funded nine UOA5 projects (total of ~£2M) to investigate potential new drug
    targets and OSI invested over £38M in UOA5 spin-outs (Section 4.2.1).
• Established a new Translational Research Office (TRO): Established in 2019, the Medical
    Sciences Division’s TRO ensures researchers have access to expertise from both the academic,
    clinical and commercial sectors to enrich research programmes and maximise their potential for
    clinical uptake and commercialisation (Section 1.5).


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Training the next generation of entrepreneurs. Nuttall (UOA5) founded the All Innovate
    competition at the Oxford Foundry [IES-2.2], in which student teams pitch ideas (150 entered in
    2019/20) to judges from OSI, The Prince’s Trust and the UK Business Angels Association. The
    University holds annual Impact Awards in Enterprise and Innovation and in 2019 three UOA5
    PhD students won a $50,000 collaboration with Arctoris in the International Cancer BioTarget
    competition.
•   The BioEscalator opened in 2019 [IES-2.2] to provide space and tailored support for high growth
    start-ups, and UOA5 spin-outs MoA Technology and Pepgen benefit from being located there.
    The Bioescalator is already full, and its success has led to plans for BioEscalator II (Section 1.5).

Aim 5: Maximise our impact on public policy
Much of our research is relevant to public policy, and the expertise of our researchers means that
they are often in a position of influence. Our ICSs 07BRAHMS, 08FORESTS, 13SEABIRDS,
14LIONS, 15LAND and 16SAIGAS illustrate how fundamental research in UOA5 is leading to
changes in public policy in areas such as climate change and the protection of vulnerable plant and
animal species.
• Flexibility to encourage policy impact. We allow our researchers to take time off from their
   normal duties, or to take formal secondments, to sit on panels and committees that advise
   Governments, NGOs or corporations on various aspects of public policy. Some prominent
   examples are highlighted in Section 4.3.2.
• Balanced workloads to recognise policy work. We recognise the importance of policy work
   and ensure that all researchers get credit for their efforts in this area when calculating
   administrative loads.
• Encouraged new routes to policy impact. We encourage our researchers to think innovatively
   about ways to maximise the impact of their work and we give them the freedom, often coupled
   with financial and administrative support, to explore their ideas. Some illustrative examples are
   highlighted in Section 4.3.3.
• Supporting partnerships. We benefit from the University’s Oxford Policy Engagement Network
   (OPEN), formed in 2018, which provides support for our staff to engage with local, national and
   international policymakers [IES 2.3]. One of the OPEN Fellows (Kuiper) partnered with the
   national parks authority in Zimbabwe to tackle elephant poaching through data-driven policy
   development for protected areas.

Aim 6: Promote public engagement with research (PER)
We aim to engage with a broad public, to effectively explain what we do and why we do it, and also
to better understand their priorities and concerns. More details are given in Section 4.4.
• Five UOA5 Departments now have an academic or professional lead in PER, ensuring local
    support for PER activities; these are also now supported by Divisional PER leads.
• UOA5 researcher Prof Alison Woollard was appointed as Oxford’s first Academic Champion
    for PER [IES 2.2], and in 2019 she led the University’s successful bid to Wellcome to become a
    devolved Enriching Engagement Centre for Public Engagement (~£1.25M); two UOA5
    researchers (Maiden and Srinivas) have already received funding.
• We partner with the University’s Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM) to expand our
    engagement. Our Bacterial World and First Animals exhibitions, for example, each attracted
    >160,000 visitors at the Museum of Natural History.
• We support Citizen Science as a way to involve the public in our research. For example, more
    than a million people have taken part in Penguin Watch (Hart) through the University’s
    Zooniverse programme (one of the world’s leading citizen science platforms), resulting in real
    impact on public policy (ICS-13SEABIRDS).
• We encourage our researchers to use digital media to reach audiences that do not normally
    engage with academia. For example, UOA5 researchers participated in 15 Facebook Live
    events, generating >175,000 views.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 Research Objectives and Achievements
In this section we briefly outline the broad research aims and objectives of our nine Research
Groups, which have evolved from the ten Research Themes described in our REF2014 submission.
We provide examples of how some of the strategic aims described above (such as investing in staff
and infrastructure) have guided their development during the current REF period, and will do so into
the future. The number (headcount) of submitted Researchers aligned primarily with each Group
gives an indication of their size (noting that several researchers are active in more than one Group).
Rather than provide an extensive description of research highlights associated with each Group (all
represented in our REF2 submission), we briefly outline some of the research of our newly-hired
staff to illustrate how their recruitment has strengthened each Group.

Group 1: Structural Biology, Biophysics and Computational Biochemistry
This Group (evolved from the REF2014 Biophysics and Structural Biology Theme) combines
structural biology, biochemistry and cell biology in a quantitative and predictive fashion to explain
the fundamental mechanisms of cell biological, physiological and disease processes (30
Researchers). We established the COSMIC cryo-EM Facility, raising £4.2M for staff and
equipment, and facilitating several large grant awards, recruitments (in this and other Groups) and
discoveries. We strengthened interdisciplinary interactions between computational and experimental
biochemists, increasing our profile in this area and underpinning two large Wellcome
Strategic/Collaborative awards to study membrane dynamics.
Staff Recruitment: Bublitz to tenured position to strengthen basic organelle biology (Mol. Cell,
2016), and Shammas and Elliot on Fellowships to support fundamental biochemistry of protein
function (Cell, 2015; PNAS, 2017) and ubiquitination (Cell, 2016; Nature, 2016). Seiradake
(recruited on Fellowship in last REF period) won tenured position, strengthening structural
approaches to brain development and translational links to UOA1 (Cell, 2020).

Group 2: Cell and Developmental Biology
This Group seeks to understand how cells work, how they cooperate to build multicellular plants and
animals, and how these processes are perturbed in disease (63 Researchers). This Group led the
renewal of the Wellcome Micron Advanced Bioimaging Strategic Award (£4.8M, with an
additional £1.2M from the University), with co-PIs in Clinical Medicine (UOA1), Chemistry (UOA8),
Physics (UOA9) and Engineering (UOA12). Micron helped facilitate several major grants, staff
recruitments and research discoveries.
Staff Recruitment: New appointments to tenured positions strengthen research in organelle
biology: Carvalho (ER, Cell, 2014, Mol. Cell, 2020), Jansen (Centromere, Science, 2015, Mol. Cell,
2017), Gergely (RNA and centrosomes, Science, 2017) and Kornmann (mitochondria and ER, JCB,
2017). Grueneberg and Ahel (recruited on Fellowships in previous REF period) won tenured
positions, strengthening cell cycle (JCB, 2014, 2019) and DNA damage (Nature, 2020, Mol. Cell,
2018) research, respectively. Nott, Gibbs-Seymour, Vieira, Stone and Tyser recruited on
Fellowships to increase core Group strength.

Group 3: Genes, Genetics and Genomics
This Group aims to understand the fundamental nature of the gene and how the genome is structured
and regulated in different contexts (45 Researchers). We invested c.£400k to establish a Next
Generation sequencing and genomics Facility, partnering with the Centre for Computational Biology
(UOA1). We also hosted several major interdisciplinary collaborative projects, such as the
international C4 rice project (Langdale) to transform rice productivity (Gates Foundation: £16M over
two phases [£5.2M to Oxford]).
Staff Recruitment: Staff recruited on Fellowships in the previous REF period won tenured positions
to strengthen Genomics (Klose, [Cell, 2014; Mol. Cell, 2019], Gullerova [JCB, 2017] and Kelly
[Curr. Biol., 2016, 2018]) or renewed Fellowships to strengthen research in DNA repair (Cohn [Mol.
Cell, 2015]), non-coding RNA (Vasilieva, [Genes & Dev., 2014]) and chromosome structure
(Akiyoshi, [Cell, 2014; Nature, 2015]). Established new Chair of Genetics and Genomics.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Group 4: Physiology and Metabolism
This Group focuses on cellular and molecular aspects of oxygen and metabolic signalling to enable
target discovery (36 Researchers), and Oxford is currently ranked #1 in World QS rankings for
Physiology. We helped to establish and maintain Oxford as a major centre for cardiac research
by contributing to the successful renewal bids for the BHF Centre of Research Excellence (£6M) and
the BHF Centre of Regenerative Medicine (£2.5M), funding that underpins our plans for the IDRM.
We supported major interdisciplinary collaborative projects, with Ashcroft leading the
Integrative Physiology Initiative in Ion Channels and Disease (OXION) bid (Wellcome, £6M)
(Cambridge, London and Harwell) and Paterson awarded a collaborative grant in cardiac research
(NIH, $8.6M) (UCLA, Harvard, CalTech, Oregon and Nebraska).
Staff Recruitment: The recruitment of Domingos, Klemm and Licausi to tenured posts expanded
translational research capacity—driving discoveries linking diabetes to neuro- and cardiovascular-
research (Cell, 2015; Nat. Med., 2017)—and extending our strength in oxygen metabolism to plant
systems (Nature, 2019; Science, 2019). Recruitment of de Val, Heather and Smart on Fellowships,
and Herring and Lakhal-Littleton to tenure-track positions, increased strength in cardiac
metabolism (PNAS, 2015, 2019; J. Clin. Invest., 2019) and in vascular developmental biology and
regenerative medicine (Nature Comms, 2019). Established new Krebs Chair in Physiological
Metabolism.

Group 5: Neuroscience and Behaviour
This Group aims to understand the evolution, development and control of behaviour, analysing how
neuronal architecture encodes behaviour and impacts disease, and how organismal biology governs
behaviour at individual- and population-levels (40 Researchers). Core funding for the Centre for
Neural Circuits and Behaviour (CNCB) was renewed (Wellcome, £3.6M), and our £3.5M investment
in facilities at Wytham Field Station brings new capacity to analyse flight behaviour and control,
insect-plant interactions, and behavioural plasticity.
Staff Recruitment: Wellcome PRFs awarded to Waddell and King, supporting seminal work in flies
(Nature, 2017; Cell, 2018) and non-primate mammals (eLife, 2019, 2020). Vogels and Packer
recruited on Fellowships to increase core strength in Drosophila (Nat. Neurosci., 2018) and
optogenetics (Nat. Methods, 2014).

Group 6: Infection, Immunity and Epidemiology
This group studies infection from molecular and cellular mechanism to global studies of
epidemiology, integrating fundamental research with clinical research and public health policy (31
Researchers). This Group provided important insights into COVID-19 epidemiology (generating
several high-profile publications in Science, Nature, and Cell), with several Group members
(McLean, Dye, Pybus) advising the UK and Chinese Governments and WHO (Section 4.3.2). Our
contributions to the University’s COVID-19 response are discussed in more detail in Section 4.8. We
established new partnerships with the Serum Institute of India to develop meningitis vaccines (Tang)
and with MedImmune and Janssen to develop a nasal anti-flu vaccine for children (Fodor) [ICS
20FLU].
Staff Recruitment: Recruited Sanyal to tenured position and Bharat on Fellowship to strengthen
basic and applied viral and bacterial research (Nature, 2015; Cell Host and Microbe, 2018; Cell,
2019). Dushek renewed Fellowship and won tenured position, strengthening mathematical
modelling in immunology (PNAS, 2016, 2019). Established new Barclay-Williams Chair in
Molecular Immunology.

Group 7: Pharmacology and Drug Discovery
This Group takes an integrative approach to chemical biology, developing new drugs for research
and clinical applications, and Oxford is currently ranked #1 in the QS World Subject Rankings in
Pharmacology (12 Researchers). We successfully sought to increase funding from Pharma, e.g. a
new £1M research award from Pfizer (Platt) in 2020 to validate novel targets for Parkinson’s
Disease. Our investment in facilities and drug-discovery platforms allowed our researchers to
support the COVID-19-Moonshot project, initiated by the Structural Genomics Consortium in Oxford
and involving >400 scientists worldwide to rapidly generate and test potential anti-COVID-19
therapeutics (Section 4.8).

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff Recruitment: The appointment of Potter to a tenured position and Lanyon-Hogg, Timm and
Viney to Fellowships significantly increased core strength in medicinal chemistry (J.Med.Chem.,
2017; Nat. Chem., 2019). The expansion of Russell’s (UOA8) base in UOA5 increased depth in
chemical biology and strengthened collaborations with Chemistry.

Group 8: Evolutionary Biology
This Group takes an integrated approach to understanding organismal diversity from genomes to
populations, and exploits the evolutionary insight to design novel technology, inform disease control
and address global problems (26 Researchers). The merger of the Departments of Plant Sciences
and Zoology in 2022 will strengthen interactions between our plant, microbial and animal
evolutionary biologists. This will be supported in the next REF period by a Centre for antimicrobial
resistance research, a collaboration with Chemistry (UOA8) that will seek to deliver evolutionarily-
proofed solutions to antimicrobial resistance in human health & agriculture.
Staff Recruitment: Strengthened research in evolutionary epidemiology & microbiology with
tenured posts for Dye (epidemiology and evolution of pandemics [NEJM, 2014; Science, 2020]),
Foster (ecology of the microbiome [Science, 2015, Nature, 2016]), Richards (comparative
genomics [Nat. Micro., 2019]), and Verd (evolution of gene networks [PLoS Biology, 2018]).

Group 9: Ecology, Biodiversity and Conservation
This Group (evolved from the REF2014 Ecology and Conservation Theme) takes an integrated
approach to understanding diversity and interactions among species from microbial to global
communities (40 Researchers). We invested £3.5M in research facilities at Wytham Field Station
and Wytham Woods. These woods are one of the most valuable research woodlands in the world,
offering long-term ecological data gathered over many decades. This investment allowed
improvements in molecular, physiological and behavioural labs, constant environment rooms,
freshwater and saltwater aquaria, field laboratories and accommodation for visiting researchers.
Staff Recruitment: Enhanced research strength in global ecosystems and ecology with tenured
academic posts for Davis (Nat. Food, 2020), Jeffers (J. Ecology, 2015), Knowles (ISME Journal,
2015), Willis (Nature, 2016; PNAS, 2020) and Wright (Nature, 2015; Curr. Biol., 2018).


1.4 Future Research Strategy
As we move into the next REF period we will continue to develop the aims articulated in Section 1.2.
within the context of the University’s evolving Strategic Plan. Here, we focus on some specific future
challenges and opportunities and the ways we plan to address them.
    • Maximise the potential of our new buildings. While the current REF period has seen
        unprecedented investment in new buildings, we need to populate these buildings with the
        right mix of staff and projects to ensure that their impact is greater than the sum of their parts.
        The close cross-Departmental cooperation developed during the planning of these projects
        will continue, and robust and transparent mechanisms (e.g. scientific advisory boards) are
        evolving to guide future strategy.
    • Recruit senior leadership. We will be appointing >10 Professorial posts in the next 2-3yrs
        due to retirements. Replacing this many senior staff will require strategic thought, but
        provides opportunities to refresh our leadership and bring in expertise. We will focus on areas
        that fit with our evolving strengths and investments and that are likely to see increased
        funding opportunities. We will coordinate appointments to maximise synergy across UOA5,
        and our new research buildings provide excellent research space and facilities, which will
        help to attract new faculty.
    • Respond to changes to our core research funding. We have identified two important
        changes that are likely to impact the way our research is funded: (1) Brexit; (2) The new
        Wellcome funding strategy focused on infectious disease, mental health and global warming.
        We will mitigate potential risks by maximising our opportunities to attract funding from existing
        major sources (Section 3.1), and by diversifying our sources (e.g. by increasing funding from
        industry and philanthropy). As just one example, we see great potential for growing our
        funding in infectious diseases, which fits well with Wellcome’s new priorities and builds on
        existing strengths and initiatives (e.g. antimicrobial resistance research (Section 1.3, Groups

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       6 and 8). We also see potential to forge new partnerships in this area through the Oxford
       Martin School programmes in Pandemic Genomics and Antimicrobial Resistance [IES 2.6],
       as well as through the University’s antimicrobial resistance monitoring network in Vietnam
       [IES 2.1]. A new Institute for Pandemic Preparedness in Oxford is already in planning stage,
       led by colleagues in UOA1.
   •   Improve sustainability of research funding. A problem that has become more acute over
       the current REF period is that charity-funded grants attract decreasing levels of Research
       England charity QR support. Thus, as our success in obtaining these prestigious grants has
       increased, so has the financial challenge of supporting them. We will continue to coordinate
       with other parties to address this challenge, to diversify our funding sources, and to ensure
       costs of research are recovered more sustainably.
   •   Increase equality and diversity. Current strategies to address these issues are set out in
       Section 2.3, but recent public debate, and our internal reflections, have highlighted how much
       remains to be done to promote and support scientists from under-represented minorities. We
       are committed to driving genuine change in the next REF period.

1.5 Future Impact Strategy
Our aim to support the most important and innovative research irrespective of any immediate
commercial benefit is enshrined in the University’s Strategic Plan. As set out in Aim 4 (Section 1.2),
however, we actively encourage our staff to explore the potential commercial impact of their work
and we believe there is scope for significant expansion of these activities. We will enhance our
capability to partner with external investors and companies, providing easier access to commercial
financing and expert advice. Here we highlight our current provision and some specific future plans.
    • The Business Partnerships Office support the diversification of research income by
        securing research partnerships and funded projects with large and small businesses and
        securing access to ‘in-kind’ research resources, proprietary technologies and tools. The office
        also delivers a range of academic-industry knowledge exchange, innovation training and
        business networking opportunities, facilitates the presence of visiting industry fellows and
        explores opportunities for co-localisation of companies on campus.
    • To maximise the translation of our world-class discovery science portfolio we established a
        Translational Research Office in 2019 (£200k/year, 3.5 FTE). It provides support to early
        stage translational projects, creating a pipeline of opportunity for investment and commercial
        uptake. The TRO ensures researchers have access to expertise from both the academic,
        clinical and commercial sectors to enrich research programmes and maximise their potential
        for clinical uptake and commercialisation. 18 projects in UOA5 have already received support
        from the TRO.
    • Developing a better understanding of intellectual property. An understanding of IP, and
        how it enables commercialisation, is essential if our researchers are to identify and exploit
        commercial opportunities. Through targeted workshops and seminars we will encourage our
        researchers to take greater advantage of the expertise available in our Research Services,
        Business Partnerships and Translational Research teams so that commercialisation of
        research follows more smoothly.
    • Nurturing new spin-outs. As the BioEscalator building is already full, the University plans
        for an Oxford Innovation District adjacent to the Churchill Hospital site that will house
        BioEscalator II. Our recent spin-outs are described in Section 4.3.1.
    • Supporting our companies as they grow. Several of our more established spin-outs (e.g.
        Oxitec and Oxford BioMedica, [ICSs 12OXITEC, 11OXBIOMED]) are now located on science
        parks in Oxfordshire. This enables us to maintain close scientific connections, which benefit
        both the company and our academic environment. The University’s close involvement in
        OxLEP [IES-2.5] will help ensure that there is sufficient local capacity to support our
        successful start-ups as they mature and expand.
    • Supporting diversification of entrepreneurs. Internal data reveals that women and BAME
        staff are under-represented in our commercial activity, so we are not making the most of all
        our talent. We will address this by engaging with underrepresented staff to better understand
        the barriers they face, and by addressing this imbalance in our internal support mechanisms
        (for example, committees that award seed funding).

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.6 Openness and integrity in research
1.6.1 Facilitating an open research environment
We aim to ensure that our research is made freely available to as wide an audience as possible and
we have taken several measures to support this goal in the current REF period. We support all Open
Access expectations from relevant funding agencies, encouraging and facilitating our staff to
make their work OA wherever it is published.
   • We have made increasing use of our repository, the Oxford Research Archive [ORA; IES-
      2.4], to make our doctoral theses, published papers and datasets freely available to all. 92%
      of papers published during 2019 were OA by some route, including 69% via deposit to ORA.
      78 datasets were also deposited.
   • UOA5 supports the University’s ‘Open Access Week’, by hosting and encouraging
      attendance at ‘townhall’ meetings where experts discuss the latest OA issues (recent topics
      includes Plan S and cOAlition S, promoting a research culture that understands and
      embraces OA.
   • Four of our faculty serve as Reviewing Editors and/or Editorial Board Members for eLife, and
      seven as Section Editors or Editorial Board Members at various PLoS journals, all publishers
      that are major promoters of the OA publishing movement.
   • Working with volunteers from the Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), the COVID
      Moonshot team (Zitzmann, UOA5) generated a website that makes all data on the efficacy
      of potential COVID-19 drugs in cell-based assays immediately open to the research
      community (sarscov2.assaytracker.net/, Section 4.8).

1.6.2 Ensuring research integrity
It is crucial that our research is conducted with integrity, and is seen to be so. The University supports
the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity [IES 2.7], and we have instigated several
practices and initiatives to support this goal during the current REF period.
      • All our students receive compulsory training in aspects of research integrity, including
         plagiarism, and ethics in laboratory practice and data publishing. These most often include
         small-group discussions where these issues can be explored informally and in depth. This
         policy was extended to all researchers in 2020.
      • We encourage our researchers to manage data in an open and transparent manner.
         For example, the Divisions together fund a LabArchives licence and support team to help
         labs move to electronic notebooks, and we hold workshops and seminars in UOA5 to
         encourage labs to do so. So far 491 researchers in UOA5 labs have adopted this technology
         (£22k pro-rata).
      • We provide our researchers with expert assistance to ensure our research complies with all
         appropriate ethical and legal obligations and standards. Advice is initially provided within
         Departments at an early stage in the research project cycle, and formal issues of ethical and
         legal compliance, especially at contract stage, are managed by experienced teams within the
         University’s Research Services unit [IES 4.1].

1.6.3 Reproducible research
Ensuring experimental reproducibility is an important consideration in the biological sciences, and
Reproducible Research Oxford (RROx) is the local node of the UK Reproducibility Network
(UKRN) tasked with coordinating our activities in this area [IES 2.4]. Two examples illustrate how
UOA5 researchers are already playing an important part in promoting experimental reproducibility:
   • UOA5 biochemists contributed to a successful application to the EPSRC to renew the
       Sustainable Approaches to Biomedical Science: Responsible and Reproducible
       Research (SABS:R3) DTP. This is a collaboration between the University and 22 partners
       (including AstraZeneca, GE Healthcare and Microsoft Research) that will train a cohort of
       researchers to apply robust computational methods to biomedical datasets. Having some of
       these students embedded in UOA5 research groups will promote more reproducible
       methodologies and better practice throughout the biological sciences.


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Biomedical laboratories routinely perform cell culture to produce a cellular environment that
       is precisely defined, and a fundamental variable is its pH. Pavel Swietach realised that
       reporting standards for pH are inadequate and often prone to artefacts that increase noise,
       compromise reproducibility and can lead to data misinterpretation. He therefore formulated
       evidence-based guidelines on how to set, manipulate and maintain pH in culture systems
       (Michl et al., Comm. Biol., 2019). His work is now supported by an ERC Consolidator Award
       (€1.9M) and will set new standards for cell culture work that will improve reproducibility in this
       important area.



 2. People

We aim to sustain a diverse mix of outstanding researchers and to provide them with the physical
infrastructure and nurturing environment that allows them to flourish. This goal is central to our
mission to deliver transformational research and to maximise its impact.

Modern research is rapidly changing, and an important element of our strategy that is relevant to all
our staff and students is to provide them with the time and resources to continually develop and
enhance their skills. We provide training to improve research and/or transferable skills (e.g.
computer programming, bioinformatics) and enhance career progression (e.g. presentation skills
and CV preparation). All staff and students also have access to the University’s Careers Service
[IES 3.3]. Some of the more specific ways in which we support the development appropriate to
different career stages are highlighted in the relevant sections below.

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
We employ a sustainable but dynamic mix of early-, mid- and senior-career scientists, with both
sufficient turnover (through staff retiring or progressing to new posts elsewhere) to continually refresh
our research-base, and sufficient stability to maintain strength across our core Research Groups.
Although we set no specific targets for the demographic profile of our staff, we have maintained what
we believe is a healthy rate of turnover at all levels through the current REF period.

Our increase in staff numbers over the previous REF period is driven in part by our success in
creating new posts and also in attracting talented junior staff who acquire competitive independent
fellowships. In line with the University’s Code of Practice (CoP), a consistent set of indicators was
used to identify all researchers with responsibility for undertaking independent research, regardless
of grade or job title. Thus, the REF definition of an Early Career Researcher (ECR) amongst
Category A staff covers a range of types of post; in what follows we therefore use the term junior
research faculty to denote those on academic posts and longer-term fellowships (typically 5 years’
duration) who have not yet secured tenure. 79 submitted researchers (REF1) are formally ECRs by
the HESA definition. The balance between Category A staff on long-term and short-term contracts
is largely determined by the ratio of types of posts: 45% of our Category A eligible staff are on fixed-
term contracts.

2.1.1 Staffing strategy
Our tenured and tenure-track research faculty broadly comprise Statutory Professors (SPs),
Research Professors (RPs) and Associate Professors (APs). In addition, Independent
Research Fellows (IRFs) starting their own independent groups are given equivalent input to
decision-making and access to facilities and space allocation as APs. We currently have ~450 post-
doctoral researchers (PDRs) working in UOA5 departments, playing a crucial part in our research
and impact activity. Our strategy and procedures for hiring research staff are described below.

   •   SPs and APs are appointed by a statutory committee with broad representation including
       external representation. While SPs are typically in major fields as set out in University
       statutes, these titles are interpreted broadly and the fit to strategic research priorities is

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       considered. For APs, departments typically undertake a planning and consultation exercise
       to identify strategic priorities and their overlap with educational requirements before
       advertising. SPs can receive generous start-up packages (up to £1M).
   •   RPs are appointed by the University Senior Appointments committee when there is a strong
       strategic and financial justification for the retention of key staff or for recruitment into a
       particular area. Nine such appointments were made in the current REF period.
   •   APs are appointed for an initial period of five years, given support and mentoring, and then
       confirmed in post after a tenure decision during that period [IES 3.1]. During the current REF
       period all UOA5 APs were confirmed in post, where necessary with an extension to the 5-
       year period and additional support.
   •   IRFs are usually recruited into an area of strategic interest. Selection is usually by open
       competition, and successful candidates then apply for Fellowship support and join the faculty
       if successful. Individual details vary, but senior IRFs (such as Wellcome PRFs or SRFs)
       usually have their posts underwritten, while more junior IRFs (such as Sir Henry Dale
       Fellows) may have commitments of 1-2 years of salary support at the end of their Fellowship.
       Due to our UOA’s size, appropriate tenured or tenure-track positions in Oxford arise
       frequently, providing opportunities for IRFs to continue their careers within Oxford.
   •   PDRs are typically supported by funding awarded to a research faculty member, for which
       they are appointed in open competition after interview by an appropriately constituted and
       trained interview panel. They are initially employed for a probationary period, and then
       confirmed in their full contracts that are fixed to the grant award period. A smaller number
       are at the very earliest stages of their independent research careers, having won postdoctoral
       fellowships (usually 1-3 years) to develop their own ideas, drawing on the facilities and
       mentoring of a host research group.

Although this staffing structure allows many of our researchers to progress their careers within
Oxford, we view it as an equal success when staff are recruited to prestigious positions in the UK
and around the world. Examples include: Lea (NIH, USA), Dolan (Vienna), Ponting (Edinburgh),
Marques (Lausanne) and Bub (Canada), while Malloy, Gluenz, Castello, Oliver, Cantley, Vogels and
Kirchhelle are examples of staff recruited on IRFs who have been appointed to tenured positions
elsewhere. Many of our PDRs have left Oxford to establish their own independent groups, e.g. Bauer
(Crick), Beccano-Kelly (Cardiff), Boemo (Cambridge), Cheung (Yale-NUS), Conduit (Cambridge).

Heads of Department (HoDs) are drawn from within the department’s academic staff, with selection
either by interview panel or internal election, chaired or confirmed by the Head of Division. Most
HoDs are appointed for five years, extendable for a second term. Senior leadership is strengthened
by Associate Heads of Department with specific portfolios (e.g. Research, Finances, People), and
such posts often (but not inevitably) provide future HoDs, enabling long-term strategic vision to be
developed and carried through.


2.1.2 Staff development
The University is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, which provides a framework for our policies on Environment and Culture,
Employment, and Career Development. Our compliance is evidenced by the annual award of a
European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award since 2012 (most recently renewed in
2020 [IES 3.4]. Encouragingly, 88% of UOA5 staff expressed overall satisfaction in their job in
our latest internal survey (2018). We have implemented several policies in the current REF period
to improve staff support and development.
  • All Departments provide an induction package for new staff, where they are provided
     information about the extensive support and training resources available. For example, several
     Departments fund their junior faculty to attend the EMBO Lab Leadership course, and several
     have initiated “Post-Doc Pal” schemes, where new PDRs are paired with an experienced PDR
     from another group to accelerate integration. New staff will also meet their HoD or line manager
     to discuss in an open and supportive manner the contributions that they should be aiming
     towards.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Progress for all research staff is monitored through mandatory annual Personal
   Development Review meetings focused on career support and progression. Both participants
   sign off on a joint meeting summary that will include clear objectives for the coming year.
   Additional responsibilities such as workpackage roles on large grants are identified and
   supported.
 • All junior faculty are appointed an academic mentor, who they meet regularly to review
   career progression, identify support and training needs, and discuss the practicalities of running
   a research group (e.g. the mentor will often help with the interviewing of PDR and DPhil student
   candidates).
 • Most UOA5 Departments have established Post-Doc-Associations. These support their
   members in many ways, e.g. several Associations now provide a handbook as part of the PDR
   induction package, and several have organised peer-mentoring groups that meet regularly on
   their own and with an assigned PI to discuss career issues. This provides a “second advisor”—
   someone who knows the PDR well and can provide a meaningful job reference.
 • Fixed-term contracts are used only where there are transparent, necessary and objective
   reasons to do so, which must be justified if renewed (45% of submitted staff and 92% of all
   research-only posts). Open-ended contracts are used where there is expectation of continuing
   external funding and need for the post (18 posts in UOA5 at the census date). Planning for the
   end of fixed-term posts and options for next steps forms part of the Personal Development
   Review.
 • We provide early opportunities to win research funding: our PDRs can apply for modest
   grant funding from several sources to expand their projects with a specific piece of work,
   including the University’s John Fell Fund [IES 2.1] (46 awards, total £319k) and the Wellcome
   Trust ISSF (5 early-career awards, £250k), and the CRUK Development Fund (4 awards to
   PDRs). This provides experience in grant writing and management as well as pump-priming
   further research.
 • We encourage all staff to make the most of the University’s People and Organisational
   Development team [IES 3.1] and fund access to the online platform LinkedIn Learning
   (formerly Lynda.com).
 • We help our PDRs to apply for fellowships and independent positions. Our PDRs have
   extensive opportunities to teach undergraduates, providing valuable teaching experience to
   boost job-competitiveness. Detailed advice is given on fellowship opportunities. The PDR’s PI
   or mentor will usually provide comments on any job applications and/or organise mock job
   interviews with other relevant PIs.

2.1.3 Study leave, sabbaticals and exchanges
It is our policy to support staff wherever possible to develop their skills and promote their careers
through interactions with other Institutions.
  • We encourage our research faculty to take sabbaticals from their teaching and
      administrative duties. All tenured and tenure-track and full-time/part-time faculty are entitled to
      one term of sabbatical for every six terms of service on full pay, with no requirement to raise any
      funding for a replacement [IES 3.1].
  • As described in Section 1.2, our faculty can take 30 days leave from their duties at full pay
      to pursue commercial or public policy work, and the recently introduced entrepreneurial leave
      scheme [IES 3.1] allows our staff to reduce their FTE commitment to more intensely pursue
      commercial activities.
  • Several of our staff have prominent roles as advisors to Government or various public bodies
      and, where appropriate, we have worked with them to formalise secondments that allow them
      to concentrate on these important activities. For example, in 2019 Prof Dame Angela McLean
      was seconded for four days a week for three years to the Ministry of Defence as their Chief
      Scientific Advisor.




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1.4 Staff reward and recognition
We have several schemes in place to reward staff for their academic achievements.
 • Senior faculty can be nominated for a pay award through the Professorial Merit Pay (PMP)
   scheme [IES 3.1].
 • We operate an annual review where staff are nominated for the award of a Professorial, AP
   or University Research Lecturer title. These awards recognise excellence in research,
   teaching and good citizenship and are assessed by a Divisional Committee. Since 2017,
   Professorial title awardees are eligible for the PMP scheme. In the current REF period, UOA5
   staff were awarded 19 Professorial and 25 AP titles.
 • We run an annual Reward and Recognition Scheme, open to all non-faculty staff, in which
   staff are nominated (usually by their PI, but they can also self-nominate) for either a one-off
   payment or for a permanent single point increase in their pay spine. Nominations are judged by
   a Departmental panel and approved by a Divisional Committee.
 • The Vice-Chancellor’s Innovation Award scheme, introduced in 2018, showcases excellence
   in achieving impact from research. In 2018, Highly Commended awards were given to Howarth
   as an Inspiring Leader, and to Lucey in the Early Career category. A new category of Policy
   Engagement was added in 2020.



2.1.5 Clinical Academics
In UOA5 our clinical academic with clinical responsibilities (Hassan) is fully integrated into his UOA5
Department in terms of space allocation and the benefits and responsibilities described above. As
the Directorate Lead for Oncology in Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Hassan has
an important role in coordinating basic cancer research in UOA5 with the more translational work in
UOA1. In addition, several academics in UOA5 have formal roles in advising our clinical colleagues.
For example, Tang sits on the Steering Committee of the NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC
[IES 2.3]), Robbins is co-leader of the BRC Respiratory Medicine theme and Herring sits on the
Advisory Board for the BHF Centre of Research Excellence. Our strong translational links with
clinical colleagues is also evidenced in our Impact Case Studies (02MIGLUSTAT, 18EPIDEM and
20FLU) and in several of our spin-out companies (4.3.1).



2.2 Post-graduate research (PGR) students
During the current REF period we trained an average of 126 PGR students per year. The majority of
our students are recruited either to 4-year interdisciplinary DTPs coordinated by the MSD or MPLS
Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs), or directly to individual projects through individual Departmental
Studentship competitions. Admission to these programmes is competitive: for 2019 entry (the last
year for which full datasets are available), 402 students applied to the MSD DTC (funded offers,
multiple UOAs) and 482 to individual UOA5 Departments.


2.2.1 Doctoral programmes
The main DTPs relevant to UOA5 researchers are summarised in Table 1, predominantly offering
funded places. Note that researchers from several UOAs are associated with most of these
programmes, so not all of the students on every programme are trained in UOA5.

A further 5-10 studentships in each Department are funded by various other sources (e.g. UKRI,
industry and internal sources, such as the studentships supported by the proceeds of the sale of
Natural Motion and Oxitec [Section 1.2, Aim 3]).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 1: Major DTP Programmes relevant to UOA5

                                       Main      Active in REF     Annual     # students
           Programme                  Funder         Period       Funding      per year
                                                                  (approx)    (average)
 Chromosome and RNA biology         Wellcome        2013-19        £1.0M           5
 Infection, Immunology and          Wellcome        2013-19        £1.0M           5
 Translational Medicine
 Neuroscience                       Wellcome        2013-19        £1.0M           5
 OxIon                              Wellcome        2013-19        £1.0M           5
 Cellular and Structural Biology    Wellcome        2013-24        £1.1M           5
 Chemistry in Cells                 Wellcome        2020-24        £1.1M           5
 Doctoral Training Partnership        MRC           2013-24        £1.3M          18
 Interdisciplinary Bioscience        BBSRC          2013-24        £2.6M          24
 Environmental Research              NERC           2013-23        £2.7M          16
 Cancer Science                      CRUK           2019-23        £2.1M          11
 SABS:R3                             EPSRC          2013-23        £1.0M          10
 Cardiovascular Science               BHF           2013-20        £0.6M           4
 Computational Discovery            UKRI/IBM        2018-22        £1.8M           5


2.2.2 Recruitment and diversity
Recruitment is by interview with cross-departmental panels (for DTPs) or departmental committees
and has historically been based largely on a student’s academic performance and suitability for
research. Self-funded students have to pass this same rigorous selection procedure before they are
accepted. Importantly, our criteria for assessing students have been gradually changing to
take more account of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). For example, the new Wellcome
Chemistry in Cells programme uses anonymised CVs and incorporates metrics of socio-economic
status into its decisions. The University is currently analysing how such metrics can be used most
effectively in PGR student assessment, and we will act on any recommendations. We are particularly
proud of our support in UOA5 for the UNIQ+ programme [IES 3.3], which encourages
undergraduates from under-represented backgrounds to consider post-graduate study by providing
a paid internship and was initiated in MSD and MPLS. We hosted 29 students in UOA5 laboratories
in 2019, providing funding, mentoring and guidance on next steps, and were pleased that one of
these went on to start a DPhil programme with us. Students may study part-time if they wish to do
so.
While there is clearly much room for improvement, our efforts to address EDI issues are leading to
progress: in 2019/20, for example, 34% of the new intake of PGR students in the Medical Sciences
Division declared BAME ethnicity, compared to 29% in 2013/14.

2.2.3 Quality of student training
The MSD and MPLS Graduate Schools provides thematic training and support for all students
within UOA5. Whether entering directly into a department or into a DTP, all students are trained in
an environment in which there is a strong critical mass of experts and resources.
 • Induction programmes help integrate students as rapidly as possible and introduce the
     opportunities available.
 • To foster a sense of belonging, a number of community-wide events are organised, including
     a highly successful annual symposium, featuring talks from current students and alumni working
     in a variety of fields and showcasing a variety of relevant topics. The annual Divisional DPhil
     Day in MSD provides a showcase of graduate student activity across the university.
 • Students have access to over 350 courses, including required courses in ethics, plagiarism and
     good laboratory practice, and all undergraduate lectures in the relevant Division.
 • A wide-ranging programme of training in transferable, research and specialist scientific
     skills is open to doctoral students, led by a Director of Skills Training and Researcher
     Development. Over 90 courses and events are offered each year. Recent developments include

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   new courses in fostering good research practice (research integrity and reproducibility in
   research).
 • The skills programme incorporates specialist technical courses available through the Doctoral
   Training Centres, such as electron microscopy, x-ray crystallography, MATLAB programming
   and computational biochemistry. Partnership with Diamond Light Source has enabled provision
   of training direct from Diamond staff.
 • Opportunities for interdisciplinary training and exchange are fostered. Reciprocal
   arrangements are in place that provide all students access to courses offered to externally-
   funded DPhil programmes, such as those supported by Wellcome and the Research Councils.

We have developed our training in translational research and entrepreneurship:
 • We work with the University Careers Service to provide micro-internships of 2-5 days each
   giving placements in the private and public sector; interactive workshops developing
   commercial awareness in students; and the opportunity for 1-to-1 careers consultations and
   to work with Careers Outreach Fellows (individuals who have recently completed a DPhil and
   can help direct current students towards potential career options).
 • Many of our full-funded studentships, e.g. from Wellcome Trust, include a transitional fund that
   can be used to support internships and other activities for career development towards the end
   of the course.
 • Opportunities to work closely with an industrial partner are provided by five MRC Industrial
   Collaborative Awards Studentships (iCASE) per year. Close links with Diamond and
   pharmaceutical companies provide additional benefits to students through funding support and
   industry expertise.
We are developing a course in Innovation Strategy for DPhil Students with a project team
including DPhil student, post-doc, academic, and entrepreneur representation to deliver 50 hours of
teaching over an academic year in 2-3 day modules. This builds on recently developed introductory
courses in innovation and entrepreneurship.

2.2.4 Support and monitoring
The University is committed to the QAA Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes, and
we support our students and monitor their progress in several ways:
 • All new PGR students are welcomed with a comprehensive induction course, comprising
    several lectures and smaller meetings spread over the first 2-3 weeks (on topics such as health
    and safety and research integrity). These also provide clear guidance on the extensive support
    and training resources available to students (described briefly at the start of Section 2).
 • All PGR students are appointed an academic advisor or “second supervisor” within their
    Department, who provides advice and pastoral support. They meet in the first term and students
    present a written report about their project, to monitor that they have settled well and are
    receiving appropriate support. All PGR students are affiliated with a College and assigned a
    College advisor who provides additional support.
 • Students, supervisors and advisors submit an online assessment of a student’s progress
    every term, clearly flagging any concerns. All reports are read by the Director of Graduate
    Studies (DGS), an academic in each Department responsible for that Departments PGR
    students, and any concerns are followed up with an e-mail discussion or an informal meeting to
    assess whether further action is required.
 • At the end of their first-year student progress is assessed in a viva with two independent
    faculty. If progress is deemed insufficient, the student will meet with the DGS and their
    supervisor to discuss the extra support required to pass a second viva. Over 95% of students
    pass this assessment.
 • Students are then formally assessed again at the end of their penultimate year in a viva, at
    which they present detailed plans for finishing their work and writing their thesis to two
    independent faculty. Over 98% of students pass this assessment.
 • Of students starting since 2013, over 90% completing did so within 48 months.

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We support our students’ well-being. The
University supports a large and well-resourced        Supporting mental health:
Counselling Service and in 2019 it published a        a supervisor’s perspective
Student Wellbeing and Mental Health Strategy.         “I’ve been supervising PhD students for more
In UOA5 it became a formal requirement that           than 20yrs and there has been a dramatic
every DGS receives in-person training in student      increase in the last few years in the number of
mental health, and this requirement is being          students with significant mental health issues,
rolled out to all PGR Supervisors (Section 2.3).      including two cases within my own lab. I’ve
                                                      been really impressed by how the
All Departments have a Graduate Student               Departments and Colleges have supported
Association (GSA). Like the PDAs, these               these students and their supervisors—
Associations are given support and autonomy to        tailoring help to individual needs, and often
take on issues and organise events that matter        bending over backwards to allow them the
most to their communities, often working across       space and time to work through their issues
Departments to put on meetings and invite             so they can continue their studies.”
speakers.                                             Anonymised UOA5 Supervisor,
                                                      June 2020.




2.3 Equality and diversity
Increasing equality and diversity is an important strategic aim (Section 1.2, Aim 2). We are supported
by the University’s large and expanding EDI infrastructure [IES 3.4], and several UOA5 staff have
served on the newly convened Divisional EDI Steering Groups. Much of our work in the current REF
period has focused on ensuring that we work in accordance with Athena SWAN (AS) Charter
principles. All UOA5 Departments have established permanent AS committees that guide policy and
monitor progress. Our Departments have three Silver (Biochemistry [until 2023], DPAG [until 2025],
and Dunn School [until 2023]) and three Bronze AS awards (Pharmacology, Plant Sciences and
Zoology). Pharmacology will apply for a Silver award in 2021, while an application for the new
Department of Biology must start at Bronze. On gender equality, we are making progress: for
example, 29% of our submitted staff in REF2014 were female compared to 37% of our eligible
staff for REF2021.

Importantly, while AS focuses primarily on gender inequality, we are applying similar principles
to other protected characteristics
    • All Departments have established committees to support staff with certain protected
       characteristics (e.g. disability, LGBTQ+, transgender or those from under-represented
       minorities), providing a powerful voice for their communities, and driving progress by holding
       senior leadership to account. For example, many Departments have put in place procedures
       to formally assess the needs of staff with disabilities, (e.g. leading to the installation of an
       extra defibrillator within a lab to support a graduate student with a serious cardiac condition);
       and to upgrade infrastructure for staff and students with audio/visual needs (such as
       improved access for guide-dogs and audio/visual support systems in lecture theatres).
    • EDI issues are increasingly considered when assigning support. We seek to give extra
       support where there are barriers to progress in research and career development. For
       example, we offer extensive support to all our staff in applying for grants – including, where
       appropriate, professional support in grant writing (Section 3.1) – but we especially encourage
       faculty from under-represented groups or those that have caring responsibilities or long-term
       illness to take up this assistance. We also now closely monitor the success rates of various
       groups in applying for funding and for promotion, reward and recruitment.

We aim to provide effective support for part-time staff, and staff with caring responsibilities
or health issues that impact the way they need to work.
    • We support part-time, flexible and/or remote working. All UOA5 staff can apply to work
       either part-time, or with flexible hours or to work remotely—and we take the view that these

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       requests should be granted whenever
       possible. In 2018, 61% of academic and            Supporting part-time staff
       research staff reported flexible working          “As a postdoc I transitioned from full-time
       arrangements and at the census date,              (100%) to part-time (80%) following a 6-
       11% worked part-time (headcount).                 month maternity leave (2015). Although
   •   All Departmental seminars and                     keen to return to research, I was
       training courses take place in core               conscious of losing an opportunity to
       working hours, and all essential courses          spend valuable time with my
       are delivered in house so that all staff can      daughter. Switching to a PT contract was
       attend.                                           a compromise that benefitted our family
   •   Career progression for part-time                  enormously, partly because my husband’s
       researchers. All part-time staff have             job often made childcare logistics
       access to the same support mechanisms             complicated. I received enormous support
       and career opportunities as our full-time         from my supervisor and the Department in
       staff, and the University has a central           terms of flexibility during this time. When
       team specifically to support part-time            I started my Royal Society University
       workers and students. We work closely             Research Fellowship (2019), I decided to
       with these staff to tailor individual working     return to FT work as my daughter had
       plans and to ensure that working part-            started school. However, I knew that I
       time does not negatively impact career            would have the option to revert to PT if it
       progression.                                      proved necessary.”
                                                         Laura Moody,
   •   We encourage staff to take the leave
                                                         UOA5 Royal Society URF.
       they need due to illness or for personal
       reasons and to ensure they can keep in
       touch as will be most helpful.
   •    We support staff returning to work after periods of leave with a dedicated University
       team. These staff routinely have reduced teaching, examining and administrative
       commitments, and the University’s Returning Carers’ Fund [IES 3.1] provides flexible funding
       for training, teaching buy-out or small-scale lab equipment; UOA5 staff received a total of
       £179k from this fund during the current REF period.
   •   We have generous maternity and paternity
       leave policies, with many Departments                     Support to attend conferences
       adopting specific practices to enhance benefits,          “Scientific research careers can be
       providing, for example: (1) 50% relief of teaching        particularly challenging for women,
       during the first year of return from maternity            especially when they become
       leave to ease the transition back to work; (2)            mothers. When my daughter was
       Technical support to allow researchers to                 born I was invited to join the
       effectively communicate with their labs during            Athena SWAN Committee and I
       their maternity/paternity leave if they wish to; (3)      suggested they set up a support
       “maternity mentors” to support mothers during             scheme to provide a childcare
       pregnancy and early motherhood; (4)                       allowance for periods spent away
       preferential access to parking spaces for                 at speaking engagements or
       expectant mothers. UOA5 departments have                  conferences, which you have to do
       expanded access to affordable child-care                  if you want to raise your profile.
       facilities [IES 3.1] by sponsoring 19 places in           They agreed to establish a
       University-run nurseries since 2017.                      Departmental Carers Fund, which
   •   We support staff and students with caring                 has been used, and much
       responsibilities/health issues to attend                  appreciated, by many female
       conferences. Several UOA5 Departments have                researchers.”
       initiated specific schemes to support this activity,      Monika    Gullerova, UOA5 PI.
       and many UOA5 staff have taken advantage.




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We recognise the pressures that current research and working practices can sometimes put on staff
and students, and we support the well-being of all our staff and students.
   • We supported several staff initiatives to promote wellbeing, providing practical (and in
       some cases financial) help. For example, classes in yoga, pilates and general fitness have
       been organised by Departmental student or post-doc associations, and are all well attended.
   • We have improved communication, including regular monthly (weekly during parts of the
       COVID-19 crisis) Newsletters from our HoDs, and upgrades to our intranet services to allow
       easy communication between various groups of staff. These upgrades have supported
       several well-being initiatives—ensuring, for example, that all staff have easy and reliable
       access to the complex and rapidly changing guidelines and instructions on safety and
       working practices during the COVID-19 crisis, and know the support available to them.


   Supporting staff during the COVID-19 crisis
   “First, working from home for some people is difficult. Your productivity may not be as high
   as you want it to be. For some, especially those with kids or other caring responsibilities, it
   may be close to zero. That's OK. Focus on the important things.
   Second, for those of us who are able to work from home, it is likely that our kitchen tables,
   spare bedrooms, sofas etc, are not as ergonomically efficient as where we normally work. If
   you have a justified need for any minor equipment, the department will cover a reasonable
   cost ....
   Finally, mental health is equally important and, again, there are resources on the intranet
   pages. Our mental health first aider, our bullying and harassment advisers, and the student
   welfare team, are always available if you need support.”
   HoD, Dunn School of Pathology, Staff Newsletter, April 2020.
   Edited lightly to remove personal information.




2.3.1 Equality and Diversity in our REF submission
We have strived for equality and diversity in our selection of outputs for REF2021 [IES 3.4]. We
invited all researchers to nominate one or more outputs for consideration, making it clear that they
should include all to which they had contributed significantly. Every output was internally reviewed
by at least two people and scores were then moderated by groups of three senior academics, with
one senior academic present at all meetings to ensure consistency. All scores and comments were
recorded, and decisions documented, in a central and secure database.

Eligible outputs were then selected based on their score and attributed to individual authors initially
using an anonymised dataset to encourage allocation of each output to any individual who had made
a sufficient contribution, regardless of seniority or other bias. We performed an equality impact
assessment on a provisional selection of outputs, conducted centrally by the University to ensure
limited access to sensitive data. This helped confirm principles for the final selection of outputs. We
strictly respected the commitment of our Code of Practice that this data was not made available for
any other purpose.




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
Enabling our researchers to obtain significant amounts of external funding, through strategies
described below, helps maintain a critical mass of outstanding researchers in our Research Groups
and grow those areas with greatest potential.

These strategies have been successful, and a comparison to REF2014 reveals that our average
income per year from all sources [REF4b] has increased significantly. Most notably, average annual
funding from UK Research Councils increased by 16% (from £15.8M to £18.4M/yr); from UK
Charities by 40% (£24M to £33.6M/yr); from EU Government by 55% (£5M to £7.7M/yr, primarily
the EC); and from UK Industry by >300% (£0.58M to £1.99M/yr).

Research income reported for 2015/16 in REF4b includes £43.9M capital income that was incurred
in other years but, due to a change in HESA reporting conventions, could not be aligned with the
expenditure date.

Much of this income supports individual research faculty at project grant level (grants of ~£0.2-£0.6M
for 2-3yrs), but our researchers also secure programme level support (typically grants of £1.5M-
£2.5M for 5yrs), mainly from Wellcome (6 PRFs, 11 SRFs and 16 Senior Investigators), but also
from BHF, CRUK, UKRI and ERC. Of research awards that started during the REF period, more
than half (by value) were for 5 years or longer. Other fellowships commenced during the REF period
include 8 Sir Henry Dale and 6 Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowships from the Wellcome Trust; 5 Royal
Society URFs; 4 MRC Career Development awards; 3 BBSRC Discovery fellowships; and 33 EC
Marie Curie Fellowships.



                                                          Figure 3
                                                          Average annual research income over
                                                          periods of REF2014 (2008-13) and
                                                          REF2021 (2013-20). Industry sources
                                                          include UK, EU and non-EU.
                                                          [REF4b]




We encourage our researchers to apply for larger research grants in collaboration with scientists
from other UOAs or Institutions, e.g. 10 Wellcome Strategic and 6 Collaborative, 3 BBSRC Strategic
‘Longer and Larger’ (sLoLa) and 11 H2020 collaborative awards together brought in excess of £11M
income. For example, Novak led a BBSRC sLoLa on systems-level characterization of mammalian
cell cycle transitions (2014-2020, £3M) with collaborators at the University of Sussex and the Institute
of Cancer Research; and Langdale’s 2019 award from the Gates Foundation to study C4 rice has

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborators in Cambridge, Germany, Australia, Taiwan and the USA (total funding $13.1M, £3.6M
to Oxford).

We have long-term strategic relationships with our major funders (UKRI, Wellcome, BHF and
CRUK), guiding us to deliver research better aligned with their stated priorities and objectives. Our
concentration of research activity in their remit has underpinned investment in strategic research
Centres, such as the CRUK Oxford Centre and the BHF Centre of Research Excellence. These
Centres receive significant core support across multiple UOAs that enhances our research
environment by funding studentships, providing pump-prime funding, and supporting facilities
(Section 4.1). The Centre for Neural Circuits and Behaviour (CNCB) renewed core funding from
Wellcome (£3.6M) enabling seminal discoveries in sleep, memory extinction and behavioural
decision making in flies (e.g. Felsenberg et al., Nature, 2017; Groschner et al., Cell, 2018). Our
income from the European Commission (~£47M) also supports several projects that are part of major
international collaborations, such as the stem cells for drug discovery (stemBANCC) initiative
(Akerman, James, Wade-Martins, Weber).

Our Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) is managed internally across
streams including early-career pump-priming and strategic initiatives and total of £1.68M supported
52 projects in UOA5 during the REF period. Our MRC Confidence in Concept award supported 29
translational projects, with income £573k, with £72k from the MRC Pathway to Discovery scheme
for relationship-building.

The most dramatic growth in our funding comes from UK industry. Although this remains relatively
small (~£14M total) the increase reflects the effectiveness of support from our Divisional
Translational Research Office and Business Partnership teams. For example, UOA5 investigators
received >£1M for translational research projects through OSI/Lab282 and >£9M in research grants
from companies such AstraZeneca, Roche, and Syngenta.

An important element of our strategy has been to secure substantial philanthropic funding. Our
successes include, for example, securing major donations to support research in our new buildings
(Section 3.2).      In response to the rapidly emerging COVID-19 crisis, we used unrestricted
philanthropic donations received for COVID-19 research to establish a new fund to support high
quality, high impact projects. 256 applications were received and reviewed, through 4 rounds over
the course of 11 weeks during April – June 2020. 91 awards have been made across the University
to projects totalling £8.2M, of which 10 awards totalling £497k were led by UOA5 researchers.

We also benefit from research income in-kind (Table REF4c), allowing our researchers to make
use of shared research infrastructure located in other HEIs or facilities—e.g. through awards
of synchrotron beamtime at Diamond (£4.4M total) and the ESRF (£1M) and for time at the ISIS
neutron source (£1.7M). UOA5 researchers have also been awarded time at the Central Laser
Facility, High Field NMR, the ILL neutron source and the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility.
These resources have supported transformational work, particularly in our Structural Biology,
Biophysics and Computational Biology Group—e.g. explaining the molecular basis of pH-dependent
ER retrieval (Brauer et al., Science, 2019), sugar transport into the Golgi (Parker and Newstead,
Nature, 2017), GPCR regulation by PIP2 (Yen et al., Nature, 2018), and the function of secretion
systems used by pathogenic bacteria (Lauber et al., Nature, 2018).

In addition to central provision to support research grants and contracts [IES-4.1], we have also
strengthened local support to help our staff formulate projects and obtain funding. For example, we
provide extensive support for grant writing, arranging meetings with senior staff at an early stage to
discuss grant strategy, subsequent comments on proposals and, where relevant, mock interviews.
Several UOA5 Departments now have professional leads coordinating these activities. Increasingly,
and to meet our EDI goals, this support is targeted at staff who need the most support overcoming
barriers to success (e.g. junior faculty, under-represented minorities, staff with caring
responsibilities).



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Facility infrastructure to support research and impact
As described in Section 1.2, Aim 1, an important strategy is to support research and impact by
investing in facilities that provide specialist research infrastructure; once established, these
facilities are expected to run on full-cost-recovery models. These facilities ensure that our
researchers have access to state-of-the-art technologies supported by expert technical staff. These
facilities act as interdisciplinary hubs for sharing expertise and coordinating activity across
Departments and disciplines (e.g. to assess user needs and to leverage additional funding). In
addition, we expect them to stimulate collaborations and exchange with both academic
researchers and with industrial partners to promote impact. Here, and throughout Section 3, we
focus first on one example (advanced bioimaging) to illustrate how our facilities generate impact and
contribute to the research environment locally, nationally and internationally. We then more briefly
describe other facilities that take similar approaches.

3.2.1 The Micron Advanced Imaging Consortium (Micron)
Microscopy is a crucial tool in many areas of biology, and there are an increasing number of
sophisticated modalities that are expensive to acquire and technically challenging to use. Micron
was established in 2012 to address these needs with a Strategic Award from Wellcome, which was
enhanced in 2016 (~£4.7M from Wellcome, ~£1.5M from Oxford). This new award funded several
facility microscopes and established an interdisciplinary team to design and build advanced imaging
systems.

In the Micron model, technical support staff and/or equipment are located at multiple sites across
Oxford, within four of the UOA5 Departments; molecular medicine, human genetics and
rheumatology units within clinical medicine (all UOA1); Engineering (UOA12); and Chemistry
(UOA8). These separate sites are financially independent of each other, but their activities are
coordinated within the Micron umbrella. A strategy meeting (open to all) is held every month to
discuss best practice and to coordinate equipment needs and purchasing strategy. An important
operating principle is that all Micron equipment, no matter where located, is equally accessible, and
at the same cost, to all academic users (both inside and outside the University). These principles
promote the efficient use and sharing of equipment and technical expertise. At the central Micron
sites (in Biochemistry and the DS), for example, there are >400 registered facility users, and >50%
of these are from outside their respective Departments. Micron facilities are also used by ~10
industrial partners, who pay higher access charges—contributing to the long-term sustainability of
Micron—and who benefit from Micron’s expertise and large user-base to test and give feedback on
their new technologies (e.g. Oxford NanoImager [ONI], see below).

This coordinated strategy has allowed the Wellcome grant to be effectively leveraged to secure
significant additional funding, most notably from the MRC (>£2M) and the University (>£2M). For
example, the University hired a new Micron PI (Schermelleh) to enhance technology development
and ensure ease of use for biologists. Schermelleh has guided collaborative advanced imaging
projects with several groups in Oxford – e.g. on the mechanisms of X-chromosome inactivation
(Almeida et al., Science, 2017) – and elsewhere – e.g. a collaboration with researchers in Denmark
and The Netherlands on chromosome topology and genome integrity (Ochs et al., Nature, 2019).

The concentration of advanced technology and technical expertise in the facility has stimulated
several academic and industrial collaborations. For example, Micron part-funded the development
of a TIRF-SIM system at Oxford’s Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology (with Fritzche, UOA1), leading
to a partnership with the Rosalind Franklin Institute to develop the Biophotonic Correlative Optical
Platform. The collaboration with Fritzche led to the inclusion of the Zeiss Centre of Excellence in the
IDRM (with Riley and Srinivas [UOA5]), and the Micron Zeiss Lattice Light Sheet system currently in
Biochemistry will relocate to this centre. Micron also worked extensively with Oxford NanoImager
(ONI) to develop their first prototypes, benefitting both the company and also the facility, through
enhanced access to new technologies and technical support. Micron facilities are also used by
researchers from other Universities, generating further academic collaborations (e.g. Exeter,
Nottingham, Southampton, Warwick).


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also expect our facilities to take an active role in training our researchers, and Micron organises
two annual week-long advanced microscopy courses for staff (including many from other UOAs) on
the central Oxford site (~70 attendees), and at the JR hospital site (~30 attendees). Both courses
are popular and are always oversubscribed.

3.2.2 Cryo-EM (COSMIC)
Technical advances in cryogenic electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) are revolutionising structural
biology, and establishing communal facilities for the biological sciences in central Oxford was
recognised as an urgent priority in 2015. The Central Oxford Structural Microscopy and Imaging
Centre (COSMIC) was established by UOA5 researchers in 2017 with grants from Wellcome
(£2.1M), The Royal Society/Wolfson (£1M) and the University (£1.1M). The facility houses several
Cryo-TEM systems (e.g. FEI Talos, Arctica and Titan Krios systems) and has been central to several
successful large grant applications (e.g. Higgins, Lea and Newstead’s individual Wellcome
Investigator Awards), and has facilitated several outstanding recruitments (e.g. Bharat and Elliot),
and ground-breaking discoveries (e.g. on the structure of the bacterial surface layer [von Kügelgen
et al., Cell, 2020; Tarafder et al., PNAS, 2020] and the bacterial flagellum [Deme et al., Nat. Micro.,
2020]).

3.2.3 James Martin Stem Cell Facility
Established by UOA5 researchers in the previous REF period, this Facility trains researchers to work
with human induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs), running annual workshops for researchers
across the UK and worldwide. The Facility has pioneered methodologies for the efficient
differentiation of primitive macrophages and microglia. These are in high demand for modelling
innate immunity, host-pathogen interactions and neuroinflammation and the Facility has established
several industrial collaborations (e.g. Roche, Eli Lilly) and is an important partner in several national
and international academic programmes (e.g. the MRC Dementias Platform and EU IMI
StemBANCC).

3.2.4 The Advanced Proteomics Facility (APF)
The APF was established in 2016 by the merger of the proteomics facilities in the Department of
Biochemistry and DS, with a world leader in proteomics development to lead the Facility, jointly
appointed with Chemistry (Mohammed, UOA8). The APF provides proteomics services and training
to >50 groups across Oxford and has supported several important discoveries—e.g. on the molecular
details of mitotic exit (Holder et al., eLife, 2020) B Cell senescence (Zhang et al., Mol. Cell, 2019)
and viral infection (Garcia-Moreno et al., Mol. Cell, 2019).

3.2.5 Genome Editing (GEO)
The Genome Engineering Oxford (GEO) research facility is a cross-Departmental UOA5 venture
established in 2014 with internal funding (~£150K). It provides a range of genome engineering
services as well as extensive advice and training to our researchers (currently working with ~50
groups in Oxford). GEO is involved in several large-scale collaborative projects, e.g. Hassan (UOA5)
and Doench (Broad Institute, USA) using genome-wide CRISPR screens to establish synthetic
lethality relationships in cancer cells.

3.2.6 Next Generation Genomic Technologies
In 2014, an internal analysis revealed a dramatic increase in the number of UOA5 groups using
functional genomic approaches. It identified data turnaround times as a significant bottleneck, so we
secured internal funding (~£400k) to establish a cross-Departmental Next Generation sequencing
and genomics facility. This allowed researchers to acquire data in <72 hrs (compared to a minimum
of 2 weeks [mean >4 weeks] at the remote facilities used previously). More than 40 research groups
use the facility, and it has supported several important discoveries—e.g. how dsRNA triggers anti-
viral responses (Dhir et al., Nature, 2018) and how transcription is coupled to RNA processing
(Nojima et al., Cell, 2015).




                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2.7 The Molecular Biophysics Suite (MBS)
The MBS was established in 2007 as a protein characterization facility comprising twelve core pieces
of biophysical equipment (e.g. SPR, ITC, CD, AUC, SEC-MALS). There has been ~£500k of
investment in new equipment during the current REF period. The facility provides services to
numerous Oxford spin-outs and biotech companies and supports >30 research groups, facilitating
numerous important molecular insights—e.g. how Plasmodia evade immune detection (Harrison et
al., Nature, 2020), and how mitotic centrosomes assemble (Feng et al., Cell, 2020).


3.3 Organisational infrastructure to support research and impact
During this REF period we have made a considerable investment of time and effort to plan, and
secure funding for, three major new buildings that will help to ensure the long-term sustainability of
the biological sciences in Oxford. We also invested £4.5M in a substantial refurbishment of the
Sherrington Building for improved laboratory space and infrastructure. Here we briefly describe the
context, benefits and opportunities the new buildings will provide.

3.3.1 The Life and Mind Building
The Tinbergen Building (home to the Department of Zoology and Department of Experimental
Psychology (UOA4)) was unexpectedly forced to close in 2017 due to the discovery of asbestos [IES
2.1]. The building housed ~380 Zoology researchers and important infrastructure such as the central
Genomics Facility. The closure necessitated a complex logistical operation to quickly move the
displaced Department (mostly to nearby UOA5 Departments), and then to move staff and facilities
again into new medium-term, purpose-designed modular laboratories (£16M) assembled on a
nearby cricket pitch. We also provided support to staff and students by underwriting all graduate
scholarships and fixed-term research positions that were impacted by the closure. All experimental
research was back up and running within 15 months of the initial closure.

We then committed a further £202M to the construction of a 25,000m2 building, to open in 2024. This
is currently the largest capital project the University has ever undertaken. The building will house the
new unified Department of Biology (Section 1.2) and the Department of Experimental Psychology
(UOA4). The LaMB will provide exciting opportunities to strengthen and support
interdisciplinary research, providing physical space to host and expand interdisciplinary hubs that
draw in researchers from biological disciplines across Oxford. From 2021, for example, these efforts
will be boosted by the creation of approximately 80 new research posts across the Biology &
Chemistry (UOA8) departments to drive work on the development of new antibiotics for human and
agricultural use, and to develop evolutionarily-inspired solutions to the challenge of anti-microbial
resistance in a new Centre, to which INEOS have committed a gift of £100M [IES 2.1].

3.3.2 Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin Institute (DCHI)
If the second half of the 20th century was the age of molecular biology, then the first half of the 21st
century is rapidly becoming the age of the cell. The DCHI is a core strategic initiative to meet this
challenge. This interdisciplinary institute will bring together biologists from UOA5 with chemists,
physicists, engineers, and computational scientists, emphasising the interface between the life and
physical sciences, and laying the foundations for future biomedical discoveries. The building for the
DCHI (£92M) will serve as a hub on the central campus (Figure 2) to facilitate cross-departmental
and cross-divisional collaboration. Senior leadership will come from Freeman (UOA5), Robinson
(UOA8) and Kapanidis (UOA9). The building will house 550 staff (approximately one third from
UOA5, including several current staff from Biochemistry, DPAG and DS). The new space will allow
us to hire new research staff to strengthen interdisciplinary approaches, and Statutory Chair
vacancies (e.g. Chemical Pathology, Molecular Microbiology) will allow us to bring in new leadership
in strategic areas. The recent philanthropic donation of $10M from the Kavli Foundation will
support the Kavli Institute for NanoScience Discovery within the building and the Krebs Chair in
Physiological Metabolism. The building project is on schedule for completion in late 2021.




                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.3.3 The Institute of Developmental and Regenerative Medicine (IDRM)
Two thirds of all deaths world-wide (pre-COVID-19) are due to non-communicable diseases, and
there is an urgent need for the development of new drugs and therapeutic strategies to replace and
restore damaged tissues. The IDRM is the first research institute in the world to physically merge
the disciplines of developmental biology and regenerative medicine, and is a timely collaboration
between researchers in UOA5 and Clinical Medicine (UOA1). Under the leadership of Riley (UOA5)
the IDRM will bring together ~220 researchers with a focus on developing novel tissue engineering
applications for regenerative medicine and AI and mathematical approaches to enhancing in-house
drug discovery programmes. The £32.5M building is located on the Old Road Medical Campus,
accessible from UOA5 Departments and our clinical collaborators (UOA1) at the Churchill and JR
hospital sites. Substantial (>£8M) philanthropic funding has been secured to endow a Chair,
support several DPhil studentships and support -omics and bioinformatics infrastructure linked to the
nearby Big Data Institute (BDI). The Institute will also partner with the nearby Kennedy Research
Institute (KRI) to establish the Zeiss Centre of Excellence for state of the art confocal and light-sheet
microscopy.


3.4 Other support for research and impact
3.4.1 Gardens, Libraries and Museums
Many of our researchers make extensive use of the unique facilities and research collections
available through the University’s Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM), and the Director
(Hiscock) and the Deputy Director (Thorogood) of the Botanic Garden & Arboretum are independent
researchers in UOA5. Our departments also benefit from close physical proximity to GLAM’s venues,
which provide important opportunities for public engagement with research through the ~3.2M
visitors they attract every year (examples in Section 4.4).

3.4.2 Investment in IT Infrastructure
Although each UOA5 Department has its own IT support facilities we have worked closely during the
current REF period to improve and better coordinate our IT infrastructure. This has included
improving the connectivity between Departments (which is essential, for example, for the efficient
transfer of data from our communal research facilities), and significant upgrades to our data storage
and computational power (which is essential for our Cryo-EM, image analysis, Omics and
computational simulations work). Several major grants included funding for upgrading this
infrastructure, including an Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (OxLEP) research
infrastructure award (Dolan, Kelly, Mackay; ~£0.45M).

3.4.3 Research support staff
World-class research requires world-class technical and administrative support, and we aim to
employ an appropriate number of talented and dedicated staff in these roles. We have implemented
many of the practices described in Section 2 (such as inductions for new staff, improved mentoring)
for this category of staff, and they also have access to all the support and training infrastructure that
are available to our research staff. The University is a signatory to the UK-wide Technician
Commitment to support career development of technical staff, and we have developed an action
plan to provide better training and recognition. We also support an extensive Apprenticeship scheme,
providing exciting, and often life-changing, opportunities for apprentices of all ages to train alongside
experienced staff to develop their professional skills whilst growing the University’s pool of talent.
Nine apprentices worked in UOA5 Departments in July 2020.


3.5 Equality and diversity in accessing support and facilities
We have adopted several practices and strategies to ensure that equality and diversity principles
apply to the ways in which we support our staff to apply for grant income. For example, we target
grant-writing support to staff who are from under-represented minorities or who have caring
responsibilities (Section 3.1), and we have recently identified the problem of gender and ethnic

                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
imbalance in the proportion of our staff involved in commercial activity, and are actively seeking to
address this (Section 1.5).

An important element of our inclusion strategy is to ensure that all our researchers have equitable
access to our facilities. For example, we realised that smaller Groups, which are more likely to be
run by junior faculty or part-time staff, may be prevented from using the most appropriate or
sophisticated equipment simply because they have less overall funding than others. In Micron, for
example, we therefore operate a ‘sliding cap’ charging system, where annual facility charges are
capped at a lower rate for smaller Groups. It was also recently brought to our attention through an
Athena SWAN committee that several staff with caring duties were not getting sufficient time on
some of our most popular microscope systems because they were so heavily booked during core
working hours. A trial was initiated to give these users preferential booking rights on certain days of
the week. It proved challenging to get this system right but, after several iterations, practices have
been established that address the needs of all users.


3.6 Shared use of research infrastructure
We plan for much of our research infrastructure to be shared with other HEIs and that our scientists
will use shared infrastructure elsewhere. As our most extensive and distributed bioimaging facility,
Micron is again an exemplar.

Micron collaborated with Oxford Brookes University in 2014 to establish a joint centre for Serial Block
Face Imaging EM (based at Oxford Brookes) with BBSRC funding (~£0.8M; Raff [UOA5], Hawes
and Vaughan [Brookes]). This facility has been used by researchers at several other HEIs nationally
(e.g. Dundee, York, London) and internationally (e.g. Germany, France, Portugal, Spain, Czech
Republic, The Netherlands) enabling important collaborative discoveries, e.g. on mitochondrial
genome segregation (Hoffman et al., PNAS, 2018) and plant growth (Kleine-Vehn et al., PNAS,
2016). Micron helped build the first super-resolution 3D-Cryo-SIM system to be incorporated into an
X-Ray beamline at Diamond (Kounatidis et al., Cell, 2020). Although only recently becoming
operational, 24 proposals to use the system have already been accepted (after peer review) and
only five of these are from within Oxford—the others from the UK, Europe and Japan. Micron has
established close relationships with several HEIs overseas, e.g. four of our researchers individually
spent several weeks at the HHMI Janelia Research Campus (USA) to learn how to use various
high-end microscopes. In one case this led to our building our own TIRF-SIM system in Oxford
(Section 3.3.1). Many of our other research facilities engage in shared projects with other HEIs, and
some additional examples are described in Section 3.3.


3.7 Benefits in kind
Due to our size and the breadth of our research we are often in a position to secure benefits-in-kind.
As just one example, many microscope companies want to place their new systems with us, as our
knowledge about the system spreads rapidly through the bioimaging community. In several
instances we have negotiated several years of free service contracts on our systems on the
understanding that we will provide feedback on performance and allow the supplier to bring potential
clients to Oxford to see the system and talk to our users. This has the added benefit that our systems
are well-maintained and are frequently updated free of charge. During the Covid-19 crisis, Micron
was able to leverage its relationship with both Olympus and Oxford NanoImager (ONI) to temporarily
loan versions of their latest instruments, free of charge, to conduct innovative microscopy-based
COVID-19 research in Micron and also with collaborators at the JR hospital (see Section 4.8).




                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
    economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Our environment is structured to be flexible and to nurture the exchange of ideas and resources
amongst our researchers and across disciplines. We encourage such collaborations in several
ways, including by organising and supporting themed networks (often across Research Groups and
UOAs), and by providing rapid access to seed-funding to support interdisciplinary collaborations and
to generate initial data that can be used to leverage external funding. 14% of the funded research
projects contributing to our research income [REF4b] had collaborators within the University but in
another UOA (most commonly UOA1, Clinical Medicine).

For example, the CRUK Oxford Centre is supported by a core grant from CRUK (~£2M/yr) and
comprises 258 research groups. It holds an annual Oxford-wide meeting, provides pump-priming
targeted at interdisciplinary collaborations between clinicians and researchers and it funds a cohort
of ~11 research students per year in a mix of clinical and basic research labs. Funding from the
Centre, for example, was instrumental in facilitating the collaboration between Wilson and
Goberdhan (UOA5) and Hamdy (UOA1) to explore the Drosophila accessory gland as a model for
prostate cancer (Leiblich et al., PLoS Biol., 2019; Wilson et al., Curr. Top. Dev. Biol., 2017).

Similarly, the BHF Centre of Research Excellence (CRE) brings together ~80 PIs studying
cardiovascular biology and disease. It coordinates four major interdisciplinary Themes – Genomics,
Population Science, Target Discovery and Development & Regeneration (working closely with the
BHF Centre for Regenerative Medicine, synergising with the new IDRM). The Centre supports a
transitional fellowship programme, which supports promising junior faculty for 2 years so they can
develop their independent research programme in preparation for applications for external funding.
CRE Fellows Sparrow and Stone, for example, were awarded a BHF Senior Fellowship (£0.94M, to
study heart disease) and a Wellcome Henry Dale Fellowship (£1.3M, to study heart development in
zebrafish), respectively.

During the REF period the Oxford Immunology (276 PIs, 40 in UOA5) and Oxford Metabolic
Health (60 PIs, 14 in UOA5) networks were established across MSD and MPLS, and both include
UOA5 researchers in their cross-disciplinary communities. Oxford Immunology was essential in
coordinating parts of our rapid response to COVID-19. The networks each have a research facilitator
to enable communication, collaboration, manage pump-priming funds and organise events. UOA5
involvement spans structural and computational immunology, infection, vaccines (ICS-20FLU) and
metabolic processes.

We also encourage our scientists to collaborate more broadly with scientists in the UK and abroad.
63% of papers published by our submitted researchers during the REF period had co-authors outside
the UK and a further 15% had UK collaborators beyond Oxford (SciVal, Jan 2021). Some of the
major collaborations we have supported were highlighted in the description of our Research Groups
(Section 1.3) We encourage external interaction, in part, by organising themed groups and meetings
and by encouraging our research facilities to drive collaborations with external scientists and
research bodies. Some examples of wider collaborations initiated in the current REF period are
described below.

   •   The Oxford Parkinson’s Disease Centre (OPDC) forged links with several external
       neurodegenerative disease consortia and Wade-Martins heads a major EU StemBANCC (a
       €50M EU IMI Consortium) work-package to use stem cells for drug discovery in this area.
       He also leads the Dementias Platform UK Stem Cell Network, an £8M collaborative
       programme (involving seven UK Universities, AZ and GSK) to exploit iPSCs for dementia
       research. These collaborations have generated important insights into the fundamental
       pathology of neurological diseases—e.g. tracking the movement of dopaminergic neurons

                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       (Dodson et al., PNAS, 2016), and the underlying mechanisms of their loss in disease
       (Benkert et al., Nat. Comm., 2020).

   •   The Livestock, Environment and People (LEAP) initiative was initially established by
       researchers in UOA5 (Godfray) and UOA2 (Jebb) who organised a series of conferences in
       Oxford to explore the health and environmental impact of global animal food consumption. It
       is now a global research partnership with the International Food Policy Research Institute,
       The Nature Conservancy and the supermarket Sainsbury’s with research funding (~£5.5M in
       total) from the Oxford Martin School, Wellcome and the EAT-Lancet Commission on Food,
       Planet and Health. This collaboration has led to several important publications, most recently
       on methods for managing nitrogen to restore water quality in China (Yu et al., Nature, 2019).

   •   The Oxford Rare Diseases Initiative (Davies, Wood, Platt, Robins) brings together ~250
       Oxford scientists working on rare diseases that affect ~350 million people globally. This
       consortium led to the establishment in 2019 of the Oxford-Harrington Rare Disease Centre,
       a formal partnership with University Hospitals in Cleveland (USA) with a mission to combine
       the two Centres’ strengths to deliver new treatments for rare diseases.

   •   Our broad strength in evolutionary biology, biodiversity and genomics led to our researchers
       (Holland, Lewis and Richards) becoming major investigators in the Wellcome funded Darwin
       Tree of Life Project (£9.4M), a collaboration involving several partners—e.g. Edinburgh,
       EMBL, The Natural History Museum, and Royal Botanic Gardens—utilising the facilities at
       the Sanger Centre (Cambridge) to sequence the genomes of all 60,000 eukaryotic organisms
       in the UK and Ireland. The upgrading of our facilities at Wytham Wood (Section 1.3, Group
       9) was central to this project.

   •   The Micron facility collaborated with Diamond to build the first Cryo-SIM system on an X-
       Ray beamline (Kounatidis et al., Cell, 2020) and with Yale, EMBL and Cambridge to produce
       a 4pi super-resolution microscope incorporating adaptive optics, six of which have now been
       installed in labs worldwide. Micron is an active member of the UK Bioimaging network and is
       a founder of the European Super-Resolution Developers Network, involving researchers from
       over 30 European institutions. The COSMIC Facility initiated a collaboration with Monash
       University (Australia) to develop revolutionary computational methods that allow the online,
       real-time, processing of CryoEM data (Ceasar et al., J. Struct. Biol., 2020). The team have
       so far organised five workshops, training more than 300 researchers worldwide. Our MBS
       Facility is a founding member of the international ARBRE-MOBIEU network of biophysical
       facilities that provides crucial benchmarking of new biophysical techniques.

4.2 Interactions with research users and beneficiaries
One of the ways in which we aim to maximise the impact of our research is by establishing effective
relationships with key users and beneficiaries. We do this, in part, by providing an extensive support
infrastructure to help our scientists engage with commercial and public bodies through, for example,
our Business Partnerships Office, our Translational Research Office and the Oxford Policy
Engagement Network (OPEN) (Sections 1.2 and 1.5). Through such interactions many of our
scientists are actively engaged with various public bodies (Section 4.3.2). 6.7% of all papers
published by our submitted researchers had co-authors from a commercial laboratory (SciVal, Jan
2021).

In addition, we expect our research facilities to act as technology hubs to drive such interactions,
and many have done so. For example: (1) building on their relationship with Micron, Zeiss are now
partnering with the IDRM to establish a Centre of Excellence to test their newest equipment and to
fund DPhil students to work on microscope development; (2) the James Martin Stem Cell Facility
has formed partnerships with Roche, Eli Lilly and Janssen to establish patient-derived cell-lines to
help tackle disease using the facilities human iPSC technologies and expertise; (3) the Molecular
Biophysics Suite (MBS) collaborates with several commercial partners on instrument development
(e.g. Red Shift Bio on IR spectroscopy and Malvern Panalytical on Differential Scanning

                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Calorimetry). All these interactions impact the economy (by leveraging our research expertise to
generate commercial benefits) and also enrich our research environment (providing our scientists
with enhanced access to new research technologies and reagents).


4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
4.3.1 Contributions of our Spin-out Companies.
One direct way that academics can contribute to the economy and society is by commercialising
their work: this supports jobs and economic activity, and the companies can generate outcomes
that are beneficial to society. Here, we summarise the activity of some of the twelve companies spun-
out of UOA5 during the current REF period that are not in our Impact Case Studies. Several illustrate
the frequency of our collaborations across disciplines and UOAs.

 • Evox Therapeutics. Founded in 2016 by El-Andaloussi, Lundin (both UOA5) and Wood (UOA1,
   genetics), the company develops extracellular vesicle-based therapeutics. It raised £10M from
   OSI and then £46M from US investors. In 2020 Evox announced major partnerships with Takeda
   and Lilly, worth up to $0.8 billion and $1.2 billion in upfront, development, and commercial
   milestone payments, respectively. The company employs ~95 people at the Oxford Science
   Park, with their first phase I clinical trial scheduled for 2021.
 • SpyBiotech. Founded in 2017 by Howarth with Draper, Biswas and Jin (UOA1), the company
   harnesses a novel technology for protein assembly to transform the speed and efficacy of
   vaccine production. The company has raised >£10M and employs 9 people. It is currently
   conducting phase I/II clinical trials for a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine and is preparing to enter phase I
   trials for cytomegalovirus (CMV), a major cause of deafness and blindness.
 • Circadian Therapeutics. Founded in 2016 by
   Vasudevan (UOA5), Foster and Jagannath
   (UOA4), the company exploits the identification
   by Vasudevan of potent modulators of circadian        Setting up a spin-out company
   rhythms to potentially treat patients suffering       “I came to Oxford as a post-doc to
   from certain sleeping disorders. The company          work on transcriptional regulation.
   raised £7.5M and is conducting a Phase Ib trial       After a chance meeting in College
   in partnership with the Blind Veterans UK             between my PI and a Professor from
   charity, a collaboration already generating           Engineering I started working on an
   benefits for patients and carers (Section 4.3.3).     approach to merge drops in tubes and
                                                         to transfer material between them. We
 • Pepgen. Founded in 2018 by Godfrey, Wood              realised that these techniques offered
   (UOA1, genetics)          and Gait (Cambridge),       a unique and massively simplified
   Pepgen develops peptide entities for delivery of      approach to derive microfluidic
   therapeutic         oligonucleotides      targeting   architectures that had many benefits
   neuromuscular diseases. It raised £5M from            over existing technologies.
   OSI, and then a further £37M to support               Setting up a company to exploit our
   development of two lead clinical programs for         research was pretty complicated,
   Duchenne muscular dystrophy and myotonic              especially for novices like us, so the
   dystrophy type I—the first of which is expecting      infrastructure and support that OUI and
   clinical trial authorisation in 2022. The company     OSI provided was crucial. I particularly
   is currently based in the BioEscalator, and           liked how they arranged meetings with
   employs 10 people.                                    other companies that were at similar
 • iotaSciences. Founded in 2016 by Cook,                stages. These discussions gave me
   Feuerborn (UOA5) and Walsh (UOA12) who                the confidence that we were doing the
   realised that because gravity becomes irrelevant      right things.”
   at the microscale (e.g. raindrops on window           Alex Feuerborn,
   panes), the solid surfaces in conventional            Chief Scientific Officer, iotaSciences.
   microfluidic chambers could be replaced by fluid
   walls made with an immiscible liquid. The
   company has raised £9M and employs 17 people.

                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Animal Dynamics. Founded in 2015 by Thomas, the company exploits his research in
   Evolutionary Biomechanics, with initial projects including the Skeeter flapping winged dragonfly-
   drone based on the understanding of insect flight aerodynamics, stability and control. The
   company has raised £19M and has 60 employees.
 • MOA Technology. Founded by Dolan in 2017 to develop next generation herbicides. Like
   antibiotics, the over-use of herbicides has led to the emergence of epidemic-levels of herbicide-
   resistance that threaten global agriculture. Dolan developed technology to discover new
   herbicides and identify their targets. The company is located in the BioEscalator and has raised
   $16M. Field trials with their first herbicides began in 2020.
 • Zegami. Founded in 2016 by Taylor and Noble, Zegami is an AI enabled image analysis platform
   for high throughput imaging and visualisation. The company raised £6.5M and employs 15
   people, focused on biomedical imaging and several applications including agriculture, human
   resource management and sports analytics.


4.3.2 Contributions to public health and policy
Many of our researchers are leaders in their field and so contribute to the economy and to society
by sitting on panels that advise governments and NGOs. Prominent examples include: McLean
(Chief Scientific Advisor to the MoD); Godfray (Chair, DEFRA Science Advisory Council); Macdonald
(Chair, Natural England’s Science Advisory Committee); Willis (Natural Capital Committee, advising
the UK Government on conservation); Langdale (authored the UK Plant Science Research Strategy,
2020); Cox (advisor to the All Party Parliamentary Group for Longevity); Bonsall (EU Policy Advisor
on Genetic Modifications; House of Lords Science Advisor); Milner-Gulland (Sustainability advisor
to governments including UK, Russia, Uganda, Kazakhstan).

Several of our Research Groups are focused on areas that can directly benefit public health and
policy. For example, the Infection, Immunity and Epidemiology Group has a cross-Divisional
Pandemic Genomics subtheme (including Dye, Faria, McLean and Pybus from UOA5) supported
by the Oxford Martin School [IES 2.6]. In 2016 this helped establish Zika in Brazil Real-time
Analysis (ZiBRA), an international collaboration between Oxford, Birmingham, Public Health
England and the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Building on ZiBRA’s success, the Brazil-UK Centre for
(arbo)virus discovery, diagnosis, genomics and epidemiology (CADDE) was established in 2019.
The Centre’s work is relevant to any pathogen, and it generated the first genome and phylogenetic
analysis of COVID-19 in S America/Brazil—establishing the multiple routes of COVID-19 import into
Brazil (Candido et al., Science, 2020). Our Pandemic Genomics group have also been part of
international collaborations that provided important insights into recent outbreaks of Ebola (Dudas
et al., Nature, 2017) and Yellow Fever (Faria et al., Science, 2018).

This concentration of expertise and support put our researchers in an excellent position to help
understand the spread of COVID-19, leading to a slew of high impact papers (an article about the
preprint for one paper was read over 200 million times), and a string of invitations to serve as expert
advisors to WHO and various governments (including the UK and China). For example, McLean


   The ZiBRA project
   In 2016, Faria (UOA5) and Loman (Birmingham) led a mobile laboratory that travelled 2,000
   km across Brazil, sequencing over a thousand samples and designing new genomic protocols
   that elucidated the drivers of virus spread and guided the implementation of control measures
   in the Americas (Faria et al., Nature, 2017). Between Jun 2016 and Nov 2019, ZiBRA
   generated 77% of all the genomic data for Zika virus in Brazil, which was directly shared with
   local laboratories, the Brazilian Ministry of Health, the Pan American Health Organization
   (PAHO) and the WHO. The ZiBRA project also trained nearly 220 undergraduate and
   graduate students from LMICs in new technologies for outbreak preparedness and genomic
   surveillance—including 50 from public health laboratories across Brazil and Angola.


                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
was appointed the UK Government’s Deputy Chief Science Advisor for COVID-19, and Dye is
leading the work of a UK-wide group of scientists to set out the facts about COVID-19 on the UKRI
website, and advises the Chinese Centre for Disease Control.


4.3.3 Supporting new routes to economic and social impact
We give our research staff the freedom to explore new pathways to social impact, often providing
financial and administrative support. Here we provide two examples that illustrate some of the
different ways our staff have generated such impact.
•   Lindsay Turnbull received £20k and administrative           International awareness
    and event support (including from college alumni)           “The President of the Seychelles,
    to lead the Aldabra Atoll Clean-up project,                 Danny Faure, shocked the leaders
    following zoological research there. Her team               of the G7 nations with photographs
    removed 26 tonnes of plastic from this UNESCO               of the damage being done to the
    World Heritage Site, carefully quantifying its              island nation’s Aldabra atoll by
    amount and distribution. The project was broadcast          plastic pollution. …The leaders of
    live on Sky News and had a lasting impact, with             the G7 agreed that President Faure
    new funding flowing into the Seychelles for rubbish         had graphically made his point.
    collection, and a major German company using                Faure was also invited to a special
    Turnbull’s data to investigate new ways to recycle.         session on oceans at the G7 summit
    As a result of the project the Seychelles                   by Canadian Prime Minister Justin
    Government has taken a lead in calling for                  Trudeau.”
    worldwide action and signed up to additional                Seychelles News Agency, 2018
    measures to reduce maritime pollution.

•   More than half of completely blind patients suffer a
    disorder in which their biological clock fails to
                                                           Impact for blind veterans
    synchronize to a 24-hour day. These patients are
                                                           “This research has immediately
    severely sleep deprived and often socially isolated
                                                           informed care pathways for our
    and depressed. Sri Vasudevan and his company
                                                           Veterans and their Families and the
    Circadian Therapeutics develop drugs to treat
                                                           initial feedback from members has
    sleep disorders, and together they established a
                                                           been overwhelmingly positive. This
    close relationship with a key patient group, Blind
                                                           work builds on existing strands of
    Veterans UK (BVUK) – working with them to
                                                           work within BVUK and will influence
    develop screening methodologies and to educate
                                                           current policies and programmes
    an initial group of 165 blind veterans and their
                                                           around blind veteran’s wellbeing”.
    carers. These interventions are already
                                                           CSO, Blind Veterans UK.
    generating demonstrable quality of life
    improvements for both patients and carers (e.g.
    alternative strategies for synchronising biological
    clocks), even before any drug efficacy has been established.

4.4 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
Using our research to engage with the wider public is an important strategic goal (Section 1.2, Aim
6). We broadly take two approaches: 1) Top Down—where we both develop and take advantage of
the comprehensive institutional infrastructure that supports engagement (see below and IET); (2)
Bottom-Up—where we encourage our staff to develop their own initiatives and allow them the time
and freedom to do so. Here we describe some of the ways in which we have encouraged and
supported these activities.
    •   Our researchers have significant PER support: from the University [IES 2.2], the Divisions
        (both of which have dedicated PER Facilitators) and Departments (five of which have PER
        Officers). This support provides access to funding, training and extensive opportunities for
        staff interested to get involved in a range of activities that best suits their interests and skills
        (e.g. visiting schools, making videos, dialogue with the public).


                                                                                                  Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   We benefit from hosting the University of Oxford Academic Champion for PER (Alison
       Woollard). She is responsible for developing and coordinating overall PER strategy, for
       example leading discussions with UKRI about ‘pathways to impact’ in grant applications. She
       also led Oxford’s successful bid (£1.25M) to Wellcome, becoming the only approved single
       institutional centre for their ‘Enriching Engagement’ pilot. This has funded two projects in
       UOA5: “Genomic Detectives” (Maiden, £49K: a citizen science project that enlists the general
       public to characterise and curate genomic data) and “Dynamic Origins” (Srinivas, £30K: a
       collaboration with a choreographer to visualise embryonic development).
   •   Our researchers engage with the public through the media. Alison Woollard delivered
       the prestigious Royal Institution Christmas Lectures on the BBC in 2013, on the impact
       of developmental biology and genetics on the past, present and future of humankind. The
       programmes reached >2M viewers and led to >80 public engagement events, from local
       school visits to the Life Scientific on BBC Radio 4 and the Chelsea Flower Show (2019). John
       Parrington has written two popular science books: The Deeper Genome (2015), and
       Redesigning Life (2016), which has been translated into Chinese, Japanese, and Arabic. He
       has sold >10,000 books, and is a regular speaker at public forums (e.g. The Cheltenham
       Science Festival and The Hay-on-Wye Literary Festival), and at public policy conferences
       for specific audiences (e.g. The Inter-American Development Bank Conference on Gene
       Editing).
   •   We engage with the over 3M visitors per year to the University’s Gardens, Libraries and
       Museums (GLAM). Our researchers work closely with GLAM to inform and inspire diverse
       communities, ranging from local schoolchildren to international tourists. UOA5-led highlights
       include The Bacterial World (2018), which attracted 174,805 visitors and was accompanied
       by events ranging from stand-up comedy to touch tours for blind and partially sighted visitors;
       and First Animals (2019) which attracted 161,511 visitors to learn about the evolution of
       animals (so popular that its initial 6 month run was extended to 15 months).
   •   We support digital engagement. For example, we generated 17 videos during the current
       REF period on themes ranging from elephant conservation to new treatments for dementia
       (>62,000 views). The animations are accompanied by teaching resources for Key Stage 3, 4
       and 5. UOA5 researchers have also worked with partners to generate digital resources
       appropriate for the target audience. Diogo Verissimo collaborated with a leading West African
       pop star to produce a music video to encourage local populations in Sao Tome e Principe to
       stop consuming turtle meat.
   •   Our researchers work with artists to engage with new audiences. In 2017, inspired by
       Frances Ashcroft’s work on ion channels, the award-winning production company
       Motionhouse developed the multi-media show “Charge” about the movement of electricity
       through the human body. Ashcroft advised the company and video specialists, and
       contributed an explanation of the science behind the show for the programme and website.
       The show toured the UK and Europe to enthusiastic reviews (e.g. “Utterly mesmerizing
       performance…honestly one of the best things I’ve seen on stage.” BBC Radio Manchester).
       The show has been seen by over 22,000 people.


4.5 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
Several of our contributions are described elsewhere, e.g. how we train and support the next
generation of researchers (Section 2.2), have invested in infrastructure to promote collaboration
between different disciplines (Section 3.2 and 3.3), promote national and international networks and
partnerships (Section 3.6 and 4.1), and review papers and grants and serve on various committees
(Section 4.6, below).

A distinctive way in which we also contribute to sustainability is through our ability to strategically
invest in important, but vulnerable, areas of research. Our size and resources allow us to help
ensure that specialist skills in some of these areas are not lost. For example, in taxonomy a paucity
of funding has created challenges in continuing teaching and research in this area. Our long-term
view and allocation of internal funding enabled our researchers to develop tools and methodologies

                                                                                              Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and helped ensure the survival of the subject in the UK. This investment allowed the development
of the Botanical Research and Herbarium Management System (BRAHMS) (Filer, Harris), which has
now been adopted in >80 countries and is having a major impact in preserving global plant
biodiversity and in species conservation [ICS: 07BRAHMS]. A second example is in research on
non-human primates and ferrets, which are supported at only one other UK University. Our
Biomedical Science Building provides state-of-the-art housing and veterinary care for these animals,
enabling, for example, important work on auditory sensing (Bajo et al, Nat. Comm., 2019; Gaucher
et al., eLife, 2020).

Our support for interdisciplinary research is enshrined in several of our strategic aims (Section
1.2) and has been exemplified in many of our most significant achievements such as our investments
to establish new interdisciplinary research hubs (Section 3.1), and in our support for multidisciplinary
research themes and networks (Sections 4.1). Our responsiveness to national and international
priorities and initiatives is demonstrated in Section 4.8 below, where we use our response to the
COVID-19 crisis to illustrate some of the ways we have contributed, including interdisciplinary
technology development; and also by our contributions to public health (Section 4.3.2) [ICS:
18EPIDEM, 20FLU].



4.6 Wider influence, contributions and recognition
Perhaps one of the best indicators of our influence in the biological sciences is the large proportion
of our staff who review papers and grants and sit on Advisory Boards. Almost all (>95%) of our
research faculty served as peer reviewers for journals, with 57 serving as Editorial Board
members and 12 as Editors-in-Chief. More than 70 of our staff sat on grant awarding committees,
mainly for UKRI and the major UOA5 charity funding bodies but also for several international funding
agencies such as the ERC. More than 40 of our staff sit on Advisory Boards for Research
Councils and biomedical charities in the UK, Europe, USA, Africa and China, and for NGOs such as
WHO and UNITAID, and also for large international companies such as Oracle and GSK. More than
30 of our staff serve as advisors to Governments, serving on or giving advice to committees
(Section 4.3.2) with, for example, important roles in SAGE, NERVTAG and SPI-M during the COVID-
19 crisis.

The contributions of several of our researchers has been recognised during this REF period with the
award of a Knighthood to Charles Godfray (2016), and we are particularly proud that several of
our female staff have been similarly recognised, with the award of DBE to Fran Ashcroft (2015)
and Angela McLean (2018) and CBE to Marian Dawkins (2014), Jane Langdale (2018) and
Kathy Willis (2018).

Our research has been recognised with the award of prestigious national and international Prizes
to more than 40 of our staff, including:
   • Robertson – Royal Medal (2018)
   • Nasmyth, Breakthrough Prize (2018).
   • Miesenboeck, Shaw Prize in Life Sciences and Medicine (2020); Heinrich Wieland Prize
       (2015); Warren Alpert Foundation Prize (2019).
   • Davies, Biochemical Society Centenary Award (2020); Muscular Dystrophy Scientist of the
       Year (2015); William Allen Award (2015).
   • Klose, Royal Society Award (2015).
   • Freeman, Novartis Medal (2015)
   • Ashcroft, Jacobaeus Prize (2014); Renold Prize (2015); Jacob Henle Medal (2019),
   • Sheldon, EO Wilson Award (2018); Linnean Medal (2020)
   • Holland, Darwin Medal (2019)
   • King, Leverhulme Prize (2018); Linnean Bicentenary Medal (2020)
   • Fodor, AstraZeneca award (2019)
   • Pybus, Mary Lyon Medal (2019)



                                                                                               Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Furthermore, 44 of our staff were elected to learned Societies in the UK and abroad, including:
   • Berks, King, Langdale, Miesenboeck and Parekh elected FRS
   • Fodor, Freeman, Lea, Platt, Raff and Robertson elected FMedSci
   • Akiyoshi, Kleanthous, Somogyi, Tang, Waddell and West elected to EMBO
   • McLean, Miesenboeck, Molnar, Platt, Poole and Sheldon elected to Academia Europea

More than 50 of our staff have been invited to give Keynote addresses or to Chair national and
international conferences, such as the Croonian Lecture at the Royal Society (Davies, 2019) and
Michael Brownlee Lecture at Harvard Medical School (Ashcroft, 2017).

Several of our junior faculty have won awards e.g. Akiyoshi, Biochemical Society Early Career
Research Award (2016); De Val, Werner Risau Early Career Award (2017); Elliot, British
Crystallographic Society, Early Career Prize (2019); Vasilieva, British Society for Cell Biology,
Women in Cell Biology Award (2016).

Our collaborative training of PGR students has been recognised by the award of DTP status
and funding to a number of interdisciplinary programmes relevant to UOA5 that involve researchers
from multiple UOAs or institutions (Table 1, Section 2.2.1). Our Wellcome DTP in Structural
Biology, for example, is a collaboration with researchers in UOA1 and at the Rosalind Franklin
Institute, while the Computational Discovery DTP, with one of its three major themes (Advanced
Molecular Simulations) run by Biggin (UOA5), is in collaboration with scientists at IBM. The
Biomedical Imaging Centre for Doctoral Training is a collaboration with Nottingham University
that supports 12 students per year funded by the EPSRC and MRC. It is primarily focused on medical
imaging (and thus not listed for UOA5 in Section 2.2.1), but all these students attend the week-long
microscopy course run by Micron, and perform a week-long project building a microscope.


4.7 Reproducible Research
We are keen to encourage best practice in undertaking reproducible research. In Section 1.6.3 we
set out the importance we place on ensuring research is reproducible, with two examples. Although
none of our submitted outputs are focused on reproducing the findings of key papers in their field,
many support and extend the findings of such papers. We encourage the use of open-source
software and standard formats: for example, the Micron facility provides access to the OME database
for analysis, cataloguing and long-term storage of images, benefitting from the expertise of the
OMERO consortium of universities, research labs, industry and developers.

We have also pursued this aim more widely: for example, William James is a leader in the field of
iPSCs, for which several companies sell “defined” culture media whose composition is proprietary
and hence impedes reproducibility. He suspected that some of these media contain anti-viral and
anti-inflammatory agents, and we supported his efforts to obtain full public disclosure (including
providing legal advice). In 2019 he approached the Director of the Wellcome Trust, and this issue
has been taken up by Wellcome’s Open Science mission, by UKRN and by journals such as the
Lancet and eLife.


4.8 Responding to national and international priorities.
Our large size, flexible multidisciplinary structure, and collaborative ethos allows us to respond
rapidly and effectively to national and international priorities and initiatives. In this final section we
illustrate how these characteristics have allowed UOA5 researchers, often working closely with
colleagues in other UOAs and beyond, to respond to the COVID-19 crisis.

Early on in the crisis the University established a COVID-19 Research Response Fund (total £8.2M,
funding 10 projects led by UOA5 investigators, £497k). This provided funding to rapidly establish the
SARS-CoV-2 Containment-Level 3 Core Facility (SCCF) (lead by James, the academic lead in
our iPS cell facility, Section 3.2.3). The SCCF served as an initial platform for all of Oxford’s cellular

                                                                                                 Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
work on SARS-CoV-2, and was where the efficacy of the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine in raising
an immune response was first demonstrated in early Phase I/II trails. Crucially, the SCCF rapidly
trained an initial group of 12 Oxford scientists from across the University in the methods for growing
and handling the virus. These scientists established several other CL3 SARS-CoV-2 facilities across
the University, dramatically expanding capacity. The SCCF currently works with both commercial
partners (e.g. Biotheous, a Chinese biotech company that is testing the efficacy of viral
neutralising agents), and with >15 different groups across the University on various aspects of
SARS-CoV-2 biology, e.g. deciphering the structural basis of antibody neutralization of the
virus in collaboration with researchers at the Rosalind Franklin Institute and Harwell, e.g. Naismith
& Stuart [UOA1]; Huo et al., Nat. Struct. Mol. Biol., 2020; Zhou et al., Nat. Struct. Mol. Biol., 2020).

The SCCF’s work in screening new antivirals (led by Zitzmann) is a particularly impressive
example of how UOA5 researchers have worked at speed and at scale as part of an international
collaboration involving more than 400 researchers to develop new potential anti-SARS-CoV-2
therapeutics (The Covid Moonshoot Consortium, bioRxiv, 2020 – not to be confused with the UK
Government’s Moonshot plans for rapid testing for the virus). Von Delft (UOA1) initially solved the
structure of the main SARS-CoV-2 protease, and computationally generated a large number of
chemical ‘fragments’ that should bind to the protein. Using a crowdsourcing model, medicinal
chemists from Oxford and around the world were able to design compounds that should bind to the
protein, and AI screening was used to identify those that could be synthesised most quickly. The
best candidates were then synthesised in collaboration with industrial partners in Ukraine (working
at cost and free from IP). These chemicals were tested for activity against the purified protein by
Schofield (UOA8) and several of the most promising were then tested in cell assays by Zitzmann
(UOA5) and her team. Working with the NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), the
COVID Moonshot team made all their data openly available (sarscov2.assaytracker.net/). By July
2020, Zitzmann and her team had tested ~100 drugs (from Moonshot and other sources) and this
data has been used to select drugs for clinical trials by the UK Covid-19 Committee (COG-UK).

Meanwhile, the close relationship between the Micron bioimaging facility and Olympus led to the
company lending Micron a new super-resolution spinning disc microscope system (SoRa) at the start
of the pandemic to allow, to our knowledge, the only super-resolution analysis of SARS-CoV-2
virus behaviour in cells. This work, led by Davis and Costello (UOA5), and in collaboration with
McKeating (UOA1), and Agrannof (Brighton Hospital Trust) led to a new paradigm for SARS-CoV-2
virus detection at the single molecule level (Lee et al., submitted) and to important discoveries about
the effect of hypoxia on the virus (in collaboration with Ratcliffe, UOA1) (Wing et al., submitted).
Micron also quickly moved its Super-resolution NanoImager system (Section 3.3.1) to Oxford’s JR
Hospital at the start of the pandemic, where it was instrumental in developing a new method for virus
detection and identification using a convolutional neural network to distinguish between microscope
images of different viruses. This method has great potential, as it can achieve labelling, imaging and
virus identification in less than 5 minutes, and it can differentiate SARS-CoV-2 from influenza and
other seasonal human coronaviruses with high accuracy (Davis [UOA5], Kapanidis [UOA9] and
Stoesser [UOA1]; Shiaelis et al., medRxiv, 2020).




                                                                                               Page 36
