Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU)

  Unit of Assessment: 31 – Theology and Religious Studies

  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  This return to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 31 is the first submission made by the Theology
  department at BGU and reflects its growth and maturity as a research provider. There has
  been significant recruitment of staff during the current REF cycle including a Professor
  (Astley), a Visiting Professor (Francis), a Senior Post-Doctoral Research Fellow (ap Siôn),
  a British Academy funded Post-Doctoral Fellowship (Curiello) and a Research Fellow
  (Eccles) – as well as two promotions to Reader (Cunningham and ap Siôn). The University
  also launched the Edward Bailey Centre for the Study of Implicit Religion in 2019 and the
  Theology department recruited its first research degree candidates.

  1.1 Context and structure

  1.1.1 Departmental context

  At BGU, the Theology department contributes to the Arts and Humanities portfolio area within a
  single Faculty structure. Until 2018 it was part of a School of Humanities (SoH) that facilitated
  cross-disciplinary research and knowledge exchange projects, particularly with History, but
  also with Archaeology, Drama, English and Geography. The humanities group of subjects
  are particularly research active at BGU, containing three of the institution’s five submissions
  for REF 2021. In addition to Theology, returns are being made to UoA 27 – English
  Language and Literature and to UoA 28 – History.

  1.1.2 Subject structure

  Theology is taught at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It is both academic and
  applied in its culture, organisation and orientation, and with a staff team and set of
  programmes spanning Philosophy, Religious Studies and Ethics, as well as Theology. The
  subject area’s programmes are currently led by the Programme Leader for Theology
  (Cunningham).

  Theology became more fully established at BGU when it progressed from existing as a
  joint-honours-only contribution, launching its first single honours degree in 2012. The
  expanded Theology offer incorporated some of the applied elements of an undergraduate
  degree in Theology and Education, available until 2014. This Theology provision placed
  particular emphasis on external placement work, public engagement, and practical and
  professional skills. Theology at BGU embarked upon a significant new direction of growth
  with the introduction of a degree in Theology, Philosophy and Ethics in 2019.

  Other undergraduate combinations with Theology have existed with English, History,
  Education Studies as well as Special Educational Needs and Inclusion. A strong element
  across undergraduate as well as postgraduate teaching is the promotion and embedding of
  opportunities to develop student engagement with research and co-production of
  knowledge. The MA programme in Theology and Religious Studies was launched in 2014.

  Theology student numbers have remained steady since 2014 but there has been an
  important shift of emphasis reflected in the emergence of a postgraduate community.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 1: Theology student numbers (FTE)

                         UG                   UG         PGT      PGR       Total
                  (single honours)     (joint honours)
    2013-14              27                   14           -        -         41
    2019-20              15                   14          10       3.5        42

  The staff team has been expanded in its number and scope with a diverse composition to
  support the interdisciplinary and applied academic nature of its teaching, research and
  knowledge exchange (KE) activities (see section 2.1).

  1.2 Research and impact strategy

  The Theology department’s submission to REF 2021 is its first return to the national
  research assessment exercise, though Cunningham was returned to REF 2014 in UoA 30
  – History. The research and impact strategy for REF 2021 has been informed by both
  institutional and department-specific drivers, motivations, and aspirations. The department
  has set out to achieve a strong submission as part of its general ambition for growth and
  enhancement across the breadth of its research, KE and teaching activities. The 2021
  submission for Theology reflects a holistic, inclusive and integrating approach reflecting the
  broad dimensions of the department’s activity.

  The Theology department’s research and impact strategy for the 2014-20 cycle has
  therefore comprised:
  • A critical mass of staff to be submitted to REF 2021
  • Achieving a quality profile that includes 3* and 4* outputs
  • Committing explicitly to the department’s public engagement activity
  • Establishing a significant and sustainable research income base
  • Enhancing its research and impact activity to support a growing and diverse UG / PGT
      student base
  • Establishing a new postgraduate research student community.

  The scale of the department’s staffing is beneficial to the development of the productivity,
  culture and identity of the team, and has facilitated the achievement of strategic direction
  through collaboration, collective activity, communication, and mutual support (see Section 2.1).
  The research themes of creativity, culture and society provide a unifying framework for the
  research and knowledge exchange activities of all colleagues, for example:
  • Empirical approaches to theology, focusing mainly on qualitative methods applied to
      community-related (church) and school-related contexts (ap Siôn),
  • Religious and spiritual experiences, Christian formation and ‘ordinary theology’ (Astley),
  • Medieval theology and science (Cunningham),
  • Neoplatonic legacy in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance (Curiello),
  • Empirical theology, specialising in using quantitative techniques to illuminate matters of
      theological concern (Eccles)
  • Implicit religion in contemporary society with a specialisation in punk and anarchist
      subcultures (Stewart).

  1.2.1 Output

  The Theology department sought to develop a strong quality profile for its research outputs
  with an ambition to establish a critical mass of international excellent and world-leading work.
  This reflects the corporate ambition of BGU as well as the Theology department to build upon
  the previous research activity. The strategy for Theology was to increase the staff base to allow
  for the publication of the full set of quality profiles. The production and selection of Theology

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  outputs for REF 2021 was intended to generate a significant proportion of potential 3* and 4*
  outputs, and to eliminate outputs that did not meet a minimum 2* threshold.
  1.2.2 Impact and public theology

  The institution’s strategic objectives of extending its impact and research partnerships is
  expressed very strongly in the work of the Theology department. At the same time, the
  department has risen to the challenge and rewards of impact as a reflection of a national
  disciplinary imperative emerging around the expansion of public theology. This is evident in the
  two impact case studies that are submitted:
  • Promoting and sharing the radical ideas and writings of Robert Grosseteste (c.1167-1253),
      scientist, philosopher and theologian (Cunningham and Curiello)
  • Punk and implicit religion: increasing participation and enhancing public understanding of
      the disadvantaged and marginalised (Stewart).

  The full scope of the Theology department’s impact-focused activities includes the themes and
  projects detailed below.

  •   Robert Grosseteste

  As a medieval scientist and theologian Grosseteste provided an important platform from which
  to engage in the current debate surrounding the relationship between these two fields of
  enquiry. The Ordered Universe Project (OUP) held three symposia per year from 2014-19 at
  each of which there was a well-attended public lecture. Workshops were also held at public
  events such the Cambridge e-Luminate festival in 2019. Cunningham provided numerous
  public lectures to local history groups and to the University of the Third Age. Each year on
  Robert Grosseteste Day there has been a public lecture on a theme relating to Grosseteste.
  The OUP had an entry in the Berlin Light Festival in 2016 on the subject of Grosseteste’s
  cosmology and Cunningham also gave a TEDx talk on Grosseteste in 2017 which is available
  on YouTube.

  Public events about Robert Grosseteste have included a well-attended lecture in Lincoln
  Cathedral Chapter House by Prof Richard Bower (Durham University) about Contested
  Cosmologies in 2015. Dr Mike Huxtable gave a public lecture on Grosseteste’s poem Chateau
  d’Amour at BGU in 2015, and Prof Giles Gasper (Durham University) gave a public lecture on
  Creation and the World Machine at BGU in 2019. Later made available via the Ordered Human
  Project (OHP) website, Bishop David Thomson gave a public lecture entitled, What’s it all for?
  Grosseteste and the Liberal Arts and Education at BGU in 2019.

  •   Implicit Religions

  Implicit Religion is concerned with how people develop true / authentic selves, meaningful
  lives, and undertake decision making when their passion is in areas of what is called the
  secular rather than the religious. Implicit Religion is a set of analytical tools designed to enable
  scholars and members of the public to understand and articulate what matters to them by
  placing the study of religion as one aspect or facet of human behaviour.

  There has been an annual conference for Implicit Religion since 1977 and workshops which
  were initially focused on education and education training have also been held periodically. In
  recent years since Stewart has taken over conference organisation and management, they
  have broadened into areas such as religious literacy through board games, implicit religion in
  popular culture and in particular taking up the issue of representation. A public lecture called
  the Edward Bailey Lecture was developed by Stewart in 2016 and is delivered annually.

  Public events about Implicit Religion during the current REF cycle have included two
  conferences open to and attended by members of the public. The first in 2019 was held at
  BGU, and the second at Monmouth University in New Jersey. The conference at BGU focused
                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  on Implicit Religion and the encounter of ‘other’ bodies with Dr Tim Jenkins (University of
  Cambridge) delivering a public lecture on UFO Encounters, and the Implicit Religion of Official
  Reported Sightings. The New Jersey conference focused on the question Implicit Religion:
  What Might that Be? Dr Elayne Oilphant (New York University) delivered a public lecture on
  The Implicit, the Banal and the Hyper-Visible: Xenophobia and the Inequalities of Public
  Religious Life. Both conferences were streamed live ensuring further access to interested
  members of the public as well as global scholars unable to access the physical location.

  •   Partner working with the St Giles’ Centre

  Through the work of ap Siôn, BGU has supporting the work of the St Giles’ Centre. Based in
  Wrexham, the centre supports learners and teachers of religious education (religion, values
  and ethics) and its parent disciplines. Specifically, the centre provides subject specialist
  advisory support and high-quality free resources and guidance, as well as professional learning
  courses and publications.

  •   Public Events

  Other public-facing events linked to the Punk Scholars Network have become embedded within
  the Theology environment. Stewart has organised the following for the local punk community,
  scholars and interested members of the public:
  - Punk pedagogies (Mansions of the Future, 2019)
  - Punk sexualities (Mansions of the Future, 2019)
  - Punk and the sacred (Mansions of the Future, 2019)
  - Punk aesthetics (Akedo Bar, 2020).

  These involved collaboration with local artists, musicians and performers, members of the
  public, and academics working together to present their ideas in various ways and learning
  from each other to produce art exhibits, panels, presentations, film/documentary screenings,
  live performances.

  •   Student research engagement and co-production of knowledge

  Student involvement in the research process up to co-production is a typical feature of the
  Unit’s activities. The OUP and the OHP both have postgraduate students attached to them. A
  number of postgraduate students have also been supported by internal funding by BGU’s
  Centre for Learning and Teaching, through the Learning and Teaching Investment Fund (LTIF)
  which allowed them to become involved as conference assistants at the 4th International
  Grosseteste Conference at Pembroke College, Oxford. One PhD student (Gammie)
  contributed a chapter to Robert Grosseteste Theories of Education.

  1.2.3 Interdisciplinary research

  The department has been building the scope of its interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
  activity. In part, this reflects the institutional aims to build research capability and capacity.
  However, it has also been driven by the development of collaborations that brought together
  Theology with Philosophy, Modern Science and Education Studies.

  Under a previous organisational structure, the SoH developed an interdisciplinary research
  cluster, the OHP. Established in 2018, it drew upon the expertise and experience of medieval
  scholars in dialogue with modern educationalists to discuss the nature and value of medieval
  educational ideas and practice. Led by Cunningham, the cluster was replaced by a Research
  and Knowledge Exchange Unit (RKEU) in 2019 which provided a sharpened focus for
  Theology and related interdisciplinary activities.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  1.2.4 Income

  The department has aimed to grow its grant capture; this reflects a broader institutional
  aspiration. In the case of the Theology department, the intention was to secure funding from a
  variety of sources, as well as gain grants to support its growing public Theology activities and
  related projects. For the details of the funded projects, see sections 3 and 4 below.

  1.2.5 Doctoral research

  The establishment of a postgraduate researcher community is an element of BGU’s key
  strategic priority to achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers. It also realises a departmental
  ambition to establish a progression pathway from its MA in Theology and Religious Studies to
  doctoral study. Theology was identified as one of four subject fields to receive full institutional
  research degree studentships from 2016. The number of supervisors and supervisions have
  also grown through the current REF cycle (see Section 2).

  1.3 Strategy for post-REF 2021

  The Theology department’s strategy through the next cycle will in part reflect the current
  institutional strategic plan through to 2025. Correspondingly, the department will:
  • Enhance the quality of research outputs
  • Extend impact
  • Grow income
  • Increase doctoral student numbers.
  There has already been an important addition to the staff base to support this ambition with the
  appointment of a Professor of Education and Religion (Stern) whose arrival will help to
  consolidate the interdisciplinary initiatives with colleagues working in education studies.

  In particular, the department identifies the following priorities:

  •   Output

  Staff will increase the level of research and raise the quality profile through an emphasis on the
  production of 3* and 4* outputs.

  •   Public Theology

  Activities will continue to evolve through other projects, for example, the opening of the
  International Robert Grosseteste Study Centre (IRGSC) at BGU in 2019 which provides an
  annual public lecture on Robert Grosseteste Day. This lecture is free and typically well-
  attended by staff, students and the public. The IRGSC runs the International Robert
  Grosseteste Society website and promotes collaborative research into aspects of medieval
  thought. The IRGSC also has a Twitter, Facebook and Instagram account.

  In addition, the department initiated and runs the Robert Grosseteste Associate Award at BGU
  for which Stewart is the Programme Leader. This award provides six lectures per year which
  are based around the thought and work of Grosseteste. The lectures are free and open to all
  staff, students and members of the public. Attendees are invited to submit work that will be
  assessed and lead to the Associate Award. Successful candidates graduate with this award at
  BGU’s annual graduation ceremony.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Section 2. People

  2.1 Staffing strategy and development

  The approach of the Theology department at BGU to staffing has been to increase the number
  of its research-active members through both recruitment and the development and support of
  its staff. Following Cunningham’s promotion to Reader in Ecclesiastical History in 2017, the
  growth of the department gathered momentum in the second half of the current REF cycle. In
  2019 ap Siôn was promoted to Reader in Religions, Humanities and Education, and Astley
  was the appointed as the Alister Hardy Professor of Religious and Spiritual Experience. These
  appointments added to the two Post-doctoral Research Fellows (Curiello, Stewart) and a
  further Independent Researcher Research Associate (Eccles). This was part of a wider
  institutional initiative and investment to establish a new and broader research base.
  Recruitment has also been targeted to support the teaching and learning of programmes with a
  stronger postgraduate emphasis.

  The Theology department is highly research active and has generated a large output pool. It
  also engaged an external peer reviewer to support the open process of output quality
  evaluation and to provide mentoring support in the final stage of the assessment period.

  Table 2: Theology department staff establishment (FTE)

     Submitted        Professor   Reader      Senior         Lecturer /        Doctoral
                                             Lecturer    Fellow/Associate     Supervisors
         4.7             0.3       1.4          0                3                2

  The department is collaborative and cohesive in its culture and identity. This is a benefit
  derived from the scale of the team, and its establishment in a single location with shared
  teaching and public spaces. Staff numbers and physical location have facilitated team
  interaction, communication, exchange, peer support and ethos. Through the former cluster and
  the subsequent RKEU, staff have benefitted from cultivating collaboration, interdisciplinary
  activity, project development, event planning, bid-writing, and mentoring of early and mid-
  career researchers. Cluster and RKEU seminars have presented opportunities for PGR
  students colleagues to present their research and invite external specialists.

  2.2 Postgraduate research

  The development of doctoral provision within the Theology department established itself during
  the current REF period, with external approvals by the validating partner, the University of
  Leicester. Doctoral research projects are typically supervised by disciplinary and
  interdisciplinary teams across the BGU Faculty. The projects during the current REF period are
  all on-going:
  • Grosseteste and the Science of Learning: A critical evaluation of Grosseteste’s pedagogical
       philosophy and its impact in medieval developments in educational theory and practice
       (Foxon)
  • The place of memory’s relationship with sense perception in Robert Grosseteste’s
       epistemology, with a particular focus on his Aristotelian commentaries (Gammie)
  • What is spirituality? A hermeneutic phenomenological exploration of the perceptions of
       adolescent Catholic Confirmation candidates (Gilluly)
  • Business and implicit religion (Heavens)
  • Examining the understanding of ‘tolerance’ as a key British value within religious education
       in England (Jarvill).


                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  2.3 Equality and diversity

  Equality and diversity (E&D) are overseen and reported at institutional level, with UoA-specific
  profiling monitored and evaluated as part of centrally directed REF Equality Impact
  Assessment (EIA).

  The E&D data are reported in summary form in the Institutional Environment Statement, the
  EIA final report, and made available for audit as appropriate. Data are not given in detail in
  BGU’s Unit-level Environment Templates and with full protected characteristics profiling, given
  the relatively small numbers of staff comprising the submission to this UoA.

  Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1 Income

  The Theology department has aimed to grow its research income through greater grant capture
  from Research Council and related bodies, and independent research charities. This has been
  complemented by success in winning competitive internal funding aimed at pump priming or
  student engagement and co-production. The department has been awarded various grants and
  funding to support research and related public impact:

  ap Siôn secured £65,000 from the Welsh Government a project entitled Welsh Pathways
  and Religious Education (2018).

  Cunningham was part of the bid that was awarded £1 million (received by other HEIs) from the
  Arts and Humanities Research Council over three years for the Ordered Universe Project
  (2015). He was also secured funding to support the following projects:
  • £250,000 for a three-year British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship to conduct research
      into Grosseteste’s work on Pseudo-Dionysius (2018)
  • £500 internal research travel grant BGU to visit Trinity College Dublin and Marsh’s Library
      from (2014)
  • £500 from the Society for Medieval Languages and Literature for post-graduate travel
      grants to attend the International Grosseteste Conference at BGU (2014)
  • £1,000 from the Lincoln Record Society for hosting the OUP at Bishop Grosseteste
      University (2015)
  • £2,814 from BGU Learning and Teaching Innovation Fund for post-graduate students to
      attend the 4th International Robert Grosseteste Conference, Oxford University (2017)
  • £1,800 from a Holland Fellowship-Centre for Catholic Studies for residential research at
      Durham University and Durham Cathedral Libraries (2018)
  • £1,200 from the Michael William’s Fellowship-Catholic Record Society for a research visit to
      Maynooth University, Ireland (2019).

  Plater, who does meet expectations for ‘significant responsibility for research’ and is not
  returned in this submission, was awarded:
  • £15,000 secured from All Saints Educational Trust for the Learning About Religion through
      Dialogue study (2020)
  • £4,000 secured (National Institute for Christian Education Research & Canterbury Christ
      Church University) for The Beginning Teacher in the Science/Religion Encounter: Building
      Confidence for an Integrated Vision of Knowledge (2020)
  • £2,000 for start-up funding for the Lincolnshire Religious Education Hub networking group
      (2014).


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Stewart was awarded support for the following research projects:
  • £140,000 from Centre for the Study of Implicit Religion and Contemporary Spirituality
     (CSIRCS) awarded for three-year post-doctoral position at BGU focused on developing
     Implicit Religion research and impact (2018)
  • £1,300 from CSIRCS for research visit to Boston Irish Archives (2018)
  • £1,200 from American Religious Sound Project for fieldwork on capturing sacred sound in
     New York’s punk scene (2018-2019)
  • £1,730 from American Religious Sound Project for fieldwork on capturing sacred sound in
     San Diego’s punk scene and led a workshop to train scholars in working with sound in
     contemporary urban, non-religious settings (2019).

  3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

  The Lincolnshire Collection is a dedicated room within BGU’s main library. It was established in
  the 2008-14 REF cycle as a study space and resource centre to bring together all county-
  related historical material. Its use has developed since through the acquisition of more stock
  through bequests and donations, such as from the Society for Lincolnshire History and
  Archaeology.

  History-related electronic databases have expanded as part of the general expansion of
  resources by the main library, but include collections facilitating PhD research on topics related
  to Robert Grosseteste.

  Established in 2018 with £2.0 million support European Regional Development Fund, BGU’s
  Lincolnshire Open Research and Innovation Centre incorporated the inclusion of a digitisation
  suite to support the capture of large format and cradled historic documents.

  Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Collaborative partnerships and networks

  The Theology department has been involved in several collaborative partnerships projects,
  networks and groups with other institutions and organisations, including interdisciplinary and
  public engagement.

  ap Siôn is a Visiting Research Associate in the Faculty of Theology, University of Pretoria,
  South Africa, and is also a Visiting Professor at Queen’s College, Newfoundland, Canada. She
  is an Honorary Executive Director of the St Mary’s Centre, Wales (a Christian research institute
  rooted that works in the broad fields of religion and education) and has worked collaboratively
  with the St Giles’ Centre, Wrexham, since its inception in 2012.

  Astley is an Honorary Professor in the Department of Theology and Religion, University of
  Durham and Professorial Fellow of St Chad's College. His work includes advising on the
  development of the data collection and processing of narratives of religious and spiritual
  experiences in the Alister Hardy Archive, to make it more suitable for contemporary study. A
  project planning grant has been made available by the Templeton Foundation for this study,
  which will take place in cooperation with researchers at the University of Warwick and Boston
  University, USA.

  Cunningham became a Core Member of the OUP in 2014 and joined medieval historians and
  modern scientists from the following universities: Durham, Oxford, Rome (Tor Vergata), York
  and Georgetown (Washington) and BGU. In addition to the thrice-yearly three-day symposia in
  various national and international locations during 2014-19, it provided public lectures and
  workshops on various aspects of medieval science. The OUP also collaborated with various
  artists to explore the theme of medieval science. In addition, this project worked with the Oxnet
  project which promotes access to higher education in deprived areas. The OUP designed a
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  module based on Robert Grosseteste for use in the Oxnet summer programmes. In 2015 this
  project was nominated for a Times Higher Education Award in the best project category. In
  September 2015 it was awarded an Arts and Humanities Research Council grant worth £1
  million. This funded the Project’s symposia until 2019. The aim is to have translated and edited
  for publication a large part of the works of Robert Grosseteste. Oxford University Press will be
  publishing all outputs.

  Cunningham is also Principal Investigator for the OHP. A subsidiary of the OUP, this
  programme of research currently has a membership of over forty medievalists and
  educationalists from the American University of Beirut, BGU, Durham University and the
  University of Oxford. This project explores the writings of Bishop Robert Grosseteste
  concerning education and it principal aims are to produce and edit a book on the subject and
  promote discussion on medieval education.

  Stewart was approached in 2019 by Tern Television to provide background research for a
  series they had been commissioned to produce by BBC Scotland marking the 50th anniversary
  of The Troubles in Northern Ireland. Her research within Northern Ireland and Irish diaspora
  communities in the UK and USA, as well as her ethnographic work on punks in Northern
  Ireland and Scotland made a significant contribution to the BAFTA Scotland award-winning
  series, The War Next Door: Scotland and the Troubles, that was aired on BBC Scotland.
  Follow-up documentary work on punk research is being explored.

  As the Director of the Edward Bailey Centre for Implicit Religion, in November 2019 Stewart
  launched the formal partnership with the Study of Religion as an Analytical Discipline
  (SORAAAD) – a research centre based at the University of Regina. The partnership will
  oversee the development of annual workshops on qualitative methods and theory within
  religious studies for undergraduate and postgraduate students in the Americas, the UK and
  Ireland. The first of these was scheduled to take place prior to the Implicit Religion Conference
  in June 2020 in Chicago.

  In December 2018 Stewart was invited to attend the Bishop's Palace in Lambert to speak with
  and consult on materials being created by the Church of England in relation to diversity around
  LGBTQAI+ individuals and sexuality. Those materials have not yet been released.

  4.2 Research council/committee membership

  Since 2018, Cunningham is a member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council’s Peer
  Review College.

  Curiello is a member of Société Internationale pour l'Étude de la Philosophie Médiévale and
  Societá Italiana per lo Studio del Pensiero Medievale.

  4.3 Committee membership and leadership of associations and societies

  During the current REF cycle, ap Siôn has been a member of the Wales Association of
  Standing Advisory Councils on Religious Education (Chair in 2014-15), the National Advisory
  Panel for Religious Education, the Inter-European Commission on Church and School
  (Secretary since 2013), and the Network of Psychological Type and Christian Faith (Secretary
  since 2013). She has served on the Board of the RE Council for England and Wales as well as
  the Christian Education Board.

  Cunningham is European Convenor of the International Robert Grosseteste Society, Curiello
  has been the Secretary since 2019.

  Stewart sits on the Implicit Religion steering committee as part of this role, she is also on the
  steering committee for Punk Scholars Network, and the advisory committee for SORAAAD.
                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Plater has been a member of AULRE (Association of University Lecturers in Religion and
  Education) since 2006, and until recently had been a member of the Association of Religious
  Education Inspectors, Advisers and Consultants, also since 2006.

  4.4 Publication editorial positions and reviewing activities

  During the 2014-20 REF period ap Siôn was Managing Editor of Challenging Religious Issues
  / Herio Materion Crefyddol, and an editor of Rural Theology. Astley also served on the editorial
  boards of these journals. ap Siôn was also on the editorial boards for the Journal of Beliefs and
  Values and Research in the Social Scientific Study of Religion.

  Stewart provided peer review of the 2nd and 3rd Volume of Anarchism and Religion for
  Stockholm Press in October 2018 and 2019 respectively. She is a member of the editorial
  board for the Journal of Punk and Post-Punk and for the Global Punk Series at Intellect
  Publishing.

  4.5 Conference and symposium organisation

  In 2014 Cunningham organised the third international three-day conference. Entitled Robert
  Grosseteste and the Pursuit of Religious and Scientific Learning in the Middle-Ages 2014, it
  had delegates from more than ten countries. The proceedings were published by Springer in
  2016.
  Linked to the OUP, Cunningham organised:
  • A symposium at Bishop Grosseteste University in 2015 that bought together an
      international and interdisciplinary group of academics in order to prepare a single text from
      the scientific canon (De artibus liberalibus, Grosseteste’s work on learning and education)
      for translation in an edited volume
  • A one-day conference in 2017 at the Cathedral Centre, Lincoln, to launch the OUP with a
      series of lectures and workshops
  • A symposium at BGU in 2019 that focused on on the translation and editing of four key
      scientific texts: De lineis, De natura locorum, De motu corporali et luce and De motu
      supercelestium.
  In 2018 Cunningham was also part of the organising committee for the fourth International
  Grosseteste Conference at Pembroke College Oxford. A joint venture between the OUP and
  the IRGSC, it took as its theme Grosseteste and the Scientific Imagination.

  Stewart continues to organise two international conferences for Implicit Religion each year, one
  in the UK (May) and the other in the USA (June). The UK conference is entering its 42nd year
  (Stewart has been organising it since 2016); the USA conference was developed and launched
  by Stewart in 2018-19. The proceedings of both being combined into a peer reviewed special
  edition of the Journal of Belief and Values which is guest edited by Stewart (with George
  González and Leslie Francis).

  Stewart organised two international symposia for the Punk Scholars Network - Punk
  Pedagogies and Punk and the Sacred. Held in Lincoln, they were offered free to all and were
  open to the public. Punk Pedagogies is currently under contract with Intellect as part of the
  ‘Global Punk’ series as a peer-reviewed edited collection of which Stewart is a co-editor.

  4.6 Grant/project external peer refereeing/reviewing

  Cunningham has been a general and KE reviewer for the Peer Review College since 2016
  (AHRC and ESRC grants).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Cunningham has been a peer reviewer for the following journals: International Journal of
  Regional and Local History, Church History: Studies in Christianity and Culture, Journal of Irish
  Historical Studies, Lincoln Record Society.



  4.7 Awards, prizes, distinctions and fellowships

  Cunningham has been an elected Fellow of the Royal Historical Society since 2011 and a
  Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy / Advance HE since 2014.

  Curiello was awarded a three-year British Academy Post-doctoral Fellowship in 2019.

  Stewart was awarded Fellowship of the HEA in May 2019 and of the Royal Society for the Arts
  in September 2020.

  4.8 Keynote addresses and public lectures/workshops/performances

  ap Siôn delivered the following invited / keynote lectures:
  • Growing up with beliefs in dialogue: assessing the evidence for the quantitative strand of
     the Young People’s Attitudes to Religious Diversity Project - Conference of the Association
     for University Lecturers in Religious Education, St Mary’s University, Twickenham (2015)
  • Seeing how we see each other: Learning from quantitative research among young people
     in the UK – International Conference on The Abrahamic Religions and Interreligious
     Relations in the Past and Present, University of Navarra, Spain (with Francis, 2016).

  Cunningham was a keynote or guest speaker at:
  • Episcopal personalities and the power of the medieval Bishop – Cardiff University (2015)
  • Medieval Physics at Oxford Conference – St Cross College Oxford (2016)
  • Robert Grosseteste, Lincoln’s Einstein – Historical Association, Lincoln Branch (2016)
  • Berlin Light Festival with light artist Ross Ashton (2016)
  • International Ecumenical Fellowship Conference, Ely (2017)
  • What was the Reformation? A possible Biblical Solution – Lincoln Theological Society
     public lecture (2017)
  • Robert Grosseteste and the Medieval Light Fantastic – TEDX talk (2017)
  • Saving Catholic Grosseteste – part of the Ushaw Lecture Series, Durham University (2018)
  • Robert Grosseteste, Contested Legacies – McGill University, Montreal (2018).
  He was also a guest on the BBC Radio 4 broadcasts:
  • In Our Time, with Melvyn Bragg in the programme on Roger Bacon (2017)
  • The Secret History of Science and Religion (2019).

  Curiello was an invited speaker:
  • Lost in translation. Robert Grosseteste on how to make Pseudo-Dionysius (Un)Intelligible to
     Latins – ERC Funded project (Consolidator Grant 771640), Neoplatonism and Abrahamitic
     Traditions, 9th-16th centuries, University College Dublin (2019).

  Stewart has given invited guest lectures:
  • Implicit Religion and the body - Sarum College, Salisbury, UK (2019, 2020)
  • Post-feminism and popular music for musicians – Middlesex University (2019, 2020).
  Stewart was part of a multi-institutional, international group of scholars running a Sound as
  Religion workshop at the American Academy of Religion Conference in San Diego in 2019, and
  hosted two public events (with Way) on Stories from the She-Punks and on Punk Aesthetics /
  Sexuality (the latter attracting local media interest).



                                                                                            Page 11
