Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 6: Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 The Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences (IBERS) brings together a unique
 assembly of life scientists, state-of-the-art research facilities and collaborative networks, to
 address some of the most significant challenges of the 21st century on sustainable agriculture,
 climate change, one health, and biodiversity. The academic disciplines of agricultural, plant and
 zoological sciences have been taught and researched at Aberystwyth University (AU) since
 1874, and in 2019 we celebrated 100 years of plant breeding. AU therefore has a long history of
 carrying out both the underpinning science and it’s translation to create real world impacts.

 IBERS was created in 2008 with the merger of two departments of AU (Institute of Biological
 Sciences and the Institute of Rural Sciences) with the BBSRC Institute for Grassland &
 Environmental Research (IGER). In REF 2014, IBERS made joint submissions with Bangor
 University via “The Biosciences, Environment and Agriculture Alliance” (BEAA) to both UoA 6
 and UoA 7. Funding for BEAA ran from 2006 to 2015 and established collaborations are still
 ongoing. In REF 2021, IBERS is being returned wholly to UoA 6 as a departmental unit. IBERS
 ambition is to develop research strengths that align with our strategic aims by focusing on the
 four societal challenges of:

    1.   Sustainable agriculture & healthy food.
    2.   Climate change adaptation & mitigation.
    3.   Interconnected animal & human health.
    4.   Exploring & conserving biodiversity.

 In each case, we are creating the expertise, infrastructures and collaborative networks for
 conducting excellent research and delivering impact. IBERS and its research portfolio have
 therefore evolved since the REF 2014 submission particularly in the areas of diet and human
 health, and in animal health. For example, since REF 2014 IBERS expanded to include the
 Department of Sports & Exercise Science (previously submitted to UoA 26) and formed a School
 of Veterinary Science supported by a Veterinary Research Cluster.

 As the largest academic unit in AU, and located within the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences,
 IBERS is fundamental to the delivery of the University research and innovation strategy. The
 Department has benefited from substantial capital investment by the University and through
 national programmes via UKRI, the Welsh European Funding Office (WEFO) and HEFCW.
 These investments ensure the long-term sustainability of IBERS research platforms and our
 ability to attract new research income, staff and PhD students. IBERS has also benefitted from
 the Sêr Cymru programme, a Welsh Government initiative to support research and attract world-
 class talent to Wales. Within the REF 2021 period we have built on our collaborative networks in
 Wales with support from Sêr Cymru, in the UK through participation in two new doctoral training
 centres, and internationally through strategic partnerships to build community resources,
 including for forage grasses, clover, oats and Miscanthus. Since REF 2014 major developments
 strengthening the research environment in IBERS include:

    1. Establishment of the Aberystwyth School of Veterinary Science (the first in Wales) and
       the opening of VetHub and Sêr Cymru Veterinary Research Laboratories to provide
       state-of-the-art immunology and containment level 2 and 3 facilities for working on bovine
       tuberculosis (TB) and other infectious diseases.

    2. Opening of the £40M AberInnovation campus with biorefining, advanced analytical, and
       future food facilities.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Opening of a new, purpose-built seed biobank to curate an internationally important
       collection of over 35,000 accessions of forage grasses, clovers and energy grasses, and
       of a crop seed processing unit to support plant breeding.

    4. Taking on of a new 50-year lease for Trawscoed farm from BBSRC and expanding an
       existing lease to cover 680 ha at the Pwllpeiran Upland Experimental Platform from
       Welsh Government, to continue our pioneering grassland science across a wider range
       of environments.

    5. Participation in two new doctoral training centres (BBSRC FoodBioSystems DTP, and
       UKRI Food Systems CDT) to train the next generation of food and agricultural scientists.

 Research strategy
 IBERS research strategy is to develop the people, facilities, academic networks, and stakeholder
 relationships that creates a vibrant research environment capable of tackling some of the key
 challenges of the 21st century. To do this IBERS research spans fundamental, strategic and
 applied sciences to create a translational research pipeline. Our strategy supports an
 assembling of research expertise that allows us to study from field to fork and human health, and
 from catchment to coast and environmental impacts. IBERS therefore has the research base to
 deliver on its ambition to bring about real-world impacts that deliver benefits to people and
 planet. This has then allowed us to take on key societal challenges spanning sustainable
 agriculture, climate change, animal and human health and biodiversity (Table 1). This builds on
 our REF 2014 aim to convert 21st century grand challenges into sustainable and prosperous
 opportunities for society. We recognise that to tackle such significant problems also requires
 collaboration and IBERS has extended its partnerships both within AU and externally.

 We have progressed our REF 2014 strategy by making successful research funding applications
 to UKRI and EU, and built the AberInnovation Campus (referred in REF 2014 documentation as
 an Innovation and Diffusion Campus) to accelerate the translation of our science. We have
 further implemented our strategy by applying for, and linking, revenue funding to utilise the
 AberInnovation facilities through the BEACON and Future Food projects. AberInnovation is also
 helping us to drive an enhanced knowledge exchange and commercialisation culture within
 IBERS with industry (e.g. Germinal, Terravesta, Nemesis Biotech, and spin-out ARCITEKBio)
 funded scientists now located on campus. We have expanded our bioeconomy research
 including through BEACON (incorporating the Centre for the Bioeconomy) and by being one of
 the founding members of BioPilotsUK. We have delivered on our objective in REF 2014 to
 expand the National Plant Phenomics Centre (NPPC) including by establishing an altitudinal
 challenge gradient at four instrumented sites on two of the University farms. The NPPC has also
 increased its involvement in international projects and regularly hosts visiting researchers. We
 have achieved our aim to increase the diversity of plant accessions held, including by leading
 expeditions to make targeted collections of under-represented species and from under
 represented environments. In addition, we met our REF 2014 objective to significantly enhance
 capacity and accessibility through the building of a new £6M seed biobank facility. We have also
 delivered on our long-term aim for IBERS to participate in UKRI doctoral training programmes
 through our involvement in the BBSRC DTP in FoodBioSystems and the UKRI Food Systems
 CDT.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Sustainable agriculture & healthy food. IBERS has collected and developed unique germplasm
 resources for over a century and these are subjected to powerful phenotyping and genotyping
 technologies to understand biological mechanisms of yield quantity, quality and the stability of
 both. Our approach is holistic with plant phenotyping spanning vegetative and reproductive
 features (Armstead, Bosch, Doonan, Thorogood), quality (Allison, Lister, Moorby, Kingston-
 Smith, Williams C) and post-harvest preservation (Griffith, Winters). Studies of wild accessions,
 breeding lines, and varieties are carried out, in both controlled environments and the field, for
 science discovery and to inform the development of new crop varieties (Cowan, Hegarty,
 Yadav). Two thirds of agricultural land in the UK (and globally) is grassland, and IBERS research
 addresses the twin-challenge of production and ecosystem service delivery (Fraser, Marley,
 Scullion). In grassland science, IBERS is unique in the UK and one of few institutions worldwide
 that combines the plant, animal, soil, microbiology and environmental sciences necessary to
 study this complex system in one physical centre. We aim to develop new methods of plant
 breeding and recombination control (Jones H, Lloyd, Philips), and selection indices to better
 predict traits (Davey C, Skøt). We recognise the opportunities provided by sensors, robots and
 instrumentation and aim to develop these both as tools for phenomic science (Gay, Doonan) and
 for improving crop and animal productivity (Williams M) including on extensive hill enclosures
 (Fraser). Our research requires powerful underpinning statistics, crop modelling, bioinformatics
 and data analysis which we have developed in house (Davey C, Fernandez-Fuentes,
 Sanderson, Scott, Swain) and also through collaboration (e.g., with Earlham and University of
 Aberdeen). Delivering on the Eatwell Guide is a significant challenge for both the food sector
 and consumers, and we have pioneered research on dietary intake biomarker technology to help
 understand the links between food composition and health outcomes (Beckmann, Draper). In
 addition, through the addition of sports and exercise science expertise, we are now studying the
 impact of food nutritional quality (Adams, Wootton-Beard, Yadav), exercise (Arkesteijn, Villagra
 Povina) and interactions between them (Thatcher, Wallace). As part of our strategy we are
 applying our expertise to emerging trends in agriculture including vertical farming (Gwynn-Jones,
 Robson), and alternative protein sources (Gallagher, Kingston-Smith, Wonfor).

 Climate Change adaptation & mitigation. Climate change and extreme weather events present a
 significant threat to agriculture and particularly to perennial crops and this is a significant focus in

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the BBSRC Resilient Crops Strategic Programme. We also recognise the need for agriculture as
 a sector to become net zero by 2040. IBERS is researching mechanisms to reduce greenhouse
 gas emissions from ruminant livestock (Kingston-Smith, Moorby, Fraser, Wonfor) as well as land
 based renewable energy and greenhouse gas removal including from perennial biomass crops
 (Clifton-Brown, Donnison, Robson) and subsurface energy and geologic carbon storage
 (Edwards). In marine environments, we are exploring eco-engineering approaches to enhance
 coastal defences and offshore renewable energy structures (Ironside, Shaw, Wilcockson). In
 addition, our research is enabling the prediction of changes in organism distributions in response
 to climate change scenarios including for the sustainable management of fished species
 (Ironside, McKeown, Shaw). Our approach on BioEnergy has expanded from the use of biomass
 as a fossil fuel substitute toward its role for greenhouse gas removal in combination with Carbon
 Capture and Storage (BECCS). In Miscanthus, we recognise the urgency to accelerate variety
 development through deployment of genomic prediction (Davey C) and utilisation of diverse
 germplasm (Huang). Novel bacterial endophytes are also being identified (Farrar) with the
 potential to promote plant establishment, growth and resilience especially on marginal land
 (Jensen). The bioeconomy requires the bringing together of multiple disciplines. IBERS has
 therefore built strategic collaborations through the BEACON Biorefining Centre of Excellence
 (led by AU), the EPSRC Supergen Bioenergy Hub (AU leads the Feedstocks Topic) and the
 BBSRC Networks in Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy. We are also working with partners
 in two EU Bio-based Industries projects (GRACE and VAMOS) to link our research to
 downstream value chains. Our approach is to increase the diversity of products made from
 plants including for high-value compounds (Adams, Shah), and fermentation to fuels and
 chemical building blocks (Bryant, Winters, Gallagher).

 Interconnected animal & human health. AU has a long and distinguished history of parasitology
 research (established in 1930) and is today a valuable national resource for expertise in the
 field. The opening of Wales’ first Veterinary School at AU in collaboration with the Royal
 Veterinary College (RVC), along with the Sêr Cymru Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB creates
 the environment and impetus to expand research into important diseases of animals and man.
 IBERS research aims to understand the pathobiology of infection to underpin the development of
 diagnostic tests, vaccines and pharmaceutical interventions. It adopts a One Health approach to
 understand the epidemiology of diseases, including the social and psychological factors
 influencing human behaviour to improve the health, productivity and well-being of animals, and
 health and well-being of man. This strategy aligns with major infrastructure investments by AU,
 Welsh Government and the European Union in the Aberystwyth School of Veterinary Science,
 VetHub, the Sêr Cymru Veterinary Research Laboratories, the Centre for Innovation and
 Excellence in Livestock (CIEL) small ruminant unit, equine facility, biological service unit, the
 University farms and the Pwllpeiran upland research platform. IBERS research addresses
 parasite/vector biology (Pachebat, Hamilton, Santer); helminth diagnostics and control (Brophy,
 Chalmers, Hoffmann, Jones R, Morphew and as part of the Flatworm functional genomics
 initiative); bovine TB detection, protection and control (Abernethy, Gibson, Hewinson, Mur,
 Villarreal-Ramos, Vordermeier); equine health (Morrel, Nash); epidemiology and disease
 evolution (Abernethy, Hewinson, Risley, Williams H); and animal cognition markers of human
 neurodegenerative disease, and cognitive enrichment in farm and captive animal species
 (McBride).

 Exploring & conserving biodiversity. IBERS biodiversity research addresses conservation and
 management of natural resources (Dennis, de Vere), stabilisation and remediation of
 ecosystems (Gwynn-Jones, Jensen, Scullion), and the ecology and evolution of populations and
 species in terrestrial (Beatty, Dennis, Griffith, Provan, Santer, de Vere, Whitworth), freshwater
 (Dalesman, McKeown) and marine (Ironside, Shaw, Wilcockson) ecosystems. Our research
 spans evolutionary responses of species to changing environments (Beatty, Provan, Shaw);
 pollinator services (de Vere, Watson); organismal responses to pollution and the control of insect
 vectors (Dalesman, Santer); invasive species (Chen, Ironside, Gwynn-Jones); sustainability of
 marine environments (Ironside, McKeown, Shaw); and microbial communities of natural
 grasslands (Griffith), extreme (Rao), and rapidly changing (Edwards, Gwynn-Jones Wilcockson)
 environments, as well as the role of predatory myxobacteria (Whitworth). Sustaining natural

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biodiversity in the face of interactions between wild and managed habitats and species is key,
 and a strategic target for our underinning biodiversity research. IBERS works with local
 stakeholders around the Irish Sea to ameliorate the impacts of climate change through
 ecoengineering of coastal structures and offshore energy platforms (Ironside, Shaw,
 Wilcockson) whilst future-proofing the utilisation of blue resources (Ironside, McKeown, Shaw).
 The development of genomic resources for use in biodiversity conservation is an important area
 of our research, including DNA barcoding of UK flowering plants (de Vere), fungi (Griffith) and
 marine communities (Ironside), along with molecular markers for species, habitat and ecosystem
 conservation and management (Beatty, McKeown, Provan, Shaw).

 Structure
 IBERS is a large department, with research-only and teaching-and-research staff, located in
 multiple buildings on two campuses (Penglais and Gogerddan) and at an upland experimental
 platform (Pwllpeiran). At the REF 2014 submission, IBERS comprised three Themes. Since then
 the themes have been replaced by a departmental sub-structure of research clusters, which are
 responsible for line management of staff, operation of facilities and use of buildings, to reflect
 changes including the incorporation of sports and exercise science and the formation of a new
 veterinary sciences cluster. Researchers in each cluster are associated with facilities most
 relevant to their immediate research area. The four Research Challenges and associated
 challenge based research groupings (Table 1) therefore act as the principle mechanism for
 developing and building collaborations within IBERS. To identify and develop new
 interdisciplinary topics of research within AU, IBERS hosts workshops with other
 departments. Areas of mutual interest can lead to formal collaboration, and joint research
 applications, such as through the University supported Interdisciplinary Research Centres
 including the Barrett Centre for Helminth Control, the Stapledon Centre (for Grassland
 Agriculture), the Interdisciplinary Centre for Environmental Microbiology, and the Centre for
 Excellence in Rural Health Research. These and our expertise on the Research Challenges also
 extend to other research groupings in Wales for example as funded through the Sêr Cymru
 programme and the ERDF, in addition to large UK and international collaborations funded by
 UKRI and others (Figure 1).

 IBERS engages with University wide mechanisms such as publisher deals for enabling open
 access publication, e.g., with JISC agreements and funds for UKRI-funded research for ‘gold’,
 and Aberystwyth Research Portal for ‘green’ open access publishing. In addition, IBERS has
 received a £175K grant from BBSRC (2017-22) associated with the Core Strategic Programme
 in Resilient Crops for making its outputs (approximately 50 per year) open access. IBERS
 makes software and raw-data sets such as from The National Plant Phenomics Centre open
 source so they can be “reused” by non-collaborating groups (i.e., independent use and
 publishing).




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IBERS engages with the support, guidance and training for researchers, provided by the
 University, so research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards. IBERS adheres to, and supports, the intention of the
 Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986, as modified by EU Directive 2010/63/EU, and we are
 signatories to the Concordat for Openness in Animal Research. Each research project involving
 animals, whether covered by the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 or not, is subject to
 an ethical review process by the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body which includes lay
 members, external members and representatives from across the University. Research involving
 human participation typically involves dietary intervention studies that may be linked to exercise
 routine or lifestyle/ health awareness. Such research protocols undergo assessment by the
 University Research Ethics Panel or NHS ethical review depending on the degree of
 intervention. Containment level 2 work involving plant and microbial genetic modification and
 genome editing experiments (e.g., CRISPR) receive assessment from the University Biological
 Safety/Genetic Modification committees and comply with HSE guidance on contained use.
 Procedures for containment level 3 activity are currently being developed as VetHub becomes
 operational. IBERS has adopted the EU implementation of the Nagoya (UN) Protocol,
 Regulation No. 511/2014 which builds on the Convention on Biological Diversity. IBERS
 pioneered implementation of these treaties and helped Defra when putting into legislation.
 IBERS has also recently obtained Home Office licences for both the growing and processing of
 hemp for pharmaceutical and industrial fibre applications, which has involved the establishment
 of additional processes and procedures to undertake this research.

 Impact strategy
 Our strategy for realising impact involves identifying and engaging with key stakeholders and the
 building of long-term strategic partnerships with industry to ensure our research reaches the
 market and is adopted by practitioners. In plant breeding our relationships with commercial
 partners ensures that our plant biology and breeding research is translated into new plant
 varieties with 37 varieties currently on the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board
 (AHDB) recommended lists. The breeding of highly persistent forage clover varieties is one of
 our impact case studies. We have developed relationships and work with supply chain actors
 for red meat and dairy products, oat millers and biomass end users to identify research gaps and
 targets. Our engagement with farming unions (National Farmers’ Union (NFU) and Farmers’
 Union of Wales (FUW)), and farmers and growers directly through events such as Cereals,
 Grasslands & Muck, Energy Now and the Royal Welsh Agricultural Shows ensures our research
 is relevant to sectorial needs. Our strategy involves participatory on-farm research, and in the
 PROSOIL+ project the participatory team supports six regional farmer groups in Wales to create
 a network to develop innovative soil practices and technologies. Removing the reliance on
 imported protein feeds within the ruminant supply chain is a case study. Engagement with the
 wider grassland community is achieved through the Knowledge Exchange Hub of Farming
 Connect (based at IBERS, and the principle agricultural extension mechanism in Wales),
 PreciseAg (HEFCW funded precision livestock team) and the British Grassland Society. We are
 adopting the same strategy on the bioeconomy, e.g., in the BEACON Biorefining Centre we
 carry out collaborative R&D with industry on biorefining, bioprocessing and the circular economy.
 In addition, we engage with policymakers and industry to identify research needs and also
 advise on routes to net zero, which is a case study. In the Future Foods project academics and
 industry undertake collaborative research into product development and assessment that would
 not be possible for SMEs on their own. IBERS researchers involved in this project have also
 developed a platform for the assessment of eating behaviour using urine biomarkers which is the
 subject of a case study. Our approach to impact also includes working with conservation bodies
 and policymakers on the protection of habitats and landscapes particularly in uplands, and
 also on the protection of species and an example on fungi is a case study. Our strategy for
 delivering impact also extends to the marine environment through both the protection of
 coastal regions and their communities, and also of ensuring the sustainability of fisheries in
 UK and international waters. Examples of both are included in our case studies.

 Our distance learning programme for industry professionals (BioInnovation, AFTP) enables us
 to assist those working in agricultural and related sectors to keep up to date and learn new skills

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including through the communication of IBERS research findings. To translate the latest
 scientific developments in bovine TB control and to share best practice we have established,
 with the Wales Veterinary Science Centre (WVSC), an annual ‘AberTB’ Conference which brings
 together veterinary practitioners, farmers, Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA),
 Government, academia and other stakeholders. The conference provides continuing
 professional development (CPD) to vets and is seen as an important contribution to TB
 eradication in Wales. IBERS researchers also provide teaching to support the Vets Cymru
 annual conference at AU which is a two-day CPD event for vets and nurses working in small and
 large animal practice organised by the WVSC and the British Small Animal Veterinary
 Association.

 Priorities for the next REF Period
 In the next REF assessment period, IBERS will undertake research and innovation which
 addresses some of the most significant challenges of the 21st century spanning sustainable
 agriculture and food, climate change, one health, and biodiversity loss. Our future priorities are
 to enable:

 •    Agriculture to become more sustainable through greater cropping diversity, integrated soil
      management, improvement of nutrient utilisation, and less reliance on imported protein and
      inorganic fertilisers.

 •    Agriculture to become net zero by 2040, by building on our expertise to reduce greenhouse
      gas emissions from livestock, and to increase the greenhouse gas removal potential of
      biomass crops.

 •    A closing of the agricultural productivity gap through improvements in crop yield and yield
      stability, in animal health and nutrition, and in the instrumentation of agricultural and
      environmental systems with associated data management.

 •    The development of tools, e.g. genomic prediction, to accelerate plant breeding research
      into new crop varieties for food, feed, fuel and fibre.

 •    Greater understanding of the relationship between productivity and the delivery of
      ecosystem services on land and in the sea.

 •    Delivery of the Eatwell Guide, through work on crop nutritional quality and human diet.

 •    Development of diagnostic tests, vaccines and pharmaceutical interventions to control
      important diseases of animals and man.

 •    Improvements in animal and human health through a One Health approach to address
      zoonotic infectious diseases, parasites and antimicrobial resistance.

 •    The bioeconomy including the development of grass based biorefineries and co-development of
      food and non-food products.


 2. People

     In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:
     • Strengthened the vitality of IBERS by attracting world-class researchers including
          through the Sêr Cymru and Future Leader Schemes, and by significantly increasing
          the number of PhD students.
     • Enhanced the sustainability of IBERS by attracting research fellows, and developing
          staff through mentoring and training programmes.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Promoted inclusivity through policies on equality and diversity, modification of
        practices to facilitate inclusive participation, and targeted mentoring.

 Staffing strategy
 IBERS staffing strategy recognises the priorities established within our four research challenges.
 A key strategic aim from REF 2014 was the establishment of an Upland Research Platform at
 Pwllpeiran. The appointment of a Chair (Wilkinson) and Reader (Fraser) in Upland Science has
 facilitated new research into managing these important ecosystems. To strengthen our
 biodiversity and conservation expertise we have made appointments of a Reader (Provan) and
 Lecturer (Beatty), and as part of our distance learning provision we have strengthened our
 livestock and agri-tech expertise by appointing Williams C and Wotton-Beard as lecturers. To
 strengthen our translational crop science, we have appointed a Professor in New Breeding
 Technologies (Jones H). In recognition of our longstanding relationship with Germinal, we will be
 appointing a Chair in Forage Plant Breeding, with a remit for the translation of IBERS plant
 breeding science into future forage varieties. A future priority aligned to this investment is to
 develop our underpinning plant breeding science by building on our expertise in genomic
 prediction and genome wide association studies, and to attract and recruit new staff into this
 area. Two other areas recently identified as future gaps where PhD students have been
 recruited in collaboration with Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, are soil science and precision
 livestock technologies for disease detection. IBERS is committed to advertise lecturer grade
 posts to cover these topics in 2024 when the studentships finish.

 With the creation of the Aberystwyth School of Veterinary Science, we have appointed
 Abernathy as Chair and Head of School, building on IBERS’ strength in animal science and
 parasitology. In addition, through the establishment of the Sêr Cymru Centre of Excellence for
 Bovine TB we have recruited a Chair and Head of Centre (Hewinson), a professorial position in
 veterinary immunology (Villarreal-Ramos 80%, Vordermeier 20%), a lecturer (Gibson), as well
 as postdoctoral and technical posts, with a senior lecturer under recruitment. These
 appointments have been made alongside capital investments in Aberystwyth School of
 Veterinary Science, VetHub, Sêr Cymru Veterinary Research Laboratories, and the CIEL small
 ruminant facility. A senior appointment (Hoffmann) has been made to direct VetHub for
 developing relationships with industry, government and the academic community. The senior
 leads of the Sêr Cymru Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB and Veterinary Research
 Laboratories and VetHub will be instrumental in enabling researchers and commercial partners
 to access state-of-the-art facilities for animal and public health research. A new Professorial
 position in Animal Science and Director of Farms (Moorby) was also created in 2018 to enhance
 the research capacity on, and use of, the University farms for research. IBERS encourages and
 supports fellowship applications from both internal and external researchers and has been
 successful in attracting new talent through Sêr Cymru, Marie-Curie and Future Leader schemes.

 Staff development
 IBERS is committed to the implementation, and the spirit, of the Concordat for Researcher
 Development. This is particularly important in a department that includes research only as well
 as teaching and research staff. Our strategy is to support those in post, make succession plans
 for those with key skills, and invest in the research environment, including facilities, to enable
 research careers to flourish. It is recognised that within grassland science and plant breeding the
 current demographic profile mean we need to implement a succession plan and this is currently
 underway through attracting both a fellow (Lloyd) and the new Germinal Chair in Forage Plant
 Breeding (recruitment underway). Early career researchers and new lecturing staff are appointed
 mentors. Mentors and IBERS senior management (Head of Department, Director of Learning &
 Teaching, Director of Research, Theme Leader, Director of Knowledge Exchange &
 Commercialisation) set probation targets and identify mentors to help staff achieve these. Staff
 have an annual review meeting with their line manager (Effective Contribution Scheme) to
 discuss career aspirations and to set research and impact objectives appropriate for career
 stage, the extent of teaching duties, and other considerations. Promotions, through the
 University scheme also involve mentorship of the applicant.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research staff are encouraged to attend external courses and workshops to learn or update
 skills. Recent examples where IBERS researchers attended courses include advanced
 microscopy techniques for plant-microbe interactions (Austria), Nanopore sequencing and data
 analysis (Oxford), drone training and pilot’s licence (Aberystwyth), CRISPR/Cas-mediated
 genome editing and plant transformation (JIC), statistical and environmental characterisation at
 EPPN2020 (Wageningen), CyVerseUK RNAseq workshop (Earlham), compositionally
 appropriate analysis of omic datasets and CerealsDB workshop (Bristol). The
 computational/maths/statistics of biology, including for crop modelling and genomic prediction, is
 a fast-moving field. Experienced IBERS staff also develop their skills profiles through a
 combination of advanced literature awareness and online learning. IBERS researchers also train
 others, by teaching on internal and external technical courses (e.g. on phenomics and
 biorefining) and by hosting visiting researchers from the UK and internationally.

 Training for transitions to greater independence for early career researchers enables staff to
 gain skills as well as extending personal networks. Training also provides opportunities for all
 our staff to learn to work across boundaries and cultures to become more effective 21st century
 leaders. Recent examples being the Academi Wales Summer School ‘The Leadership
 Challenge – from efficient to exemplary’ and the Welsh Crucible, both prestigious competitive
 schemes for personal and professional development of future research leaders in Wales. IBERS
 has two Research Development Officers (RDOs) who assist researchers in highlighting research
 opportunities, identifying other researchers to collaborate with across the University, and
 navigating the application process. The complexity of some application procedures and funder
 requirements means that the RDOs provide invaluable support allowing researchers to focus on
 the science. This support is particularly important for early career researchers including those
 applying for fellowships. The University’s Department of Research, Business & Innovation also
 run workshops, often aided by IBERS staff, to help with grant building and research application
 processes. IBERS operates an internal peer support system in the preparation and submission
 of grants. This provides a mechanism to both support staff and for quality assurance/demand
 management. IBERS supports the development of an entrepreneurial culture and engages with
 AberInnovation on the Gogerddan Campus and also with BBSRC through the national
 productivity investment fund (NPIF) to enable innovation training for researchers, with the
 BioAccelerate scheme providing funding to assist both staff and students to bring their
 innovative ideas to fruition. Research staff involved in PhD supervision and examination also
 attend mandatory training through the Aberystwyth Graduate School before first taking on these
 responsibilities and attend refresher courses thereafter.

 Research students
 The total number of IBERS research doctoral degrees awarded was 143.5 in the REF 2021
 period. On a per annum basis, this represents an average of 20.5 PhDs awarded in the REF
 2021 period compared to 11.4 in the REF 2014 period. This annualised increase, of 80%,
 represents the achievement of a key objective to grow postgraduate student numbers. External
 sponsorship of PhD students has come from research councils (BBSRC CASE, NERC,
 EPSRC), Welsh Government (KESS, Sêr Cymru), AHDB, European Union, TEAGASC Walsh
 scholarships, Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, and Industry. Success rates (i.e., submission within
 four years and passed) of the PhD students completing in the assessment period was 78%. This
 increases to 90% successfully completing after extensions for ill health and temporary
 withdrawals were taken into account. This demonstrates both our commitment to high quality
 PhD supervision and to providing support when needed. Notable recent developments in PhD
 studentship funding have been IBERS participation in 1) the BBSRC FoodBioSystems DTP
 partnership with Reading, Cranfield, Surrey, Brunel and QUB offering five cohorts of 4-year
 studentships, with the first cohort starting in autumn 2020; and 2) the UKRI Food Systems CDT
 with Greenwich, UCL, City, RVC, Brunel, Sussex, NIAB-EMR and Rothamsted offering three
 cohorts of 4-year studentships, with the first cohort starting in autumn 2021. The current PhD
 cohort in IBERS is 125 so we fully expect to sustain our increased postgraduate student
 numbers.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IBERS PhD students receive formal training, e.g., in writing, presentation, experimental design,
 and data analysis skills. In addition, they receive training in laboratory, field and bioinformatic
 skills. General information about expectations, responsibilities and opportunities are contained in
 the Faculty Postgraduate Handbook which is updated annually. Students are monitored by
 supervisory staff in formal regular meetings, which are documented and signed. Additional
 annual monitoring by the Aberystwyth Graduate School ensures oversight of student progress
 and allows students that are falling behind to receive assistance. The BBSRC DTP and UKRI
 CDT students receive additional training, attend summer schools and have opportunities for
 placements. Some of these opportunities are also extended to other IBERS postgraduate
 students where spaces allow. IBERS also encourages bioeconomy students to participate in the
 Supergen SHARE network which provides an informal but professional network of peers (PhD
 students, postdoctoral researchers and research fellows) with workshops and seminars to
 support knowledge exchange, promote mobility of early career researchers and interdisciplinary
 collaboration. Students are also encouraged to participate in UKRI YES programmes and in
 public engagement activities such as at the Royal Welsh show and during science week.
 Examples, of activities students have actively engaged in include: “plastics from plants”, “DNA
 isolation”, “Plants in Space” and “Biofuels, Bacteria and Bottles of Goo”.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 IBERS supports equality and diversity. In the current submission of 88 researchers, 32% are
 women and 68% men. This compares to figures of 23% women and 77% men from the 77
 IBERS researchers submitted to UoA 6 and UoA 7 in REF 2014, and 19% and 81% respectively
 in RAE 2008. Over the period 2014-2020 we also achieved objectives of increased female
 representation at higher grades from zero to seven (Professors Hamilton and Kingston-Smith;
 Readers Davey H, Fraser, Howarth, Marley, Moore) and gender balance on our Departmental
 Executive team (four male, three female) compared with the position in REF 2014 (six male, one
 female). The three Faculty (Earth & Life Sciences) Associate Deans for Teaching & Learning,
 Research & Innovation and the Welsh Language are all from IBERS, and two are women
 (Hamilton and Kingston-Smith). Nevertheless, we acknowledge gender inequality still remains in
 our senior staff. We aim to remedy this through encouraging further participation in schemes
 such as Advance HE Aurora where six staff attended in the REF 2021 period. All recruitment is
 undertaken in accordance with well-established policies and procedures using an online,
 anonymised candidate application process. All interview panel members have to successfully
 complete an e-learning equality and diversity training module, and all appointment panels are
 gender diverse. AU supports all staff with caring responsibilities, there is an onsite nursery on
 the Gogerddan campus and practices, e.g. the scheduling of meeting times, are modified to
 facilitate inclusive participation.

 IBERS currently has staff acting as mentees and mentors on the University’s female academic
 mentoring programme. Staff members from the Department are also involved in the Women in
 Research Network, which has led to female staff members being able to feed into executive
 level decision-making and strategy planning. We have two nominated Equality Champions
 (Adams, Shah) who represent IBERS within the Equalities Champion Network; with the Faculty
 PVC the strategic lead on equality feeding directly into the University Executive. Champions
 channel issues from IBERS into the meetings, such as requesting University acknowledgement
 and support for staff during the 2020 lockdown, especially for those who are single parents with
 young children. A second role is dissemination and promotion of events and schemes running
 across the University, from LGBTQ+ film nights at the Art Centre on campus to the Red box
 scheme, providing free sanitary products to help alleviate period poverty. The Department has
 worked with the Diversity and Inclusion Manager on International Women’s Day initiatives,
 initiatives for Black History Month, and helped to write the institutional Athena SWAN award
 submission. A member of IBERS staff (Yadav) coordinated the staff BAME Network from 2018-
 2020, working with the Diversity and Inclusion Manager to give an equal voice to BAME
 members of staff at the University.

 The Sêr Cymru Low Carbon Energy & Environment National Research Network provided a
 Returning Fellowship Scheme designed to facilitate researchers returning to work from leave for

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reasons of maternity, paternity, adoption, health or caring. The four IBERS researchers who
 received this support (Adams, Jensen, Farrar, Risley) are all part of our REF 2021 submission.
 IBERS researchers also receive training on unconscious bias, and in projects such as Supergen,
 where research funds are distributed, e.g., for fellowships, double-blind reviewing is used. The
 IBERS PDRA on the Supergen project was also selected for an event at Westminster for
 increasing BAME researchers’ impact and engagement. In the BBSRC DTP FoodBioSystems
 project partners including IBERS take on additional responsibility to engage with other
 universities and institutions to increase awareness of PhD opportunities for students from less
 traditional backgrounds. The Food Systems CDT also strongly encourages individuals who have
 had career breaks (e.g., caring responsibilities, work in relevant sectors, or a change in
 disciplines or career paths) to apply for the advertised PhDs.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice. The Departmental REF Reading Committee has
 also included an independent member from a cognate department in the Faculty to monitor fair
 practice. Applications for output reductions for Individual Staff Circumstances were assessed
 through an anonymous process, with decisions made outside of the Department.

 It is recognised that COVID-19 has had an impact on staff research, and for some staff, e.g.,
 those with caring responsibilities, this impact has been significant. With the University, IBERS
 proposes to put in place a research recovery plan for at least two years to enable staff to take
 short blocks (1-2 months) of research leave, over and above existing opportunities. If successful
 we will build on the programme to assist more staff to have more space in the year to focus on
 their research, e.g., for networking, visiting another research group or industrial partner, writing
 grants or papers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:
    • Demonstrated the vitality of IBERS by securing over £98.8M in research funding.
    • Enhanced the sustainability of IBERS by developing new and upgrading existing
        world-class facilities.
    • Strengthened inclusivity in IBERS research though training and mentoring to expand
        the number of research leaders, with one third of researchers winning grants of at
        least £400K during the REF 2021 period.

 Income
 The IBERS research income for the REF 2021 period was £98.8M. On a per annum basis, this
 amounts to £14.1M and represents an increase from £12.8M pa in the REF 2014 period. A
 comparison of the main income categories with those in the REF 2014 period is shown in Table
 2.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 IBERS attracts strategic research funding from BBSRC, and most recently for the Core Strategic
 Programme in Resilient Crops (2017-2022, £8.6M) and the National Capability in Plant
 Phenomics (2017-2019, £600K). The BBSRC strategic programme income has declined within
 the REF 2021 period, but overall UKRI income has still increased. IBERS researchers have
 therefore had significant success in winning other sources of UKRI funding including: £15.8M (of
 non-strategic programme funding) from BBSRC, £4.5M from Innovate UK, £3.3M from NERC
 and £1M from EPSRC. Notably, IBERS research addresses challenges that span disciplines and
 feature as priorities in the Delivery Plans (2019) of four UKRI research councils; the current
 success rate with BBSRC is 31% (as reported in September 2020); and since 2014, 22
 researchers won grants of £500K or more, and a further seven won grants of £400K or more.

 Collaboration in Wales, previously structured into the funding of alliances such as BEAA, has
 been preserved through Sêr Cymru National Research Network projects. The Sêr Cymru
 scheme enabled IBERS to attract internationally leading researchers such as Hewinson to
 create and lead the Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB, and Lloyd who joined us in 2018, and
 was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship in 2020. WEFO has supported significant
 translational research and industry engagement including for BEACON (£3.8M), Future Foods
 (£3M), VetHub (£3M), the Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB (£3M), Veterinary Research
 Laboratories (£2M) and BioInnovation (£1.2M). IBERS has participated in 12 Horizon 2020
 projects (total value £3.5M), including the GRACE project for industrial crops on marginal lands
 (£939K), and in eight Interreg projects including on the effects of climate change on bird habitat
 (£823K), Climate Change adaptation through ecologically sensitive coastal infrastructure
 (£746K), and adaptation to climate change in aquaculture and fisheries (£633K). We also
 received funding from Welsh Government for the Farm Business Survey (£3.2M,) and the
 Farming Connect Knowledge Hub (£806K). IBERS also collaborates on global challenges with
 partners in LMIC countries through GCRF (three awards, £1.4M), Newton (19 awards, £1.2M
 awarded), and H2020 (two awards, £344K).

 IBERS infrastructure and facilities, along with the associated technical expertise, enables us
 to address the four societal challenges which underpin our research strategy. Research farms
 at Gogerddan, Morfa Mawr, Trawsgoed and Pwllpeiran provide a unique platform extending over
 1,000 ha, from 0-600 metres above sea level. What makes this stand out as a capability in the
 UK and Europe is the range of land types we have, and the range of altitudes, all within a 20
 mile radius of the main laboratories, that allow us to work with crops and animals on extensive
 land areas and to do associated detailed measurements (with indoor housing and lab work). To
 capitalise on this resource in 2017 we established an altitudinal challenge gradient on four sites
 on Gogerddan and Trawscoed farms at 70, 140, 250 and 340 metres above sea level. These
 sites exploit the geography of West Wales to provide a spectrum of environmental challenges

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (including grazing) that are broadly representative of the growing conditions of approximately
 80% of UK grasslands. The sites were instrumented, planted with diverse germplasm, and the
 resulting datasets integrated with those from controlled environment experiments to gain
 biological understanding of persistence, resilience and performance. This platform has enabled
 IBERS to participate in the ESFRI EMPHASIS project, a pan European network of climatically
 diverse research facilities, to enable predictive breeding and research into future climates. In
 addition, the plots are used in the BBSRC Strategic Programme in Resilient Crops, the H2020
 GRACE project, and data is being used to model biomass productivity in the EPSRC Supergen
 Bioenergy Hub.

 In 2020, IBERS expanded upland research capability by taking on the lease for 190 ha of
 additional contiguous land from Welsh Government at Pwllpeiran following its purchase from
 Defra. This builds on the earlier £2.4M investment from BBSRC to develop Pwllpeiran as an
 upland research platform. Pwllpeiran has a long history of involvement in upland grassland
 research, and in the late eighteenth century was host to the radical agricultural experiments
 undertaken by Thomas Johnes of the Hafod Estate. In the early twentieth century it then became
 the centre of George Stapledon’s pioneering Cahn Hill Improvement Scheme. Pwllpeiran now
 provides a grassland continuum from relatively good quality reseeded pasture, through
 permanent pasture and semi-natural rough grazing, to heathland and blanket bog. A Calan Gate
 electronic feeding system for small ruminants (the only such facility in the UK) houses up to 48
 sheep and 4 methane measurement chambers. Pwllpeiran as an upland facility is unique in
 England and Wales and is crucial to ensuring a robust evidence base for policy at a time of
 unprecedented political, economic and environmental change.

 IBERS runs the National Plant Phenomics Centre (NPPC), an automated system for non-
 invasive longitudinal phenotyping that can measure 1000’s of plants in parallel. The NPPC,
 unique in the UK and one of a small number of networked facilities worldwide, allows
 populations of crops, and other plants, to be assessed by non-invasive sensors to record shoot
 growth and development, water content, photosynthetic activity, temperature and root
 development (using transparent soil columns). More detailed measurements of photo-physiology
 can be made on up to 2,000 plants on our small plant platform. The NPPC is a core member of
 international consortia (e.g., EPPN, EMPHASIS) that aim to deliver phenotyping of crop and
 model plants. The NPPC also has bilateral links with phenotyping centres in Denmark, France
 and Canada. Extensive glasshouse and controlled environment facilities are also available
 including the Venlo (26 compartments offering control of temperature and day length), and 10
 Sanyo and Saxil cabinets/rooms which provide control of day length, temperature and humidity.
 IBERS crop experiments are also carried out in a custom Soil-Plant-Atmosphere Facility
 (instrumented rain-out/ lysimeter), which acts as a half-way house between the field and
 glasshouse.

 The IBERS Seed Biobank comprises a collection of over 35,000 accessions of global
 importance for forage grasses, forage legumes, and energy grasses. For a number of species
 the facility holds the largest ex situ collection worldwide, and for many accessions acts as an
 irreplaceable resource where original agricultural or natural collection sites no longer exist.
 IBERS specialises in the collection and curation of grass and legume species held in medium
 (20-50 years) and long term (50-100 years) storage under controlled environmental conditions.
 Long term security of this unique resource was ensured by a £6M investment as part of the
 AberInnovation development. Our associated quarantine glasshouses were refurbished in 2016
 and are one of few facilities in the UK that can import, multiply and store field collected plant
 material. IBERS also collates the European central crop databases for Lolium and Trifolium, and
 makes the annual submission for all UK held crop biodiversity to the European Genetic
 Resources catalogue (Eurisco) which is then harvested by Genesys-pgr, the global portal for
 genetic resources for the FAO. In addition, IBERS has an array of isolation glasshouses for the
 controlled crossing of plants for discovery science and plant breeding. In our purpose-built seed
 processing unit, within the AberInnovation development, seed samples can be prepared from
 research to precommercial (10 tonnes) scales in line with International Seed Testing Association
 standards.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Animal facilities enable dairy and beef cattle, sheep, goat, alpaca and broiler chicken research.
 Specialist facilities enable the measurement of individual animal feed intake and digestibility, and
 enteric methane emissions from housed and free-ranging livestock. A herd of 400 dairy cows at
 Trawsgoed Farm will be milked by newly acquired robotic units. The rumen function laboratories
 include the specialist “D-unit” that has facilities for preparation and maintenance of cannulated
 animals (under Home Office licencing) that are required for detailed in vivo assessments of
 forage digestion to complement in vitro studies using rumen simulation fermenters, and a
 collection of pure cultures of bacteria, protozoa and archaea. The equine facility has stabling for
 60 horses with eight in a dedicated research block, and an exercise yard. A biological service
 unit for rodents contributes to research and impact outputs relating to drug discovery for human
 parasitic diseases (Schistosomiasis). In addition, IBERS hosts the CIEL small ruminant research
 platform (£1.4M, Innovate UK and AU). Our research into the marine environment and
 ecosystems is supported by aquaria capable of housing fresh or saltwater organisms, and
 research vessels (fully Maritime and Coastguard Agency coded) including a 6.5m rigid-inflatable
 boat and a purpose built 10m Cheetah catamaran that can carry up to 12 passengers and crew
 with associated oceanographic sampling and scientific diving equipment.

 VetHub is a recent European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and WEFO investment of
 £3M in containment level 2 and 3 facilities for veterinary research in Wales. This will allow
 academic-industry collaboration in animal health, zoonoses and veterinary diagnostics, and
 builds on existing parasitological strengths in IBERS as well as the establishment of the £3M
 ERDF and WEFO funded Sêr Cymru Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB. AU is also
 developing laboratories adjacent to VetHub for the Sêr Cymru team for research in immunology
 and molecular epidemiology through a further £2M ERDF and WEFO investment. These state-
 of-the-art facilities for veterinary research in Wales complement the establishment of the School
 of Veterinary Science. Roboworm is an automated platform enabling the repositioning of
 existing drugs or the identification of new compounds as next-generation anthelmintics. The
 platform has a capacity of 100,000 tests per annum and comprises an integrated tissue culture
 facility, automated compound distribution/washing workstation and high content image analysis
 system coupled to customised software for segregating drug-induced schistosome phenotypes.
 This unique system draws together the very latest advancements in instrumentation and
 dramatically transforms the speed at which new anthelmintics can be identified.

 Significant investment in imaging equipment through HEFCW funding has allowed an upgrade
 to confocal and electron microscopy facilities, and enhanced FTIR capability for high throughput
 metabolomic phenotyping. Genetic transformation laboratories and associated glasshouse
 enable the manipulation of monocotyledonous model and crop plants, including through genome
 editing (CRISPR/Cas). The Analytical Chemistry unit at IBERS holds ISO/IEC 17025
 accreditation in 19 techniques of forage and nutrient analyses and processes internal and
 external samples. The DNA sequencing laboratory represents a local capability for smaller
 projects especially where a faster turnaround is needed using Illumina MiSeq for SNP,
 metagenomics and amplicon sequencing. The metabolomics facility at IBERS include high
 resolution mass spectrometry and chromatography techniques (GC-MS-MS, GC-tof-MS, LC-MS)
 for untargeted metabolomics, chemical and structural analysis, proteomics and cell profiling.

 The IBERS High Performance Computer Cluster (HPC) consists of 544 CPU cores and 4TB
 RAM spread across 13 computer nodes. There is 43TB storage capacity with an additional 11TB
 of fast access disk, which provides working space for over 100 users. The IBERS cloud (a
 collection of stand-alone high-performance computers dedicated to deploy 'on demand' servers
 and/or services) underpins the web-based services for bioinformatics (e.g., Galaxy) as well as
 other services. The IBERS cloud is composed of 55TB of dedicated storage, 104 cores and 1TB
 of memory RAM. There is also a 1.2Pb of disk space available for long-term storage connected
 both to the HPC and IBERS Cloud, with storage repositories backed-up on a weekly basis.

 Research horizons have recently been expanded by the £40M investment in AberInnovation, a
 joint project between AU, BBSRC and Welsh Government created to convert the grand

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenges of food, climate change and clean energy into sustainable and prosperous
 opportunities for society. Facilities include state-of-the-art infrastructure for pilot scale biorefining,
 food processing and associated analytics. For biorefining, this includes a Primary Processing
 facility (100-1,000 kg/hour) for biomass milling, pelleting, drying and juicing. It also houses
 steam explosion equipment for pressurised hydrothermal pre-treatment of feedstocks. A food
 grade Downstream Processing facility includes pasteurisers, reactor vessels and membrane,
 centrifugation and spray drying capability (50-2,000 litres/hour). The Pilot Fermentation Facility
 provides food grade facilities at scales from 1-300 litres; and an automated system for assessing
 biogas potential of feedstocks. A Clean Room provides a high hygiene (ISO7) area for finishing
 (purifying/crystallising/drying) and bagging small scale products (mg to kg) in a controlled
 atmosphere environment. The Industrial Biotechnology Suite provides state-of-the-art
 (aerobic and anaerobic) microbial phenotyping and fermentation platforms to identify novel
 microbes and characterise the metabolism of new production strains developed using synthetic
 biology. The Bioprospecting Suite provides extraction of samples at a range of scales (mg to
 kg), fractionation of semi-purified natural products and liquors, accelerated solvent extraction of
 natural product components, and high-performance counter current chromatography for rapid
 liquid-liquid separations. Food grade processing and laboratories conform to BRC standards
 for meat; dairy and liquids, including pilot scale pasteurisation and filtration in batches (up to
 1,000 litres) and continuous mode (5,000 litres/day); cheese, cultured milk products, butter and
 frozen product manufacturing (1-100 litre batches); and grains and pulses including on-site
 baking. A Kitchen and Sensory Booths enable trained taste panels and real-time evaluation of
 organoleptic and sensory properties of novel foods. The facility enables assessments of food
 composition, storage, shelf life and safety characteristics. The facility also integrates with the
 IBERS-based Well-being and Health Assessment Research Unit to help develop the evidence
 base for health claims relating to novel foods. For example, the facility provides chemical content
 analysis, comprehensive profiling and structural elucidation for analysis of metabolites in
 extracts using ultra high-resolution LC and GC mass spectrometry, Triple Quadrupole mass
 spectrometry for targeted quantification of secondary metabolites in complex mixtures, and
 UPLC and GC for analysis and quantification of sugars, organic acids and alcohols.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

      In the REF 2021 assessment period we have:
     • Supported the vitality of IBERS by hosting international visitors, and conferences, and
          engaged with public, private and third sectors, to enhance social and economic
          wellbeing, and environmental sustainability.
     • Consolidated the sustainability of IBERS by developing new collaborations both
          nationally and internationally.
     • Strengthened inclusivity in research, by valuing staff contributions to wider society
          and the economy, and by practising co-production of research with stakeholders, and
          through access and benefit sharing.

 Collaboration
 IBERS researchers collaborate with partners in the UK and internationally. We previously
 received funding with Bangor University through BEAA and made a joint submission for REF
 2014. That funding has come to an end but a strong legacy of the alliance remains in the
 number of joint papers published (65 papers in the REF 2021 period), and also in collaborative
 projects such as BEACON. The IBERS joint appointment, with the National Botanic Garden of
 Wales (de-Vere), brings important expertise on pollinator science and green infrastructure. The
 Welsh Government Sêr Cymru programme supported the establishment of the Centre of
 Excellence for Bovine TB. Through the centre, IBERS has two joint appointments with APHA
 (Villarreal-Ramos, Vordermeier), and two are members of the Jenner Institute (Hewinson,
 Vordermeier). IBERS also participated in the Sêr Cymru National Research Networks which
 enhanced collaboration across Welsh Universities. Under the topic of Low Carbon Energy and
 the Environment, IBERS was involved in projects on: Cleaner Cows, Climate Smart Grass,
 MultiLand, and Plants & Architecture, involving support for both PDRAs and PhD students.
 Under the Life Sciences topic, IBERS was involved in one PDRA project on the prospecting and

                                                                                                   Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 characterisation of novel antimicrobials from bovine metagenomes, three platform grants on the
 use of high-throughput robotics for anthelmintic screening and a further eight PhD studentships.

 According to SciVal 86% of our research outputs involves external collaboration, with 61% of
 that collaboration international. For example, in the REF 2021 period, there were 23 UK and 16
 international institutions with which we co-published at least 20 papers. In Europe, collaborations
 are supported through funding schemes including Horizon 2020, Interreg, EIT Health and
 Climate-KIC. IBERS is also an active member of the European Plant Science Organisation,
 Animal Task Force (via CIEL), and the Wales Higher Education Brussels group. Through these
 groups we network with European research institutions and policymakers on topics including
 grasslands, bioenergy, access and benefit sharing and GM technologies. IBERS researchers
 also use partnering awards to build international networks, and since REF 2014 have held UKRI
 partnering awards with Australia (Donnison), Brazil (Farrar), Canada (Langdon), China
 (Langdon), India (Gallagher), Taiwan (Huang), and through the British Council with India (Mur).

 IBERS researchers work in international teams to develop enabling tools and resources for crop
 science and plant breeding. For example, during the REF 2021 period, this included genetic
 maps (Miscanthus), physical maps (Lolium and red clover) and genome sequences (Lolium, red
 clover, Miscanthus and oats). On forage and energy grass genomics we collaborate with the
 Earlham Institute, JGI and Aarhus University. On oats we are part of a consortium involving US,
 Canadian and European partners on the genomics of diploid Avena and hexaploid pan-genome
 assemblies. We also work with JIC on gene identification in target pathways and with partners in
 Turkey, Georgia, Morocco and Kazakhstan on diversity and adaptation in oats.

 IBERS collaborates on forage crops with CGIAR centres CIAT and ILRI in the Forages for Africa
 partnership, and in the GROW and BRIDGE Colombia projects led by Earlham with CIAT on
 forages for highland and lowland South America. On grassland research we collaborate with
 Rothamsted (e.g. at North Wyke), and are expanding links with partners in the Andean region
 and Namibia on sustainable management of native grasslands/ rangelands. In a series of EU
 funded projects (e.g., most recently RE-DIRECT, THREE C) IBERS have collaborated, with
 Kassel University and others, to valorise biomass arising from conservation management as a
 resource for energy, biochar and green materials.

 IBERS has collected Miscanthus species in South East Asia since 2006, and has ongoing
 collaborations with researchers in China (Nanjing Botanic Garden), Japan (Hokkaido University),
 Korea (Seoul University) and Taiwan (National Taiwan University and Endemic Species
 Research Institute). We have partnerships in Sicily (University of Catania) and Germany (Julius
 Kühn-Institut and Hohenheim University) on seed production and phenotypic analyses. A
 number of IBERS bred Miscanthus hybrids have been trialled in locations across Europe in a
 series of EU Framework projects (OptiMisc, Optima, Watbio, GRACE). IBERS collaborates with
 DOE Bioenergy Centres and partner organisations including at the University of Illinois on
 Miscanthus genomics and the Noble Research Institute on the mapping of energy crop traits.
 Bacterial endophytes have also been the subject of US and Brazil collaborations. In bioenergy
 we have collaborated through the EPSRC Supergen programme since 2003 and currently with
 Aston, Bath, Manchester, Imperial College, Southampton and UKCEH. We have also
 collaborated on the environmental impacts of biomass cropping through a series of projects
 (NERC CarboBioCrop, ETI ELUM, EPSRC MAGLUE) generating >30 papers since REF 2014
 with Aberdeen, Southampton and UKCEH. Our collaborative trials from these projects represent
 a scarce scientific resource as few experiments on these crops have been measured for so long
 and characterised as intensively. Data from the trials, combined with those from European
 collaborations, are used to refine crop models (e.g., MISCANFOR) to generate the next
 iterations in yield and carbon sequestration modelling.

 IBERS leads the Flatworm Functional Genomics Initiative (FUGI), a Wellcome Trust funded
 UK/EU/USA collaboration to develop a functional genomics toolbox for studying blood flukes and
 tapeworms, which cause significant human and animal diseases. We are part of a ZELS
 Consortium (ETHICOBOTS) on bovine TB that includes the Department of Veterinary Medicine,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Cambridge, APHA, The Institute of Global Prosperity, UCL, The National Animal
 Health Diagnostic and Investigation Centre Ethiopia, The Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural
 Research, The Armauer Hansen Research Institute, The Aklilu Lemma Institute of Pathobiology,
 and the Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute.

 Contribution to the research base
 IBERS researchers make significant contributions to the vitality and sustainability of the wider
 research base in agriculture, food and veterinary science through participation in subject
 conferences, organisations and journals.

 IBERS staff are involved in the peer review and post award assessment of research grants
 nationally and internationally as members of awards and review panels. For example since
 2014, IBERS researchers have been members of UKRI, Defra and Wellcome panels including
 Donnison (GCRF, Newton, BBSRC Bioscience for Industry Strategy Panel, UKRI Circular
 Economy SAG, EPSRC review college), Draper (MRC Nutrition Research Partnership, Wellcome
 Trust/WHO), Edwards (NERC Scientific Facilities Added Value Panel, NERC review college),
 Skøt (BBSRC Committee B), Gallagher (BBSRC Committee B, Industrial Case Studentships),
 Hegarty (BBSRC Committee C), Jones H (BBSRC Committee B), Kingston-Smith (BBSRC
 Committee B, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships), Moorby (GCRF), Hewinson (Defra bovine TB),
 Hoffmann (Wellcome Trust), and Yadav (Newton, BBSRC Follow-on-Fund, UKRI AgriTech).
 IBERS researchers have also been involved in international panels including Donnison (ERA-
 CAPS); Gallagher (EU H2020 BBI); Howarth (Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada; EU PRIMA;
 Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research); Kingston-Smith (Department of Agriculture, Food
 and the Marine, Ireland); and Yadav (EU COST).

 Through editorial work, IBERS staff have supported scientific publishing including as Editor in
 Chief of Parasitology International (Hoffman), Deputy Editor of the European Journal of Soil
 Science (Scullion), as Annals of Botany Company member (Donnison), and as members of
 editorial boards for 30 journals.

 IBERS has hosted conferences in Aberystwyth including for the 25th European Grassland
 Federation Conference (2014), Oats 2020 Conference (2015), 12th British Grassland Society
 research Conference (2015), British Society for Parasitology (2018), AberTB Annual Conference
 on Bovine TB (2019), and British Meiosis Meeting (2019). In addition, IBERS researchers have
 regularly been on international organising committees and chair sessions at conferences and
 workshops in Asia, Europe, North America and Australasia. For example, this has included
 Molecular Breeding of Forage & Turf (2016, Lanzhou), International Oat Conference (St
 Petersburg 2016, Perth 2020), Biomarkers of Dietary Intake and Exposure (Washington, 2018),
 Gordon Research Conference on Chronobiology (Barcelona, 2018), Plant and Animal Genome
 Workshops on Grasslands and Bioenergy Grass Genomics (San Diego, annually 2014-20),
 PhenoDays (Berlin, 2016), and InterDrought (Hyderabad, 2017).

 Staff in IBERS have also contributed to research leadership during the assessment period as
 officers or committee members of societies, including Beatty as Chair of a Special Interest
 Group in the British Ecological Society; Fraser as a Trustee of the British Grassland Society;
 Hamilton as Vice-President Elect of the British Society for Parasitology (2020); de Vere as
 Member of the Linnean Society Council; Moorby as President of the British Grassland Society;
 Nash as a Council Member and Chair of the Conference Organizing Committee for the British
 Society for Animal Science; Pachebat as Honorary Treasurer of the British Society for
 Parasitology; Villareal-Ramos as Chair of the Vaccine Affinity Group of the British Society of
 Immunology; and Whitworth as a Trustee and Council Member of the Microbiology Society.
 IBERS staff are also recognised through Fellowships including the the Learned Society of Wales
 (Doonan, Hewinson), Royal Society of Biology (Donnison, Farrar, Hamilton, Jones H,
 Whitworth), the Royal Entomological Society (Dennis), the Royal Society of Arts, Manufactures
 and Commerce (Donnison), the Royal Society for Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (Pachebat),
 the Royal Geographical Society (Edwards) and the British Association of Sport and Exercise
 Sciences (Thatcher). IBERS researchers also act as trustees or in an advisory role for a wide

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of organisations including for other universities, for research projects, industry and
 charities.

 The impact of our research has been recognised through a number of award nominations and
 successes. In June 2015, IBERS won the NIAB Variety Cup for its AberGreen grass variety,
 making it the second forage variety ever to be recognised with the award. In March 2014 the
 BEACON Biorefining Centre, won the European Commission’s RegioStars Sustainable Growth
 award, and in 2019 won a Sustainable Academy Award from Cynnal Cymru. In 2015, IBERS
 were finalists in PraxisUnico and RCUK impacts awards for the fair and equitable use of crop
 genetic resources. In 2016 IBERS was commended in the BBSRC Excellence with Impact
 competition, and in 2020 we became a finalist in the Green Gown Competition for our work on
 Miscanthus seed-based hybrids contributing to net zero targets. A number of our researchers
 have also been recognised, for example in 2017, Edwards was awarded the inaugural Royal
 Geographical Society Walters Kundert Arctic & Mountain Research Fellowship. Leading up to
 the 175th anniversary of the Royal Society of Chemistry in 2016, Shah was profiled as one of
 the 175 Faces of Chemistry. In 2020, Williams H won the Eilir Hedd Morgan Award in
 recognition of research excellence and contribution to Welsh medium higher education by an
 early career researcher.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 IBERS research culture includes a strong translational ethos leading to significant contributions
 to the economy, environment and society. In their 2014 report BiGGAR Economics identified that
 for each £1 of public funding invested in IBERS, it generated £12.18 of benefit to the UK
 economy. In addition, it was identified that IBERS makes a substantial local economic
 contribution, supports the competitiveness of the UK agri-food sector, improves food security
 both within the UK and overseas, generates benefits for human health in the UK and
 internationally, enables international development, helps to reduce the carbon emissions of
 agriculture in the UK, develops ways of adapting to and mitigating against climate change, and
 contributes to better public policy.

 Our contribution to the economy includes commercial applications of our plant breeding with
 our varieties achieving significant market adoption. We have a >30-year relationship with
 Germinal Holdings which has resulted during the REF 2021 in the release of 11 new forage
 grass and clover varieties (see Table 3) and which typically represent approximately 30% of UK
 seed sales for these crops. IBERS also operates one of the three UK sites for the running of
 national list, recommended list, and descriptive list herbage trials for the British Society of Plant
 Breeders (BSPB). We also have a >30-year relationship with Senova on oats which has resulted
 in the release of 12 new oat varieties during the REF 2021 period (see Table 3), which typically
 represent 65% of UK seed sales for the crop. The Senova relationship has enabled the AU-led
 InnovOat, a BBSRC LINK project with partners at NIAB, Heriot Watt University, and the BOBMA
 research group, to use modern breeding technologies to capture and enhance the health
 benefits of oats in new varieties. Over the last 15 years IBERS has developed a plant breeding
 programme in Miscanthus with commercial partners Ceres (subsidiary of Land O’ Lakes) and
 Terravesta, using novel germplasm collected in Asia. Currently the first six Miscanthus varieties
 are undergoing variety registration with the EU Community Plant Variety Office. Other breeding
 programmes include grain legumes (peas and field beans with Wherry, marketed by Senova
 with the first two varieties, which exhibit higher yield and enhanced protein, listed in 2020), reed
 canary grass, and hemp for pharmaceuticals and fibre.




                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Regular stakeholder meetings, including as part of collaborative (e.g., LINK, IPA or Innovate UK)
 projects, ensures that producers and end-users are aware of our research and future research
 priorities are aligned to industry needs. In the Innovate UK funded Sustainable Forage Protein
 project we worked with Germinal and Bangor, and farmers from the Waitrose beef, lamb and
 dairy supply chains (Dovecote Park, Dalehead Foods, Coombe Farm, Müller). In oats we work
 with Senova along the supply chain including Oat Services (high value compounds); PepsiCo,
 Richardson, White’s and Morning Foods (oat millers) and Camgrain (oat growers) through
 InnovOat (BBSRC-LINK) and OptiOat (Innovate UK) projects. Likewise, the PeaGen BBSRC-
 LINK project includes Dalehead Foods, Gressingham, Moy Park, Stonegate and the Processors
 and Growers Research Organisation. In the GIANT (BBSRC and Defra LINK) and MUST
 (BBSRC/Innovate UK) projects, IBERS worked with the biomass supply chain including with
 growers, NFU, Terravesta and module-based plug producers for the upscaling of Miscanthus
 seed-based hybrids, and end users Drax, Shell and Brigg.

 Contributions to society include participatory farmer and stakeholder engagement through
 the PROSOILplus project (Marley, Scullion), funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
 Development. In this project IBERS is working to help livestock farmers safeguard soils against
 the impacts of climate change and to optimise nutrient use efficiency. The Pwllpeiran

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experimental platform has its own stakeholder group, the Pwllpeiran Associates, which includes
 policymakers and implementers from NFU, FUW, RSPB, National Trust, Natural Resources
 Wales (NRW), the British Grassland Society, and award-winning grassland farmers from the
 region. Pwllpeiran acts as a base for the Cambrian Mountains Initiative and two project officers
 working on developing a Parc Naturel designation for the area have an office on site. Open days
 on our own farms or on local farms with whom we collaborate, highlight new cropping options,
 systems and agronomies for practitioners, farming groups and the Young Farmers Association.

 In the BEACON Biorefining Centre IBERS works with industry on collaborative R&D in
 biorefining, bioprocessing and the circular economy. The project is funded through ERDF by
 WEFO and recently celebrated its tenth anniversary at an event in which Wales First Minister,
 Mark Drakeford, spoke. BEACON has supported 76 enterprises to introduce new to the firm
 products/processes in collaborative R&D projects since it was refunded in 2015. Notable follow-
 on projects from such collaborations (e.g., with Innovate UK or Smart Cymru funding) include
 working with 1) Quorn and Waitrose on a ready meal product with reduced salt content but no
 adverse effect on taste, 2) Pennotec on adding value to crab shell waste by processing into high
 value product (chitin), and 3) Fiberight converting sugars derived from municipal solid waste to
 lactic acid for bioplastic production. BEACON is also one of the four members of BioPilotsUK,
 the alliance of open access biorefining centres (along with CPI, York BDM and IBioIC). IBERS
 with BioPilotsUK aims to de-risk the commercialisation of bio-based products and processes by
 trialling new technologies to ensure industrial partners are investing in the right technologies for
 their business.

 Work by researchers in the Sêr Cymru Centre of Excellence for Bovine TB (Hewinson,
 Vordermeier) and their colleagues at the Animal and Plant Health Agency recently culminated in
 the granting of Animal Test Certificates for a bovine TB cattle vaccine (CattleBCG) and a
 companion DIVA skin test (DST-F) that distinguishes vaccinated from infected animals. The field
 trials will be conducted over the next four years on behalf of Defra, the Welsh and Scottish
 Governments. International collaborations funded through a ZELS initiative (ETHICOBOTS) and
 a DFID/Gates Foundation Grant (Accelerating Bovine TB Control in Developing Countries) are
 evaluating these tools in Ethiopia and India. In another initiative, an ‘EpiHub’ is being established
 where molecular biologists and epidemiologists from IBERS, APHA and Welsh Government
 come together to study the transmission of animal diseases and identify effective local and
 national interventions. Close working relationships between veterinary centres, veterinary
 delivery partners, farmers, APHA and Welsh Government will ensure that outcomes of IBERS
 research are translated into practice and policy. The IBERS One Health research grouping will
 bring researchers together to study antimicrobial resistance, health communication and for the
 control of zoonotic diseases. Activities undertaken within the Barrett Centre for Helminth Control,
 a University Interdisciplinary Research Centre established in 2015, have led to contract research
 and collaborative opportunities with industry (ELANCO Animal Health, MSD Animal Health,
 Bimeda Animal Health, Boehringer Ingelheim, Techion, Informatics Unlimited, Ridgeway
 Research, Bio-Check) on detecting and treating helminth infections of animals and humans.
 IBERS is one of few UK locations that maintain Schistosoma mansoni lifecycles and provide
 soluble egg antigen to the Health Services Laboratory in London for detecting schistosomiasis in
 patients referred to them by general practitioners across the UK. Three patents have been
 submitted in this census period on anti-infectives (Hoffmann) and diagnostics (Brophy,
 Morphew).

 Additionally, IBERS contribute to public understanding of science through public engagement
 and science communication. This has included the designing and running of hands-on
 activities at the Royal Welsh Show (the largest agricultural show in Europe), National Eisteddfod,
 National Science Week, and the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures. The TrioSciCymru project
 (2017-2021) is a European Social Fund partnership between the Welsh Government and four
 universities (£1.2M to AU) that has provided targeted science interventions at Key Stage 3 and
 is encouraging students from under-represented groups to study science. We also participate
 and help host sessions at the Wales Real Food Festival (in Aberystwyth in 2019, online in 2020),
 and with international events such as Fascination of Plants Day. We engage with local

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community groups such as gardening clubs and community gardens, and through the Well-being
 and Health Assessment Research Unit on diet and health, through public lectures and a Science
 Café series hosted at the Aberystwyth Arts Centre. IBERS works with other communicators such
 as Cows on Tour; artists, including Miranda Whall, on creating a sheep's eye view of the
 Cambrian Mountains and Tim Knowles, on visualising the environment; the Hay Literary Festival
 linking the farmed upland landscape to poetry; the National Botanic Garden of Wales on the
 “Power of Grasses” display boards and a “Plants in Space” activity, and with the Centre for
 Alternative Technology on the building of the world’s first Miscanthus house. We communicate
 our research through the Science Media Centre, local and national media and in public debates,
 on topics such as sustainable agriculture, healthy diets, net zero, animal disease, and the role of
 GM.

 Finally, IBERS makes important contributions to society by engaging with policymakers in
 Wales, UK and globally on topics including climate change, land use, uplands, bovine TB and
 sustainable fisheries. For example, expert advice has been provided to the Welsh Government
 and Welsh Chief Vet on bovine TB (Hewinson), to Welsh Government on Pandemic Influenza
 through the Environment Group (Edwards), to Defra on the mitigation of livestock greenhouse
 gas emissions (Moorby), on blue growth and the maritime environment (Ironside, Moore),
 fisheries boundary policy in South Africa (Shaw), on grasslands to the European Commission
 (Donnison), on management of uplands to UK and Welsh Governments (Fraser), and on food
 and drink policy (Draper). Griffith has authored reports for Welsh Government, Natural England
 and Environmental consultancies on the conservation and protection of fungi. Hewinson was an
 author of the Review of England’s Bovine TB Strategy, a report to the Secretary of State for
 Defra. Most of the recommendations from this report were accepted and formed the basis of
 Defra’s five year strategy for TB eradication. Hewinson was also a member of the WHO
 consultation panel on zoonotic TB (Geneva 2016) which led to a comprehensive roadmap
 released in 2017. In addition, he was a Member of the Blackett Panel on wide-area Biological
 Detection, chair of Defra’s Scientific Oversight Group for the design and implementation of cattle
 vaccine field trials (2015-2016) and member of five Defra Advisory and Review Groups on TB.
 Donnison co-authored a report for DfT on UK Biomass Availability Modelling (2020) and has
 been on advisory groups for the NFU on net zero and for the Committee on Climate Change
 Reports on Biomass (2018) and Land Use (2020). Jones, H, was involved in round table
 meetings with UK MPs and Defra Ministers, Michael Gove and George Eustice, to discuss future
 UK policy on biotechnology innovation and regulation.

 IBERS has responded to multiple UK and Welsh Government consultations, hosted a visit from
 the UK Government Office of Science on the agricultural productivity gap and engaged with All-
 Party Parliamentary Groups on: i) Science and Technology in Agriculture, on Grassland science
 and innovation – the key to a Green Brexit; ii) Latin America with Earlham on the development of
 the GROW Colombia partnership and iii) Science & Technology in Agriculture during the
 progression of the Agriculture Bill and gene editing legislation. In the coming decade, there will
 be major and urgent areas of agriculture and food policy which will require policy input and
 IBERS is committed to engage with the relevant stakeholders in Wales, UK and internationally.




                                                                                            Page 22
