Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University College London

Unit of Assessment: 18 (Law)

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Unit context
UCL Laws (UoA18) is a single-department Faculty, with 62 REF-eligible staff in a larger research
community embracing PGR students, and a vibrant group of Emeritus, Honorary and Visiting
Professors, Judicial Visitors, and visiting academics. The Faculty has played a pioneering role in
legal academia: the first faculty of common law in the country; the first to offer degrees in English,
rather than civil law; and the first to confer a law degree on a woman (Eliza Orme, LLB 1888). We
build on this history of innovation, and recognized strength, with a distinctively outward-looking
research profile that is:
   comprehensively excellent, spanning public and private law, and working across domestic
    and foreign, EU, and international and transnational law (giving a deep sense to the ‘Laws’
    plural in our name);
   methodologically diverse, taking a range of approaches (including doctrinal, jurisprudential,
    empirical, socio-legal, historical, and comparative);
   highly interdisciplinary, engaging with and generating substantial research in and with other
    disciplines; and
   animated by a strong social mission, rooted in justice values, and reflected in a striking array
    of agenda-setting research impacts.


1.2 Unit structure
Within Laws, 16 Research Centres and Institutes facilitate interdisciplinary research, build
collaborations and partnerships, and forge relationships with research users and audiences. Much
research is also pursued by individual scholars—often with colleagues in the Faculty, other UCL
departments, or partner institutions around the world. Laws sits within UCL’s School of Laws, Arts
& Humanities, and Social & Historical Sciences (SLASH), and participates extensively in SLASH
and UCL-wide collaboration.

1.3 Research strategy
1.3.1 Current research strategy and steps to implementation
Laws’ research strategy centres on fostering our blend of: (1) comprehensive excellence, (2)
methodological pluralism, (3) interdisciplinarity, and (4) strong social mission and justice
values (rule of law, human rights, constitutional democracy, access to justice). After cycles
of investment and growth, the Faculty is strongly positioned, but maintaining these features
requires constant nurturing of staff and the research environment, with strategic focus and
ambition for all staff. The Faculty’s most recent Strategic Operating Plan 2018 (SOP 2018)
developed UCL-wide goals (UCL 5a) within a 5–10 year plan for Laws, and identified specific
objectives for research, including:
   further strengthening our ‘research infrastructure’, in particular to stimulate the
    collaborative and interdisciplinary research that is UCL’s strength; and
   building further internal and external connections and collaborations.
Over this REF period, our headline advances towards these objectives, and larger research
strategy, have included:
   Enhanced research leadership, with a dedicated Impact Lead (since 2017) and Vice-Dean
    Equality Diversity and Inclusion (VDEDI) (since 2019), working alongside the Vice-Dean
    Research (VDR); with a Vice-Dean International (VDI) developing our structures for

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    international research collaboration (see section 4.1), and Vice-Dean Innovation and
    Enterprise (VDI&E); all enjoying between 25% and 50% teaching relief.
   Renewed focus on EDI, to open our research community to the widest possible pool of
    candidates, and ensure all researchers can thrive (2.4).
   Introduction of a Distinguished Visiting Professor scheme (2017) to foster collaboration,
    and a flexible, generous approach to Visiting Academics (4.1).
   Further promotion of interdisciplinary research, through:
    o   Posts dedicated or open to interdisciplinary scholars, including Julius (joined UCL as
        the inaugural Chair in Law and the Arts, 2017); Veale (appointed at the intersection of law
        and computer science as Lecturer in Digital Rights and Regulation, 2019); Donaldson
        (international law and history, 2019); and Foster (law and history, 2020).
    o   Providing support and (from 2020) a new institutional home for the UCL European
        Institute (EI), a cross-faculty hub intertwining Laws with the over 30 other UCL
        departments and centres of expertise with which the EI works.
   A high, and growing, level of investment in every Laws researcher (personal research
    allowance of £3500 per year), combined with substantial, targeted Faculty-level
    investment for engagement and impact (3.3.1), including up to £20,000 for annual
    Bentham House conferences which attract leading international thinkers, and are often
    comparative, multijurisdictional or interdisciplinary.
   Strategic pursuit of external funding to support long-term and collaborative research
    projects, yielding over £4.09 million in grant income (cf £2.5 million in previous REF
    period), through effective use of UCL centrally-allocated funds to incubate research and
    build collaborations (1.4), and a rigorous Faculty grant review process, further enhanced
    in 2018 (3.2).
   Enhanced research support through the establishment in 2015 of Laws Faculty Research
    Office, with dedicated Research Manager, 3 Research Officers, Centre Manager, and PhD
    administrator (3.3.2).
   A £20m investment in our physical home, Bentham House, increasing our capacity to
    catalyze research collaboration and offer public events (4.3).


1.3.2 Achievement of strategic objectives since REF2014
Steps taken to advance our research strategy have borne fruit over the REF cycle, evident in both
a holistic survey of the Faculty and a cross-section of our areas of research.
(a) Survey of the Faculty
We have extended our breadth, with sustained and prominent research and impact in each of
the sub-fields targeted in REF14 for expansion (professional ethics, access to justice, healthcare
law and judicial studies (marked with asterisk in 1.3.2(b) below)), and renewal of our existing
excellence in both public and private law. In methodological terms, the Faculty has maintained
and enhanced a particular strength, uncommon for law schools, in complex quantitative
socio-legal work (including Balmer, Genn, George, Gerner-Beuerle, Pleasence, Moorhead,
Thomas, Vaughan, Veale; and reflected in work of e.g. the Centre for Empirical Legal Studies,
Centre for Access to Justice, and Judicial Institute), alongside authoritative doctrinal analysis,
jurisprudential and theoretical work, other socio-legal approaches, and legal history.
This breadth of excellence and methodological pluralism (captured in 1.3.2(b) below) has fed
the vitality of research (particularly exchanges between public and private law theory, and
jurisprudence), and fostered interdisciplinary research. Faculty are actively engaged in
UCL’s interdisciplinary Grand Challenges (Justice and Equality, Sustainable Cities, Cultural
Understanding and Human Wellbeing) (1.4; UCL 5a), co-supervision of PhD students (including
with Slade School of Art; Political Science; Institute of the Americas; Faculty of the Built
Environment; Institute for Global Prosperity; and Division of Psychology and Language Sciences);

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and university-wide research groups (Eeckhout as Academic Director of the European Institute;
Vaughan as co-Director of qUCL, UCL’s queer research network; Choudhury as Thematic Director
(Global Justice and Equity), Global Governance Institute). This is reflected in frequent co-
authorships with other disciplines (e.g. Gerner-Beuerle with business school scholars; Veale
with computer scientists; Montgomery with clinicians, bioethicists and social scientists).
Over the REF period, Faculty members have engaged in 117 collaborative projects with
colleagues external to Laws. They have actively built relationships across UCL, e.g. by
founding the Institute for Law, Politics and Philosophy (ILPP) (2016) to showcase and develop the
vibrancy of legal and political philosophy at UCL, and used enhancements to our research
infrastructure—Faculty and UCL funding, visiting schemes, and support for external grants
—to build stronger research collaborations with leading academic institutions, as well as
practice, government and the third sector, in the UK and globally (see 1.3.2(b) below).
This sustained collaborative effort has allowed colleagues to develop socially responsive and
highly impactful research on a range of national and international research priorities, including
Brexit (Eeckhout, Hickman, Hunter-Henin, Lee, McCrea, Macrory, King, Scotford, Staiger), stem
cell medicine (Montgomery, Saprai), bioethics (Montgomery), contact tracing technology and
digital rights (Veale), big data and data encryption technology (Donovan, Xanthaki, Veale),
access to justice for vulnerable communities (Genn, Knowles, Mantouvalou, Riahi), solicitors’
ethics (Moorhead, Vaughan), reform of criminal sentencing and juries (Ormerod, Thomas), UK
devolution (Rawlings), environmental justice issues (Holder) and the green transition (Lee,
Milligan, Scott).

(b) Cross-section by area
The breadth and excellence of research, broad church of methodological approaches, and
integration of interdisciplinarity are evident in a cross-section of our research profile across the
REF period.
Core areas of public and private law
   Human rights, social rights and constitutionalism. The Faculty recruited Suteu (2016), an
    expert in comparative constitutional law, and several leading researchers progressed to
    Professor (Countouris, King, Letsas, Mantouvalou, McCrea, O’Cinneide). Bentham House
    conference funding (3.3.1) enabled major international conferences, with strong theoretical
    and interdisciplinary elements, on Philosophical Foundations of Labour Law (2016),
    Foundational Concepts in Constitutional Theory (2019), and Transforming through Equality
    (2020, postponed to 2021). Laws contributes to the interdisciplinary UCL Institute for Human
    Rights. Faculty have established a Public Law Discussion Group, with regular speakers from
    across the UK and abroad; and, under the Labour Rights Institute, a UK Labour Law blog
    (editors from Bristol, LSE, UCL). King was awarded a Leverhulme Prize (2017) to continue his
    work on public law theory and socio-economic rights.
   Private and commercial law. Recruitment at both junior and senior levels has sustained
    strength in private law areas: Petrin (2013); Donovan (2014); Choudhury and Raczynska
    (2015); Connolly (2016); Agnew, Davies and Gerner-Beuerle (2017); and Moore (2019);
    Wagner von Papp and McFarlane departing 2019. Chiu, Choudhury and Petrin were promoted
    to Professor. The REF period has seen significant monographs by 7 private and commercial
    law colleagues, with Davies winning the Inner Temple book prize. The Private Law Group
    hosted major conferences on: Contract and Fiduciary Law (2016) (with the Yale Center for the
    Study of Private Law); the Bentham House conference on Global Futures of Unjust Enrichment
    (2017); and Modern Studies in Property Law (2018). Bentham House conference funding
    enabled the Centre for Commercial Law to hold a major conference on EU Maritime Law
    (2016).
   Criminal law. The Faculty renewed its criminal law expertise with recruitment of Dsouza
    (2016, Lecturer) and Kelly (2019, Lecturer). Ormerod (appointed 2014 while serving as Law
    Commissioner) has now joined the Faculty after undertaking his comprehensive codification
    of sentencing; Dennis retired in 2018. The Centre for Criminal Law has hosted high-level

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    events on sentencing, parole and diversion from prosecution (involving advocates, judges,
    prison governors), as well as the Assize Seminars on Cutting Edge Criminal Law (initiated
    2017 by Dsouza with colleagues from Oxford, Cambridge and the Criminal Bar Association),
    a now-thriving fixture in the field connecting academics to the criminal bar and criminal law
    policy.
Legal systems beyond the state
   EU law. Eeckhout, Professor of EU Law and Dean of the Faculty (since 2017) is Academic
    Director of the UCL European Institute (EI), a major hub of interdisciplinary scholarship and
    platform for public outreach (4.3). McCrea is Academic Lead on the EI’s Jean Monnet Centre
    of Excellence Rule of Law strand; Hunter-Henin and Gerstenberg (recruited 2016) are EI
    Fellows. In the REF period, Eeckhout completed a major study on future UK–EU trade
    relations for the European Parliament’s Committee on International Trade, and his research
    (with then-doctoral student Frantziou) underpinned the successful argument in the Wightman
    case, contributing (with public law colleagues) to our REF3 case study, ‘Shaping the Legal
    Framework for Brexit’.
   International law. Recruitment of Paparinskis (2013, international investment law), O’Keefe
    (Professor 2014–18, Honorary Professor 2018–, international criminal law), Grusic (2016,
    private international law), Marín Durán (2017, international economic law), and Donaldson
    (2019, history of international law) expanded breadth and depth in international law. Mills and
    Trapp were promoted to Professor, joining Sands. A PhD-led PIL Discussion Group and Pro
    Bono Project (4.2) integrate the international law PGR community with Faculty research.
    Faculty monographs won awards including the Paul Guggenheim Prize in Public International
    Law (Azaria) and Baillie Gifford Prize for Non-Fiction (Sands), and Laws hosted major projects
    on Human Rights Beyond Borders (Wilde, ERC Starting Grant, ~£900,000, awarded 2012),
    and Silence of States in International Law (Azaria, ERC Starting Grant, ~£1.2m, awarded
    2020).
Theoretical and cross-cutting approaches to law
   Jurisprudence. UCL’s historical strength in jurisprudence has been reinforced with: the hiring
    of Toh (2016); promotion of Letsas to Professor (2014); and appointment of Shapiro as Visiting
    Quain Professor of Jurisprudence (2015). Creation of the Institute for Law, Politics and
    Philosophy (ILPP) in 2016 has given visibility to the strength of these fields at UCL, and ILPP
    now hosts an interdisciplinary colloquium series of world-class speakers. The Yale
    Collaborative (4.1) anchors a Legal Philosophy Workshop, sessions held at Yale and UCL,
    fostering transatlantic dialogue.
   Empirical legal studies. Balmer was promoted to Professor of Law and Social Statistics
    (2018). New hires with significant empirical expertise include George (2014), Gerner-Beuerle
    and Vaughan (2017), and Veale (2019). The Centre for Empirical Legal Studies initiated in
    2014 a quadrennial International Conference on Access to Justice and Legal Services (with
    Centre for Ethics and Law and Centre for Access to Justice), focused on empirical research
    and its impact on policy, and drawing academics, policy-makers and practitioners from around
    the world (at 2018 event, 80 speakers from 16 countries).
   Law and professional ethics*. UCL’s significant presence in this field was bolstered by the
    appointment of Vaughan (2017, Senior Lecturer; now Professor), prominent in lawyers' ethics
    and regulation, and corporate governance, and Brener (2018, Deputy Director for the Centre
    for Ethics and Law), with Moorhead leaving UCL 2019 for a senior academic leadership role.
    Empirical research on in-house lawyers’ ethics has animated extensive training in private
    practice and public bodies (4.6), and collaboration with the General Counsel of the Bank of
    England, and Banking Standards Board (roundtable at UCL (2018) on ethical standards for
    banking lawyers). Moorhead has run LawyerWatch (a popular blog on lawyers’ ethics) since
    2012 (300,000 visitors since inception), Vaughan joining as co-host 2019. The Centre for
    Ethics and Law has extended its focus to ethical dimensions of technology (Chiu appointed
    co-Chair of Institute of Directors Corporate Governance Centre’s working group on AI and
    Corporate Governance).

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Access to justice*. The Centre for Access to Justice (CAJ, established 2012) grew its
    activities through strategic investment and philanthropic support (5.5 FTE 2019 cf 2 FTE 2013).
    Its Integrated Legal Advice Clinic (ILAC) combines innovative teaching and research-based
    learning with provision of legal advice to local communities, and is currently the only university
    clinic holding a legal aid contract. In 2016, CAJ established a ‘health justice partnership’ with
    a GP practice in East London, to provide free legal services to patients, and is playing a leading
    role in developing policy on such partnerships in the UK and abroad (4.6).
   Legal history and Bentham Project. Further hiring has added breadth and depth, including
    Donaldson (2019, history of international law) and Foster (2020, English legal history), to
    notable expertise from Roman law and the early modern (Williams) to the 18th (Schofield), 19th
    and 20th centuries (Mitchell C, Mitchell P). The Bentham Project operates as a quasi-
    department inside Laws, with Faculty support of the Director and General Editor (Schofield)
    and Senior Research Fellow (Causer). The Project is a global hub for Bentham Studies, and
    sustains Transcribe Bentham, one of the longest-running global crowd-sourcing initiatives in
    the digital humanities (now collaborating with an international consortium to extend
    transcription technology through the Transkribus platform, with potential to revolutionize public
    access to archival material of all kinds).
Further specific legal sub-fields
   Environmental law. Scott’s EUI Professorship (from 2017) and Macrory’s move to Emeritus
    allowed the appointment of Scotford (as Professor, 2017) and Marín Durán (2017, as Senior
    Lecturer). The Centre for Law and Environment has intensified activities, offering an annual
    lecture; frequent workshops and ‘policy and practice’ seminars; as well as high-profile public
    events including sector-leading responses to the Environment Bill. Through advice to
    government, parliamentarians and NGOs, Centre members have shaped the architecture of
    post-Brexit environmental law and governance (REF3 case study, ‘Driving generation-
    defining reform of UK environmental law’).
   Intellectual property law. Recruitment of Simone (2015) contributed copyright expertise and
    comparative and interdisciplinary strength. The Institute of Brand and Innovation Law (IBIL),
    established 2007, one of only a few UK university research centres focused on IP law, has
    developed a major profile, attracting audiences of several hundred from the IP community
    (academics, practitioners, judiciary, industry and NGOs) to flagship annual lectures. IBIL hosts
    regular conferences on Patents in Telecoms and the Internet of Things (4th conference 2019),
    and offers public events with UCL colleagues in life sciences, pharmacy, engineering and
    information studies (4.3). Sponsorship has funded a PhD scholarship (2.3.1) and enables
    further research-focused events, including work-in-progress seminars with for ECRs (4.4).
   Competition law. Appointment of Mantzari (2018) brought additional expertise on the
    interaction of competition law with sectoral regulation, and Lianos (promoted to Professor
    2014), was appointed as Head of the Greek Competition Authority (2019). The Centre for Law,
    Economics and Society worked with international partners including Peking University (on
    governance of digital platforms, backed by UCL Global Engagement funds), and authored a
    White Paper commissioned by the World Economic Forum on global governance of online
    consumer protection and e-commerce. The Jevons Institute, bringing practitioners (Bavasso,
    Evans) into the research life of the Faculty, has organized major international colloquia with
    national competition authorities and George Mason University.
   Healthcare law*. Montgomery (appointed UCL’s first chair of Healthcare Law 2013) has
    developed the field significantly at UCL, with sector-leading public policy engagement (4.2),
    leading to knighthood for services to bioethics and healthcare law. Faculty members have
    contributed to Lancet Commissions on Regenerative Medicine (Montgomery, Saprai); and
    UCL-wide workshops on pandemic planning (Letsas, Montgomery), ethics of participant-led
    research (Montgomery, Tasioulas), sustainable innovation (Montgomery), and legal incentives
    for innovation in medicines (Jacob).
   Judicial studies*. Our research base in this field—unique in the UK in access to real juries
    for quantitative research—has expanded through recruitment of Ormerod (2014), Co-Director

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    of the UCL Judicial Institute (JI) (along with founding Director, Thomas; both now Honorary
    QCs). The JI established the first longitudinal study of the working lives of UK judges, and
    produced landmark jury research on race (for the Lammy Review), sexual offences (in
    response to a petition to Parliament and to assist major policy reviews in the UK and abroad)
    and contempt (yielding the first universal written jury direction in England and Wales and
    dramatic improvements in jurors’ understanding of their role (4.2)).

1.3.3 Looking forward: objectives 2020–2028
After cycles of targeted hiring and expansion, Laws has established strength across legal sub-
fields, displaying outstanding leadership in many of them. Our future strategy is to: cultivate this
breadth of excellence; support and further leverage methodological pluralism and potential
for interdisciplinary advances; and renew commitments to justice values in a rapidly
evolving environment. In particular, we will:
   Seize opportunities to maintain and enrich our strength across legal sub-fields, with a
    focus on ECRs. Successful promotions have built a strategic and business case for boosted
    ECR recruitment, with immediate opportunities for hiring in property law, competition law
    and professional ethics. One further area for strategic growth is the Faculty’s engagement
    in law and technology, building on the hiring of Veale (2019) and existing research on law
    and technology (4.6), amplifying UCL’s global research priorities and leveraging our location
    in London (close to tech giants and hubs of technological change in legal practice).
   Advance EDI in our research community and intellectual culture. Our output pool
    reduction and data on pandemic effects indicate that female researchers have
    disproportionately faced obstacles to productivity (2.1). In addition to existing EDI measures
    (2.4.3), the VDR is working closely with the VDEDI and Athena Swan Lead (Suteu) in 2020–
    21 to assess needs among, and develop further research support for, women and those with
    caring responsibilities, and the VDEDI has initiated new structures for gathering qualitative
    information on other EDI-relevant barriers to progression. In 2019, the Faculty commissioned
    Advance HE to prepare bespoke training on ‘EDI in the Research Environment’ (delivery
    postponed due to COVID-19); this will be held as soon as possible, to explore EDI issues in
    production and assessment of research. The Faculty has made a commitment to cross-
    disciplinary research on race and racism, including in connection with the UCL Sarah Parker
    Redmond Centre for the Study of Racism (UCL Laws Statement in Solidarity with our Black
    Students, Staff and Alumni, 19 June 2020).
   Navigate the COVID-19 pandemic and aftermath as both a practical and intellectual
    challenge, in keeping with our justice values. An addendum to the SOP2018 endorsed
    by Faculty Board (October 2020) included practical measures to support researchers affected
    by EDI factors (2.4.3). The Dean and VDR have reiterated that the Faculty prioritizes quality
    of research over quantity of outputs, giving excellent research time to mature. COVID-19 is
    not merely a set of logistical constraints to our research, but a spur to new research. In placing
    acute pressure on the social and political order, COVID poses new questions about the role of
    law which the Faculty can continue to address in diverse and ambitious ways.
   Review our internal organization for research. Our Centres and Institutes have grown to
    reflect Faculty research strengths. As our breadth extends, we need periodically to assess
    how these are organized and distributed. In 2019–20, the Faculty Research Committee
    initiated a comprehensive review of Centres and Institutes, with criteria for an initial phase
    of self-evaluation by Centre and Institute Directors reflecting strategic objectives (1.3.1):
    fulfilment of UCL-wide strategy; impact and engagement; interdisciplinarity (where
    appropriate); support for ECRs; inclusive representation; and reputation and identity.


1.4 Impact strategy
We believe that impact is possible across all levels of seniority, from every form of
scholarship, and at all scales. Our REF3 case studies feature leads from professors to lecturers,
and bear out our commitment to methodological pluralism, ranging from doctrinal analysis to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interdisciplinary engagement (history, computer science). They have shaped bodies of law and
core legal institutions, and wider social practice, in the UK and globally. A wealth of other
instances (section 4) reflects this focus on diverse impacts.
Impact has been facilitated over the REF period through:
   A dedicated Faculty Impact Lead from 2017 (Vaughan), sitting on the UCL Public and
    Community Engagement Sub-Committee, and providing tailored support on developing
    impact (both REF and non-REF related) with one-on-one advice; training sessions for
    Faculty, new staff and PhD students; and Faculty communications.
   Increased competitive internal funding within the Faculty for impact work of both staff
    and PGR students (3.3.1).
   Effective use of centrally-allocated UCL funds for research engagement, impact, and
    dissemination (some £170,000 over the REF period, including 22 Global Engagement
    Funds awards totalling £39,300 and 14 Grand Challenges Small Grants, special
    initiatives and ad hoc awards totalling £53,389 (UCL 5a), across a range of seniority levels).
Going forward, Laws will continue to foster impact in a broad-based and inclusive way, through:
   Impact Lead work on new public-facing ‘policy briefs’ , and documentation of impact in audio-
    visual and written forms for internal presentation; and
   Using the review of Centres and Institutes (1.3.3) to explore optimal organization of research
    for impact.

1.5 Progress towards open research environment
Pursuit of cutting-edge research, animated by a strong social purpose, has made open access
(OA) crucial to our research culture.
Laws has embraced ‘green’ OA, both through UCL’s repository, and by investing (2018) in
an SSRN Research Paper series to disseminate research (12 papers; over 2,500 downloads
and 12,000 views) (with the Centre for Law, Economics and Society and Centre for Ethics and
Law maintaining their own OA working paper series).
Laws has also pursued new avenues for ‘gold’ OA publishing, and open data, during the REF
period by:
   Supporting the sector-leading OA publisher UCL Press (UCL 5a) (Paparinskis sitting on
    the Press’ Editorial Board) and developing its potential for democratizing access to knowledge.
    In 2017, Eeckhout founded Europe and the World: A Law Review as a fully peer-reviewed,
    OA journal (as of July 2020, 29 articles; over 18,000 views in total). The European Institute’s
    edited volume Brexit and Beyond has received over 121,000 downloads (July 2020). The
    Bentham Project has published multiple edited collections with UCL Press, and in July
    2020 UCL Press took over future volumes of Bentham’s Collected Works (digital versions
    free online to all).
   Maintaining UCL Journal of Law and Jurisprudence as an OA, double-blind peer-
    reviewed journal edited and published by Faculty PGR students.
   Obtaining UCL funds for over 30 ‘gold’ OA outputs, with over 20 further outputs
    appearing under ‘gold’ OA by other routes.
   Making use of field-specific platforms (including arxiv and Github; rapid OA publication on
    the latter, a collaborative coding platform, being critical for the Faculty’s REF3 case study
    on contact-tracing); and UCL’s Data Repository (the Bentham Project making available
    transcripts and images of Bentham’s works as an OA dataset).
OA is now firmly anchored in Faculty life, through:
   Faculty engagement in articulating discipline-specific priorities in the OA transition
    (extensive contributions to UCL’s response in UKRI’s Open Access Policy Consultation (May


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2020), addressing issues relevant to law (greater emphasis on monographs, complexities
    associated with CC licences, ensuring ECR publication prospects));
   Regular guidance (VDR-led sessions at research away days and Faculty boards, a termly
    open access update to Faculty and doctoral students (from early 2020) highlighting new
    ‘transformative agreements’ negotiated by UCL); and
   Making a requirement to consider open access publication part of applications for the
    Faculty’s flagship Bentham House Conference Fund (3.3.1).


1.6 Culture of research integrity
Laws operates within the UCL research ethics framework. Laws has a statutory appointment on
the UCL Research Ethics Committee, and has piloted a new approach to streamlining
research ethics review at Faculty level, building ethics expertise within the Faculty. A
Faculty Research Ethics Team (led by O’Cinneide) scrutinizes Faculty and PGR projects for
compliance, with high-risk applications being referred to the UCL Research Ethics Committee.
Laws academics also make extensive contributions to the integrity of research more generally, in
grant processes and peer review (4.5).

2. People

2.1 Research-active staff and output selection profile
Our staff selection is highly representative of the UoA: all research staff were selected for the
outputs submission bar 2 without a relevant substantial connection. At the census date, all
research staff were on open-ended contracts (except 1 fixed-term appointment replacing a
permanent Faculty member on funded research leave). At the census date, we had 3 ECRs
among Category A staff, and 11 part-time eligible staff.
Laws submitted 127 outputs by Category A and Category B staff (output pool reduced by 21,
for individual circumstances). The output pool reflects our breadth of excellence across legal
subfields. 8% of outputs are flagged as inter-disciplinary. Distribution of selected outputs (Figure
1) indicates that, although a few colleagues had >2 outputs included, research excellence is
broadly distributed across the Faculty. Non-professorial scholars are strongly represented,
reflecting careful hiring and strong support for ECRs over the REF period. Analysis of the profile
for EDI factors is developed at 2.4.3(b).

       Staff with …         Category A                   Category B
       5 outputs            2
       4 outputs            4
       3 outputs            7                            2
       2 outputs            19 (incl 1 ECR)              1
       1 output             30 (incl 2 ECRs)             4
       Figure 1: Distribution of outputs per Category A staff, Category B staff, ECRs
       (including double weighting)

2.2 Staffing strategy and staff development
2.2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
Faculty recruitment has been tailored to our strategy of maintaining breadth and depth of legal
expertise, methodological diversity and openness to interdisciplinarity (1.3.3). This has
delivered sustainable staffing across sub-fields, with attention to succession planning
(1.3.2(b)). This REF period has seen strategic recruitment at mid-career and professorial levels
as well as recruitment at junior levels in every year of the REF period. ECR recruitment
remains a strategic priority to balance rapid progression (1.3.3). In 2018–19, the VDR expanded

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systematic internal review of short-listed applicants’ research, enabling fine-grained
differentiation among applicants.

2.2.2 Research staff development strategy
The Faculty operates UCL-wide probation, promotion, and appraisal programmes, with
research central to the promotion and appraisal in particular. The Vice-Dean Staffing (VDS, our
Head of Department) invites all staff annually to discuss progression; and the Dean and VDS
proactively identify individuals who may be ready for promotion. Over the REF period, all
candidates supported by the Faculty have been promoted, reflecting strong Faculty processes.
UCL’s systematic Academic Careers Framework (UCL 5a) and strong performance of
individual staff have ensured rapid promotions: 5 of those made Professor in this REF period
were Lecturers in 2013. The Faculty also operates a mentoring scheme for all colleagues,
redesigned by VDS (Diduck), not linked to promotion and appraisal, to offer informal, confidential
support for staff development, including research.

2.2.3 Centring research and critical feedback in our collegial life

The Faculty ensures time for research, with a norm of 120–130 hours of teaching per year (slight
reduction from an already relatively low level in 2013); and a sabbatical policy more generous
than the UCL norm (2.2.5). A thriving, funded Faculty-wide lunchtime research seminar, run
by the VDR and chaired by the Dean, is open to visitors and doctoral students, and features staff
work-in-progress; advanced PhD papers; and research and impact-related training. Further
channels of feedback on research by request include: a peer review college (all Faculty are
members, with feedback requests assigned by the VDR), mentorship, and specialist internal work-
in-progress workshops (e.g. in Centre for Law and Environment, Centre for Law and Ethics).

2.2.4 Support and integration of early-career researchers
ECRs benefit from field-specific ECR events in UCL’s Centres and Institutes (4.4), and are
integrated rapidly into Faculty research life. They are usually expected to present at our Faculty
seminar, and encouraged to make use of the peer review college. New recruits, including ECRs,
are well supported through enhanced mentoring, and benefit in their first year from a teaching
reduction of ~15%, efforts to make teaching loads efficient, and relief from administrative roles
other than student mentoring.

2.2.5 Sabbatical and research leave
One term of sabbatical leave is offered per 7 terms worked, pro rata for part-time staff (cf UCL-
wide entitlement of 1 term per 9 terms). Major enabling roles accrue sabbatical leave thereafter (1
year for VDs Staffing, Research, and Programme Delivery and Development; 1 term for VDs
International, EDI, and Innovation).
Staff returning from maternity/paternity/carers leave have 1 additional term (UCL’s dedicated
‘returners’ sabbatical leave’). Additional periods may be granted for other interruptions
(2.4.3(d)).

2.2.6 Facilitation of exchange between academia, business and public sector
Laws facilitates flexible employment arrangements to foster collaboration and impact,
including: unpaid leave to allow Ormerod to complete a wholesale codification of sentencing
law during an extended term as Law Commissioner (appointed 2014, returning to UCL 2020); and
0.5 FTE secondment for Thomas to serve as the inaugural Dean of Education of the Inner
Temple, developing career-long learning at the bar (2019–). Many staff hold leadership roles in,
or engagements with, private and public sector bodies alongside work in the Faculty (4.2).




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2.7 Recognition and reward for research and impact
In addition to promotion, Laws recognizes exceptional performance by recommending
accelerated increments or additional contribution points for colleagues whose work (including
research and/or impact) since last appraisal is considered outstanding, and is sustained for at
least 6 months (32 such awards in the REF period; of which 19 to men, and 13 to women; women
overperforming relative to FTE). UCL offers a transparent, structured process for professorial
re-banding (14 re-banding promotions in the REF period; 6 women, 8 men; women
overperforming relative to composition of the professoriate).

2.3 Postgraduate research community
2.3.1 Recruitment and funding of doctoral students
The Faculty sees fundamental connections between maintaining vibrancy of our research
community, and cultivation of PGRs. During the REF period, Laws has awarded at least 10
research doctoral degrees per year, on average, and the incoming cohort has grown to 14 in
2019 (prior years’ cohorts between 6 and 11), with 46 Faculty members currently supervising
PhDs. The programme is highly competitive, attracting in the 2019–20 cycle 95 applicants from
31 countries (21 from the UK), of whom 14 were admitted.
On average over the REF period, 80% of PhD admissions have been fully funded through
Faculty, UCL or external funding. Faculty funding has grown over the REF period; our usual 3
full home/EU scholarships and 1 overseas scholarship (tuition fees and maintenance) were
supplemented from 2019–20 with 2 additional Opportunity (Widening Participation)
scholarships to support doctoral candidates from diverse backgrounds. We also offer 2 PhD
scholarships targeted to strategic research interests for the Faculty (private law and IP). By the
2019–20 cycle, our PhD funding included 8 fully funded scholarships, addressing merit, need,
and the Faculty’s academic strengths. In addition, students have attracted highly competitive,
UCL-wide Graduate Research Scholarships (1 in 2017, 2 in 2019).
External funding flows from sources including the China Scholarship Council and the
Competition Commission. Since 2014, we have been part of the London Arts and Humanities
Partnership AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (joint initiative between UCL, King’s College
London and the School of Advanced Study to fund and train AHRC-funded postgraduate students;
8 students over 2014–19). Our students have also obtained 10 Modern Law Review
Scholarships.

2.3.2 Support for progress and completion, and skills development
Doctoral students are guided by at least 2 supervisors, and discuss progress annually with the
Director of Research Studies. A compulsory 20-week seminar series for all doctoral students
focuses on developing a research project, research methods, conference presentations, academic
careers, publishing and impact. Students develop skills through progress presentations at the end
of each term, and a weekly work-in-progress forum supported by the Faculty. In 2015, the PhD
programme added an end-of-first-year conference, at which doctoral students present their
research to other students and Faculty members.
The UCL Graduate School also provides a range of formal Skills Development courses, with all
PGR students required to take 20 hours of skills training each year. All PGR students appointed
to teach (from their 2nd year) undertake UCL PGTA training. Support has evolved to meet
COVID-19 challenges, with PhD research and impact funds (3.3.1) approved for part-funding of
printing expenses and home-work equipment.

2.3.3 Integration into research environment and launching of research careers
In the most recent end-of-year PGR survey (2019–20), 15 of 17 respondents rated engagement
with the Faculty research environment as excellent. Students are invited to the weekly
Faculty research seminar (2.2.3), and may present advanced research there. Doctoral
students are actively included in Centres and Institutes and other research-oriented activity,

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
coordinating and conducting research for the Public International Law Pro Bono Project (4.2);
participating in Centre and Institute ECR workshops such as the well-funded, inter-collegiate
Private Law Group Early Career Workshops (4.4) or Faculty sponsored KCL-UCL Environmental
Law Postgraduate Symposium; running the public events programme of the Public Law group and
the Legal Philosophy Forum; and editing the UCL Journal of Law and Jurisprudence. Doctoral
students are included in Faculty communications about research issues, such as open
access publishing (1.5), and their successes are celebrated through external Faculty
communications. The Faculty offers annual PGR research allowances and access to
competitive funds for impact-oriented activity (3.3.1). In the past 3 years, doctoral graduates
have gone on to permanent posts at institutions including Durham, Exeter, Sheffield, Sussex,
Western Law (Canada), University of New South Wales (Australia), and Singapore University of
Social Sciences; as well as professional roles within government and at the bar.

2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
2.4.1 Embedding EDI in Faculty structures
We consider EDI a means to build genuine meritocracy and enhance excellence, as well reflect a
commitment to equality. The Faculty participates actively in UCL initiatives, including the Race
Equality Charter Self-Assessment Team (now merging with Athena SWAN Steering Group), and
Racial Equalities Steering Group. The VDEDI (Saprai), sits on the Dean’s Senior Management
Team, contributes to recruitment and research activity, and holds responsibilities as departmental
Equal Opportunities Liaison Officer, BAME Lead and a trained Fair Recruitment Specialist. Within
Laws, all members of the Senior Management Team have committed to completing ‘Taking the
Lead’ training on maintaining a positive workplace culture. Laws has nominated at least 8 staff
(research and professional services) to take UCL’s Women in Leadership programme, with
numbers increasing after redesign of this programme in 2018. Our commitment to EDI translates
to concrete policies, as follows.

2.4.2 EDI in recruitment and promotion of research staff and students
In addition to UCL-wide EDI-focused Recruitment and Selection Policy, Laws has further
integrated EDI through the Dean’s Pledge in 2019 to use ethnically diverse panels (or, if
infeasible, call on UCL’s Fair Recruitment Scheme: UCL 5a) for all Faculty recruitment. Laws
uses targeted wording in advertisements, varying with grade and role, to encourage applications
from diverse candidates. EDI interventions are made at multiple stages of the research
pipeline: in June 2020, as part of the ‘UCL Laws Statement in Solidarity with our Black Students,
Staff and Alumni Around the World’, the Faculty extended its promotion of ethnically diverse
selection panels to student admissions procedures, and to consideration of promotion, and
has introduced new Faculty-funded Opportunity (Widening Participation) Scholarships for
PhDs (2.3.1).
There have been measurable advances in gender equality over the REF period, particularly
an increase in women in permanent posts in the Faculty (31.82% to 38.89% headcount), and
strong increase at Grade 8 (42.86% to 69.23%), laying foundations for a more equal professoriate.
Although comprehensive tracking of promotions is difficult, as UCL transitioned in the REF period
from 4 to 3 tiers of academic progression, the VDR has prioritized addressing gendered barriers
to progression in research, and work towards Athena Swan offers a focus for data-gathering and
development of further measures if required. Data on ethnicity is less comprehensive, but our
BAME representation clearly falls short of what would be representative of the population. New
steps on recruitment mentioned above, under dedicated VDEDI leadership, will help address this.

2.4.3 EDI in support of research staff and students
(a) EDI in Faculty decision-making (including COVID-19 adjustments)
Beyond recruitment and promotion, EDI is considered in other research-relevant areas, including
leave (2.4.3(d)) and administrative roles (with dedicated representation for women on the Senior
Management Team and major Faculty research committees). We monitor gender breakdown of

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recognition and reward (2.2.7) and of internal Research Environment and Impact Fund
applications (3.3.1), as a baseline for reflection about gender-related obstacles to progression.
A UCL-wide EDI check-in and Faculty VDR survey on COVID-19 impacts on research (both
May 2020) showed major impacts on research and workload, particularly for women, and those
with caring responsibilities and disabilities. Laws adopted rapid-response measures including:
   Short-term Carers’ Fund paying up to £400 per household for childcare/tutoring expenses to
    enable essential work-related activity (initially to 31 July 2020; extended through 2020 with
    additional funding).
   ‘Laws Together’ programme of voluntary workload reallocation (9 colleagues volunteered, and
    at least 5 assisted, with marking, LLM personal tutoring and thesis supervision).
   Moving research-related events online, with enhanced accessibility (e.g. captioning where
    required), online Faculty research seminars held fortnightly rather than weekly to
    accommodate extra caring responsibilities.
   Additional resources for remote working.

(b) EDI in preparation of this REF return
Staff involved in REF preparation, particularly the REF Review and Selection Group (RSG),
had a representative EDI profile (particularly on gender, seniority), with the VDEDI heavily
involved in the REF process; and key RSG members received bespoke UCL EDI training on
REF output selection. Since early 2018, the REF Lead (later VDR) briefed Faculty Board
regularly, with particular focus on EDI and individual circumstances, and followed UCL’s
COP in calling for voluntary, confidential disclosure of individual circumstances. Staff were
repeatedly reassured that selection of outputs was a collective Faculty endeavour, strictly separate
from promotion or appraisal.
Following Faculty consultation on policy, and after a rigorous review process (minimum 3 rounds
of internal and external peer review, with calibration of scores), when distinctions between
quality were no longer possible in selecting outputs, RSG gave priority to outputs by female
staff, in view of indications that female researchers had experienced disproportionate impacts on
productivity.
The final output selection (Category A and B, including double-weighting) was 35% women, 65%
men (cf 41% / 59% headcount of staff submitted). Following output selection, RSG analysed
centrally-provided Equality Impact Assessment data. This data is most comprehensive for
gender, and less so for ethnicity and disability, meaning analysis on these latter grounds is
tentative only. The data showed that:
   Men were more likely overall to have an output attributed to them (1.15 likelihood), and women
    less likely (0.8). Disparities in likelihood of output attribution by gender relative to FTE were
    strongest for attribution of 4 and 5 outputs (including double-weighting), but narrowed at 2
    outputs (1.05 likelihood for women, 0.96 for men), suggesting that men were more likely to
    have been able to maintain high productivity across the REF period.
   BAME staff were overall more likely than non-BAME staff to have an output attributed to
    them (1.13 likelihood), and very strongly represented among those with >2 outputs
    attributed. BAME women were less likely than male counterparts to have >2 outputs
    attributed, but well represented at 2 outputs, again highlighting possible relevance of gender
    discrepancies.
   Those with a disability were less likely to have an output attributed to them.
This data analysis exercise reinforces the importance of strategies we are now pursuing to
address barriers of gender and race, and to gather more fine-grained and qualitative data
on challenges associated with protected characteristics.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(c) Inclusion and community
EDI-oriented groups and networks, supported by the Dean via core funding, foster inclusion,
promote informal mentoring across career stages, and integrate PGR students, faculty and visitors
as a research community:
   Laws Race Equality Network (established 2019 by the VDEDI for students, staff and alumni,
    regular events following an inaugural ‘Black Lives Matter: A Transatlantic Dialogue’ event (July
    2020));
   Equalities Forum (established 2019 by the VDEDI, an informal means of discussing diversity
    issues, feeding back to the Senior Management Team);
   UCL Laws Women (a network for women in the Faculty, established 2018, led by senior
    women, an informal community for discussing systemic challenges and opportunities for
    women, including around research);
   Laws Feminist Book Club (created 2018, led by Suteu and doctoral student, Keall, open to
    students and the whole Faculty community);
   OutLaws (Faculty staff–student LGBT+ network, established 2017, engages in LGBT+
    research seminars and other activities); and
   South Asia Legal Forum (established 2017, platform for comparative and interdisciplinary
    research on legal issues in South Asia).

(d) Further practical EDI-focused measures to foster research
   The Faculty accommodates flexible and remote work wherever possible. Informally,
    teaching hours accommodate caring responsibilities, and Faculty meetings are scheduled only
    in 10am–4pm, with adjustments during COVID-19 for childcare obligations.
   Part-time staff benefit from the same Academic Careers Framework as full-time staff.
   In addition to ‘returners’ sabbatical leave’ (2.2.5), other support after long-term absence
    has been offered on a discretionary basis, including waiver of accumulation rules after
    bereavement or sick leave; staged return after illness; and financial assistance for coaching to
    manage staged return.
   Since 2018, the VDR has offered individual mentorship to colleagues disproportionately
    affected by EDI-relevant factors, including regular check-in meetings, bespoke programmes
    for managing research projects, feedback on drafts, and opportunities to present early ideas
    for feedback.
   In 2017, the Faculty introduced a policy allowing Personal Research Allowance funds (3.3.1)
    to cover childcare expenses during conferences and out-of-hours work-related events;
    and has used core funds to support staff with limited mobility to attend research events.
   The Faculty Manager and VDS have made accommodations following OHS recommendations
    to allow staff with disabilities to research productively, including provision of special
    equipment and reduced workload.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 External research income: from award to impact
The Faculty secured over £4.09m in grant income over the REF period (REF4b), with awards
from leading funders: Leverhulme (4 awards), ERC (2), ESRC (2), EPSRC (2), AHRC (2), British
Academy (7), Wellcome (2), European Commission (2), Legal Education Foundation (4). Major
awards were made to both senior and junior colleagues, and men and women, in a wide
range of legal subfields. Awards made earlier in the REF cycle exemplify the research
excellence and impact made possible by major grants:


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   £102,879 Legal Education Foundation grant to Moorhead (2014) for assessment of ethical
    capacities of new advocates for Inns of Court College of Advocacy, generating radiating
    changes in ethics training at the Inns and Bar (see 4.6);
   £118,879 (2016–2018) and £469,807 (2019) Legal Education Foundation grants to Genn
    for ground-breaking research into health justice partnerships, paving way for new government
    policy in this area (see 4.6);
   £147,753 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship to Rawlings (2016), leading to
    pioneering outputs on UK devolution and Wales (e.g. report on ‘Brexit and the Territorial
    Constitution’ (2017), article on ‘The Strange Reconstitution of Wales’ (2018)), and Rawlings'
    appointment as the constitutional expert on the Commission on Justice in Wales (2017–2019);
    and
   Funding to Schofield including: £297,407 Leverhulme grant (2015),enabling authoritative
    edition of Bentham’s writings on political economy and conference (2019) exploring scholarly
    insights from re-edition); £429,058 AHRC grant (2016) (with UCL History), yielding open-
    access authoritative editions of and scholarship on Bentham’s writings on Australia; and
    £476,555 (Co-I, 2016) European Commission Horizon 2020 grant, supporting development
    from existing Transcribe Bentham platform to universally available handwritten text
    recognition, capable of reading archives of all kinds.

3.2 Strategies for generating research income
All academic staff are supported by a baseline level of personal research funding (PRA: 3.3.1) to
enable research productivity. Where external funding will facilitate strong projects and enrich the
Faculty research profile, this is actively supported through:
   A well-resourced Research Office team (1.3.1, 3.3.2), working alongside SLASH Research
    Facilitators, which proactively identifies opportunities, prepares a weekly newsletter of calls
    and funding support opportunities, and cultivates grant applications.
   Generous, flexible Faculty seed funding (REIF: 3.3.1) which, along with UCL funds for
    collaboration (4.1), helps build successful applications. For example, Faculty REIF and UCL
    Global Engagement funds enabled Azaria to travel to Geneva to attend the Legal Committee
    of the UN General Assembly (2017, 2019), supporting preliminary work towards a successful
    ERC Starting Grant (£1.2m, awarded 2020)).
   A supportive grant application process, further strengthened in 2018. Applications are
    reviewed by a Grant Review Team (GRT) (SLASH Research Facilitators; Faculty Director of
    Research Grants, VDR, VDS, Director of Operations and 2 co-opted Faculty members), with
    Impact Lead input. Review covers resource/ethical implications, costings, and academic
    quality of all applications led by Faculty members, with 1–2 GRT members providing
    constructive, critical peer feedback on academic quality. Since 2018, 27 applications have
    gone through the full GRT process (13 with female leads).


3.3 Infrastructure for research and impact
3.3.1 Faculty research funding
The Faculty has maintained and expanded direct funding for research and impact, including:
   A ring-fenced Personal Research Allowance (PRA) per Faculty member (now £3,500 per
    year, cf £3,300 in 2013), which can be used flexibly for research needs (over £870,000 drawn
    over the REF period).
   A PhD Personal Research Allowance (PhD PRA) per Faculty PhD student, pro rata for part
    time (£750 per year, cf £400 in 2013), for books, conferences, travel, training and other needs
    (sums between £11,000 and £19,300 drawn annually).



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   An Emeriti Research Allowance of £1,000 per year, plus further funds for activities that
    facilitate retired staff contributing to the research environment (e.g. £13,500 to Twining since
    2014 for a ‘Legal Records at Risk’ project).
   A range of competitive Faculty-specific internal funding:
    o   Research Environment and Impact Fund (REIF): by-application fund of £30,000 per
        year to increase vitality of the research environment, criteria being that work will improve:
        chances of success in grant applications; diversity of the Faculty’s research profile; impact
        of research; and public engagement (25 successful applications in this REF period,
        awarding £53,793.27 to 17 members of the Faculty).
    o   Bentham House Conference Fund: by-application fund of £20,000 per year to support
        an annual, world-leading research event. Since 2014, this has been based on competitive
        applications against criteria including importance and timeliness of topic; participants;
        and publication/dissemination plan (with requirement to consider publication with UCL
        Press or other OA avenues added informally 2017–18, and built into the application 2019–
        20).
    o   PhD Research Impact and Innovation Fund (PRIF): by-application fund of £20,000 per
        year for PhD students to develop new research and public engagement skills, access
        specialist resources or undertake research (sums between £11,000 and £23,100 paid
        annually, predominantly for research trips and conference travel).
    o   ‘Back to Bentham’ Research Funds: 5 one-off awards of up to £5,000 each for a
        research event showcasing capital investment in iconic Bentham House facilities (five
        events, totalling £20,584, led by a mix of senior and junior faculty: Fhima and Simone;
        McFarlane; Lee and Vaughan; Suteu; Davies).

3.3.2 Personnel, physical and specialist infrastructure
Six colleagues in the Research Office, 3 in Events, and 2 in Communications support the
Faculty’s research and impact.
Over 2015–18, our physical home, Bentham House, underwent a £24 million refurbishment,
offering 1500 sqm of additional space while maintaining Grade II listed features. The new Bentham
House facilitates research by bringing colleagues, visitors and doctoral students together;
and advances impact, collaboration and public engagement by providing state of the art spaces
for events ranging from smaller workshops to conferences and public lectures (detailed in
1.3.2(b), 4.3). The Centre for Access to Justice also operates an Integrated Legal Advice Clinic
at Stratford, in permanent premises secured by UCL in 2018 (4.6).
The Faculty hosts and draws on special collections and research infrastructure. Laws provides
workspace for the Bentham Project, which maintains a catalogue of the Bentham Papers, digital
images of the Papers (c. 100,000 images), Transcribe Bentham (hosted by UCL Information
Services), and a large volume of material on a shared drive, available for queries from scholars
across the world. The UCL Jury project and Judicial Institute enjoy access to large-scale
databases (CREST; Xhibit) held by the Ministry of Justice/HMCTS.

3.4 EDI in research funding and infrastructure
EDI is built into grant review processes (3.2), and is a consideration in allocating competitive
internal funding (3.3.1). Data (most comprehensive for gender) show that women are being
relatively well supported by internal funding (e.g. for Faculty REIF fund (3.3.1), 19 male and 22
female applicants, of which 17 and 19 respectively were successful); albeit less so by external
grants. Of 43 externally funded projects in this REF period, 15 were awarded to women and 28 to
men (though women received 2 of the larger awards). Mentorship, leave and tailored pipeline
support for our female researchers thus remain important EDI priorities.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.5 Use of infrastructure, facilities and expertise for impact
Events and Communications staff (3.3.2) and Bentham House together provide extensive
facilities for collaboration and public engagement. Flexible financial support for impact
activities (particularly REIF and PhD PRIF, 3.3.1), and our physical infrastructure in central
London and Stratford, nurture sustained relationships with policymakers, key stakeholders
and research subjects, giving voice to under-represented groups and reaching new
audiences. For example, a Faculty REIF grant (£6,245, 2014) enabled Mantouvalou’s interviews
(with NGO Kalayaan) of migrant domestic workers under tied visas, the first in-depth legal
empirical work done with this group. The resulting article, covered in the press and cited in
Parliament, informed law reform and a subsequent public report on the plight of these workers
(with Mantouvalou’s doctoral student, Sedacca, and others); this work was recognized by UCL
Provost’s Award for Public Engagement (2017). Further REIF funding supported a public launch
of the report in Bentham House’s unique moot court room, with a message from the UN Special
Rapporteur on Contemporary Forms of Slavery, and presentations from domestic workers
themselves.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy
and society
4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Collaboration enhances the reach and impact of our research, methodological diversity and
interdisciplinarity (1.3.2). The Faculty supports collaboration financially (3.3.1), and colleagues
have been highly successful in obtaining UCL-wide internal funding to support activity with a
‘global partner’ (average 75% success rate over last 2 years in securing Global Engagement Fund
and institution- and city-specific partner funds (1.4, 4.1)). Centres and Institutes play important
roles in fostering collaboration. The UCL Institute for Human Rights, for example, supports the
UK–Latin America Political Philosophy Research Network, now encompassing scholars from
Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica, Uruguay, and the UK, identifying UCL as a global
leader in human rights jurisprudence and philosophy.
Laws has committed increasing resources to fostering collaboration, through:
   The Distinguished Visiting Professor (DVP) scheme, established 2017, in which scholars
    holding a Chair equivalent spend an academic year with the Faculty, receiving a housing
    allowance (£10,000 per AY) and office space. The opportunity is advertised globally, with
    targeted circulation to ~30 top-ranked institutions. DVPs have included Douglas Husak
    (Rutgers), Steven L Schwarcz (Duke), Andrew Mitchell (Melbourne), Guy Mundlak (Tel-Aviv),
    and Lusina Ho (HKU).
   A Visiting Academic scheme, providing a flexible and generous approach to facilitate
    collaboration. Candidates are proposed by Laws staff, with the VDI assessing alignment with
    Faculty research interests. This is a very active scheme, with 13 Visiting and Affiliate
    Academics in 2018–19, and 8 in the more disrupted year 2019–20. For example, Dr Brad
    Jessup (Melbourne Law School) visited the Centre for Law and Environment in 2019, working
    with 4 members of the Centre, collaborating on research events and generating 2 new
    collaborative research projects.
   Support and expansion of the Yale Collaborative (established 2009), nurturing scholarly
    collaborations between, e.g. Judith Resnik and Genn/Judicial Institute (public interest law);
    Daniel Markovits and Saprai (private law theory); Scott Shapiro and Letsas, Toh
    (jurisprudence).

4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
Laws researchers reach users, beneficiaries and audiences in and through:
   Bar and practitioner communities. Many Laws academics have memberships or door
    tenancies in firms or chambers, or other consultancy or practice roles, informing

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    research and vice versa (e.g. Connolly in restitution; Fisher in patent disputes; George in
    family law; Hickman in public law; Mitchell C in unjust enrichment; Paparinskis in international
    investment arbitration; Penn in global finance; Sands in public international law; Scotford, Lee
    and Macrory in environmental law). Relationships with practice have:
    o   Built focus on areas which are of real importance to the public, and understudied in
        the academy, including: succession law (Mitchell C symposium, 2015, with Birke Hacker);
        pensions law (WG Hart Workshop 2019, with IALS and Slaughter & May; yielding
        Agnew/Davies/Mitchell C edited collection 2020); and drafting choices of transactional
        lawyers (Davies & Raczynska ‘Back to Bentham’ conference 2019; with support from
        Norton Rose Fulbright, Calnan as Visiting Professor bridging into the practitioner
        community; yielding Davies/Raczynska edited collection 2020 (Miller as contributor)).
    o   Supported initiatives for reform of law and practice, as with: Fletcher’s leadership of
        the Academics’ Group of INSOL International 1993–2015 facilitating development of
        globally applicable norms on cooperation and court-to-court communication in cross-
        border insolvency (REF3 case study); and Raczynska’s role as Co-Director of the
        Secured Transactions Law Reform Project, working towards a personal property security
        law more responsive to the needs of the commercial and financial community.
    o   Enabled innovations to better serve vulnerable clients, e.g. facilitating exploratory
        studies by George and colleagues from UCL Centre for Research in Autism and Education
        into the experiences of autistic adults and their lawyers in family court proceedings
        (supported by UCL Grand Challenges Human Wellbeing grant). This research yielded
        recommendations to promote access to justice for autistic people, presented at Oxford
        Family Court (2017), conferences and practitioner seminars; with best practice factsheets
        now in development for use within courts.
    o   Sustained ongoing impact and outreach, with regular annual support from 15 firm
        and chamber sponsors, in addition to backing for particular events, allowing many
        Centres and Institutes to offer free public events.
   Legislatures. Faculty members have been highly sought-after experts in advising Parliament.
    They have served as specialist legal advisers to Parliamentary committees: Mantouvalou
    to Joint Committee on Human Rights (modern slavery); O’Cinneide to Commons Women and
    Equalities Committee (Brexit and equalities law); Moorhead to Women and Equalities Select
    Committee (use of non-disclosure agreements in harassment and discrimination cases); and
    King to Lords Constitution Committee. Thirteen further Laws faculty members have given
    invited oral evidence to more than 20 different committees or inquiries in Westminster
    and the devolved nations, contributing expertise and research insights to the drafting and
    scrutiny of legislation.
   Judiciary and courts. The Distinguished Judicial Visitors Programme, and appointment of
    retired senior judges as Honorary Professors (Lord Carnwath, Baroness Hale), foster
    sustained exchange with the judiciary. The Judicial Institute enjoys particularly
    longstanding relationships with the judiciary of England and Wales, MoJ, Judicial
    College, Inner Temple, Criminal Procedure Rule Committee and Criminal Practice Directions
    Drafting Team, facilitating uniquely authoritative and impactful research on judicial
    attitudes and jury behaviour. For example, empirical research by Thomas (2017) showed
    substantial gaps in jurors’ understanding of their responsibilities, with ensuing risk of statutory
    contempt. Thomas developed and tested a new Juror Notice, which was implemented in all
    criminal trials in England and Wales as the first universal written direction. Subsequent
    research revealed that, following adoption of the Notice, 98% of jurors correctly understood
    critical points.
   Government and third sector bodies. Several Faculty members chair, or serve on boards
    or as trustees of external bodies, informing their view of the contexts in which research is
    used (e.g. Jacob chairing UK Intellectual Property Office Enforcement Framework Working
    Group; Montgomery chairing the Nuffield Council on Bioethics, Health Research Authority,
    DHSC Moral and Ethical Advisory Group and the Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation
    Trust; Ormerod and Thomas on Criminal Cases Review Commission Research Committee).
                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Faculty members have been commissioned to undertake research by bodies including the
    UN, World Economic Forum, Financial Conduct Authority, Law Society of England and Wales,
    Commonwealth Secretariat (Rule of Law Division) and Legal Services Board, and have close
    relationships with industry, government or third-sector bodies, through which impact-
    driven research is developed (including Chiu, Donovan and Petrin with the States of
    Alderney; Montgomery with Health Research Authority, Human Genetics Commission,
    Collaboration for the Advancement of Sustainable Medical Innovation (UCL/Oxford); Genders
    on the Advisory Committee on the Development of the Therapeutic Regime at HMP Dovegate;
    Mokal consultancy with the World Bank).
   Other intergovernmental organizations and NGOs. The PIL Pro Bono Project (overseen
    by Trapp and Mills, with a team of PGR Coordinators and ~15 LLM students annually) partners
    with leading inter-governmental organizations, tribunals and NGOs (including Inter-American
    Court of Human Rights and Redress), providing advanced legal research and analysis on
    human rights questions.
   Specialist training, channelling research insights to a wide range of beneficiaries in
    government, private practice and beyond (e.g. Trapp and O’Keefe training UK Service
    Prosecuting Authority, MoD and Iraqi Historical Allegations Prosecution Team on international
    criminal law; Mantzari training EU judges in competition law; IBIL courses on Privacy and Data
    for those working with confidential information, data security and management, the media,
    public figures, and developing technologies; O’Keefe drafting manual on protection of cultural
    property in armed conflict, commissioned by UNESCO, now available free in multiple
    languages to armed forces around the world).

4.3 Engagement with diverse communities and publics
Beyond the specific audiences mentioned above, Laws research and research-related events
reach wide and diverse audiences through:
   An extensive programme of events, including an extensive CPD programme. In FY 2018–
    19 alone, the Faculty hosted 104 events, with 10,179 attendees; and in FY 2019–20,
    despite strikes and COVID-19, 62 physical events, with 8252 attendees (of which 49 were
    public lectures; over 5400 attendees). Many Centres and Institutes have significant public
    profiles: e.g. Laws staff were involved in many of the 200 events which the EI hosted in
    the REF period, for an estimated total 12,000 members of the public, and during which the EI
    had 446,000 website views and 115,000 blog views. With COVID-19, the Faculty’s
    intellectual space shifted online, e.g. rapid organization of a series of webinars on COVID-
    19: IP Law, Policy & Practice, May–July 2020, drawing on UCL departments and experts from
    industry and practice, with 500 individuals from more than 45 different countries attending
    1 or more sessions.
   Research and impact that cultivate broader public interest in and understanding of law.
    Our REF3 case studies include: Sands as Professor of Public Understanding of Law
    authoring best-selling non-fiction work, generating in turn a performance piece, podcast and
    documentary film conveying the past and future of international criminal justice to audiences
    in the millions; and Veale explaining COVID-19 contact-tracing and associated rights issues
    in parliamentary committees and the media.
   UCL impact support fostering close links between researchers and publics locally as
    well as globally. For example, Holder (backed by UCL Public Engagement Beacon Bursary)
    contributed to the Living Space Project, supporting community groups to register urban space
    as a town/village green; and (with UCL Geography, backed by UCL Grand Challenges Small
    Grant), collaborated with NGOs to run a public inquiry into environmental justice in Somers
    Town.
   Targeted engagement to increase our reach into local and global communities, including the
    Centre for Access to Justice’s summer schools for Year 12 students from under-represented
    backgrounds; and for undergraduate students from all over the world.


                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.4 Contributions to sustaining the discipline
In addition to contributing to national and international research priorities (1.3.2), and using
our physical infrastructure and expertise to draw researchers, policymakers, practitioners
and the public together (3.3.2, 4.2, 4.3), the Faculty makes distinct contributions to the study of
law, through:
   Supporting areas under-studied in the academy (e.g. Xanthaki, on legislative drafting), and
    areas of systemic importance (Davies, Mitchell C and Mitchell P contributions to leading
    common law treatises).
   Setting an intellectual agenda across the discipline with the Faculty’s flagship ‘Current
    Legal Problems’ lecture series and journal, which curate analysis of current legal issues
    from diverse methodological perspectives.
   Cultivating emerging fields e.g. Montgomery (first Chair of Healthcare Law in the UK) as
    member of interdisciplinary research programme advisory boards at Edinburgh, Oxford,
    Southampton, Brighton, Bristol, and KCL; and the UCL Judicial Institute, the UK’s first and
    only such centre of excellence, training 7 doctoral students affiliated with the JI, under first or
    second supervision by Thomas, over the REF period; and advising judiciaries, governments
    and HEIs on development of judicial studies and judicial training in Australia, Canada, South
    Africa, Argentina, Trinidad and Tobago and the Cayman Islands.
   Actively nurturing ECRs and ECR networks across the UK. For example, IBIL established
    a work-in-progress discussion group in 2017, meeting twice-yearly and funded by IBIL, to
    discuss early-stage research proposals and foster informal networking (group mailing list now
    includes 80 IP researchers from 30 HEIs). The Private Law Group held funded annual Early
    Career Workshops 2013–2019 (2020 postponed), drawing talented ECRs from across the
    UK. Development of ECRs is integrated into faculty research agendas, as in the award of
    Society of Legal Scholars Annual Seminar funding (2020) to Saprai for ‘New Directions in
    Private Law Theory’ (planned 2021), to showcase work of ECRs, particularly women and
    BAME scholars (historically underrepresented in the field).

4.5 Contributions to and recognition by the research base
Faculty members play leading roles in the research ecosystem in the UK and abroad:
   hosting or organizing at least 200 conferences and seminars;
   filling at least 16 editor roles on journals or series at academic presses, 50 associate
    editorial/editorial board roles, and many more advisory board positions; and serving as peer
    reviewers for more than 180 journals;
   serving in major international grants processes: 6 appointments to roles on
    ESRC/AHRC/UKRI Peer Review Colleges, and a further 49 panel/peer review roles for these
    and other major EU/UK funders (e.g. ERC, Nuffield, Leverhulme, British Academy), and
    national funding bodies in 11 countries;
   sitting in 62 instances as external assessors for promotion/appointment of chairs, in the
    UK and internationally; and
   examining over 130 doctorates, in 12 countries.
Excellence and influence have been recognized, with Faculty members:
   awarded major scholarly fellowships and prizes, including Leverhulme Major Research
    Fellowship (Rawlings), Leverhulme Prize (King), Leverhulme Fellowship (Choudhury), AHRC
    Fellowship (Schofield), BA Mid-Career Fellowship (George);
   awarded Honorary LLDs (Dennis, Genn);
   awarded more than a dozen monograph prizes, including David Yale Prize, Selden Society
    (Williams); Inner Temple Book Prize (Davies); Peter Birks Prize, Society of Legal Scholars
    (Davies, runner up); Paul Guggenheim Prize in Public International Law (Azaria); Baillie Gifford

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Prize, British Book Awards’ Non-Fiction Book of the Year, Hay Festival Book of the Year medal
    (among others) (Sands);
   elected and appointed to professional associations or learned societies, including British
    Academy (Collins, Mitchell C, Rawlings), Royal Society of Arts (Moorhead), Academy of Social
    Sciences (Moorhead), Royal Historical Society (Schofield), Learned Society of Wales
    (Rawlings); Sands elected President of English PEN;
   made Honorary Benchers (Ormerod) and Honorary QCs (Mitchell C, Thomas); and
   honoured in other ways: Knighthood for Services to Bioethics and Healthcare Law
    (Montgomery); Elizabeth Haub Prize for environmental law (Macrory), Ambassador’s
    Commendation (Oda, for promotion and dissemination of Japanese law).

4.6 Wider contributions to the economy and society
An estimate prepared for Research England gives some sense of the Faculty’s contribution: over
£570,000 in expenditure on public policy activities in AY 2019–20 alone. Beyond general
figures of this kind, it is impossible to quantify benefits flowing from Faculty research. We here
illustrate the richness of contributions to the economy and society through a cross-section of our
focused engagement with law as professional practice and social need, in line with our
commitment to justice values.
Contributions to the legal profession, beyond those elaborated above, include:
   Embedding and renewing legal ethics. Research on ethical capacities of young
    advocates (Moorhead) led to the Inns of Court College of Advocacy and Bar Standards Board
    reviewing training. An Ethical Leadership Initiative for In-House Counsel (Moorhead,
    Vaughan) led to a monograph and major open-access report (read over 1500 times). Drawing
    on this work, Moorhead and Vaughan trained lawyers in FTSE100 companies, regulatory
    bodies and NDPBs, top 50 City law firms, the Scottish Law Society, and the Welsh Government
    on professional obligations. The work has influenced the Solicitors Regulation Authority’s
    code of conduct, and attracted interest in the Netherlands, Australia and the US.
   Modernising regulation of the legal services profession. The Centre for Ethics and Law
    has hosted an independent review of legal services regulation (Mayson, pro bono), with a
    report submitted to the Lord Chancellor in June 2020.
   Preserving private sector legal records of archival value (through Twining's work with the
    Legal Records at Risk project) while advancing digital transformation of the legal
    profession. Donovan is a member of the LawtechUK Panel (initiated with MoJ funding to
    reinvent legal services for the digital age), chairs its Education Taskforce and is working to
    create an online hub to support adoption of new technologies. UCL is an academic partner in
    the Barclays Eagle ‘Legal Tech Lab’, an incubator of Lawtech businesses.
Engagements with law as a social and human need, beyond those elaborated above, include:
   Developing quantitative assessments of legal need to improve access to civil justice
    globally. Building on Genn’s pioneering past work on legal needs surveys grounding legal
    aid policy, Pleasence and Balmer developed and lent expertise with such surveys to
    dozens of countries, including developing and post-conflict societies with no history of
    such assessments. Research on the rigour of such surveys, in collaboration with Open Society
    Justice Initiative and OECD, helped underpin adoption of a new Sustainable Development
    Goal on access to civil justice (Feb 2020) which will orient global development funding on
    this crucial element of human flourishing.
   Innovating in delivery of legal aid services. Closer to home, the Faculty’s Centre for
    Access to Justice operates an Integrated Legal Advice Clinic (ILAC) offering pro bono
    and civil legal aid services in Newham, the third most deprived local authority in England,
    dealing with housing, care, education and benefits matters. Since 2017, ILAC has hosted a
    study on the health impacts of legal advice, which has already led to MoJ commitment to


                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   piloting co-location of social welfare legal services within GP surgeries, and secondment of
   the CAJ Head of Projects to MoJ to develop this policy.
These engagements offer an illustration of Laws’ contributions, and larger research
culture: practice and scholarship informing each other, drawing on diverse methodologies and
multiple disciplines, spanning global policy-making and local communities—and animated by a
constant sense of law’s relation to justice and equality.




                                                                                       Page 21
