Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context
 Biological Sciences at Huddersfield has grown markedly since 2014, when 13 FTE were submitted
 in the University’s first return to Unit of Assessment 5 (UoA5). For REF2021, 29.8 FTE (30
 individuals) are returned to UoA5 with only 6 individuals (6.0 FTE) still in post from 2014; 2 further
 individuals (2.0 FTE) are returned to UoA4 and UoA8 for REF2021. Our rapid expansion of
 research activities in biological sciences reflects School of Applied Sciences’ commitment to act
 on the University of Huddersfield’s vision to be an inspiring, innovative University of international
 renown and execution of the research strategy developed in 2014. Our mission and aims are to
 foster a spirit of (co-)enquiry and partnership for innovation and change in response to key
 challenges affecting human health, environment, society and informing on past histories at recent
 or ancient evolutionary scales. We aim to make real differences to society internationally,
 nationally and locally. External research income has increased 9.9-fold across the unit with 84%
 of income generated since the start of academic session 2016/17. Further details documenting
 our progress acting on the 2014 strategy and a new forward-looking unit-specific strategy are
 outlined in sections 1.4 and 1.5, respectively.

 1.2 Unit structure
 University of Huddersfield’s UoA5 is a submission led primarily by the Department of Biological
 and Geographical Sciences within the School of Applied Sciences (AS). In line with the University’s
 research vision and strategy for excellent research with impact contributing to important advances
 in human knowledge and significant improvements to global quality of life, our research in UoA5
 is both fundamental and applied in its scope. The research coalesces broadly around three
 themes: (a) cellular and molecular models of disease; (b) evolutionary genomics; and (c) applied
 environmental microbiology and biology. Individuals and academic teams contribute within the
 Research Centres highlighted in Figure 1. Research critical mass and outputs associated with
 each theme have increased evenly since 2014: appointments have been made at professorial and
 early-career levels plus 14 staff have enjoyed promotion since 2014 (detailed in 2.1).




 Our research in UoA5 is often interdisciplinary, reflecting close integration of four departments
 within the shared research, teaching and administrative facilities of Joseph Priestley Building.
 Other departments in AS are Chemical Sciences (including chemical engineering); Pharmacy; and
 Optometry and Vision Sciences. In taking opportunity to expand our research profile in biological
 sciences during the last six years, research funding from the University for Areas of Strategic
 Research Importance (ASRIs) and Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Sandpit
 Challenges has allowed opportunity for the interdisciplinary strands of our research within UoA5
 to grow. Thus, staff from Biological Sciences work closely with research groups in other areas of

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AS and with colleagues across the wider university. Success of internal pump-prime activities,
 combined with external funding are perhaps best illustrated by the development of impact case
 studies (ICSs) led by Georgopoulos and Hwang: the former builds on activities discussed in the
 environment statement from REF2014; the latter is delivered by a staff-member appointed only in
 2018 through the University’s Research Excellence Staff Scheme and supported thereafter from
 QR and Sandpit funding in the initiation of a new project linking wild coffee biodiversity in Ethiopia
 with remote sensing and innovative mapping techniques.

 Within UoA5, the composition of staff being submitted includes 4 Professors, 5 Readers, 1
 Principal Enterprise Fellow, 15 Senior Lecturers, 4 Lecturers (now promoted to SL), and 1 Senior
 Research Fellow. 2 additional academic staff members of Biological and Geographical Sciences
 (1 Senior Lecturer; 1 Lecturer) are being submitted to UoA4 and UoA8, respectively, to reflect their
 research interests. There are 5 academic staff members and 2 research fellows who are classified
 as either not having significant responsibility for research or are not independent researchers
 according to the University of Huddersfield’s code of practice. In addition, there are several post-
 doctoral research assistants who also don’t formally meet the requirements for inclusion but
 contribute to the unit’s research activity and culture. The increase in independent, research-active
 staff represents a significant step change in the unit’s activities since REF2014 (13 staff submitted)
 and reflects the broader institutional strategy (2013 – 2018) to strengthen and enhance research
 capacity across the University.

 Within the unit, the Research Centres and Institutes are the ‘engines’ of research activity,
 promoting research career development and providing ‘research homes’ for individuals with
 common interests, including established researchers (including centre leads), early career
 researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate research (PGR) students. The establishment of discrete
 Research Centres throughout this REF cycle does not raise barriers to but rather promotes,
 collaboration and multi- and inter-disciplinary research – staff and students are able to align
 themselves with multiple Research Centres. Notably, although some Research Centres align
 closely with different UoAs, they are not organised along departmental lines. Instead, fluid
 organisation serves many purposes including the breaking down of barriers that can exist in a
 departmental structure and promotes communication between scientists with different skill sets.
 For example, research within the Pharmacology and Therapeutics and Molecular Models of
 Disease Research Centres typically involves Research Centres not specifically associated with
 UoA5 (e.g. Chemical Synthesis and Design (UoA8) Figure 1) but has resulted in publications in
 leading multidisciplinary journals such as Angewandte Chemie.

 1.3 Research centre activities: highlights 2014-2020
 Our philosophy for the Research Centres works in part because AS staff work together in a single
 research environment spread across interconnected Joseph Priestley West, South, and East
 Buildings. Cross-centre collaboration is aided by the fact that specialist facilities within AS
 established via School or University funding are available to all academic, research staff and PGR
 students. In addition, research laboratories are open plan, each serving as the base for several
 research groups. Occupancy of academic offices is 2-3 per office, often by staff from different
 departments. To look at selected success highlights:

 Evolutionary Genomics Research Centre, with its ancient DNA laboratory, has led or participated
 in research collaborations with scientists from over 30 institutions spread across Europe, North
 America, and Australia including Harvard, Oxford and Max Planck Institutes. The Centre hosts
 visiting positions for Hans-Jurgen Bandelt (Hamburg); Antonio Salas (Santiago de Compostela);
 Antonio Torroni and Alessandro Achilli (Pavia); Pedro Soares (Minho) Jim Wilson (Edinburgh);
 Stephen Oppenheimer and Peter Ditechfield (Oxford); and Rosalind Hunter-Anderson and
 Dominic Powlesland (independent archaeologists). The international reach of the Centre is
 illustrated by Prof Richards’ recent invitation from the Norwegian Academy of Science to join
 their annual research symposia. Recent big-data led research outputs from researchers in this
 centre span forensic archaeology and entomology, archaeogenetics, molecular ecology, and
 molecular evolution including:


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       an 8000-year genomic history from pre-farming to the present of the Iberian Peninsula
        (Richards, Science 363:1230-34)
       plant manipulation and cultivation without domestication during the Holocene ‘Green’
        Sahara (Vanin (now Professor of Zoology, University of Genoa), Nature Plants 4:71-81)
       genetic ancestry of the world’s first famers (Richards, Nature 536:419-424)
       postglacial admixture of non-human mammal species in Europe (Edwards, PNAS
        116:17231-17238; Molecular Biology and Evolution 35:1120-1129)
       evolution of virulence traits in neglected pathogens (Ginger, Trends in Parasitology
        37:100-116)
       influences of codon usage bias, RNA modification, and mobile DNA during early animal
        pre-history (Carr, Molecular Biology and Evolution 35:2499-2511)

 Cellular and Molecular Models of Disease Centre staff have developed or applied experimental
 models to address key questions in the biology of normal tissues and disease and with inpatient
 groups including the elderly and children. A group focus is the development of alternatives to
 animal models in line with principles of reduction, replacement and refinement (the 3Rs); recent
 activities include molecular insights into:
      Metabolic physiology and addiction-related disease using nematode models (Kinnunen,
          EMBO Molecular Medicine 9:1379-1397; Science Advances 6:3)
       Microfluidic models of tumour environments for drug delivery (Allison, Scientific Reports
        6:36086)
       potential therapeutic options for rare skin disorders (Hennies, Journal of Investigative
        Dermatology 139:1191-1195)
       Cooling prevention of chemotherapy-induced alopecia (Georgopoulos, PLoS One
        15:e0240454 and ICS)

 Pharmacology and Therapeutics Centre staff work on development and evaluation of candidate
 therapeutics designed to target cancer and neurological disorders. Here the range of recent work
 includes:
      phenotypic evaluation and target deconvolution of novel chemical & targeted intervention
        against specific biochemical pathways (Allison, Science Translational Medicine
        10:eaar2718; Cancer Letters 403:98-107; Angewandte Chemie 57:9799-9804 &
        59:14677-14685)
       tumour cell migration and tissue invasion and development of three-dimensional cell
        culture models (Brüning-Richardson, Journal of Visual Experiments 151:e60273;
        Interface Focus 10:20190070)

 1.4 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact from REF2014
 In REF2014, University of Huddersfield returned to UoA5 for the first time where research interests
 encompassed archaeogenetics and evolutionary genetics; biochemistry; molecular and cellular
 biology; analytical bioscience; and forensic biology. The post-2014 research strategy has built
 upon existing research strengths whilst broadening the research footprint in alignment with the
 University’s ASRIs and long-term aim of becoming an internationally recognised, research-led
 institution. Notable in our UoA5 progression over the last 6 years has been establishment, in line
 with University ASRI ‘Health’, of new, modern cell and tissue culture and cell-imaging facilities.
 From almost nil resource and limited personal (only Georgopoulos returned to UoA5 in 2014),
 AS has established key resources summarised in section 3.2 and built a diverse research portfolio,
 including activities summarised in section 1.3. With 12 of the staff returned to UoA5 for REF2021
 (including 9 post-2014 appointments) associated with Cellular and Molecular Models of Disease
 and/or Pharmacology and Therapeutics Centre Centres, work in this area provides a prime


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example of delivery on A1 below. More generally, the post-2014 research strategy for UoA5 is
 summarised by 4 key aims:

 (A1) Establishment of coherent research groupings, expanding in areas with existing expertise
 and provision of new, high-quality research activities

 (A2) Development of high-profile multi- and inter-disciplinary research

 (A3) To generate income from external funding sources to support substantive research

 (A4) To generate high quality outputs from existing and new staff.

 In addition to a strategic shift towards molecular medicine (Cellular and Molecular Models of
 Disease; Pharmacology and Therapeutics), other areas through which A1 was addressed
 included transition from an archaeogenetics-led Evolutionary Genetics Group to an Evolutionary
 Genomics Research Centre. In part, the evolutionary ratchet from ‘genetics’ to ‘genomics’
 reflects the enormous amounts of data now readily generated at population levels from next-
 generation sequencing. However, the remit of the Evolutionary Genomics Centre also captures
 fully our expertise and international reputation in the area of archaeogenetics, whilst reflecting a
 diversification of interests following new staff arrivals, combined with the application of
 transcriptome and whole genome next-generation sequencing approaches in the group’s work.

 A major strategic expansion and investment (A1) within UoA5, unplanned at the census date for
 REF2014, was undertaken in 2018-2019: the development of research at the interfaces between
 environment, biology and physical geography. Newly appointed staff have been successful in
 generating external research support from NERC and ESRC for research relating to remote
 sensing, freshwater ecology, geomorphology and biodiversity. This investment in new staff
 appointments and resource coincided with development of new BSc undergraduate teaching
 programmes in geography and (in its broadest sense), the latter thereby complementing AS’
 existing BSc options in biomedicine, medical genetics and biochemistry. Looking forwards, in
 section 1.5, we outline how building on this nascent research, which is already delivering outputs
 and research income, is a key strategic goal for the next REF cycle.

 Our development of new research themes and groups has focused heavily on developing
 interdisciplinary research (A2). To exemplify this interdisciplinary focus, the establishment of the
 Institute for Skin Integrity and Infection Prevention in 2015 (A1 and A2) provided significant
 opportunities for staff within UoA5 to work across the University. Humphreys and Georgopoulos
 are members of the Institute’s management board plus Georgopoulos and Hennies have
 established skin-related research profiles. In the area of applied biology, more recent
 collaboration, between members of the Centres for Human and Physical Geography and
 Sustainability, Responsibility, Governance and Ethics in UoA17 (A2) have successfully
 applied remote sensing to the management of wild coffee in Ethiopia leading to one of the ICS
 returned for UoA5.

 With regards to (A3), cumulative income for UoA5 has grown by almost an order of magnitude
 since REF 2014: from £318,362 (in 2014) to £3,167,014 (by Dec 2021). Notable awards in the
 current REF cycle were £1,050,000 from the Leverhulme Trust (match-funded by AS and the
 University to £1,878,617; awarded to Richards in 2015) for ‘Genetic Journeys into History: the
 Next Generation’, a DTC in archaeogenetics; €308,000 within an inter-disciplinary ERC
 archaeology and archaeogenetics project studying the settlement of New Guinea and Australia;
 and £500,000 from Paxman Coolers Limited (match-funded to £1,000,000; awarded to
 Georgopoulos and Collett in 2019).

 Our aim to increase the number of high-quality outputs from existing and new staff (A4) aligns with
 Institutional strategic aims (UoH Strategy Map 2013-2018 and 2018-2025). Since 2014, our staff,
 during the current REF cycle, have produced 472 research outputs (with 5992 citations at an
 average of 12.7 citations per publication), including publications with a University of Huddersfield

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 address in journals such as Nature, Science, PNAS, Nature Plants, Nature Communications,
 Science Advances, Science Translational Medicine, EMBO Molecular Medicine, Angewandte
 Chemie, Chemical Science, Molecular Biology and Evolution, BMC Biology, and Biological
 Conservation. In summary, information presented above demonstrates that we have achieved,
 and in many cases, exceeded stated aims of our research strategy as articulated in REF2014.

 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement, the University’s Research Strategy
 commits to delivering excellent research with impact providing direct economic and societal benefit
 for the communities we support. The post-2014 UoA5 impact strategy aimed to harness the
 interdisciplinary nature of our research to secure improvements in health, society, environment
 and society. This strategy can be illustrated through the following impact elements (E):

 (E1) Continue to foster an impact focus

 (E2) Maximise effectiveness of our collaborative network and further develop relationships

 (E3) Effectively communicate our research to the public

 (E4) Recognise and reward staff excellence.

 We embedded impact training for all staff through School research away days, expert-led
 workshops and events run by Research and Enterprise (E1, E2). We have fostered and
 established strong partnerships with external stakeholders across public, non-profit and for-profit
 sectors to ensure relevance with our strong focus on applied research enhancing impact. Notable
 examples include Georgopoulus’ work on scalp cooling as a preventative measure for
 chemotherapy induced alopecia, Hwang’s research assisting local government and communities
 to better manage their wild coffee resources and Humphreys’ work with UK nuclear industry on
 effective radioactive waste disposal.

 We have an active and vibrant public engagement programme (E3). AS founded a hugely popular
 public lecture/discussion forum series communicating our research to members of the public; this
 has been maintained online during the current pandemic, with a focus on communicating our
 pandemic-related research contributions. In 2016 and 2017, the European Researchers ‘Full
 STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Maths) Ahead’ night funded by the
 European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme was held in Huddersfield,
 with over 3000 members of the public attending each event. A number of staff have extensive
 public engagement activities detailed in section 4.2. Finally, we actively pursue a policy of open
 access to our research as described in section 1.6.

 Staff performance is recognised and rewarded through annual Personal Development and
 Performance Review (PDPR) meetings and internal conferment procedures (E4). Assessment of
 impact features in PDPR and promotion processes (see also section 2.1). Institutional criteria for
 promotion were revised for 2020 to specifically include routes recognising excellence in knowledge
 exchange and enterprise as alternatives to excellence in research. Whilst the two routes are
 typically closely related, individuals whose research is more applied with a focus on knowledge
 exchange leading to impact can be recognised and appropriately rewarded.

 In summary, we have successfully implemented our research and impact strategy over the current
 REF cycle: expansions in volume and quality of our research indicate the unit’s vitality and point
 towards sustainability moving forwards.

 1.5 Future strategic goals for research and impact
 Research strategic aims for the next REF cycle align closely with the University’s 2018/25 strategy
 map. Overarching aims are to increase the quality, scope, reach, and impact of our research; key
 performance indicators are generation of high-quality outputs, increased research and enterprise
 income, increased emphasis on international collaboration and involvement of research
 beneficiaries. Aims for our research and impact strategy during the next REF cycle are:

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (A1) Promotion of interdisciplinary research in areas of existing strength and developing new
 areas, leading to impact upon patient welfare and/or society

 (A2) Continued development of contemporary core facilities and research laboratories, thereby
 enhancing our research environment, culture, outputs, and staff development

 (A3) Aligned with the University’s strategy map, improved quality of research outputs with 75%
 or more of staff are achieving 1 or more 3*/4* publications every 2 years by 2025

 (A4) Increased research and knowledge exchange income and development of strategic
 research collaborations with world-leading academic institutions

 (A5) Continued support and development of existing staff

 (A6) Attraction of internationally-recognised, world-leading research-active staff to FTE and
 visiting positions, including increasing our ‘critical mass’ of research-active practitioners

 (A7) Expansion and diversification of nascent research at the interfaces of biological sciences,
 physical geography, and environmental science in order to return to UoA14 at the next REF
 census date.

 To develop a strategic research portfolio associated with UoA14 (Geography and Environmental
 Studies), Professors Dilanthi Amaratunga and Richard Haigh (both returned to UoA13 for
 REF2021) have joined AS. Their world-renowned expertise in multi-hazard threats, particularly in
 Asia, offers excellent synergies with staff in UoA5 working in areas of remote sensing, biodiversity,
 coastal morphology, and biodiversity.

 In summary, continued expansion and diversification of research activities will mean staff currently
 aligned with UoA5 and staff more likely suited for return to UoA14 at the time of the next REF
 census date will be contributing extensively to the recognition of the University as a world-class
 academic institution.

 1.6 Research culture
 Open Research: Institutionally, the University supports the principles set out in the Concordat on
 Open Research Data and is committed to the concept of open research. It has invested in systems
 to facilitate Open Research including the Elsevier PURE management information system and a
 University Data Repository and content management system (Box). Additional central support
 comes from the appointment of Open Access Manager and Research Data Management Officer
 whose roles are to assist in the delivery of mandatory central training for staff and students, to
 support the wider open research strategy and to assist academic staff in making data open and
 accessible. The University also subscribes centrally to support dissemination of research outputs
 as gold open access at point of publication in Springer and Wiley journals.

 As a unit priding itself on its values in applied research that makes a difference, we seek to
 continually develop and nurture an open, collaborative research culture that embraces and
 engages partnerships with different external stakeholders. We achieve this through encouraging
 open, collaborative culture within and across Research Centres, through a vibrant public
 engagement programme and through strong commitment to user/public involvement and
 coproduction. We actively pursue policies of open access to our research, encouraging staff to
 integrate strategies into research proposals or maximise engagement with and use of research
 outputs by research users and different audiences.

 Research Integrity: In the development and conduct of our research, we maintain adherence to
 high standards of Research integrity. Institutionally, we adhere to the UKRI-developed
 Concordat on Research Integrity and ensure research is conducted according to appropriate
 ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. The institutional Code of

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Practice for Research, research ethics and integrity policy and reporting statements are publicly
 available on the University website. Within AS, research and integrity matters are co-ordinated
 by the School Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (SREIC) which is responsible for
 implementing the University’s policies and procedures in relation to research governance. In
 addition, AS has a nominated Research Integrity Champion (Phillips) whose role is to promote
 good research practice, ensure that its principles and relevant standards are embedded into our
 research culture and to ensure advice is available to staff and students regarding the issue of
 research misconduct and the reporting thereof. Research Ethics and Research Integrity training
 of all staff and PGR students is embedded into the induction programme and assessment of
 research ethics is an integral part of all research and enterprise grant applications. In AS,
 research involving human tissues is conducted under the terms and conditions of the human
 tissue act (HTA licence number 12641) and compliance with the HTA is maintained through the
 Corporate Licence holder (Dr Tracy Turner), the Designated Individual (DI, Georgopoulos) and
 Persons Designate (PD) within each department. Research misconduct is taken seriously across
 the Institution: all matters pertaining to research misconduct for PGR students and research staff
 are pursued following Institutional guidelines.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy emerges from our strategic aim to build a research base internationally
 recognised for the quality and impact of its research. Thus, we focused on continued development
 areas of expertise as described in REF2014 and expanded into new areas of research through
 the appointment of both experienced and early career academic staff. Of 13 academic staff
 returned in REF2014, 6 remain in post (Bingham, Carr, Georgopoulos, Pala, Richards,
 Williams) and are returned again plus 2 additional staff (Laws, Morris) remaining in post but
 returned in UoA8 for REF2021. 5 staff not submitted in 2014 are returned for REF2021 (Burns,
 Clarke, Collett, Humphreys, Kinnunen). The remaining 19 staff entered into REF2021 are new
 appointments since 2014. These appointments were made at professorial (Ginger, Owen-
 Lynch), reader (Boyne, Hennies), senior lecturer (Allison, Bruning-Richardson, Bryk, Cooper,
 Fang, Fox, Hwang, Massey, Milner, Smyth), lecturer (Davidson, Hill, Rout, Wilson (all now
 senior lecturers)) and senior research fellow (Edwards) levels. The appointment process is co-
 ordinated by Human Resources and research plays a key role in both short-listing and interview
 decision-making processes. Appointments were made in strategic areas to expand expertise and
 critical mass within longstanding key areas (e.g. around Molecular Medicine and Evolutionary
 Genomics) or to establish new research themes (at the interface of Biology and Physical
 Geography).

 Looking beyond REF2021, the requirement for all appointed staff to show excellence in both
 research and teaching will remain. Our staffing strategy will continue to focus on staff
 appointments with excellent research experience covering University ASRIs, with School-level
 support for new appointments whose interests may cover other areas. In this way, the School
 provides the nimbleness to build timely research presence in new areas not necessarily
 immediately covered under the ASRI umbrella. Moreover, our focus is not just on appointing
 research excellent staff: we also provide a supportive environment for staff returning from career
 breaks. For example, during this REF cycle we appointed 3 Daphne Jackson Fellows within AS,
 the aim of which is to support women returning to academic life following career breaks to raise a
 family. Our staffing strategy will continue to support this approach. Contract researchers at various
 grades are appointed according to the needs of particular research projects and supported in their
 career development.

 The University adheres to the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and is committed, as recognised by the European Commission’s HR Excellence
 in Research Award, to the implementation of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
 Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers. We support development and career progression of
 ECRs and existing staff (mid-career researchers, emerging and established research leaders)
 through research training, mentoring and coaching to support research career progression and by

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actively developing opportunities for staff to gain first-hand experience in research. Research
 training is delivered locally and centrally: a clear interface ensures coordination, consistency and
 quality and all training is mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. Initiatives
 available to provide research training, mentoring and support for staff within UoA5 include one-to-
 one meetings with newly appointed staff to discuss research interests and expectations (these
 meetings are maintained during probation); funding and support for staff to undertake doctoral
 studies; and one-to-one research career mentoring from a senior colleague.

 For new staff we offer a structured induction programme and we aspire to: one year of minimal
 teaching; tailored research mentoring; start-up financial packages for consumables; equipment
 purchases where appropriate; and priority over PhD scholarship student co-supervision. In AS,
 QR funding has been used to provide PhD studentships; strategically, these are awarded to new
 staff typically within two years of appointment to help establish/support their research or
 established staff with interdisciplinary research projects. Fully funded studentships provide new
 staff, in particular, with opportunity to get their research off the ground during the early part of their
 tenure. All staff are allocated time for research within the Workload Allocation Model; performance
 is monitored annually through the PDPR process. PDPR promotes, supports and celebrates
 excellence in research with an emphasis on researcher development and the establishment and
 monitoring of ambitious, but achievable performance targets around key research functions such
 as publishing. All academic and research staff in UoA5 are set research objectives within their
 annual PDPR.

 Career development is another aspect of PDPR with staff development strongly supported through
 several approaches. This includes an annual promotion exercise undertaken following institutional
 guidelines. Thus, staff are promoted to Professor, Reader, Principal Research Fellow, Principal
 Enterprise Fellow or University Teaching Fellow, following a matrix with minimum threshold criteria
 applied to teaching, research, management/leadership and enterprise pertinent to each route.
 Promotion to Professor and Reader requires evidence of sustained internationally recognised
 research with an established track-record of high-quality publications, sustained ability to win
 external funding and a track record of research leadership. From Jan 2014 – Dec 2020, 9 staff in
 in UoA5 were promoted to Professor (Humphreys), Reader (Allison, Georgopoulos, Hwang),
 Principal Enterprise Fellow (Williams), or Senior Lecturer (Carr, Psakis, Rout, Wilson). 2 staff
 were promoted to Subject Area Leaders (Bingham, Kinnunen) and in 2021, prior to the REF
 submission, 1 individual was promoted to research-active, University Teaching Fellow (Bryk) and
 2 to Senior Lecturer (Hill, Davidson). Other opportunities for staff development include training in
 management and leadership skills, notably through Membership/Fellowship of the Chartered
 Management Institute (CMI): all (12) of the School Management Committee have achieved or are
 completing chartered manager status. As line managers, Humphreys, Hwang, and
 Georgopoulos are also working to achieve chartered manager status; Ginger and Owen-Lynch
 are Fellows of the CMI. Kinnunen has completed the women-only National Aurora Leadership
 Programme. All academic staff are required to obtain teaching qualifications by becoming
 members of the Higher Education Academy (HEA).

 Underpinning support we offer is the general principle that staff should retain autonomy over their
 research careers and should not feel compelled to pursue particular research agendas other than
 to generate high quality research outputs leading to impact upon society and train the next
 generation of research active scientists/clinicians to the highest standards. The University is
 committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and as a UoA,
 we provide a variety of mechanisms to ensure staff are supported throughout their tenure. Our
 strategy is to create an inclusive research environment and culture where staff are supported to
 be able to achieve increasingly more demanding targets. Looking beyond REF2021, our staffing
 strategy will continue along the lines described above. Strategic appointments in existing areas of
 strength and agreed new priority areas will continue to be made, reflecting the University’s
 continued commitment to excellence in research, enterprise, knowledge exchange, teaching and
 learning as described in the 2018-25 strategy map.



                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Support for postgraduate research students
 We foster a vibrant PGR community with close alignment to Research Centre themes and aspire
 to providing world-class PGR training and mentoring. Entry onto PGR courses is conditional on
 having a good first degree (at least an upper second-class honours) or relevant Masters’ degree
 (typically at distinction). All prospective PGR students are interviewed by at least two academic
 staff, one of whom must be a senior academic and, if successful, assigned a minimum of two
 supervisors. The main supervisor must have a PhD and be publishing at an internationally
 recognised standard (co-supervisors will normally have a doctoral degree, but maybe new to
 supervision). Supervisors must also undergo an initial three-part training course with refresher
 courses every 3 years to update them regarding PGR regulations and processes. These criteria
 ensure students are assigned a supervisory team with the necessary research experience and
 expertise. AS has used QR support to create fully funded studentships across its full spectrum of
 research activity. Funding covers fees and a bursary together with a consumables budget ranging
 from £2,000 to £10,000 per annum depending on the nature of the project.

 Since REF2014, the School has provided bursary and fee support to 79 PhD students of whom
 26 were/are primarily supervised by staff returned to UoA5. A further 29 PhD students supervised
 by staff returned to UoA5 were/are funded by external awards. The total numbers of PhD students
 graduating in AS or in association with UoA5 are 142 and 44, respectively (numbers include self-
 funding students). We are also a member of the University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance
 (DTA) for Applied Science for Health, a programme launched in 2015 with the aim of
 ‘understanding and promoting healthy ageing’; we currently have 2 scholars supported under this
 scheme. There have also been 4 scholarships awarded to staff returned to UoA5 from the EPSRC
 Materials DTP held by the University.

 Upon enrolment, students undergo a full induction programme covering research culture,
 expectations of supervisors and students, PGR degree rules and regulations, progression
 monitoring and research ethics and research integrity. Much of the training is delivered by each
 School, but at University level additional support and on-line resources are available through the
 Graduate School. In common with training for staff, each element of PGR training is mapped to
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework to ensure coverage and to avoid duplication (with
 discipline-specific training at School level and transferable generic skills training at University
 level). Research Integrity and Research Ethics are fundamentally important at all levels and
 students are informed of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the consequences of
 non-compliance at induction. Additional information about support for students is available on our
 Brightspace virtual learning environment and MS Teams. There are dedicated PGR-only study
 areas across the campus, with smaller, quieter rooms being available for PGR students writing
 their thesis.

 Our PGR students are members of Research Institutes, Centres and Special Interest Groups and
 are encouraged to fully engage with activities, in order to ensure strong support from active
 researchers and opportunities for peer mentoring. PGR students are also encouraged and
 expected to attend (and deliver) research seminars (which is noted at progression points). Internal
 presentations are a condition of receipt of funding for external conferences. Many PGR activities
 are student-led including PGR seminar series, PGR Society and annual PGR conference. We
 maintain meaningful pathways to consultation with PGR students and have PGR student
 representation both on School Research Ethics and Integrity and PGR Committees. We
 encourage regular informal meetings of the PGR community in addition to online engagement.

 Regarding development and progression, an ‘open door’ policy exists where students discuss
 research informally, but more formal meetings are held monthly and notes from both students and
 supervisors are recorded monthly in SkillsForge. PGR student progress is monitored via the
 University Postgraduate Progressions Board. Management of PGR matters are overseen by the
 School’s Director of Graduate Education (DoGE, Clarke). Progression viva voce examinations are
 held after 9 and 21 months (full-time equivalent): students are required to present a report detailing
 progress and discuss research plans with at least two other academic staff who are not formally
 involved in the project or the supervision. For progression to be approved, examiners must be

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 satisfied that the student has made sufficient progress intellectually; data accrual is of sufficient
 quantity and quality to enable the thesis to be constructed; and future plans for completing the
 research plan are realistic within the timescale remaining. Research training needs are also
 discussed at this stage together with any issues that the students may have with supervision.
 Three PGR Progression Boards are run each year to track PGR progression, viva outcomes,
 misconduct, suspensions and timeliness of events. With regards to pastoral care AS have
 experienced senior staff that act as pastoral mentors for PGRs, overseen and including the DoGE.
 Cases that require specialist support are referred to the University’s Wellbeing Services who have
 dedicated PGR provision

 We also support students to develop their research and teaching careers through attendance and
 presentation at conferences; publishing their research; and contributing to undergraduate
 teaching sessions. With regards to conference attendance, students are encouraged to attend
 one national and one international conference during their studies and the School provides funding
 to support this. Attendance is conditional on presenting their research in the form or oral or poster
 presentations. Within this REF cycle, 72 PGR students in AS have received School funding to
 attend conferences. Prior to attending national or international conferences, students gain
 experience of presenting either orally or via posters at the annual PGR conference and 3-minute
 thesis competition. This provide PGRs opportunities to showcase their research and receive
 feedback on the strengths and areas for improvement (often before they present their work
 externally). Students also gain experience of presenting through other routes, including the
 Postgraduate Research Science Society, a student inspired initiative providing students with
 opportunities to present to peers and academic staff in relaxed and supportive environment. In
 addition, students are encouraged to attend and interact with internationally renowned scientists
 as part of the School’s seminar programme. Intellectual property is also an important
 consideration; experienced supervisors guide students through this process and Central
 University support is also available through Research and Enterprise, ensuring intellectual
 property is protected prior to disclosure. We encourage PGR students to see research and
 teaching as symbiotic and of mutual benefit; to this end, we provide students with opportunities to
 gain teaching experience. For School-funded students this is mandatory, but it is available to all
 students. Teaching is typically not lecturing but predominantly involves practical class
 demonstration, small group workshops/tutorials (with academic staff) and practical supervision of
 undergraduate projects.

 Beyond REF2021, we are developing pipelines for recruitment into Research Masters and PhD
 programmes. These include new research-active taught MSc programmes in Cancer Biology,
 Cancer Therapeutics; Biomedical and Analytical Sciences; and Environmental and Remote
 Monitoring. Finally, our undergraduate students through honours-level dissertations have
 independent opportunity to publish their research via open access Fields student research journal
 overseen by Huddersfield University Press. Students supervised by staff returned to UoA5
 (Bingham, Brüning-Richardson) have (Vol-2-in-2016) or will (in Vol 7) publish in the journal.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 As described in the institutional environment statement, the University is passionate about
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of its business. The Institution has
 established the University Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Enhancement Committee (UEDIEC)
 to oversee the implementation of University EDI framework and related policies, Code of
 Practice, frameworks and schemes for staff and students. In 2020, the University signed the
 Race Equality Charter (REC) and is working towards equal representation of women at most
 senior levels. Other examples of equality work include enhanced support for Black Asian and
 Minority Ethnic (BAME) students across the Institution. The University is a Stonewall Global
 Diversity Champion member thereby demonstrating its commitment to supporting LGBT+ and
 disabled staff and students; and the University is a Disability Confident Employer. These and
 other institutional level policies (described in the institutional ES) impact upon the composition of
 committee structures and policy within each School. The University participates in Vitae’s ‘Every
 Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and diversity for researchers within higher education


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and EDI is an important aspect of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and our HR Excellence in Research Action Plan.

 School of Applied Sciences has long been committed to promoting gender equality in science.
 This is evidenced by achieving Bronze Athena SWAN status in 2015, followed by Silver level
 accreditation in 2018. AS champions good practice and is the highest Athena SWAN award level
 holder in the University; some of its staff act as internal consultants or critical friends to other
 Schools. Many initiatives related to gender equality have been developed and trialled in AS and
 then either rolled out to the whole University or shared with other Schools. AS’ Athena SWAN
 committee expanded in 2018 to become the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, so that
 its remit widened to include all aspects of equality work. This approach was later mirrored by the
 University as a whole, evidenced by the formation of UEDIEC (described above) which reports
 directly to Senate. AS constantly strives to create an inclusive and supportive environment for its
 researchers and makes considerable effort to maintain an excellent mentoring programme, abide
 by a Core Hours system, support career progression and applications for promotion, develop
 case-by-case enhanced maternity provision and support in order to maintain or re-establish
 (through the award of 3 Daphne Jackson Fellowships) research momentum, support flexible
 working, and provide access to women-only national initiatives such as the Advance HE Aurora
 scheme (taken by Kinnunen in UoA5 and 5 other scientists in AS).

 With regard REF2021, the Universities Equality and Diversity Impact Assessment looked at all
 protected characteristics with regards to the SRR/IR identification selection process but of these,
 only gender showed an overall impact. Of all the UoAs submitted by the University to REF2021,
 UoA5 had one of the largest variances in favour of males (38.89%) with regard to the identification
 of staff as SRR/IR. The main reason why staff have been identified as not-SRR is they are
 presently ineligible to act a main supervisor for doctoral students, either because they are not yet
 qualified with a doctorate themselves or they have a doctorate but are not yet engaged in
 international quality research. The output selection process for REF2021 was based first and
 foremost on the quality of outputs as determined by both internal and external review. Where
 outputs of equal merit were identified, outputs were chosen to ensure diversity of staff was
 employed. An Output Equality Impact Assessment for UoA5 reported that a total of 11 female
 (36.7%) and 19 male (63.3%) staff were identified as SRR/IR. Using the output selection criteria
 described above, 33.3% and 66.7% of outputs were submitted from female and male staff
 respectively. This broadly reflects the SRR/IR gender distribution within this UoA.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 For UoA5, income during this REF cycle was £3,167,014. The majority of our income (£1.316M)
 comes from UK based charities (open competitive and other processes) with other significant
 funding coming from UK Industry, commerce and public corporations (£351K), UK industry,
 commerce, public corporations (£382K) and EU government bodies (£314K) and Research
 Councils £570K) – notable awards in the current REF cycle are summarised in Section 1.4 (A3).
 Significantly, income for UoA5 has grown considerably since REF 2014 when the total awarded
 was £318,362. Beyond external funding, AS used QR funding and other strategic university
 support within this REF cycle to support PhD studentships (£4.449M) and equipment (£2.310M
 relevant to UoA5).

 Increased research income generation is foregrounded in the University’s 2018-25 Strategy Map
 and central support is provided by Research and Enterprise. Particular to UoA5, our forward-
 looking strategy will be to use central support to pump-prime research with applied potential,
 thereby keeping our unit competitive for funding from diverse external sources, offering opportunity
 for contemporary publishing, and speaking to our strategy (1.5 (A6)) to recruit research-active
 practitioners. To assist academics in external bidding, central support for research grant
 applications and commercial contracts is available following appointment of a dedicated research
 development manager (RDM) and a business development manager (BDM) for AS. To support
 commercial ventures, the BDM oversees all contract development, NDAs, liaison with the Legal

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 department and IP protection, as well as maintaining familiarity with all aspects of available
 commercial funding and government initiatives specifically aimed to develop
 academic/commercial collaboration. Through distribution of QR funding to Schools and University
 level support via the University Research Fund (URF), the institution invests in research through
 provision of PhD studentships and funding to develop ASRIs. New ventures can be supported
 internally by seed funding administered by central Research and Enterprise, the Collaborative
 Venture Fund (CVF). Promotion of international research partnerships is key to the 2018-25
 Strategy Map and central funding to support this has been awarded (currently £57.7K).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 AS provides dedicated research laboratories housing state-of-the-art equipment for molecular
 biology, microbiology, pharmacology, cell biology, analytical sciences and ancient DNA research.
 Furthermore, AS has four computer suites dedicated for bioinformatics research. The School has
 continued to make a major financial commitment (£3.282M, £2.310M relevant to UoA5) to
 strengthening our research facilities and infrastructure and laboratories have been renovated,
 thereby increasing capacity as well as the provision of excellent, contemporary research space.
 Outside of AS, Hwang has deployed multiple research instruments on the Arctic sea ice. These
 deployments, supported by NERC/UKRI involved German research icebreaker Polarstern as the
 base station, with logistical support from Russian icebreaker Kapitan Dranistyn.

 Leading up to REF2014, one focus was establishment of a state-of-the-art facility for ancient DNA
 research (at a cost of ~£375,000); this facility has completed during the current REF cycle. AS has
 also invested in protein purification facilities, with the purchase of AKTA Pure FPLC and AKTA
 Start machines at the cost of ~£35,000. To analyse the Big Data projects undertaken by staff in
 UoA5, the School paid ~£50,0000 for a 8-node mini-cluster, with 4 high-processing nodes (96
 cores each with 2Gb RAM) to meet needs of staff processing environmental data and 4 high-RAM
 nodes (40 cores with a total of 1.5Tb RAM) to support high memory computations associated with
 genomics research. Four new computer suites have been built within the current REF cycle, with
 a total of 72 HP PCs and 67 Stone PCs for use by PGR students across all departments in the
 School.

 Renovation of teaching laboratories into research laboratories resulted in expansion of our cell
 culture facility, which now has 12 class II hoods (up from 4 class II hoods in 2014). This sits
 immediately adjacent to a pharmacology and cell biology laboratory housing up to 24 research
 students and staff. Maintenance and day-to-day running of these laboratories is supported by a
 dedicated technician funded from University Research Funds. A smaller cell culture unit dedicated
 to stem cell research was created through renovation of existing space within AS. There is also
 extensive anaerobic and microaerophilic culturing capacity for microbial and cell biology research.
 Following a successful application for a human tissue licence in 2016, the cell culture facility is
 permitted and equipped to process human tissues and generate primary cell cultures for analysis.
 This directly led to expansion in the scope of research that can be conducted in Research Centres
 for Cellular and Molecular Models of Disease and Pharmacology and Therapeutics.

 Other significant developments include establishment of a cell-imaging facility housed in the
 University’s 3M Buckley Innovation Centre and funded via a Local Growth Fund grant of £2.9m.
 These facilities are run by a dedicated senior research fellow (Harmer). This facility houses a
 confocal laser scanning microscopy with Airyscan technology for super-resolution imaging and a
 widefield epifluoresence microscopy based on an Axio Observer Z1 platform. These microscopes
 provide capacity beyond scanning electron microscopes available in AS and helped enable staff
 in UoA5 to develop experimental models in mammalian and microbial cell biology (including for
 3D cultures, co-cultures, organoids, biofilm imaging, FRET and FRAP analyses, and assays of
 cell motility).

 Further investments have facilitated increased capabilities in analytical and molecular biology
 capability generating excellent facilities for target validation of drug action, state-of-the-art qRT-
 PCR, pharmacogenomics, bioinformatics and metabolomics. We have also invested in novel


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technologies to support staff development (particularly ECRs) including purchase of surface
 dissolution imaging and an Agilent seahorse XF metabolic analyser, for example.

 New investments summarised above are complemented by the availability of wide-ranging
 facilities for analytical and structural biochemistry. Our NMR facility comprises of open-access 400
 MHz and 300 MHz multi-nuclear instrumentation along with a 600 MHz instrument with a cryo-
 probe for non-routine, dedicated technician-controlled analyses. The latter two instruments were
 recently purchased as part of a £650K programme to increase NMR facilities and, as with all
 resources available to researchers within AS, is free at the point of use for non-externally funded
 research. We also have a dedicated X-ray diffraction facility that houses three powder X-ray
 diffractometers (benchtop, high temperature and a D8 Advance), a small-angle X-ray (SAXS) and
 two single-crystal X-ray instruments (dual source Bruker Duo and Advance). The Advance
 diffractometer was upgraded recently with a new detector (~£60,000). The analytical facility
 includes 8 HPLC and GC instruments, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, 2 GC-MS
 and a LC-MS.

 In 2010, AS was awarded a £2.3M ERDF grant which, together with matched funding from the
 University of £1.3M, enabled the establishment of Innovative Physical Organic Solutions (IPOS),
 a GMP accredited facility (licence number UK GMP 43253) and Agilent Centre of Excellence.
 IPOS provides analytical expertise to both external businesses and academics within Applied
 Sciences and across the University and is a focus for analytical research with facilities include
 LC/MS, GC and GC-MS, ICP-MS, GPC-MALLS and ion chromatography. We also enjoy ready
 access to equipment in the School of Computing and Engineering including atomic force
 microscopy, x-ray tomography and infinite focus microscopy.

 Looking beyond REF2021, AS expanded its teaching laboratory space in 2019, releasing former
 teaching space for the development of additional high-quality research facilities during the next 2-
 3 years.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Collaboration, Industry and Economy
 Our international collaborative links span the globe. Collaboration was an essential strategic
 element contributing to success in achieving objectives laid out for REF2014 (1.2) and is
 exemplified by a SciVal analysis for UoA5 (Jan 2014 - Nov 2020) where 56.8% of outputs include
 international partners. Examples of our international collaborative work include:
  Staff from the Centre for Evolutionary Genomics (CfEG, led by Richards) have active
     collaborations with over 30 institutions including Harvard, Oxford and the Max Planck Institute.
     These collaborations include an extensive network of archaeologists and cultural experts who
     facilitate access to samples, archaeological sites and provide invaluable context to the
     archaeogenetic research. These collaborations have led to major publications in Nature (2016)
     and Science (2019).
  Bryk has established a pan European network of collaborators to support his research in the
     ecology and evolution of rodents and Mustelidae including the Polish Academy of Sciences’
     Mammal Research Institute, the University of Liege (Belgium), the National Museums of
     Scotland and the Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology in Tübingen. These
     collaborative links have resulted in outputs in journals such as Proceedings of the National
     Academy of Science USA (2016).
  Hennies has extensive international collaborations across Europe (University Hospitals of
     Münster, Cologne and Freiburg, Germany; University Hospital of Groningen, The Netherlands;
     Medical University of Innsbruck, Austria; University of Paris, France), Israel (University of Tel
     Aviv), Tunisia (Farhat Hached University Hospital) and Canada (University of British Columbia,
     Vancouver). These collaborations have led to a series of publications in the British Journal of
     Dermatology, a leading journal in its field.
  Humphreys work on radioactive waste disposal includes work for the Canadian Nuclear
     Waste Management Organisation (NWMO) has generated an impact case for REF2021. More


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    recently collaboration with the State of Nevada, USA on the proposed Yucca Mountain Facility
    has also been established.

 Collaborations with national/local government, their agencies and non-governmental
 organisations (NGOs) include the Environment Agency, National Trust, Calder and Colne Rivers
 Trust, and River Holme Connections (Milner). Collaborations with industry partners are supported
 by the University’s CVF that pump-primes early connections between industry, academics and 3M
 BIC innovation centre. CVF pump-priming includes characterisation of fermented foods Kefir and
 Kombucha for SME’s to optimise product stability and shelf life (Humphreys and Rout). CVFs
 were also used to establish research collaborations with a wide range of companies in the
 healthcare sector to develop, test and commercialise disinfection technologies, many of which are
 now in use within the NHS (Humphreys and Rout). Other CVF projects include collaborations
 between Allison and CytoSmart Technologies (The Netherlands) on optimisation of imaging
 devices for cancer and hypoxia related research. Our highest profile industrial collaboration within
 UoA5 is the partnership with Paxman Cooling Ltd; this created the PAXMAN Scalp Cooling
 Research Centre (PSC) with a total investment of £1M over five years. The centre focuses on
 management of chemotherapy induced alopecia through scalp cooling. This is the culmination
 active research in this area since 2011 by UoA5 staff (Collett and Georgopolous). There is also
 successful spinout of skin repair technology in the form of the company VeritaCell
 (Georgopoulos), which is now at a stage of seeking regulatory approval for planned ‘in use’ trails.
 At an earlier spinout point is ThanatoCure (Georgopoulos), a combinatorial therapeutic approach
 specifically targeting malignant cells in bladder, colorectal and renal/kidney tumours. The
 treatment is currently undergoing in vivo evaluation with a view to acquiring further development
 funding.

 4.2 Contributions to the research base and society
 Staff in UoA5 are committed to providing service to the wider research communities, economy
 and society. Evidence includes:

 Editorial positions: Editorial board positions include: Royal Society journal Open Biology (Ginger),
 Methods in Molecular Biology (volume 2116 Ginger), Molecular and Biochemical Parasitology
 (2012-20 Ginger), Bioscience Reports (Cooper), Biomarker Insights (Cooper), Cellular and
 Molecular Pathology (Boyne), Crime, Security and Society (Williams), Forensic Research and
 Criminology International Journal (Williams), Food Biophysics (Bingham), Frontiers: Structural
 Biology, Cellular Biochemistry and Archaea section (Cooper), Frontiers: Structural Biology of
 Membrane Transport and Signalling: New Insights and Developments (Bingham), Hematology
 and Leukaemia (Cooper), Host and Viruses (Brüning-Richardson), Journal of Forensic
 Research and Analysis (Williams), Journal of Forensic Sciences and Digital Investigation
 (Williams), PeerJ (Cooper), Protist (Ginger), and The Police Journal (Williams).

 Plenaries and invited lectures: External recognition of our work is exemplified by the growing
 number of invitations to speak at national and international events. During the current REF period,
 unit staff have provided ca 90 invited presentations both nationally and internationally, of which 7
 were keynote or plenary lectures.

 Committee membership and conference organisation: Academic staff in UoA5 are active
 members of a wide range of committees and working groups, examples of which include:
 European Pond Conservation Network (Hill); Institute of Food Science and Technology;
 Microbiology Society, Prokaryotic Division, (Cooper), Mineralogical Society, Geomicrobiology
 Committee (Humphreys), Protistology-UK (Carr, Society Treasurer since 2012); medical and
 scientific advisor for both the Ichthyosis Support Group UK and German Ichthyosis Support Group
 patient organisations (Hennies).

 Academic staff in UoA5 are active in conference organisation. Examples include: International
 Inter-Professional Skin Integrity And Infection Prevention Conference, 2016 and 2017
 (Georgopoulos), International Dermatology Congress, 2017 and 2018 (Hennies), British
 Association for Cancer Research, Leeds (Brüning-Richardson), British Neuro-Oncology Society

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2016 Leeds (Brüning-Richardson), British Society for Protist Biology Spring Meeting 2015,
 Huddersfield (Carr), Cologne Genomics Days, Germany (Hennies), Controlling Cancer Summit
 2016, London, UK (Georgopoulos), European Pond Conservation Network 2020 (Hill), North of
 England Cell Biology 2017 (Boyne) and 2018 (Allison/Cooper), Northern Bioinformatics User
 Group Steering Committee (Bryk), and 2017 Yorkshire University Evolution Group (Carr).

 Public engagement: AS has an active, vibrant public engagement program (section 1.4).
 Additionally to examples cited earlier, academics and PGR students contribute to events including
 Otley Science Fair, Sceptics in the Pub, Pint-of-Science and British Science Week. AS promotes
 its science, whilst assisting secondary school education, by providing an A-level Practical Activity
 Groups series in newly constructed dedicated outreach laboratory. AS science has also featured
 in the arts meets science exhibition 2019 (Brüning-Richardson). Richards genetic chronology
 for the Indian Subcontinent (BMC Evol Biol 17: 88) generated much interest in India, featuring in
 The Hindu (second most circulated English-language newspaper in India). Pala and Edwards
 were involved in award-winning 2018 Smithsonian documentary ‘The Ice Bridge’. Richards was
 involved in 2015 S4C series ‘DNA Cymru’ and his work on American settlement featured in 2014
 Korean TV documentary ‘Panorama: Korean Eve’. Richards also provides commentary for
 popular magazine New Scientist and his collaborative work with Harvard on the genomic history
 of the Iberian Peninsula featured in news and magazine outlets, including National Geographic
 and BBC News. Explaining his research on rodenticide resistance in rats Clarke has made
 multiple domestic and overseas (USA and New Zealand) television and radio appearances, as
 well as featuring in over 50 newspaper articles.

 Response to Covid-19 pandemic: Similar to other universities we supported local health care
 providers: AS donated all its PPE stocks (Mar 2020) and has loaned a -80o-freezer for vaccine
 storage to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary (Dec 2020). AS also provided the Covid-19 National
 Testing Programme its ThermoFisher 7500-Fast PCR system (Apr-Dec 2020). Contribution to the
 science base included publication in Pathogens (doi:10.3390/microorganisms8111678. Richards,
 Pala) of the identification of Europe as the main source of virus spread; wide dissemination of the
 study across Europe concluded in an interview with La Republica (Pala). Structural modelling of
 Sars-CoV-2 ‘orphan’ proteins (Cooper) has also supported training of a PGR student.




                                                                                             Page 15
