Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bradford

 Unit of Assessment: C15 Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit of Assessment C15 at Bradford is mapped onto the School of Archaeological and
 Forensic Sciences (SAFS), and sits within the Faculty of Life Sciences. Across the REF2021
 period, our strategy, in partnership with University management, has been to provide an
 excellent research environment, blending archaeology, forensics and cutting-edge science to
 generate leading research with substantial public impact. Key developments include-

    •   A new School of Archaeological and Forensic Science (2017), and relocation of all
        staff to new research space at the centre of the university promoting an inclusive and
        vibrant research grouping.

    •   A new heritage science facility, Visualising Heritage, supported by a multi-million-
        pound IT investment, promoting. digital heritage as an overarching, “Grand Challenge”
        research theme.

    •   New, flexible research structures within SAFS to support collaborative, interdisciplinary
        partnerships externally and across the university with Engineering, Chemistry, Social
        Sciences, Health and Biosciences; along with increased access to university facilities
        including the Centre for Chemical and Biological Analysis (the Analytical Centre).

    •   Enhanced research sustainability through increased research income, impact and
        publication opportunities provided by collaborative research with HEIs, government
        agencies, commercial organisations and the voluntary sector.

    •   Placement of impact at the forefront of research plans, following the achievement of
        the REF14 impact submission, and exemplified through case studies celebrating impacts
        from our Visualising Heritage group and research within the Stonehenge landscape.

 Radical change in our research structure has provided transformative opportunities compared to
 REF2014. Previous groups, defined as ‘Social and Biological Identity’ and ‘Archaeological
 Sciences’, have been replaced by interlocking research themes, characterised by flexible
 academic membership and a level of interdisciplinarity that exceeds the ‘trans-disciplinary’
 approach to the human past defined in the REF14 submission. Themes are -

    •   Archaeological and heritage sciences

    •   Social and biological identities

    •   Landscape and settlement archaeology

 Research and impact strategy is implemented by designated theme leads with responsibility
 for horizon scanning for funding, KT and impact opportunities. They facilitate, support and
 monitor research development and ensure inclusivity through mentorship of Early Career
 Researchers (ECR). The School Research Committee, chaired by the Director of Research,
 includes theme leads, Head of School, postgraduate and postdoctoral representatives. Strategy
 related to research priorities, staffing, investment and impact are developed here and adopted
 by the School. Implementation of our research strategy is supported by the University Research
 and Innovation Services (RaIS), who advise on best practice, research development,
 applications and post-award management. RaIS organise sandpits dedicated to specific funding
 opportunities and manages network events to enhance interdisciplinary engagement across the
 University. These events formed the base for successful applications including BReaTHe which
 incorporated academics from SAFS and Social Sciences (Croucher, Evans, Wilson). We
 recognise the value of embedding research across all of our activities (Croucher [Output 41]).
                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research management is undertaken with a commitment to equality and diversity, with a proven
 value in respect of staff motivation and enhanced research activity.

 The Unit’s research strategy informs development of Faculty of Life Sciences’ overarching
 research themes and University research strategy, promoting interdisciplinary excellence and
 enhancing opportunities for research and funding. The Unit provides leads for two of three
 faculty research lobes; Heath, Society, People and Place (Croucher), and Computational and
 Data-Driven Science (Gaffney V.), and Heritage has been adopted as a theme within the
 renewed University research agenda. The commitment of SAFS to impact is recognised by the
 University. Gaffney C. is Faculty and University Academic Impact Lead, assisting in the
 development of institutional impact strategy.

 Theme 1. Archaeological and Heritage Sciences (Co-ordinator Wilson)

 Archaeological science retains a leading role and has been developed through a strategic
 heritage science agenda, underpinned by the establishment of the new Visualising Heritage
 group. Visualising Heritage supports interdisciplinary, digital research across all three research
 themes. Key projects include AHRC-funded Fragmented Heritage and Curious Travellers
 projects (Wilson, Evans, Gaffney C. and V.). Research developing from these key programmes
 involves digital responses to natural and societal disasters, post conflict reconstruction and
 resolution e.g BReaTHe - Building Resilience, Well-being, and Cohesion in Displaced Societies
 Using Digital Heritage; Reducing Disaster Risk to Life and Livelihoods by Evaluating the Seismic
 Safety of Kathmandu’s Historic Urban Infrastructure’ (Croucher, Evans and Wilson). Climate
 heritage research includes contemporary heritage threats, e.g. Wetland Futures (Jennings) the
 Swandro project (Bond, Dockrill, Historic Environment Scotland) and prehistoric climate change
 impacts [outputs 7, 20], and palaeo-tsunami research within the ERC Advanced Grant project,
 Europe’s Lost Frontiers (Gaffney V. [output 24]). An emerging area of digital research relates to
 heritage collections, heritage capacity-building and cultural enrichment. Projects include the
 GCRF Augmenting Jordanian Heritage, the joint Irish Research Council-AHRC Digital
 Humanities scheme Communicating Hidden Heritages (Wilson, Gaffney C.), and Encounters
 and Transformations in Iron Age Europe (Koon and Armit, now York, [output 39]). New 3D
 approaches to World Heritage Site research also feature as part of the SAFS/ National Trust,
 Fountains Abbey research consortium (Gaffney C.) and the Stonehenge Hidden Landscape
 project (Gaffney C. and V. [output 25]).

 Digital heritage can provide significant information for archaeological analysis as demonstrated
 by study of the famous Star Carr headdresses (Evans [output 10]). The capacity of digital
 heritage research to generate social value, and enhance public participation, is demonstrated in
 both submitted impact case studies. These draw on collaborative work with regional government
 (Virtual Bradford/‘Engines of Prosperity’ - Industrial Heritage at Risk; Wilson, Gaffney C.),
 national curators (Crucible of Shetland’s Broch Building, a Scottish Cultural Heritage Consortium
 funded CDP project), international partners (Stonehenge Hidden Landscape, the Ludwig
 Boltzmann Institute) and commercial partners including HS2 Ltd.

 Our broader archaeological science agenda is demonstrated through leading research in
 geophysical prospection (Gaffney C. and V. [output 25]), isotopic analysis (Curtis-Summers
 [output 28], Beaumont [output 6]) and pioneering use and refinement of archaeomagnetic data
 (Batt [outputs 8, 13, 15, 24]). Our role in the development of archaeological chronologies at key
 sites, is demonstrated at Old Scatness and Ness of Brodgar (Batt [output 8]), and includes
 research on multi-method Bayesian chronological approaches, work on palaeointensity,
 rehydroxylation dating of ceramics and palaeomagnetic applications in marine environments
 (Batt [output 24]). Another focus, linked through SAFS human remains collections and
 bioarchaeological expertise, concerns mechanisms of biological degradation and our ability to
 retrieve visible and trace molecular information on diet, disease and lifeways from archaeological
 and forensic remains (Janaway [output 34], Wilson [output 11], Tedder [output 38]), the survival



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of materials (Janaway [output 34], Koon [output 23]), and exotic components in ritual or
 embalming practices (Thompson, Stern [outputs 2, 12]).

 The outputs of heritage science projects with their rich potential for public participation and broad
 social impacts provide the core of one of our impact case studies ‘Visualising Heritage. This
 draws on digital assets from across the Unit’s themes and demonstrates our commitment to
 interdisciplinarity and the facilitating role of digital technologies.

 Theme 2. Social and biological identities (Coordinator Croucher)

 Our research maintains a focus on the human body and its centrality in social relations spanning
 the Neolithic to 21st century, and scales ranging from the individual to the societal. It addresses
 issues including social inequality, conflict and violence, diet, health, migration and death. It
 draws on osteological and isotopic analysis and theoretical studies of personhood from across
 Europe and the Near East. Following REF2014, this theme now includes cultural archaeology,
 biological anthropology, forensics and healthcare in the study of past societies and the
 contemporary context of such knowledge.

 Central to this development has been the AHRC Continuing Bonds and related projects
 (Croucher [output 40]). These inter-disciplinary studies position archaeological perspectives on
 death and dying within contemporary end-of-life experience, and link our researchers with
 educators and charitable organisations in health-related projects including the GCRF
 Mainstream Global Mental Health Network in Leeds. Other projects linking past health and death
 with contemporary issues include the ‘Bradford Tooth Fairy’ project, using human dentine as a
 biomarker for stress (Beaumont [output 3]), and dietary studies linking health and wellbeing in
 the Highland National Health Service with monasticism and lay communities in Early Christian
 Scotland (Curtis-Summers [output 28]).

 Recent infrastructure investment has allowed us to redefine future research directions and
 support investigations into life-histories, rather than snapshots at death. Incremental high-
 resolution isotope analyses generate insights into diet and physiology including impacts on
 weaning and child health (Beaumont [output 6]), social identity in Mesopotamia (Croucher
 [output 1]), and the effects of famine and mobility (Beaumont [outputs 3, 5]). Our research
 considers life and health, from birth to sometimes violent death, as at the siege of Stirling Castle
 (Buckberry), and across forensic studies (Janaway [output 34]). Age of death estimates and
 skeletal markers pathology continue to be used to investigate individual osteo-biographies and
 supra-regional patterns of heath (Buckberry [output 17]). These investigations are supported by
 ground-breaking research testing the efficacy of high-resolution intra-dentine carbon and
 nitrogen isotope profiles (Beaumont [output 3]) and oxygen isotopes in collagen. Past cultural
 selection of animal and human bone for projectile points have been identified through ZooMS
 and genetic studies (Tedder [output 22]), whilst our expertise in microscopic integrity, isotopic
 characteristics and DNA survival in hair enhances studies including Denmark’s iconic Egtved
 Girl/Strydstrup Woman (Wilson [output 21]).

 Our existing strength in bioarchaeology also supports important new lines of enquiry concerning
 the nature and development of past social and biological identities. These include reviews of the
 genomic evidence for the Beaker phenomenon and migration chronologies (Armit [output 4]),
 Iron Age identities [output 39] and legacy projects on human remains in key sites such as the
 Sculptor’s Cave (Evans [output 32] and Koon), and studies of the Viking diaspora (Buckberry
 [output 16]).

 Contemporary digital heritage applications within the theme build upon earlier, ground-breaking
 projects, such as Digitised Diseases, and include the Wellcome Trust, Calvin Wells digitisation
 project, and projects supporting individual and communal wellbeing including BReaTHe
 (Buckberry, Wilson, Evans, Croucher).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Theme 3. Landscape and settlement archaeology (Co-ordinator Gaffney V.)

 Our record of research excellence in landscape and settlement studies continues to attract
 funding in new research areas, including marine palaeolandscapes e.g. the ERC Advanced
 Grant, Europe’s Lost Frontiers (Gaffney V. [outputs 19, 24, 30]). Alongside new projects, we
 maintain long-term research excellence in Scotland through Dockrill and Bond’s work [outputs
 35, 37] at Old Scatness, Swandro, the Gateway to the Atlantic, Brodgar (Batt), Jarlshof and
 Mousa in the Visualising the Crucible of Shetland's Iron Age project (Wilson) and Sculptors
 Cave, Moray (Wilson, Evans). New research on Lewis (Gaffney C. and V. [output 29]) and
 Shetland (Jennings) also occurred during the REF period. Elsewhere, we built upon established
 strengths in settlement studies (Gibson [output 26]), imaging and remote sensing at the World
 Heritage Site at Fountains Abbey, and Mediterranean landscape research at Olynthos and
 Megara Hyblaea, Greece (Gaffney C.). Gaffney C. and V. continue to lead within the European
 collaborative Stonehenge Hidden Landscapes project, providing mapping across the world
 heritage landscape, information on unexplored areas of the landscape and novel insights into
 well studied sites, including Durrington Walls henge [output 25]. During major change across the
 Stonehenge landscape, the data has informed structural plans and supported management of
 the landscape by national curators. This project forms the core of one of our impact case
 studies.

 Since REF2014 significant new landscape research themes have emerged relating to wetland
 and inundated landscapes. Jennings’ research on wetlands [output 27], and the lake-dwelling of
 Viverone, initiated with Menotti (retired), generated an international research network Wetland
 Futures in Contested Environments, informing conservation and legislation policy. The ERC
 Advanced Grant, Europe’s Lost Frontiers is a global exemplar for research into climate impacts,
 settlement and colonisation of marine palaeolandscapes [output 24], and includes research with
 European partners to locate early settlement within deep areas of the southern North Sea
 [output 30].

 Our work in built environments, heritage townscapes and historic parkland includes digital
 capture in Kathmandu (Wilson), Fountains Abbey and in historic sports grounds (Gaffney C.).
 These form the base for ambitious projects including collaboration with Bradford Council, to
 develop Virtual Bradford, a digital twin of the City, including World Heritage Site Saltaire. Funded
 through EU-Smart Cities and Open Data Reuse (SCORE), heritage research will support cultural
 tourism and regional regeneration.

 Our commitment to open access (OA) research is implemented by mandatory peer review of
 applications to ensure OA compliance, an annual OA research day, social media workshops and
 a university research development fund supporting projects with OA components and OA
 publication of non-RCUK funded outputs. Our commitment to open research goes beyond these
 and is built upon open access and legacy digital projects including The Detection of
 Archaeological Residues using Remote Sensing Techniques (Gaffney C.). Our open data
 strategy promotes data sharing and public participation through citizen science research using
 crowd-sourced and web-scraped data, e.g. AHRC Digital Transformations Programme
 Fragmented Heritage/ Fossil Finder/ Curious Travellers projects (Wilson, Evans, Gaffney C. and
 V.).

 We are committed to the highest ethical standards in relation to individual staff, the research
 community, funders of research and society. All staff follow the University’s ethical and research
 integrity frameworks. RaIS advise on compliance and provide staff with induction and ongoing
 advice on best practice. Research involving human participants, tissues or personal information
 databases requires approval by the University Research Ethics Panels. These include Croucher
 and Wilson as members and follow guidance on historic remains provided by Buckberry. Our
 commitment to upholding and developing research standards and professional frameworks is
 recognised by accreditation through the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists and Chartered
 Society for Forensic Sciences


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our future research development will build upon transformative investment made during
 REF2021. Strategic investment during the REF period (see section 2), combined with a flexible
 research structure, has supported development going beyond the aspirations presented in
 REF2014, promoting interdisciplinarity, innovative research, publications and impact spanning
 Europe, Western Asia, Africa and the Americas. Over the next REF period the strategy will
 ensure a sustainable, funding stream based on these investments and linked to increased
 collaborative activity across the university, academia, government agencies, commercial
 organisations and the third sector.

 2. People

 Personal development is central to our research strategy and is outlined at University level
 through the “Bradford Academic” contract between institution and researchers. We follow best
 practice to provide equality of opportunity for academic staff to flourish and succeed in a
 supportive research environment. We support staff through processes tailored to discipline and
 personal requirements. Individual research development centres on the Personal Development
 Review (PDR) process, the Personal Research and Innovation Plan (PRIP) and the Workload
 Module (WLM). Research staff are provided with 15% research time in the WLM. This may be
 increased to support research and impact development. The PRIP and PDR allow staff to reflect
 on research goals and identify required support from School and Faculty. Additionally, the
 Research Director interviews staff on an annual basis to review research performance, explore
 development opportunities and agree future progression and targets. Although there is no formal
 sabbatical process, staff are supported to seek external funding for sabbaticals, e.g. Heron’s
 GBP51,962 Humboldt fellowship (2014-15). Double peer review supports researchers during
 development of funding applications and ensures quality and transparency across the research
 process. The SAFS research structure has created a close-kit research community, engaging
 staff and postgraduate researchers. Our research process provides clarity of purpose, and
 effective line-management between formal meetings, whilst optimising research opportunities for
 staff and research students.

 Staff engagement in strategic development assists the School to respond rapidly to staff
 change and pursue research opportunities. Within the REF period several senior staff retired
 (Menotti, Gibson), or moved to pursue career opportunities (Heron, Director of Scientific
 Research, British Museum and Armit, University of York). These changes provided an
 opportunity to re-shape our research profile in line with emerging research strategy and facilities
 investment, and to engage a dynamic blend of senior academics and ECR staff to shape
 research within an innovative, interdisciplinary environment.

 Our staffing policy strengthens and enhances our research by recruiting expertise in
 strategic areas earmarked for development, and by building a strong and sustainable research
 culture. This is demonstrated during this REF period through the University sponsored “50th
 Anniversary Chair” scheme. This supported a substantial investment in research leaders.
 Gaffney V. was recruited as Chair in Landscape Archaeology, and Menotti as Chair in European
 Prehistory. Curtis-Summers’ employment as lecturer, following appointment as maternity cover,
 strengthened the human osteology and stable isotopes group. The School’s commitment to
 create career pathways for staff on fixed-term contracts is illustrated through promotion of
 Jennings (PDRA wetland archaeology) and Evans (PDRA Digitised Diseases/VAHT/Fragmented
 Heritage/Curious Travellers/Fossil Finder) to lecturer. Sparrow, now employed as Senior
 Scientist, arrived on a CIfA workplace learning bursary and progressed through employment on
 temporary contracts to a permanent position.

 Diversity and inclusivity are central to SAFS development. Bradford was Times University of
 the Year for Social Inclusion in 2020, and SAFS is committed to the University’s equality,
 diversity and inclusion strategy. All staff complete mandatory Diversity in the Workplace and
 Unconscious Bias e-learning modules and take ongoing equality and diversity training. Croucher
 is Director of Equality and Diversity at Faculty level and has demonstrated enhanced good
 practice through a successful School Athena Swan application. Diversity issues remain

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 prominent through a standing item on the monthly SAFS staff committee agenda. The School
 actively seeks to enhance diversity in recruitment and selection. University regulations require
 an ‘Equality Impact Assessment’ as part of the recruitment process and recruitment panel
 members receive training for this purpose. Our recruitment panels contain at least 25% female
 representation. Data indicate a balanced gender ratio between applicants and shortlisted
 candidates, and females have a higher employment success rate. We have an increasingly
 balanced gender ratio: 43% of the staff submitted to the REF2021 are female. During 2020, Batt
 became the first female Head of School, and two members of staff (Croucher and Buckberry)
 undertook the Aurora leadership development initiative for women. In addition to the on-site
 nursery (see Institutional statement), SAFS support returning parents to attend international
 conferences, including funding for academics travelling with young children (e.g. Koon, SAA;
 Croucher TAG USA). The positioning of inclusivity, gender and diversity as research topics is a
 strength at SAFS, and is exemplified by diversity themed conferences including TAG, research
 events during WOW (Women of the World) festivals (Croucher), Soapbox Science and Women
 in Science events (Beaumont), and Koon’s presentations on female scientists in stable isotope
 related fields (Konstanz, Germany).

 We provide a flexible working environment that supports all staff to achieve a successful
 and fulfilling academic career. There are no zero-hour contract staff; teaching and research staff
 in the School are on permanent contracts, and researchers on fixed-term contracts are
 employed on specific projects. Five technicians support research and are fully integrated within
 the School, supporting research across geophysics, dating, forensics, isotopes, digital capture,
 microscopy and palaeopathology. Staff safety is a priority. Compliance with all health and safety
 requirements is a standing agenda item for the staff committee, overseen by our Health and
 Safety officer.

 SAFS provides positive messages concerning flexible career trajectories for all employees, and
 supports part-time working, flexible working and career breaks, including absence related to
 illness and support for disability. Staff, including new parents, are supported through the PDR
 process and mentor system, where support needs are identified. Detail on support is available in
 the SAFS staff handbook and the University website. The University HR web-portal, has a
 searchable database of policies, processes and forms, including information on
 maternity/adoption pay, pensions, annual leave and returning to work.

 Staff are replaced during maternity, illness or long-term leave career breaks, and moves
 between full-time and part-time are supported. During periods of absence, regular contact is
 maintained between line managers/mentors and staff or postgraduate students, via the
 employee’s preferred method (telephone, email, or in person during “keeping in touch days” for
 those on maternity leave). Regular meetings ensure risk assessments and related requirements
 are considered throughout pregnancy and ill-health. Staff are made aware of cover
 arrangements and HR offer one-to-one meetings to discuss maternity and adoption leave
 options. Returning staff are supported via mentoring. In 2020, a SAFS staff survey reported a
 supportive environment in relation to career breaks (100% in the REF period) and Covid support
 (95%).

 New staff have reduced teaching and administrative duties, prepare a research development
 plan and are assigned a senior colleague as a mentor; potentially from another School. Staff
 receive training and support for developing funding applications from the RaIS team, who also
 assist grant-holders post-award. We facilitate all staff to use central training on research related
 topics, including writing grant applications and preparation of research costings. Support for
 preparing publications is also offered, including writing retreats. Specific training requested by
 our staff has included the use of social media for academics.

 Post-doctoral researchers (PDRA) are fully integrated within the School and undertake the
 induction process and online training common to all staff. Individual PDRAs are usually
 managed by the academic responsible for a research team. Individual training is organised by
 the research leader or identified as part of the PDR process. School funding for attendance at

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 major national and international conferences is available for PDRAs, as are funds to support
 research development. PDRAs are encouraged to use the university careers service.

 We have a dynamic postgraduate (PGR) community with students holding awards from
 research councils, the Heritage Consortium, North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities,
 Collaborative Doctoral Awards, ERC and national government awards. We provide funding for
 PGR studentships by open competition, and doctoral partnerships have been held with a range
 of institutions and collaborators (Historic Environment Scotland, Museum of London, National
 Trust, Sutton Hoo Society, Yorkshire Dales National Park Authority, Dales Landscape Research
 Trust, Norwich Castle Museum, Orkney Museum and the National Roads Authority of Ireland).
 The increasingly interdisciplinary nature of our research has also facilitated joint PhD
 development, e.g. linking Europe’s Lost Frontiers and School of Chemistry and Biosciences
 through geochemical study of marine cores.

 PGRs at Bradford are supported through the institutional ‘PGR framework’ requiring monthly
 audits and annual needs analysis. PGR-led conferences, workshops, seminars on shared skills,
 methods or transdisciplinary topics are also available. Our students have a support committee,
 with a principal supervisor, associate supervisor and mentor. The development of staff as PhD
 supervisors is mentored, with progression to principal supervisor status following initial
 involvement as associate supervisors. Regular contact with postgraduate students includes
 monthly meetings and annual progress monitoring. The University Graduate School provides a
 programme of research and transferable skills training (including employability skills). Like staff,
 PGR students are provided with free printing, and can apply for GBP1,000 research expenses to
 cover research costs and conference attendance. Further financial support for postgraduates is
 available through the Heritage Consortium, the North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities
 and through QR funding to postgraduates associated with GCRF International Development
 Fund projects. Within the university, PGR connect provides a peer support scheme and forum
 for postgraduates from across the university, and all faculty and PGR groups.

 We have a highly engaged research community representing a wide range of experience,
 interests and specialisms. Representation at research committee meetings supports the
 integration of ECR, PDRAs, and PhD students. PDRAs and PGR students benefit from the
 clustering of research and teaching activities within dedicated space provided through the recent
 move into the main University building. Social and academic interaction is encouraged to
 enhance cross-fertilisation of research ideas and methods. The SAFS lecture series comprises
 12 lectures per year and provides exposure to a broad range of research and an opportunity to
 network with leaders in a wide variety of fields. PGRs and PDRAs also have access to the joint
 common room to meet staff in an informal setting. Our highly connected structure integrates
 researchers at every career level.

 Postgraduates and PDRAs participate in management of academic events and organise
 seminars, workshops and conferences. These have included the Iron Age Research Student
 Symposium (2017), and Modern Conflict Research Symposium (2018). The University’s
 Statement of Principles Relating to the IPR of Student Research ensures inclusion of students
 as authors wherever their research contributes to a paper. PGR students also benefit from free
 access to CPD modules on Palaeopathology and Dental Anthropology and specialist analytical
 courses provided through the jointly administered Analytical Centre.

 The University has recognised our work through awards for excellence in research publication
 (which include funds for further research), impact development, media training and public
 engagement. Beaumont, Gaffney C. and V., and Croucher have received publication awards for
 research e.g. Calanais [output 29], dietary signatures from dentine, and archaeological impacts
 on contemporary death [output 40]. The impactful work of academics is also celebrated through
 profile features on the university website (Gaffney V., Wilson and Evans), and all our successes
 are promoted through our dedicated mobile app, staff and Faculty Board meetings, Faculty and
 University research newsletters and social media. Our researchers have also been recognised
 through the Vice Chancellor’s Prize for Excellence and Faculty Award for Excellence. Groups

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 receiving these include Curious Travellers/Visualising Heritage, Osteology and Digitised
 Diseases, the Forensic Team and the local TAG organising committee. The University assists in
 developing impact and social value from research through competitive funding for specific
 projects. SAFS staff have successfully sought central research development fund money to
 support impactful research including the Continuing Bonds toolkit for bereavement counsellors
 (Croucher), subsidiary surveys at Durrington Walls (Gaffney C. and V. [output 25]) and to fund
 travel to Jordan to initiate the successful BReaTHe application (Croucher, Evans).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 REF2021 has been a transformative period for our Unit. The restructuring of the School, the
 realignment of our research themes, facilities investment, and new and improved spaces for
 research, have significantly enhanced opportunities to engage with external academics,
 commercial and governmental partners, and facilitated impact beyond the University. In 2017
 University restructuring provided the opportunity to aggregate School activities into new or
 refurbished teaching and research spaces at the heart of the campus. These changes allowed
 staff to engage in the design of world-leading research environments including specialist
 laboratories, dedicated workspaces and social areas to engage with, and promote, research in
 new ways. At the heart of these changes is access to computing and visualising technologies
 hosted by our ‘Visualising Heritage’ facility.

 The opportunities provided by relocation have allowed us to group research teams
 synergistically, within clusters of project workrooms and archive facilities, and to accommodate
 project PDRAs, PGR students and associated technical and research staff. These include
 dedicated spaces for ENTRANS (Armit, Gaffney C. and Koon), Continuing Bonds (Croucher),
 the Biological Anthropology Research Centre (BARC, Buckberry, Curtis-Summers), Visualising
 Heritage (Gaffney C. and V., Wilson, Evans), Fragmented Heritage (Wilson and Evans), the
 North Atlantic Research Laboratory (Bond and Dockrill), Europe’s Lost Frontiers (Gaffney V.)
 and the Adriatic Islands Project (Gaffney V.).

 SAFS is a leading partner in the campus-wide Analytical Centre. The Centre provides
 access to a comprehensive suite of resources for chemistry and bioscience analysis which
 includes dedicated technical staff, service contracts and instrumentation including scanning and
 transmission electron microscopy (SEM/TEM), gas chromatography/liquid chromatography-
 mass spectrometry (GC-MS, LC-MS/MS), X-ray diffraction and vibrational spectroscopy. Staff
 are involved in the centre as instrument managers or members of the advisory panel (Koon,
 Stern and Wilson).

 This arrangement has provided us with excellent stable light isotope laboratories, as well as
 specialised laboratories for histological and molecular sample preparation and analysis. From
 this, we have achieved a leading position for bulk, multi-isotopic analysis of archaeological
 materials, including bone, teeth, hair, shell and pottery residues, through the analysis of stable
 isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and sulphur. The facility, including three,
 University-funded isotope ratio mass spectrometers, is set within a new, improved research
 space. The facility supports research collaborations managed by Beaumont, Koon, and Curtis-
 Summers, and innovative research outputs include incremental analysis of dentine and enamel
 (Beaumont, Bond [outputs 3, 5, 14]), sequential analysis of hair (Wilson [output 21]), and ‘food
 crusts’ preserved on the earliest pottery in northern Europe and East Asia. External funding from
 diverse sources provides a sustainable research income supporting key facilities including
 Raman and GC-MS analysis of mummy samples for Liverpool, Leeds, Manchester Museums
 and Harvard. Raman analysis supported artist attribution for the De Brecy Trust, analysis of
 frescoes and wall painting for Southwell Archaeology and Southwell Minster. Raman and GC-
 MS forensic analysis confirmed sources of organic remains for Police Scotland, while SEM,
 Raman and FT-IR analysis of historic mortars enabled historic building refurbishment by
 Womersleys Ltd. Our research using isotope data and services provided through the Analytical
 Centre has been published in leading journals including Nature, Science, PLoSONE, American


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Journal of Physical Anthropology, Journal of Archaeological Science, and Proceedings of the
 Prehistoric Society.

 Forensic Sciences, now fully integrated within SAFS, has also benefitted substantially from
 major investment in facilities. We have a brand-new forensic examination suite with a wide range
 of additional, realistic crime scene simulation spaces. The dedicated forensic taphonomy
 laboratory, with associated entomology facilities, supports whole animal taphonomic research for
 incorporation into staff and PGR projects. Forensic Sciences are also supported by the
 refurbished, off-campus, Crime Scene Facility and Taphonomic Field Station set on moorland
 west of Bradford.

 The Biological Anthropology Research Centre (BARC) is an established, world-leading research
 cluster at SAFS [outputs 16, 17]. BARC pathology suites, and our Forensic facilities, provides an
 exceptional research resource and is designed to encourage interdisciplinary activity across
 Schools.

 The dramatic enhancement of digital research capacity is illustrated through the level of
 investment the university has made to support analysis and visualisation of the large data sets
 that are now characteristic of almost every aspect of our research. Mobilising funding to create
 the capacity to capture, manipulate and display data has been facilitated through a GBP400,000
 investment from a competitive University business award and Research England World Class
 Laboratories grant, support from the World Technology Universities Network and GCRF-QR,
 plus synergistic spends through UKRI-funded research. We now possess two, adjacent,
 visualisation suites for stereo imaging and videoconferencing. Facilities include a 2x2m stereo
 cube with tracking for interactive data visualisation and a 2x2m ROVR system (donated by the
 Mechdyne visualisation group). Analysis of data is supported by a dedicated High Performance
 Computing cluster with 280 Cores, 1.3TB of memory and 1.5 petabytes of dedicated storage.
 These facilities are managed by us in partnership with University IT services.

 SAFS also possesses exceptional capacity for digital data capture through Visualising Heritage.
 This investment includes 5 aerial imaging drones, high-end photographic capabilities from
 Gigapan to macro work (including z-stacking), 3 FARO laser scanners, the first UK Geoslam Zeb
 Horizon mobile mapping system, 4 structured light scanners, an Insta 360 Pro 2 VR camera, RTI
 and photogrammetry for 3D recording of objects, computed radiography, and 3D microscopy
 (confocal and FVM). The research opportunities provided by such investment, and the pervasive
 requirement for visualisation within SAFS, has driven development of a new, interdisciplinary
 grouping, Visualising Heritage (Croucher, Evans, Gaffney C. and V., Wilson) with a remit to
 support research across the three designated research themes. With a dedicated Senior
 Scientist (Sparrow), the group supports software development, visualisation and agent-based
 modelling within research projects including BReaTHe, Fountains Abbey, Curious Travellers,
 and Fragmented Heritage and agent-based modelling within Europe’s Lost Frontiers.

 Within the REF2021 period, we have acquired new laboratories dedicated to lithic microwear
 analysis, soils/biological processing and environmental archaeology. Our Geophysics and
 Archaeomagnetic Dating Laboratory has been relocated within new, improved facilities and
 incorporates the only dedicated archaeomagnetic dating laboratory in the UK (Batt [outputs 8,
 13, 24]). The existing suite of archaeomagnetic instruments has been supplemented by
 refreshed equipment enabling temperature dependent magnetic susceptibility measurements to
 allow identification of magnetic minerals. Our geophysics resource has been enhanced to
 provide excellent laboratory and field capabilities. Ground Penetrating Radar capacity was
 enhanced through a long-term loan of MALA equipment and a new earth resistance machine
 was recently provided through a commercial donation. The School maintains its established
 reputation in terrestrial geophysics through large scale surveys at major sites including
 Stonehenge (Gaffney C. and V. [output 25]) but has moved beyond terrestrial geophysics and
 now operates within the marine environment. Europe’s Lost Frontiers (Gaffney V.) has
 established an internationally important, marine palaeolandscape group and the specialist
 seismic interpretation team provided by the project has added significantly to our analytical

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 capacity [outputs 24, 30]. Separately, the acquisition of a towfish sonar has facilitated Jennings’
 research in riverine, lacustrine and wetland environments. Europe’s Lost Frontiers also provides
 capacity for large-scale 3D visualisation and agent-based modelling. Supported by SAFS
 massively enhanced computing capacity, geophysical research undertakes novel data fusion
 outputs integrating surface and sub-surface data, generating impactful models of heritage assets
 with richer interpretation value e.g. Fountains Abbey (Gaffney C.).

 We have excellent research support provided by 5 technicians, a Senior Scientist and a
 specialist subject librarian, many of whom have published their own research. The University
 provides staff and PGR students with access to an excellent range of electronic and paper
 resources and significant archaeological collections. These include the Raistrick archive on the
 prehistory of the Yorkshire Dales and the Jacquetta Hawkes archive. The Wellcome Trust
 Bones, Bodies and Diseases project supported digital development of the Calvin Wells resource
 which holds the largest teaching collection of human skeletal remains in any archaeology
 department in the UK (4500+ individuals). These are now curated within new, environmentally
 controlled storage facilities, and co-located with three new osteology laboratories and a new
 radiography laboratory with traditional and digital radiography equipment. The co-location of the
 Integrated Life Sciences Resource Centre with shared digital autopsy and palaeopathology
 archive. IT support is provided centrally within the University and in conjunction with our imaging
 and visualisation specialists.

 SAFS had a research income totalling GBP6,098,000 during the REF2021 period, from
 sources including UK and European research bodies, charities, government agencies and
 commercial companies. Recent funding applications have benefited from our interdisciplinary
 structure and projects such as Continuing Bonds operate across health and social sciences and
 generate funding from traditional research councils and emerging grand challenge sources
 including GCRF (e.g. BReaTHe). The development of computer capacity and digital heritage as
 a key, facilitating research theme, within the unit and across the University, has tapped into new
 research and commercial streams to fund studies requiring big data processing and
 visualisation. These include Europe’s Lost Frontiers (2015-2021, GBP1,762,864.08), the HERA
 ENTRANS Project (2013-2016 (GBP779,534), the AHRC Fragmented Heritage project
 (GBP1,900,000), with supplementary funding for the Curious Travellers project (GBP229,332).

 Commercial activity remains an important source of sustainable income, but also provides
 research data, routes to impact and development of KT networks. Within the REF period,
 contract income has been linked to archaeomagnetic dating (Batt), collagen and isotopic
 analysis (Beaumont, Curtis-Summers, Koon), organic residues (Stern) and digital services
 (Wilson). This activity supports academic institutions (Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts,
 Zentrum für Baltische und Skandinavische Archäologie (Germany), The Danish National
 Research Foundation), museums (National Museum of Chile, Tyne & Wear Archives &
 Museums, Museum Lolland-Faster (Denmark), the Royal Ontario Museum, (Canada)),
 universities (Dublin, Warsaw, South Denmark, Otago, South Carolina, La Trobe, Oxford,
 Durham), and archaeological contractors (Wessex Archaeology, Oxford Archaeology, MOLA,
 Thames Valley Archaeological Services).

 Research partnerships with commercial groups have been supported by our new, digital
 capacity and has provided significant in-kind research support from external partners. This
 includes Petroleum Geo-Services (PGS) and Royal Haskoning who have provided no cost,
 research access to marine seismic data, with a value of hundreds of millions of dollars in
 acquisition costs, for use in Europe’s Lost Frontiers. Commercial geophysics groups, including
 MALA, provide access to remote sensing equipment for our research and train research
 students.

 Our researchers utilise a range of national and international services to undertake
 research. Within Europe’s Lost Frontiers, large survey ships for coring and remote sensing
 survey have been provided through national services for work in the North Sea. These include
 the Marine Institute in Ireland for research in the Irish Sea, the Dutch Geological Survey (TNO),

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and the Flanders Marine Institute (VLIZ). Core sediments from SAFS research projects have
 been processed in facilities in Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands and are shared with
 researchers from other institutions working on separately funded research projects, e.g. the
 University of York. These arrangements provide an exemplar of research collaboration, effective
 use of finite research materials and cost-effective analysis in facilities across multiple countries.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We undertake research with economic and social impact through engagement with wider
 research communities, policy makers and society as a whole. To achieve this, we foster
 research relationships beyond HE, with commercial groups, non-governmental and non-profit-
 making organizations including charities, voluntary and community groups and third sector
 groups.

 The staff have excellent support for collaborative research and networking through
 training, available to both staff, PDRAs and postgraduate students, and competitive research
 development funding, study visits and strategic network grants. Examples of activity include
 funding for attendance at closed events including the National Science Foundation/Smithsonian
 meeting on American Palaeolandscapes (Gaffney V.), group staff attendance for networking at
 major conferences including the annual SAA Conference and TAG, US TAG, CIfA, American
 Association for Physical Anthropology, Palaeopathology Association, and collaborative study at
 Durrington Walls with Warwick, St Andrews and University of Wales, St Davids (Gaffney C. and
 V.).

 Our collaborative research includes many UK HEIs, independent research institutions
 and research consortia. UK universities undertaking collaborative research with SAFS include
 St Andrews, Bath, Birmingham, Durham, Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow, UCL, UCLan, Warwick,
 Oxford, Royal Holloway and York. Major independent research institutions working with us
 include the National Museum of Scotland, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum.
 UK collaborative research is also supported through The Heritage Consortium, an AHRC Centre
 for Doctoral Training (2014-2019) and the North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities.
 Together these groupings create deeper linkages between researchers across seven HEIs in the
 north of England. These consortia incorporate eight regional, national and international heritage
 organisations and networks, as well as with a wider cluster of 70 partner organisations. The
 Heritage Consortium is supported by GBP1,850,000 of postgraduate funding from the AHRC
 and GBP1,110,000 provided by the partners, and has funded five jointly supervised SAFS PhD
 students. Support for research in key areas in Scotland, including Jarlshof, Moussa and Old
 Scatness, is provided through the Scottish Cultural Heritage Consortium and enhanced PGR
 opportunities are provided through industrial placements, e.g. through digital collaborations with
 Historic Environment Scotland’s Conservation Directorate at the Engine Shed, Stirling.

 International and transnational research is supported through large collaborative projects.
 Europe’s Lost Frontiers incorporates Cork; Copenhagen; Ningbo (China), Ghent, The Dutch
 Geological Survey, the Flanders Marine Institute, and the Sligo Institute of Technology through
 study of marine palaeolandscapes. The Estonian Research Council funded an embedded
 researcher to support knowledge transfer from this important research group to the Baltic area.
 The Stonehenge Hidden Landscapes Project is undertaken with the international Ludwig
 Boltzmann Institute and ArchPro. Collaborative remote sensing projects at Megara Hyblaea and
 Olynthos involved CNRS, Université de Provence, University of Michigan, SUNY at Buffalo
 (Illinois) and the Greek Archaeological Service (Gaffney C.). Fragmented Heritage and
 FossilFinder projects collaborate with the Universities of Tulsa, UC Berkeley, Tarragona (Spain),
 Dar es Salaam and the Turkana Basin Institute (Tanzania). BReaTHe and Augmenting
 Jordanian Heritage work with the Jordan Museum and Department of Antiquities (Wilson, Evans,
 Croucher), and Koon with the Cyprus Institute and University of Turin. Prestigious research
 collaborations include a biomolecular study of medieval metabolic syndrome undertaken
 alongside McMasters (Buckberry). The IRC-AHRC Network Communicating Hidden Heritages
 works with NUI Galway, UC Cork and Aberdeen (Wilson, Gaffney C.). AHRC-funded research

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with the Universities of Schleswig and Kiel included a Humboldt Foundation Fellowship for work
 in Germany (Heron). Beaumont collaborates with University of South Carolina through the
 NSF/AHRC Diet, Migration and Health project and the Wenner Gren Spitalfields project. The
 Adriatic Islands Project is undertaken with the Universities of Split and Lakehead in Canada
 (Gaffney V.). The ENTRANS collaboration continued during the period in association with the
 Universities of Zagreb and Ljubljana. Dockrill and Bond’s Gateway to the Atlantic: UNESCO
 BRIDGES projects, have partners in Iceland, Greenland, USA and Sweden. Viverone and Wet
 Futures includes the Universities of Cork, Wageningen, Turin, Padova, Cambridge, Goethe
 Frankfurt am Main, Terramare and Archaeologische Dienstleistungen (Jennings), whilst the
 chronological models and archaeomagnetic dating project includes the University of Reykjavik
 and the German Research Centre for Geosciences (Batt). A British Academy International
 Fellowship awarded through Bradford to Dr Chiara Villa resulted in an ongoing collaboration with
 the University of Copenhagen.

 Our staff provide leadership within the discipline through significant committee roles or
 offices in learned societies including President of the Prehistoric Society and Council Member of
 the Royal Archaeological Institute (Gibson), Trustee of the Society of Antiquaries, Corresponding
 member Archaeology Data Service, A303 Scientific Advisory Panel (Gaffney V.), Chair of the
 International Society for Archaeological Prospection (Gaffney C.), Chair and Trustee, Swandro-
 Orkney Coastal Archaeology Trust (Dockrill and Bond), Chair of the British Association of Near
 East Archaeology steering committee (Croucher), Theoretical Archaeology Group Trustee
 (Croucher), President of the British Association for Biological Anthropology and
 Osteoarchaeology (Buckberry). SAFS staff are founder members of UK Research Infrastructure
 for Heritage Science and signatories to the memorandum on European Research Infrastructure
 for Heritage Science (Wilson, Gaffney C.). The exemplary position of UK Higher Education is
 demonstrated by Gaffney V.’s appointment as expert assessor of research performance in HE
 and national research institutes for the Croatian Agency for Science and Higher Education

 Our staff undertake grant assessment for national and international agencies including
 NERC, BBSRC, AHRC, ERC, Welcome Trust, NRF (South Africa), NSF (USA), Historic
 Environment Scotland, the Polish Academy of Science, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft,
 Canada Foundation for Innovation, Israeli Research Council, European Research Council,
 Belgium Research Council. Jennings’s exemplary contribution to academic reviewing was
 recognised by the AHRC Peer Review College.

 Staff undertake editorial duties for journals including the Journal of Archaeological
 Prospection (Gaffney C.), Archaeometry (Batt), Journal of Wetland Archaeology (Jennings),
 Journal of World Prehistory (Wilson), Science & Justice (Janaway). Staff regularly review
 manuscripts for a wide range of international journals including PNAS, PLOSone, Archaeological
 Prospection, Nature Scientific Reports, American Journal of Physical Anthropology, Antiquity,
 Archaeometry.

 SAFS provides expert guidance with impact beyond Higher Education e.g. degradation of
 archaeological materials in Churchyards for Historic England (Koon), revision of BABAO
 standards on human remains and subject specialist guidance on human remains (Buckberry),
 national heritage capacity building for Jordanian Museums and Department of Antiquities, the
 UNHCR (Croucher, Evans, Wilson), the Historic England Standard Operating Procedure for
 Organic Residue Analysis and Archaeology: Guidance for Good Practice (Stern), Research
 Agenda for Scotland’s Island Research Frameworks for Archaeology (Dockrill), revision of
 standards for archaeomagnetic dating (Batt), and the first Pan European Guidance on Ground
 Based Remote Sensing. Work by Gaffney C. for the Irish National Roads Authority was
 accepted in full into the new Transport Infrastructure Ireland standards for remote sensing in
 Irish road schemes after its formation in 2015. Janaway drafted the forensic archaeology
 component standard for the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences and advises on best
 practice in archaeological forensics through the UK Forensic Archaeology Expert Panel (CIfA),
 the European Network of Forensic Science Institutes (ENFSI) and individual police forces. Staff
 provide CPD courses for the profession, e.g. the Archaeomagnetic Dating laboratory course
                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 trains field archaeologists to take archaeomagnetic dating samples, enhancing their skills and
 ensuring valuable dating materials are retained. This has been attended by MOLA, Wardell-
 Armstrong, Headland Archaeology, Wessex Archaeology and seven other companies. Wilson
 provides digital CPD though Historic Environment Scotland and the Shetland Amenity Trust.
 CPD delivery on using archaeology for grief counselling has also been provided to the British
 Psychological Society, Division of Counselling (Croucher).

 We hosted and organised national and international symposia and workshops during the
 REF2021 period. High-profile examples include the Royal Society-funded Theo Murphy
 International Scientific meeting on Marine Palaeolandscapes; the 12th International Conference
 on Archaeological Prospection; Wetland Archaeology 30th Anniversary conference; North Sea
 Lowlands to the Celtic Shelf Edge (Utrecht); the Croatian Archaeological Society Annual
 Conference (Hvar); Old Scatness Broch 20th Anniversary Conference; the Wellcome Trust
 Bones, Bodies and Disease meeting; the Anatomical Society Conference (Skin & Bones);
 Theoretical Archaeology Group, CAA-UK; and the SAFS, British Council/Newton Picarte Fund
 workshop, with Chile’s Servicio Medical Legal, on restorative forensics in the context of human
 rights violations under Pinochet.

 We generated economic and social value through collaboration with diverse communities,
 government agencies, commercial organisations, and the voluntary sector as KT partners. For
 example, NGO Mercy Corp uses digital heritage research by us to engage with displaced
 communities in Jordan and to promote refugee causes through UK government stands at the
 Royal Highland Show and at the Peace Festival, London (Wilson, Evans and Croucher).
 Research by Continuing Bonds supports UK health services and trains health workers to
 consider death in different and more positive ways through linked studies of archaeology and
 end of life care (Child Bereavement UK, CRUSE Bereavement, the NHS and Bradford
 Bereavement Support). Outreach events include virtual and live,” death cafes”, exhibitions at the
 Bradford Science Festival and in Bradford and Leicester Cathedrals, events for Managed
 Clinical Networks services and Association of Palliative Day Services, and a ‘Festival of the
 Dead’ with school children as part of the Dying to Talk project. We also engaged with the
 economy through commercial groups; we supported technical development or product testing
 (Geoscan Research, Mala), regional regeneration (Bradford City Council), major infrastructure
 development (HS2) heritage management (Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, the
 National Trust) and marine exploration (PGS and engineering groups including Royal
 Haskoning)

 Engagement with wider communities is key to our research and is demonstrated in both
 impact studies, specifically the high level of media interest in our research. Significant outreach
 also includes the Stonehenge Hidden Landscapes participation in the Royal Society Summer
 Science Exhibition, and the National Science Museum ‘Lates’ (Gaffney C. and V.). Fragmented
 Heritage and Europe’s Lost Frontiers participated in the Edinburgh Science Festival and British
 Academy Festival of Science respectively. SAFS staff promote research through Science Cafes
 within Bradford (Jennings, Croucher, Evans and Gaffney V.). Fragmented Heritage, Curious
 Travellers and Fossil Finders engage global communities through Citizen Science web portals.
 Wilson and Croucher organised and chaired a Bradford South Asian Heritage and Black History
 Month online event.

 Art collaborations emphasise the maturity of our interdisciplinary work and include participation
 by Europe’s Lost Frontiers in the Waveney and Blyth Arts/Touching the Tide partnership
 “Discover Doggerland” Arts festival, and the “New Doggerland” exhibition (Thames-Side Studio).
 Follow on funding for Fragmented Heritage supported performance art at Coldstones Quarry
 (Hanson Aggregates), and textile artist Karina Thompson’s Arts Council reflective on Digitised
 Diseases “From Cemetery to Clinic”. A creative writing anthology inspired by archaeology and
 contemporary grief was produced as a project outcome of the Continuing Bonds Creative
 Dissemination project (Croucher). Gaffney C.’s (HEIF-funded) research into historic football
 grounds featured in ‘Breaking Ground: Art, Archaeology and Mythology’, and was shortlisted for


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the prestigious William Hill Sports Book of the Year and showcased at the National Football
 Museum.

 Our research is recognised through awards and prizes which demonstrate that the extent
 and quality of research by SAFS is recognised widely. Jennings and Menotti’s publications on
 lake dwellings received the Ben Cullen Prize from Antiquity [output 27]. Gaffney (C. and V.)’s
 work at Durrington Walls was the British Archaeology 2017 research project of the year [output
 25]. Gaffney V. received an MBE for contributions to landscape archaeology. Jennings is a
 British Academy Rising Star for engagement activity; Wilson’s research on the Skrydstrup
 Woman won the ‘World’s Archaeological Research Award’ in Shanghai [output 21]. Dockrill and
 Bond’s work at Swandro attracted royal patronage for the Swandro-Orkney Coastal Archaeology
 Trust.

 The quality of research by SAFS students also attracts accolades. Fitzpatrick received the
 Lloyd Binns Prize awarded by the Glasgow Naturalist. Tellier’s PhD on prehistoric funerary
 practises in Wales was nominated for the 2020 CBA Book of the Year and AHRC Heritage
 Consortium students Rebecca Cessford and Laura Castells Navarro won the Cockburn prize for
 the best student presentation at the international Paleopathology Meeting. Castells Navarro also
 gained one of only ten places on the BSA Media Fellowship Scheme and a Cumberland Lodge
 Fellowship. Li Sou and the Historic Environment Scotland Collaborative Doctoral Partnership
 team were ‘Highly commended’ in the National Association of Learning Technologists
 Research Awards (Shetland Brochs).




                                                                                          Page 14
