Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: UoA3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 Allied Health Professions research from the Schools of Health and Social Care, Life Sciences
 and Pharmacy, has seen a 68 percent FTE growth to 32.8 FTE reflecting the institution’s
 strategic plan commitment articulated in, Thinking Ahead 2016-2021, “to create purposeful
 research on the key challenges facing the world, working collaboratively with partners to meet
 the needs of the 21st Century.” Interdisciplinary research is coordinated through the Lincoln
 International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) and its predecessor the Lincoln Institute for
 Health, under the University research theme of Health and Wellbeing
 (https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/researchatlincoln/healthandwellbeing/).

 LIIRH and UoA3 activity focusses on four main areas: (i) chronic disease; (ii) early detection,
 treatment, and prevention (iii) health informatics, big data and disease modelling; and (iv)
 improving service quality. These link with the other University research themes of Rurality,
 Communities and Digitalisation to impact global research goals
 (https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/researchatlincoln/). LIIRH, led by Tanser and Gussy is the
 umbrella Institute for centres and groups conducting health-related research, of which five are
 submitting to UoA3: Cancer and Ageing (C&A); Diabetes Metabolism and Inflammation (DMI);
 Microbiology and Biotechnology (M&B); Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery (4D); and the
 Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU).

 Lincoln International Institute for Rural Healthcare (LIIRH: https://liirh.lincoln.ac.uk/)
 Achievements include development of (a) systematic review training and outputs (Curtis,
 Gussy); (b) infectious disease epidemiology and modelling for treatment and prevention
 (Tanser); (c) behavioural change interventions (Tanser, Gussy, Curtis) and (d) coproduction
 for implementation (Gussy). Research groups and centres are described in more detail below:

 Cancer and Ageing (C&A):
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/lifesciences/research/cancerandageingresearchgroup/):
 Achievements include advances in (a) cancer biology including cancer prevention and treatment,
 cancer stem cell biomarkers and drug interactions, and development of new treatment strategies
 targeting heat shock proteins and DNA damage response (Bachrati, Hussain, Millson, Palmai-
 Pallag, Rinaldi, Odell and Ray); (b) genetics of atherosclerosis and stroke (Bevan) and genetics
 and molecular mechanisms of motor neurone diseases (Bennett); (c) nanomedicine: Ferrari
 and Bachrati are characterising uptake of gold nanoparticles collaborating with Midatech
 Pharma (http://www.midatechpharma.com).

 Diabetes, Metabolism and Inflammation (DMI):
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/lifesciences/research/diabetesmetabolisminflammation/)
 Achievements includes advances in understanding (a) adiponectin and molecular causes of
 obesity (Whitehead), (b) inflammatory responses in type 1 diabetes informing preventative
 therapies and development of predictive and diagnostic markers (Christie), (c) pathophysiology
 of diabetic renal disease (Squires, Hills), (d) genetic predictors of pancreas transplant function
 (Simmonds), molecular basis for development of type 2 diabetes (Herbert) and (f) molecular
 mechanisms of inflammation (Holden).


 Microbiology and Biotechnology (M&B):
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/lifesciences/research/microbiologyandbiotechnology/)
 Achievements include advances in characterisation, evaluation and testing of microorganisms
 and enzymes providing novel insights into molecular basis and treatment of disease including (a)
 novel antimicrobials evaluating resistance and biocontrol strategies (Dixon, Bates, Odell and
 Taylor); (b) structural biology: Odell investigates expression and modification of proteins

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involved in neurodegenerative disorders, e.g. Parkinson disease, and Taylor investigates
 bacterial cell wall peptidoglycan modifiers; (c) molecular self-assembly: Ferrari produces
 molecular nanodevices with applications in drug delivery; (d) molecular surveillance,
 epidemiology and trials: Bates conducts research into epidemiology of infections (HIV,
 tuberculosis, malaria) in Africa.

 Drug Discovery, Design and Delivery (4D):
 https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/lsp/research/lspdiscovery/ )
 Achievements include a) discovery and identification of novel drug targets (Herbert, Ngomba);
 b) discovery and development of new and improved drugs (Singh, Lancaster), and c) drug
 formulation and novel drug delivery modes (Ferrari, Christie, Hunter, Wright).

 Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU): https://www.cahru.org.uk/)
 Achievements include translational improvement research which helps understand gaps in
 treatment, develops health technologies to address these, and evaluates interventions including
 (a) effects of flu vaccine in preventing stroke (Asghar, Siriwardena) (b) healthcare of people on
 probation (Sirdifield); (c) diabetes in pregnancy (Law) (d) sleep medicine (Law, Siriwardena),
 and (e) new technologies, pathways and quality indicators for ambulance services (Armstrong,
 Siriwardena).

 1.2 Achievement of previous strategic aims for research
 Since 2014, we have consolidated previous strengths in co-production, interdisciplinary and
 translational research, building on these to achieve and surpass the three aims for research
 and fourth on impact set out in REF2014 despite huge impacts of the pandemic. These are listed
 below.

   i.   Aim 1: ‘Responding to priorities’ in health and care
 Throughout 2014-2021, priorities were identified through a series of research development
 seminars coordinated through the Institute, bringing together constituent research groups, health
 service partners and patients. This led to a greater focus on thematic issues such as national
 and global problems of prevention, obesity, diabetes, sleep, antimicrobial resistance, rurality and
 more recently the COVID-19 pandemic, while considering key challenges for local and regional
 services such as primary and emergency care, particularly in rural areas.

 The LIIRH, developed as a strategic response to the health problem of rurality, works with local
 people, NHS, and industry ‘as a living laboratory’ to ‘find solutions to local problems that can be
 translated across the world’. It is based in the new Lincoln Medical School, which was awarded
 based on its focus on widening access to medical training in the under-doctored rural and
 coastal area of Lincolnshire. The Institute has facilitated the research pipeline from ‘cell to
 community’, where basic science leads to its application in the NHS and wider health sector.

 For example, our research teams have worked with industry to develop new antibiotics to
 overcome problems of antimicrobial resistance (Singh, Taylor), interacted with diabetes patient
 groups and charities to explore causation, prediction and prevention of diabetes and its
 complications (Squires, Hills, Whitehead, Christie, Law), collaborated with the public and
 ambulance services to develop new ambulance measures (Siriwardena) and worked with
 patient groups and general practices to refine and implement psychological treatments for
 insomnia (Siriwardena). In response to the growing burden of diabetes globally and in
 Lincolnshire, there has been a strategic investment in a critical mass of expertise to research
 diabetes from its genesis to treatment (Whitehead, Christie, Squires, Hills, Simmonds,
 Herbert, Law). Curtis and colleagues in LIIRH have delivered regular systematic review
 training to support interdisciplinary teams and postgraduate research students and inform
 external funding grants, (e.g. an NIHR award to investigate the role of rural Community First
 Responders: https://www.fundingawards.nihr.ac.uk/award/NIHR127920) or postgraduate theses
 (e.g. a study of Interventions to reduce sickness absence among healthcare workers: a
 systematic review https://doi.org/10.1108/IJES-05-2018-0028). Health care professionals have
 been seconded from local health service trusts (e.g. Lincolnshire Partnership Foundation Trust)

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to complete systematic reviews that inform future research projects, for example on insomnia in
 autism (https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0221428).

   ii.    Aim 2: Investment in infrastructure for research from cell to community
 Following investment in facilities for health and health-related research of £20m between
 2008-13 in the Lincoln Science and Innovation Park (LSIP), there was a further investment since
 2014 of £14M in LSIP, £19M in a new health and social sciences building and £21M in the new
 Lincoln Medical School, also enabling strategic expansion in staff numbers in areas of strength
 (e.g. diabetes research) or future need (rural health studies) (see next paragraph and section 2.1
 for further detail).

   iii.  Aim 3: Investment in people in areas of strategic growth
 Investment in facilities has been accompanied by strategic investments in staff at all levels
 including professorial, mid and early career staff in areas of strategic importance amounting
 to an additional staff budget of £1.8 million per year since 2014 (see section 2.1). Major
 investment in the LIIRH links with the new National Centre for Rural Health and Care, a multi-
 university social enterprise based in Lincoln and developed in partnership with the Universities of
 Lincoln, Birmingham, Keele and Chester (https://www.ncrhc.org/about).

 1.3 Achievement of previous strategic aims for impact
 Our overarching aim was to co-create health research to maximise impact, specifying that we
 would achieve this through the following:
    i.    To involve individual, organisational and corporate stakeholders (e.g. public,
          practitioners, commissioners, policymakers and industry) in each stage of the research
          process
 Impact case studies submitted in this UoA provide examples of working with patients on
 improving primary care for insomnia, and with patients, ambulance services and commissioners
 to develop new ambulance outcome measures. Other examples of involvement include working
 with: patient groups including the Healthier Ageing and Together Patient Participation &
 Involvement (PPI) groups at the University of Lincoln, and South Lincolnshire Diabetes Forum
 on diabetes studies (Squires, Siriwardena, Law, Smith) and a Parkinson’s disease and
 Neurological conditions patient group (Ngomba); health service partners (Siriwardena working
 with general practice on drug safety and Asghar, Law and Siriwardena with ambulance
 services on care homes, diabetes emergencies and seizures); commissioners (Sirdifield with
 commissioners for probation); third sector organisations (Squires with Diabetes UK and Smith
 with Community First Responder Schemes and Jones, Siriwardena, Law, and Smith with the
 British Lung Foundation). LIIRH is a partner in East Midlands Sharebank Network for Patient and
 Public Involvement, which develops individual and organisational skills in patient and public
 involvement (PPI) by gathering and sharing PPI knowledge and experience among members.
 Simmonds sits on the Society for Endocrinology Public Engagement Committee
 (https://www.endocrinology.org/about-us/governance/public-engagement-committee/) and
 supported their public outreach and public knowledge of endocrinology and diabetes, including
 redesigning and relaunching the ‘You and Your hormone’ website
 (http://www.yourhormones.info), which has become the most frequented site on Google for
 endocrine related diseases in the world.

 To meet the research priority focussing on chronic conditions, we worked closely with the public
 through local disease support groups, for example the Lincoln & District Diabetes Group,
 Uppingham Diabetes Self-Help group and patient forums already established at Pilgrim Hospital
 Boston to discuss development of new and support for ongoing diabetes-related projects. This
 has included lay presentations to end-user groups, e.g. Diabetes UK Midlands Volunteering
 Conferences (Squires) and Engagement & Fundraising Away Days (Hills).

 Cooperation with industry is also part of this key strategic goal and includes work with Zealand
 Pharma (Denmark) where agreements are in place to test the ability of new agents, e.g.
 Danegaptide (Squires, Hills) and with Ocunexus Therapeutics (US), formally CoDa
 Therapeutics, supported by Diabetes UK and EFSD/Boehringer Ingelheim European Research

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Programme grants to address problems of eye and kidney disease and develop therapeutics for
 unmet clinical need in ophthalmology and diabetes. In addition, there are strong collaborations
 between the School of Pharmacy and the pharmaceutical industry which includes ongoing
 support from the Lincolnshire Co-operative into the Pharmacy Masters Programme and joint
 research projects in formulation/crystal engineering (Blagden) with GSK, Astra Zeneca, Pfizer,
 Kirstal and Neutrapharm. Another example of the pipeline from ‘cell to community’ includes
 Christie’s (DMI) patent for Tetraspanin-7 (International publication number: WO
 2016/193714A1) which is being used as a method for diagnosis of type 1 diabetes (T1DM),
 predisposition towards T1DM, and to monitor efficacy of a therapy to prevent T1DM.

 We have also used blogs, infographics and animations developed with the public to
 communicate our findings to wider lay and professional audiences. Examples include increases
 in our understanding of the genesis of diabetes and its complications, advances in therapies for
 diabetes, development of new antibiotics to overcome antimicrobial resistance, advances in care
 for insomnia (https://www.health.org.uk/improvement-projects/resources-for-effective-sleep-
 treatment-rest) and new ambulance measures (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2saLhBv9-
 U&feature=youtu.be).

   ii.   To conduct national and international multidisciplinary research to develop innovative
         health and social care technologies, treatments and systems
 International multidisciplinary studies, include molecular surveillance for emerging pathogens in
 Zambia, Central and South Africa (Bates) and Telemonitoring in COPD (CHROMED) trial (EU-
 FP7, Siriwardena) in six European countries evaluating a new technology for measuring
 breathing in COPD (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29557669).

 Other strong international collaborations are developing in Africa (Tanser) and Australia
 (Gussy). Bates’ PANDORA project in Africa involves training and capacity development and the
 CANTAM project, involves the EDCTP network of excellence for central Africa, which is
 developing clinical trial capacity for HIV, tuberculosis, malaria and neglected tropical diseases
 through the EMPIRICAL study (www.empiricaledctp.eu) funded by European and Developing
 Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP: €7.6m)
 Tanser leads a Wellcome Trust and Howard Hughes Medical Institute funded group in the Africa
 Health Research Institute (https://www.ahri.org/scientist/frank-tanser/) aiming to seek cures for
 HIV, TB and related diseases. Gussy works with LaTrobe University, Melbourne, researching
 oral disease as a marker of wider health (https://scholars.latrobe.edu.au/display/mgussy) .

 In response to the global challenge of antimicrobial resistance, Taylor and Singh collaborate
 with a global network including, the Singapore Eye Research Institute and Lee Kong Chian
 School of Medicine (Singapore) University of Utrecht (Netherlands) and University of Ghent
 (Belgium) to develop novel antibiotic classes, active against drug resistant micro-organisms,
 teixobactins and moenomycins, which has led to five patents and is progressing towards clinical
 trials (see: http://www.itv.com/news/calendar/2018-03-26/breakthrough-on-road-to-superbug-
 killing-antibiotic/). Dixon works with Arden Biotech (https://www.ardenbiotechnology.com),
 looking at new ways of detecting antimicrobial resistance.

  iii.    To examine the performance and functioning of health and social care practice,
          organisation and delivery, with an emphasis on promoting quality, efficiency and equity
 Siriwardena, Asghar and Armstrong with colleagues in CaHRU have conducted research with
 ambulance services supported by funding from the DH, NIHR, Health Foundation, Wellcome
 Trust and other charities (£3.5 million) over the past ten years, leading to development of new
 clinical indicators and training of ambulance staff to provide innovative and improved care. The
 Ambulance Services Cardiovascular Quality Initiative (ASCQI) led to improvement in quality
 measures for heart attack (from 43% to 79%) and stroke (from 83% to 95%) within 2 years
 (www.ascqi.org.uk). This was cited in a recent national publication, '100+ ways universities have
 improved everyday life' (https://www.universitiesuk.ac.uk/facts-and-stats/impact-higher-
 education/Documents/made-at-uni-breakthroughs.pdf).


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In response to the problem of insomnia, Siriwardena, Sirdifield and CaHRU staff have
 developed new ways of addressing care of insomnia through psychological therapies delivered
 online and face-to-face in primary care. Both examples are described further in our impact case
 studies.

  iv.     To ensure outcomes are appropriately and widely disseminated using the concept of
          ‘dissemination by design’ and using a variety of media
 The use of ‘dissemination by design’ involves research where dissemination and impact are part
 of the research process. For example, research conducted by Sirdifield on health needs of
 people on probation funded by the NIHR led directly to development of a ‘Probation Healthcare
 Commissioning Toolkit - a resource for commissioners and practitioners’
 (https://probhct.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/). Siriwardena led collaborative research which promoted
 development of ambulance clinical indicators which were adopted by ambulance services and
 used to benchmark and improve care (https://emj.bmj.com/content/27/4/327) from 2010
 onwards. The findings fed into the UK Ambulance Research Programme and informed new
 Ambulance Quality Indicators introduced in 2017 and since then adopted by all English
 ambulance services. Key findings from the Prehospital Outcomes for Evidence Based
 Evaluation NIHR programme for applied research, led by CaHRU, were developed into an
 animation by and for patients and the public which had over 2000 views within 6 months of its
 launch in November 2017 (https://youtu.be/g2saLhBv9-U). CaHRU have also used infographics
 to illustrate the impact of their research (https://www.cahru.org.uk/research-impact/).
   v.     To develop a sustainable research infrastructure and environment.
 Investment in people and infrastructure (see sections 2.1 and 3.2 below) have led to a
 sustainable research environment which continues to attract new staff, students and funding for
 research and infrastructure.

 1.4 Details of future strategic aims and goals for research, how these relate to the structure of
 the unit, and how they will be taken forward
 Future strategic research aims develop and expand on the previous successful strategy:

     i.   Responding to local priorities and global challenges
 This aim is in line with the University strategy of “local to global”, prioritising research that is
 both relevant to our locality and has global significance in relation to the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals, driving economic development and enhancing social and cultural life both
 within and beyond our immediate community. As well as continuing work on current priorities of
 rural healthcare, detecting and preventing infections and tackling the growing problem of
 antimicrobial resistance, prevention and treatment of long-term conditions such as obesity and
 diabetes, and translational research, there will be further investment in newer areas such as
 pandemics including COVID-19, mental health (e.g. sleep research through the newly developed
 Lincoln Sleep Research Centre, LiSReC), older people and emergency medicine, artificial
 intelligence, machine learning, robotics, and clinical trials through investment in infrastructure
 and faculty described below.
    ii.   Strategic infrastructure development
 The new Lincoln Medical School incorporates the Lincoln Clinical Trials Unit (LinCTU) which has
 expanded opportunities for collaboration and improved the infrastructure for undertaking major
 trials of health interventions. There will also be continued consolidation of developing
 interdisciplinary research areas into new research centres, for example the Lincoln Sleep
 Research Centre, co-led by scientists from the Schools of Health and Social Care (Law) and
 Psychology.

   iii.  Targeted investment in new and existing staff
 There will be continuing strategic investment in joint posts with local healthcare trust. We will
 also nurture and support existing staff including mentorship, pump-priming grants and
 opportunities to develop international collaborations through the Lincoln Institute for Advanced
 Studies (https://lias.lincoln.ac.uk) fellowship programme. The University has been recognised as
 an eligible HEI by the Academy of Medical Sciences for their Springboard Scheme, involving a


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Champion (Squires) working with the Research and Industrial Partnership Team to mentor and
 support ECRs within four years of their first permanent post to help establish independence.

   iv.    Increased support for interdisciplinary research
 We will strengthen and expand existing structures which support interdisciplinary research in key
 research areas, for example interdisciplinary seed funding (e.g. research pump-priming
 schemes) and interdisciplinary doctoral studentships (the university are advertising for a joint
 PhD between Life Sciences [Holden] and Computer Science to develop AI enabled biomarker
 identification from exhaled breath condensates for early detection of secondary infection in
 patients with COPD) which will increase opportunities for internal collaboration, innovative
 research, and impact.

   v.     Development of new international funding streams
 We will build on our success in UKRI, NIHR and major charity funding by expanding funding
 sources to include within 5 years at least 25% international grants (currently less than 10%), for
 example through the Global Challenges Research Fund, MRC-collaborative grants with Australia
 and Canada and US National Institutes of Health. We will provide time and financial support to
 develop strategic networks, encouraging collaboration with international partners through a
 visiting fellowship scheme funded through the Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies
 (https://lias.lincoln.ac.uk). Previous visiting fellowships have included Prof Colin Espie (Oxford
 University) to expand our sleep research and Prof Gina Agarwal (McMaster) with CaHRU and
 LIIRH through the EDGE consortium
 (https://www.cahru.org.uk/research/partnerships/partnerships-edge/) to grow our prehospital
 research. We will build on links with international partners, for example through existing links
 with La Trobe University, Australia and new links with the University of Witwatersrand, South
 Africa.

   vi.   Expansion in postgraduate research students
 We will seek to attract increased numbers of PGR students and to at least double PhD
 completions over the next 5 years, increasing this through maintaining the University fund for
 staff development, NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Internship award, successful funded
 PhDs through NIHR Applied Research Collaborations, other NIHR clinical doctoral research
 fellowships and other doctoral programmes.

 1.5 Details of future strategic aims and goals for impact, how these relate to the structure of the
 unit, and how they will be taken forward

 Our approach to impact will build on and extend our previous successful strategy:

    i.   Co-creation to maximise impact
 We will continue to strengthen our successful collaborations with PPI groups, local and regional
 health service partners, commissioners and industry (see section 1.2), to co-create research
 relevant to local and regional communities and capable of being translated elsewhere in the UK
 and internationally, thereby providing stronger routes to impact.

    ii.  Supporting Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE)
 In this UoA PPIE means developing, conducting and sharing research with patients, families and
 carers to ensure our research is relevant to end-users of services, thereby enhancing the
 likelihood of achieving impact. We will continue to invest in groups such as the Healthier Ageing
 Patient and Public Involvement Group, which has provided advice to support new active
 programmes of research and projects (see: http://cahru.org.uk/about/).

   iii. Translational and implementation research for impact
 We will continue to invest in regional partnerships which have the explicit aim of impactful
 research. For example, the University of Lincoln are partners in the successful NIHR Applied
 Research Collaboration East Midlands (http://arc-em.nihr.ac.uk/). As part of the £9 million
 investment from NIHR in implementation and translational research over the next 5 years,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CaHRU (Siriwardena, Law, Asghar, Smith) lead a workstream using ambulance data to
 support a programme Building Community Resilience and Enabling Independence.

   iv.   Structural support for impact
 Structures enabling impact include the University Director of Research Impact Development,
 dedicated impact leads for schools and investment for impact generation. Processes include
 training for impact, sharing of impact knowledge through seminars and meetings, impact being
 integral to annual Individual Research Plans and staff appraisals, impact support for bids as part
 of the internal peer review mechanism for bids, and an institutional investment in public
 engagement through the EPSRC funded Public Engagement for All in Research (PEARL:
 https://pearl.lincoln.ac.uk/) in Lincoln.

 1. 6 Approach to interdisciplinary research
 The LIIRH is an important vehicle for promoting and supporting interdisciplinary research in this
 UoA. New interdisciplinary collaborations have been fostered through seminars, sandpits, joint
 meetings involving research groups and external health service partners, University-funded
 interdisciplinary studentships and joint University-NHS funded systematic reviews, all
 coordinated through the Institute and used to seed and support novel research (see 3.2).

 1.7 Progress towards open research
 The University is committed to open data as a partner in the JISC-funded open research project
 and a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA, see
 institutional environment statement). The University policy for Research Data Management
 developed in May 2018, supports academics to publish data as openly as possible in line with
 the institutional Code of Practice for Research and reflecting University Open Access and
 Research Ethics Policies. The policy supports UKRI common principles on data policy and best
 practice for storage and sharing of data. adhering to the RCUK Data Sharing Policy and
 including a 3-year review cycle to account for evolving practices, legislation, and ensuring
 suitability of curation and applicability of management resources. The University Research Data
 Management Working Group led by Law, and supported by a dedicated member of the
 Research and Enterprise team at the University supports academics in this UoA to follow
 institutional policy on open research, advocating open access publication of research data for
 other researchers to use within research ethics and governance approvals. The University
 provides an open access platform (ePrints) to store, backup, register, deposit and retain
 datasets in support of current and future open access, during and after completion of projects,
 e.g. http://eprints.lincoln.ac.uk/26948/.

 1.8 Support for research integrity
 Research integrity is governed by the University’s Code of Practice for Research (see
 institutional environment statement), Concordat to Support Research Integrity and University
 Research Ethics Committee new ethical approval procedure and online system implemented in
 2018. The Human Tissue Act Oversight Group oversees storage and access to human material.
 All staff or student research requires University or external NHS ethics committee approval. Staff
 and students receive advice, support and training in research ethics. Ethics and research
 integrity are standing items on School Research Committees, which oversee research. Ethical
 aspects of student research are examined during annual monitoring reviews. Staff have access
 to training in research misconduct, governed by the University’s application of the UKRIO
 Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct of Research. The University publishes an annual
 Misconduct Statement.


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 A significant and sustained investment in new staff, in line with our stated research and impact
 plans, includes 68 percent staff increase from 19.4 to 32.8 FTE academics since 2014 with an
 additional annual staff budget of over £2 million per year, reflecting expansion and
 intensification of research in areas of strategic importance and current strength. This includes 7

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new professorial appointments in medical statistics and clinical trials (Law), pharmaceutical
 science and diabetes (Herbert), diabetes (Squires), obesity (Whitehead), genetics (Bevan),
 and international appointments in global rural health (Tanser from South Africa, Gussy from
 Australia). Four new Associate Professors have been appointed in related research areas of
 workforce development and cancer (Kane), diabetes (Hills) and antimicrobial resistance
 (Taylor, Singh). Also appointed were new Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and Research Fellows.
 Early career researchers (ECRs) submitted previously for REF2014 have been promoted to
 associate professor (Singh, Taylor), along with new internal promotions at this level (Bachrati,
 Christie, Hills).

 2.2 Staff development
 Wider support mechanisms include the University’s People Strategy, a comprehensive range
 of policies around employment, equal opportunities, research management and ethics, each with
 elements designed to facilitate and support research activity among staff and students. The UoA
 is fully committed to the provisions of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (see institutional environment statement), which is promoted through the
 Continuing Professional and Personal Development Framework, which highlights key staff
 development objectives. The commitment is demonstrated by the fact that while 15.2 FTE
 members of staff submitted to the UoA are employed at senior level (Associate Professor or
 above), 4 (including 2 women and 1 BAME member) achieved this role through internal
 promotion, evidencing the University’s and UoA’s commitment to planning succession and a new
 generation of academic leaders. All staff are employed on permanent contracts, with none on
 fixed term or atypical contacts returnable in this UoA. Staff are supported in developing their
 career progression through annual appraisals, helping them to set goals and identify the
 resources they need. Regular workshops are held on the promotions process and staff are
 encouraged to take part in the University’s Pipeline Mentoring Programme (see Institutional
 Environment Statement). The EDI aspect of staff promotions is dealt with below.

 Staff development is also supported through the following activities:
    ▪ New and existing staff are attracted, recruited and retained with interests complementary
         to existing groups and research priorities, and staff working on externally funded studies
         have been supported in their development to permanent posts through provision of new
         lectureships (Armstrong), research fellowships (Sirdifield, Jones, Curtis) and senior
         research fellowships (Smith).
    ▪ ECR support includes appointment of leads for each school, tailored personal and
         professional development programmes, study review meetings to discuss journal articles
         and research bids prior to submission, writing retreats, a mentorship programme, annual
         appraisals and individual research plan reviews and dedicated support for research
         writing.
    ▪ Leadership development opportunities include specific leadership training for individuals
         seeking and on track for promotion with support for BAME staff through INSPIRE
         (http://sdf.ac.uk/cms/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/Inspire-Programme-Module-Outline-
         University-of-Lincoln.pdf), and an internal promotion process with clear criteria for
         advancement.

 2.3 Support, training and supervision of PGR students
 We have increased doctoral student enrolment to 53 since 2014, and increased PhD
 completions from 10 to 34, with more than three times the completions over this census period
 compared to the last, achieved through a comprehensive programme of support for PGR
 students at School, College and University level.

 The increase in student numbers has been driven by several key mechanisms:

    ▪   Funding for PGR students in allied health has increased substantially. The University
        was a founder member of the Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA:
        https://unialliance.ac.uk/dta/), which provides central University funding for PGR students


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        on Applied Biosciences for Health. Doctoral studentships for staff and new students
        initially via the DTA are provided through open competition.
    ▪   In addition to DTA funding, institutional funding has been provided through the College of
        Social Science, with on average three PhD and several MRes students each year funded
        within the UoA. The School of Life Sciences has funded 5 PhDs and 2 MScs in research.
        The School of Pharmacy has also provided funding support for PhD and MRes students
        including PhD students funded partially and fully through collaboration with the
        pharmaceutical industry.
    ▪   Increased external income has included provision for PGR studentships, for example
        through two partly internally funded NIHR CLAHRC-HEEM doctoral fellowships and two
        Diabetes UK Studentships (Squires and Hills).
    ▪   The School of Health and Social Care hosts a Health Education England funded
        (£450,000, 2016-2019) programme to support development of Clinical Academic
        Research Careers for health professionals across the Midlands and East of England
        through the NIHR Research Internship Programme (https://www.nihr.ac.uk/our-research-
        community/NIHR-academy/nihr-training-programmes/nihr-hee-ica-programme/).
    ▪   A previous MSc in Social Research Methods and more recently a MSc in Research since
        2018 have provided key training in research methods for graduates, positioning them to
        continue to doctoral studies.
    ▪   The substantial increase in research-active staff has led to an increase in the number of
        available supervisors and the range of specialised research areas available. The
        significantly increased international research profile of many staff has ensured greater
        visibility and applications from international students who have comprised 11 (42%) PhD
        completions. Success has been self-fulfilling with enthusiastic feedback from existing
        students directly contributing to increased applications from other students seeking a
        quality experience in higher education.
    ▪   Improved research facilities and significant investment in research laboratories and
        equipment has made the University attractive to potential applicants, including self-
        funding doctoral students (see Section 3.2).

 Ongoing supervision, support and training are provided by means of the following:

    ▪   All PGR students follow a comprehensive supervisory programme including Training
        Needs Analysis, Annual Progress Reviews and reviews at least monthly for full-time and
        bimonthly for part-time students, as described in the institutional environment statement
        which has ensured over 95% of completions on time during this REF period.
    ▪   Oversight for postgraduate research is led by School Directors of Postgraduate Research
        (PGR leads) assisted by a PGR administrator in each school and the Doctoral School
        (https://doctoralschool.lincoln.ac.uk). The PGR administrator within each School tracks,
        monitors and guides PGR students and supervisors in adhering to University protocols.
        School PGR leads report to School Directors of Research, Heads of School, and School
        Postgraduate Research Committees which includes PGR representatives as well as
        staff.
    ▪   The College of Social Sciences which includes CaHRU, and other groups based in the
        School of Health and Social Care organises an annual two-day residential ECR
        Development workshop, which PGR students are invited to attend. Sessions at this 2-day
        residential workshop are run by experienced researchers, senior academics and external
        experts with topics such as research project development, obtaining funding and
        publication success. In addition, the School of Health and Social Care has recently
        introduced a workshop aimed specifically at writing for publication.
    ▪   Each school has a fully equipped PGR room which provides dedicated desk space and
        IT facilities for students.
    ▪   All PGR students have access to school-level funds to support their research and are
        supported in applications to attend conferences and encouraged to disseminate their
        research. For example, Phung presented his work on Community First Responders at
        the recent Mediterranean Emergency Medicine Congress (MEMC in Lisbon, Portugal in


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2017. An annual University PGR student conference provides students initial conference
        experience and boost their confidence to attend external events.
    ▪   The Doctoral School provides generic research training, career development
        programmes and a support network for all PGR students. Each school provides more
        tailored discipline-specific research training, for example day courses on motivational
        interviewing and 3-day (over a 6-month period) systematic review training courses. Staff
        in each School also contribute to the Doctoral School programmes, helping ensure a two-
        way flow of experience and expertise. The Researcher Development Programme (RDP)
        at institutional level, ensures that all PGR students obtain the necessary skills to
        successfully carry out all aspects of PGR work and develop the transferrable skills
        needed for their future careers.
    ▪   A number of PGR students go on to postdoctoral work (e.g. Jenkins now Respiratory
        Research Officer at University of Nottingham, Akanuwe now research assistant at
        University of Lincoln) or permanent positions elsewhere (Simmons appointed lecturer at
        University of Wolverhampton in 2019) either in academia or in national health-related
        organisations (Togher is senior analyst at the Care Quality Commission).

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The UoA has a collaborative approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) which
 supports and encourages all under-represented groups, promotes an inclusive culture, and
 values diversity is a core feature in the university and schools. We recognise that we have not
 achieved equality in scientists attaining professor and senior positions and this
 acknowledgement underpins our aim to do better.

 The UoA has 34 (32.8 FTE) staff including 9 female and 7 BAME staff members. In terms of FTE
 staff, the UoA includes female 26.8%; BAME 20.1%, disabled 8.9%, with BAME and disabled
 staff around twice the sector average. There were 5 staff promotions in the UoA during the
 census period, of which 2 (40%) were female and 1 (20%) BAME.

 Two out of three schools involved in the submission, the School of Life Sciences (SLS) since
 2016 and the School of Health and Social Care (SHSC) since 2019, hold the Athena SWAN
 Bronze award, and the School of Pharmacy is working towards its Bronze award. SHSC also
 hold the Lincolnshire Carers’ Award, in recognition of staff who are also carers, achieved in 2019
 and 2020.

 Work on EDI is ongoing at school and University level, led by the cross-University Eleanor
 Glanville Centre (http://eleanorglanvillecentre.lincoln.ac.uk) which coordinates institutional
 engagement with the Equality Challenge Unit’s Athena SWAN/Gender and Race Equality
 Charters, and provides centralised support, and sharing of best practice, across all academic
 schools. The university holds a Race Equality Charter mark. Equality and diversity are a
 standing item on the senior leadership team meetings. We have an active research team
 working on LGBTQ issues, and their findings inform our approach to EDI, through the school
 EDI committees.

 Equality Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) committees in each school, include student educators,
 researchers, professional services, and research students. The committees are engaged in a
 continual self-evaluation process, implementing actions designed to improve equality and
 diversity. Analysis of annual monitoring statistics on students, staff appointments and
 promotions, and submissions for funding are carried out to better assess rates and trends and to
 inform the development of targeted initiatives for under-represented groups. All staff attend EDI
 training, including unconscious bias which seeks to ensure internal and external processes and
 procedures deliver a level playing field for all current and potential staff. Female staff in the UoA,
 including Hills and Sirdifield provide important role models for women in STEM, and Hills was
 featured as a Diabetes UK rising star for Women in Science in 2017.

 There is a commitment to a core-hours model for important management and leadership
 meetings. This was introduced in the School of Health and Social Care from 2019 and has been

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 introduced in the other schools, to recognise staff who care for children or other family members.
 The Eleanor Glanville Centre provides targeted support workshops for under-represented
 groups (e.g. building confidence, effective networking), informed by staff consultation.

 Staff in the UoA engage with the institutional Pipeline Mentoring Scheme
 (https://staffnews.lincoln.ac.uk/2019/09/05/pipeline-mentoring-programme-2019-2/), open to all
 staff, which includes ‘maternity mentoring’ and ‘work-life balance’ support pathways, alongside
 the more usual career progression support. Further support for female researchers around
 maternity leave is provided through the centre’s Academic Returners’ Research Fund, which
 enables staff to sustain their research before, during and after maternity leave.

 The construction of the UoA’s submission, including the selection of outputs, has been governed
 by the University’s REF Code of Practice. EDI was at the heart of this process and Equality
 Impact Assessments (EIAs) occurred annually 2018-20 on the University’s REF procedures, in
 order to identify potential EDI issues, including any disparities identified in the inclusion of
 outputs for staff with protected characteristics, and to take action to correct these if necessary.
 All members of staff involved in creating the Allied Health Professions UoA submission received
 specific EDI and unconscious bias training around these procedures. The selection of staff
 outputs for inclusion was based on a rigorous process that involved not only an internal panel
 with an independent Chair (from another College in the University), but also external
 assessment. Staff were encouraged to declare individual circumstances that might affect their
 submission through a confidential procedure.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income
 External grant income at Lincoln in UoA3 has grown by 188% from £1.75 million during the
 previous REF period to £5 million in this period.

 The growth has been due to our strategic focus on local, national and global priorities (of
 chronic disease, prevention, big data and improving care quality in rural and ageing communities
 as described in 1.1), working with service users, health service, industrial and other academic
 partners, to develop and refine research ideas, improving track records of applicants through
 prior evidence synthesis and feasibility studies, and increased quality of bids through formal
 processes for rigorous expert and lay pre-submission peer review, together with mentorship for
 ECRs. For example, Siriwardena supported Sirdifield to achieve her first NIHR grant in 2017
 (£150k) and this was followed by a further NIHR award (£148k) in 2020.

 Major grants since 2014 with UoA3 staff as chief investigator include £2 million for Ambulance
 pathways (NIHR 5-year Programme for Applied Research, Siriwardena), £484k for Synthetic
 teixobactins: a new class of antibiotics to combat multi drug resistant bacterial infection
 (Department of Health and Social Care, Singh), and £471k for Community First Responders role
 in the current and future rural health and care workforce (NIHR Health Services and Delivery
 Research Programme, Siriwardena).

 Awards over £100k with UoA3 staff as chief investigator include £131k for Preclinical testing of
 IA-2-IgG Fc chimeric proteins for antigen-specific B-cells (Diabetes UK, Christie), £133k for
 Phenotype and specificity of the islet inflammation in Type 1 diabetes (JDRF, Christie), two
 successive grants on Measuring and improving the quality of health and healthcare for offenders
 on community sentences with £150k in 2016 for developing recommendations for
 commissioners and practitioners and £148k in 2020 for developing quality indicators (NIHR
 Research for Patient Benefit, Sirdifield), £500k for a programme of work funded by Diabetes UK
 (Squires and Hills, 11/0004215: £216,139, 12/0004546: £79,885, 16/0005427: £202,820,
 16/0005544: £88,519, 16/0005509: £15,000; 18/0005919: £89,775) including Determination of a
 role for connexin mediated cell communication in the progression of renal fibrosis in the diabetic
 kidney (Diabetes UK, Squires and Hills), £309k for studies on the Organelle-specific functions
 of human Type 1A topoisomerase TOP3A (BBSRC, Bachrati).


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have also been collaborators on major grants including £300k for Telemonitoring in
 Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (CHROMED, EU-FP7 €200M, Siriwardena), £282k for
 HABIT: A Pragmatic, Multicentre, Randomised Controlled Trial comparing nurse-delivered sleep
 restriction therapy for insomnia disorder to sleep hygiene in primary care (NIHR Health
 Technology Assessment £2M, Siriwardena), £253k for Empirical treatment against
 cytomegalovirus and tuberculosis in severe pneumonia in HIV-infected infants: a randomized
 controlled clinical trial (European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, Bates).

 The reach and breadth of our funders reflects the types and extent of our research; ranging from
 the Royal Society (Singh, Sharma, Hills) to grants from the NIHR (Siriwardena, Smith,
 Sirdifield, Law), MRC (Law, Siriwardena), BBSRC (Goddard, Bachrati), EPSRC (Blagden,
 Vllasaliu), NIHR (Siriwardena, Law, Sirdifield, Smith), EU (Bates, Siriwardena), pharma
 including Astrazena, Glaxo Smith Kline (Blagden) and charities including the Wellcome Trust
 (Vllasaliu, Siriwardena), Health Foundation (Siriwardena), Rosetrees (Taylor, Squires, Hills),
 Diabetes Wellness Research Foundation (Herbert, Hills), Juvenile Diabetes Research
 Foundation (Christie), European Foundation for the Study of Diabetes and Diabetes UK
 (Squires, Christie, Hills), the British Lung Foundation and European Regional Development
 Fund (Jones) and Epilepsy Research UK – ERUK (Ngomba).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 The Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) provides a research hub, allowing
 individuals and groups working on health-related and applied health research to meet regularly
 through joint meetings, research methods seminars and an interdisciplinary research
 development exchange. It also provides expertise in evidence synthesis and training in
 Cochrane systematic reviews which has provided a basis for new interdisciplinary studies. The
 LIIRH has also supported 15 interdisciplinary PhDs where co-supervision from staff in the
 different centres and groups is an essential feature.

 Examples of interdisciplinary research which developed through these approaches include
 ground-breaking studies of new classes of antibiotics active against resistant micro-organisms
 (e.g. teixobactins https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jmedchem.7b01634) from Singh (4D)
 and Taylor (M&B). Evidence syntheses for example on sleep and children with autism were
 funded through the Clinical Research Network to support a secondment from the local mental
 health trust (e.g. http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0221428) from LIIRH (Curtis) and CaHRU
 (Law, Siriwardena).

 Pump priming grants have led to database studies in drug safety (e.g.
 https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00198-019-05045-z) from CaHRU (Asghar,
 Siriwardena) and 4D (Grassby).
 Other examples include collaborations between health, computing, industry and health services
 in the EPSRC funded ENACT study
 (https://gow.epsrc.ukri.org/NGBOViewGrant.aspx?GrantRef=EP/I000615/1) on digital platforms
 for delivery of psychological treatments for sleep.
 New interdisciplinary collaborations include health with computing (robotics, machine learning).
 Interdisciplinary collaboration has also been achieved through specific funding for doctorates
 and involving two or more schools and disciplines. For example, Jenkins, supervised by Jones
 and Holden, completed his PhD investigating changes in inflammatory markers during
 pulmonary rehabilitation (http://eprints.lincoln.ac.uk/37754/). Boasman, supervised by Simmons
 and Graham is elucidating molecular mechanisms in myelodysplastic syndromes to predict
 treatment response (https://doi.org/10.1007/s00277-019-03627-9).

 Since 2014 there has been a significant and continuing investment in biomedical and health
 services research. In partnership with the Lincolnshire Co-operative Society, £14m has been
 invested to build Lincoln Science and Innovation Park
 (https://www.lincolnsciencepark.co.uk/facilities/joseph-banks-laboratories-minster-house).
 Housed within a 10-acre site in the heart of the city, this includes the Joseph Banks Laboratories
 (JBL), and Boole Technology Centre (https://www.lincolnsciencepark.co.uk/facilities/boole-

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technology-centre) and Bridge Laboratories, accommodating biology, biomedical science and
 the new School of Pharmacy, which together opened in 2014. The JBL provide state-of-the-art
 facilities and modern infrastructure needed to support cutting edge biomedical research.

 A wide range of laboratory facilities and equipment at JBL include biophysical tools such as
 Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM), X-ray crystallography, Dynamic Light Scattering (DLS), and
 Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA) to investigate the interface between materials and
 biomolecules, physical properties of extracellular vesicles and exosomes and cell biomechanics.
 AFM-single-cell force spectroscopy is used investigate changes in cytoskeletal reorganization,
 membrane dynamics and cell-cell adhesion as early biophysical markers of biomedical changes
 seen in disease onset and progression. Imaging includes Optical – Bright/Dark field
 Fluorescence, 3D Imaging, confocal, and nanodrop microscopes, a micro-CT scanner and digital
 imager. Measurement includes scanning vibrometer and particle sizers. Other equipment
 includes dual laser Raman spectrometer, rheometer, ion chromatography, and a UV-Vis
 spectrometer. Materials are processed using ultra-high-speed centrifuges, cytospin
 cytocentrifuges, ion chromatography, flash chromatography, microwave acid digester, and a
 range of dryers (freeze, spray, solvent), mills (freezer, ball mixer), synthesizers (peptide, organic
 molecule), chemical reaction stations and an electrochemistry system.

 A £19 million investment in 2016, led to the Sarah Swift Building for health, psychology and
 social sciences (https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/collegeofsocialscience/facilities/), which has
 clinical wards, a two-bed sleep laboratory with full polysomnography, body imaging and a
 Human Tissue Act licensed storage facility with tissue culture facilities in four laboratories, have
 expanded our research capability and enabled collaborations across centres, nationally and
 internationally.

 These developments contributed to approval for the new Lincoln Medical School
 (https://www.lincoln.ac.uk/home/medicalschool/) in 2019 and a £21 million state-of-the-art
 building completed in 2021, with funding support from Greater Lincoln Local Enterprise
 Partnership, charitable and local donors, and local community backing. These investments have
 attracted research funding from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, linking academia,
 industry and technology, which has further strengthened our research infrastructure and
 environment.

 CaHRU is a collaborative partner in the NIHR East Midlands Research Design Service
 (https://www.rds-eastmidlands.nihr.ac.uk), supporting applied health research bids and is a
 partner in the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East Midlands.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Allied Health Professions research at Lincoln has built longstanding and extensive
 interdisciplinary partnerships and networks focussed on regional, national and global
 priorities, enabling our research to generate wider impacts.

 Work with NHS trusts allows us to evaluate innovations in healthcare workforce and staff
 wellbeing. For example, Siriwardena and Smith were funded by Public Health at Lincolnshire
 County Council to evaluate an innovative Community First Responders (CFRs) falls pathway
 which led to a major NIHR award in 2020 (£471k, Siriwardena, Asghar, Smith) to study CFRs’
 contribution to the rural health and care workforce.

 We work extensively with national and local patient and public organisations and their charities
 to explore the needs of service users. Siriwardena, Asghar and Curtis, funded by the Guillain-
 Barré and Associated Inflammatory Neuropathies (GAIN) charity (£35k) researched experiences
 of patients with this condition and how they can be supported to return to health. Sirdifield
 studying health needs of people on probation (NIHR, £150k) collaborated with representatives
 from Together Women, Her Majesty's Prison and Probation Service, Public Health England, the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Probation Institute, and HM Inspectorate of Probation, to develop a Probation Healthcare
 Commissioning Toolkit (https://probhct.blogs.lincoln.ac.uk/) included in Public Health England
 guidance.

 With a strong focus on translational research in primary care, Siriwardena, funded by the
 Health Foundation (£500k) and East Midlands Academic Health Science Network (£250k), led
 by the Lincolnshire community trust and in partnership with University of Nottingham, undertook
 a large-scale regional Quality Improvement Collaborative to implement a pharmacy intervention
 which reduced clinically important errors in general practice prescribing involving 380 general
 practices in 12 Clinical Commissioning groups in the East Midlands region. The HABIT trial
 (http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2019-036248), the largest randomised controlled trial of its
 kind worldwide, comparing nurse-delivered sleep restriction therapy for insomnia disorder to
 sleep hygiene in primary care (NIHR, £1,8M, co-applicants Armstrong and Siriwardena), is
 being conducted in collaboration with Oxford University Sleep and Circadian Neuroscience Unit
 and University of Manchester in 24 practices including 8 in Lincolnshire. In Organic disease
 masquerading as Irritable Bowel Syndrome (NIHR, £304k) Law, Smith and Siriwardena
 collaborate with a Lincoln gastroenterologist to manage the condition better in primary care.
 Siriwardena is research director for NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East Midlands and is
 funded (NIHR ARC, £200k) to lead research using ambulance data. He was also co-applicant
 and chairs the Regional Management Board of NIHR East Midlands Research Design Service
 (NIHR, £5M).

 Siriwardena has developed strong links with UK ambulance services over 15 years leading to
 major studies involving one or all English ambulance trusts. He led the first NIHR programme
 (£2m) in ambulance services to develop new ambulance measures which reported in 2019. He
 was a collaborator in the ‘Rapid Intervention with Glyceryl trinitrate in Hypertensive stroke Trial-2'
 (British Heart Foundation, £1.4M) involving 8 ambulance services and 32 hospitals,
 ‘Understanding variation in rates of ambulance service ‘non-conveyance of patients to an
 emergency department’ (NIHR, £329k) involving 8 ambulance services, and ‘Electronic Records
 in Ambulances to support the shift to out of hospital care’ (NIHR, £387k). He leads the NIHR
 funded (£471k) study of CFRs’ role in the rural health and care workforce, involving 7 ambulance
 services.

 Taylor, supported by the Rosetree trust has developed and tested new antimicrobials (with
 Singh, 4D). Together they enabled the University to file two patents relating to novel analogues
 of teixobactin and moenomycin A (New Antibacterial Products WO2018162922A1 and
 EP3193908A2), currently being exploited via industry interactions mediated through the
 University research office. Taylor in collaboration with Q biotechnologies
 (https://www.qtechnologiesgroup.com/) is developing a new test for persistent biocides. Ferrari
 funded through an EU collaborative project Immuno-NanoDecoder (Horizon 2020 grant number
 645684) and the Analytical Chemistry Trust (Tom West Analytical Fellowship) has generated
 biomolecular nanomaterials with potential application as diagnostic and analytical tools and for
 the delivery of therapeutic molecules. He collaborates with Midatech Pharma
 (http://www.midatechpharma.com/), studying the interaction of therapeutic nanoparticles
 developed by the pharmaceutical company with cellular components.

 International collaborations in key strategic areas have helped to build on these successes in
 the UK. Of the 143 papers published from the unit of assessment between 2015 and 2019,
 41.3% included international collaborations. For example, Taylor has collaborated with
 University of Greifswald, Germany on antibiotic resistance to S. pneumoniae
 (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41429-020-0296-3). Siriwardena’s research on primary care
 for insomnia includes collaborations with University of Ghent, Belgium (e.g.
 https://doi.org/10.1080/02813432.2019.1663591), and his research in ambulance services
 involves collaborations with the University of the Sunshine Coast, Australia
 (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajem.2018.05.041). Neil Squires
 (https://www.gov.uk/government/people/neil-squires), honorary professor at Lincoln is Director of
 Global Health for Public Health England, and Champion of Global Health for the Faculty of

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public Health Board and FPH Brexit Advisory Team. Christie is collaborating internationally to
 validate predictive markers for T1DM, including participation in the Islet Autoantibody
 Standardisation Program (IASP), which aims to optimise assays for identifying individuals at risk
 of T1DM. Ngomba is Visiting Associate Professor at Stanford University (US) where he
 collaborates with Huguenard and Rivara at University of Parma, Italy, on the role of melatonin
 receptors and novel ligands in epilepsy. He also collaborates with Nicoletti, University of Rome,
 and Striano, University of Genoa on the role of thrombospondin-1 in epilepsy. The School of
 Health and Social Care are members of the Udine-C Network: Understanding Development
 Issues in Nurse Educator Careers which has led to research collaborations on development of
 the nurse workforce (e.g. https://doi.org/10.1177/0969733019845136) and work on community
 care for cancer led to collaboration with La Trobe University, Australia.

 International collaborations have also led to international trials, e.g. Christie has identified
 factors that affect outcome in clinical trials of T1DM immunotherapy, most recently in the
 Diamyd® immune intervention trial. Siriwardena was collaborator on the Telemonitoring in
 COPD (CHROMED: https://doi.org/10.1164/rccm.201712-2404OC) trial funded by EU-FP7 with
 Restech SRL – Del Politcnico Di Milano, Italy, Tallina Tehnikaulikool, Estonia, Universitat De
 Barcelona, Spain, Uppsala Universitet, Sweden, Universitetssykehuset Nord-Norge HF, Norway,
 Bolnisnica Sezana Zavod, Slovenia. Bates is a collaborator on a major trial Empirical Treatment
 Against Cytomegalovirus and Tuberculosis in HIV-infected Infants With Severe Pneumonia
 (EMPIRICAL) led by Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre in Madrid with partners in Europe and
 Africa including University Hospital, Bordeaux, Institut National de la Santé Et de la Recherche
 Médicale, France, PENTA Foundation, Centre Hospitalier Cocody, Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome
 Trust Clinical Research Programme, Eduardo Mondlane University, Centro de Investigação em
 Saúde de Manhiça, Stichting Katholieke Universiteit, Barcelona Institute for Global Health
 Makerere University, University Teaching Hospital, Lusaka, Zambia, University of Zimbabwe.

 4.2. Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
    i.   Patients, public and community
 Service users are our most important beneficiary, as much of our research is directly or
 indirectly related to developing or improving health care technologies or outcomes for patients.
 We conduct public engagement activities which bring together patient groups, academic
 scientists, clinicians, policy makers, charities and the general public to inform families about
 research at Lincoln and its potential in the management of various chronic conditions. This is
 supported by Public Engagement for All with Research at Lincoln (PEARL,
 https://pearl.lincoln.ac.uk), the Together (public involvement) group and School Liaison Officers,
 responsible for promoting engagement and participation of local Schools in particular those with
 lower attainment rates to encourage access to higher education. through lab visits and a
 University public lecture and engagement series. This includes the Marie Curie funded Lincoln
 LIGHTS (https://lights.sites.lincoln.ac.uk/). For example, staff provided repeated events for
 schoolchildren as part of the 2018 LIGHTS expo with presentations about ambulance research
 and opportunities for 83 school children (aged 11-18 years) attending to train in cardiopulmonary
 resuscitation. Feedback included: “A wonderful event and a great opportunity to witness the
 scope of public engagement activity taking place at the university.” Other public events include
 science talks and debates for the public through various initiatives including a monthly Café
 Scientifique in venues in Lincoln and Market Rasen and ‘Pint of Science’ at public houses across
 the county where academics engage with the public on scientific topics.

   ii.    Health service organisations
 Our relationship with health service organisations and leaders is critical to our strategy, by
 helping focus our research on their research and development priorities, enabling us to co-
 create studies which address these concerns, facilitating use of findings in a responsive way that
 helps to increase our research impact. For example, research with ambulance services
 (CaHRU) led to changes in the education and training of over 1000 ambulance practitioners in
 the East Midlands alone on management of conditions (such as hypoglycaemia, seizures and
 falls) leading to implementation of new pathways for hypoglycaemia and falls, with patients
 benefitting through improved processes and outcomes of care. The work featured in the

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Universities UK 100+ ways universities have improved everyday life in ‘Relieving the pressures
 on the NHS through better training’ (https://madeatuni.org.uk/university-lincoln/relieving-
 pressures-nhs-through-better-training). Research undertaken by CaHRU with English
 ambulance services led to the development of the first national ambulance clinical indicators
 which have given rise, through a quality improvement project funded by the Health Foundation
 (£400k, Siriwardena), to significant improvements in heart attack and stroke care delivered to
 patients throughout England.

   iii.   National bodies
 Other beneficiaries are national bodies, including guideline development organisations such
 as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). An example included in an
 impact case study involving CaHRU staff (Siriwardena) has been cited in draft UK NICE
 guidance: ‘Flu vaccination: increasing uptake. July 2017
 (https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/indevelopment/gid-phg96). Other studies have been cited in
 the UK Joint Royal Colleges Ambulance Liaison Committee national ambulance guidelines on
 seizure and on overdose. The REST e-learning programme (http://elearning.restproject.org.uk/)
 on primary care for insomnia (see 4.3) was cited in the Parliamentary Office on Science and
 Technology (POST) note on Sleep and Health in 2018.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the research base, economy, and society
 Key contributions to the economy and society from the unit’s research include: patents for new
 antimicrobials effective against resistant bacteria (Singh, Taylor); implementation of new
 ambulance measures and technologies (Siriwardena) adopted in the UK, US, Canada and
 Middle East; improvements in primary care for insomnia (Siriwardena, Sirdifield) used
 internationally with uptake from an e-learning programme (http://elearning.restproject.org.uk/) by
 over 15,000 users in 166 countries between 2011 and 2019; large-scale quality improvement
 initiatives such as a pharmacy intervention to reduce clinically important errors in general
 practice prescribing involving 380 general practices in 12 Clinical Commissioning groups in the
 East Midlands region which led to identification of over a 21,000 potential prescribing errors in
 almost 3 million patients with steps taken to reduce these (Siriwardena); and interventions to
 widen use of influenza vaccine (Asghar and Siriwardena) which have been included annually
 in the Chief Medical Officer annual guidance on influenza and advice to general practices.
 Examples of these are included in impact case studies being submitted to this UoA.

 Researchers in this unit hold key regional, national and international roles, holding
 fellowships, honorary appointments and editorships, all peer reviewing for internationally
 recognised journals, most reviewing grant applications for major UK and international award
 bodies, and many invited as international conferences speakers. Notable contributions include:

 Known for enhancing the profile of women in STEM and featured as Diabetes UK’s rising star for
 Women in Science 2017, Hills is a member of the European Foundation for the Study of
 Diabetes expert group (2018). She has presented several state-of-the-art talks, including “Cell-
 cell communication and Diabetes” at the 10th World Congress on Prevention of Diabetes and its
 Complications in Edinburgh in 2018 and was an invited speaker on “Non-prescription drugs and
 the kidney”, during UK Kidney Week held by the British Renal Society and the Renal Association
 SECC, Glasgow 2015. In 2019, she delivered the Physiological Society Joan Mott Prize lecture,
 one of the Society’s most prestigious international awards, acknowledging a female physiologist
 with longstanding contribution to the field, and her presentation will be published in the society’s
 Journal ‘Experimental Physiology’.

 Tanser was a founding member of the Africa Centre for Health and Population Studies (now
 Africa Health Research Institute) and was responsible for building Africa’s first comprehensive
 population-based geographic information system. He was awarded the South African Medical
 Research Council’s Gold Medal as well as the Royal Geographical Society’s Back Medal for
 conducting seminal research that has made an outstanding contribution to development of
 national and international public policy.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Squires has been a member of the Research Advisory Boards for Diabetes UK, Diabetes
 Wellness Network Svierge, Sweden 2016-2019, Diabetes Research & Wellness Foundation
 2010-2016, and European Foundation for Study of Diabetes 2014. He was session Organiser for
 the 10th World Congress on Prevention of Diabetes and its Complications, Edinburgh 2018.
 Squires is a member of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, Diabetes UK and
 British Society and is Fellow and University representative for the Physiological Society.

 Law is Fellow of the Royal Society of Public Health and is committee member of UK Biobank
 Sleep & Activity. He is a member of NIHR East Midlands Research for Patient Benefit
 Programme Regional Advisory Committee.

 Siriwardena gave the keynote at the North American EMS Physicians conference 2018 and
 invited lectures at British Sleep Society conferences, 2017 and 2019. He is a member of the
 999EMS Research Forum international executive committee. He has chaired the Wales Centre
 for Primary and Emergency Care Research (PRIME Centre Wales) External Advisory Board
 since 2016 and was awarded an honorary professorship at the University of Cardiff in 2019. He
 has been member of NIHR East Midlands Research for Patient Benefit Programme Regional
 Advisory Committee since 2020 and HEE/NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Programme’s
 Clinical Doctoral Research Fellowship Scheme Selection Committee since 2019.

 Expert committee memberships: Bevan is an expert international member and reviewer for
 National Medical Research Council, Singapore, steering committee member of International
 Stroke Genetics Consortium, member of the METASTROKE Consortium, and Heads of
 University Biosciences Steering Executive member; Dixon chairs East Midlands Branch of
 American Society of Microbiology and is member of the British Society for Antimicrobial
 Chemotherapy, Forensic Science Society, Microbiology Society, and Society for Applied
 Microbiology; Singh was Panel member on the EPSRC grant committee in 2018; Tanser is
 member of the International Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee to the director of
 UNAIDS; Asghar was Panel member on NIHR Infectious Disease Dynamic Modelling in Health
 Protection Call 2019. Smith has been a member of NIHR East of England Research for Patient
 Benefit Programme Regional Advisory Committee since 2017.

 Unit staff have contributed to conference organising committees. In particular, Herbert was
 the conference organiser for Translation UK, Leicester, UK, 2014 and conference lead for
 Australian Islet Study Group Meeting, Melbourne, 2016; Ngomba is a member of the Scientific
 Committee for triannual international meetings on mGlu receptors (https://www.mglu.it) and was
 an invited speaker in 2020; Law was the treasurer of British Sleep Society and conference
 committee member from 2014-2019; Siriwardena is a member of the 999 Emergency Medical
 Services Forum conference organising committee; Christie was an organiser of the 9th
 European Conference on Tetraspanins Mainz, Germany, September, 2019.




                                                                                        Page 17
