Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA17 – Business and Management Studies

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 The University of Reading submission to the Business and Management Unit of Assessment
 comprises academics located in two Schools: Henley Business School (Henley) and the School
 of Politics, Economics and & International Relations (SPEIR). Henley is composed of six
 research divisions, of which five are included in this submission, alongside the Economics
 Research Division from SPEIR (see Figure 1). (The sixth research division within Henley, Real
 Estate and Planning, is submitted to UOA13.)

 Figure 1. Structure of the Unit of Assessment




 Each research division is also a department from a structural and resourcing perspective.

 The University of Reading has four interdisciplinary Research Themes created in 2016 to
 provide high-level strategic leadership and organisation of research activity across the whole
 University (see Institutional Environment Statement, IES, section 1). All research divisions within
 Henley and Economics reside within the Prosperity & Resilience theme (P&R) along with
 Education, Global Development and Law. The inception of research themes has facilitated

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interactions with other social science departments including the sharing of ideas through
 Community of Practice meetings and Academic Forums chaired by the theme’s Research Dean
 (currently Bell, since 2019, former head of the ICMA Centre, the finance department of the
 Business School). The new structure has also supported high-level, theme-wide strategic
 initiatives such as the Behavioural and Experimental Social Science (BESS) Lab and cross-
 theme funding opportunities, for instance, provided by the Global Challenges Research Fund.
 We have an emerging group on Gender Studies, bringing a conference here in 2021 supported
 by Henley, Economics, Education and Law; there is also an emerging group working with local
 community organisations (e.g., Parents and Children Together) in collaboration with researchers
 from other departments, notably the Institute of Education. Economics is part of the Leverhulme-
 funded Climate Justice Doctoral Training Programme with Politics, Agriculture, Law and Global
 Development.

 Each research division has its own Research Division Leader and Director of Postgraduate
 Research and is the primary resource holder for funding research activities. Divisions develop
 their own operational plans (RDOP), overseen by the Head of School (or within Henley, the
 Director of Research who provides overarching leadership and coordination) and discussed
 annually with the Heads of Department, Head of School, and the Research Dean. While the
 divisions have developed their own distinct character and research agendas over time, the
 boundaries between the groups are flexible, and colleagues across the divisions work together
 as co-authors and co-supervisors of doctoral students and frequently attend the same weekly
 research seminars. Since 2014, around 180 outputs have been co-authored by colleagues
 working in different research divisions. Colleagues from other parts of the University are similarly
 involved with the research divisions' activities; for example, academics from Psychology work
 with colleagues in Economics, ICMA Centre, and Marketing & Reputation.

 Each research division hosts one or more research centres, which provide an organisational
 structure for more focused areas of activity. In the case of finance, the research division covers a
 relatively homogeneous topic, and thus the division coincides with the research centre. For other
 areas where the division spans activities across disparate subject matters, sub-fields are
 represented by their own research centres. All research-active faculty (and those on teaching-
 intensive contracts if they wish) are attached to at least one research centre.

 The centres are stable entities, with most having been in existence for more than a decade and
 known in their own right, although there is a formal mechanism for establishing new or closing
 existing centres. An audit of centres was conducted in 2017 to ensure that all had sufficient
 vitality and critical mass. Following this exercise, the Governance, Accountability & Responsible
 Investment Centre was closed as its primary activities were well covered by the ICMA Centre,
 and the Henley Centre for Accounting Research & Practice (HARP) was launched instead.
 All research centres include at least ten members drawn from the permanent faculty plus
 associated PhD students and, in most cases, external members (non-Reading academics and
 practitioners). The research centres act as key vehicles for engagement with stakeholders and
 for building impact as we describe below.

 The histories of Henley Business School and Economics are firmly entwined, and the two
 entities were submitted together to UOA19 in REF2014. Indeed, many of Henley's constituent
 parts emerged from a growing Economics department during the 1990s and 2000s (the ICMA
 Centre, Management and Accounting), forming the Reading University Business School
 (RUBS). More recently, the Economics group relocated to SPEIR in 2010, as part of a broader
 restructuring, to reflect its increasing emphasis on non-business aspects of the subject such as
 development economics (being submitted to UOA22 as members of the Global Development
 division). Henley and Economics share many common processes such as those for probation
 and promotion, and regularly co-supervise doctoral students and attend each other’s seminars.
 Moreover, the interdisciplinary Centre for Institutions and Economic History, hosted in
 Economics, draws members equally from Economics and Henley.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the UOA are engaged in investigating a diverse range of topics including some at
 the core of their disciplines in, for example, econometrics and marketing, and others
 representing a quite unique mixture such as coaching, historical finance, sports economics, and
 reputation. Each research division has made considerable progress in achieving the aims of the
 strategy outlined below over the reporting period, and a summary of each research division’s
 activities follows.

 Business Informatics, Systems and Accounting (BISA): Its vision is to further research
 distinctiveness and competitiveness in its two broad areas of informatics and systems science
 (through the Informatics Research Centre, IRC), and accounting and financial management.
 Although business informatics, business systems, and accounting typically have different
 publication outlets, all three areas share a reliance on the management and analysis of data and
 information, which provides a basis for cross-disciplinary research and cross-fertilisation, with
 emerging topics such as data analytics and digitisation and their applications in accounting and
 financial management. Seminars organised by the constituent parts are regularly attended by
 researchers and PhD students from all three areas, which engenders multidisciplinary
 perspectives and discussions. Research in digital health is developing rapidly, particularly on AI
 applications in healthcare, led by Li. The group collaborates closely with several departments in
 the Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust (RBH), including informatics, bariatrics, and patient
 safety, and other opportunities are emerging through the collaborative innovation fund provided
 by the University and RBH’s Joint Academic Board (IES, Section 2) and partnerships with
 various healthcare providers in China. The Henley Centre for Accounting Research and
 Practice (HARP) was established following the appointment of Rimmel in 2017 and takes an
 inclusive approach to research in accounting education as well as subject matter research and
 aims to bridge the gap between accounting scholarship and practice (e.g., on sustainability
 reporting and ESG). HARP’s research focuses on five tracks: financial decision-making;
 international regulation and policy analysis; accounting for sustainability and biodiversity;
 accounting education; and governance and accountability.

 Economics: Research by academics in this division is focused on applied economics and social
 problems, with strong theoretical and empirical foundations. It spans five main areas: first, the
 Business Economics and Finance grouping has been a centre of excellence at Reading for more
 than fifty years. Current research focuses on the economics of entrepreneurship, international
 business, organisation of firms and institutional structures, having strong links with International
 Business and Strategy and ICMA Centre research divisions. Second, behavioural economics
 research in the division is distinctive in its interest in the social underpinnings of economic
 institutions, and how these forces generate economic disparities. The group focuses on
 cooperation and prosocial behaviour, social identity and social norms, conflict behaviour and
 gender differences, but also on collusion, anti-trust and consumer policies. Third, labour and
 household economics research focuses on various aspects of labour market inequalities over
 the career and life-cycle, such as earnings gaps across different groups of workers (by gender,
 ethnicity, disability, social class), and unconscious bias in hiring and promotion. This area has
 strengthened since 2014 with the appointments of Longhi and Singleton. Fourth, the sports
 economics grouping not only applies economics to sports, but it also uses sports to understand
 more about economics – for example, using data from sport to provide evidence on market
 efficiency, demand patterns, labour market incentives etc. This group focuses in particular on
 issues relating to labour economics, financial economics and forecasting, working with
 colleagues from several departments in Henley. Fifth, the Economic Analysis Research
 Group (EARG) focuses on macroeconomics and macroeconometrics with particular emphasis
 on modelling inflation and monetary policy design in an international perspective.

 International Business and Strategy (IBS): The division is host to the John H. Dunning
 Centre for International Business, which stands as one of the world's premier research
 centres, shaping the global research agenda in its field. Key contributions since 2014 include
 Castellani’s work on European productivity and the role of SMEs; Narula’s work on the effect of
 FDI on structural change, dual economies and development; Brewster’s scholarship on low-
 status expatriates, migration and international HRM; and key contributions by Verbeke and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Casson on internalisation theory. Current and future research is seeking to make contributions
 to existing IB and HRM theory through a focus on: innovation and effective personnel
 management; how top management teams shape strategic outcomes; the restructuring of supply
 chains; transfer pricing; the role of digitalisation and skills in the labour market. Since the 1990s,
 this focus on the theory of multinational enterprise has been supplemented by a body of
 research undertaken within the Centre for International Business History (CIBH). Recent
 work in this area (Scott, Walker) has explored the historical evolution of brands, marketing and
 retailing in an international perspective. This is complemented by Casson’s recent work on the
 history of trademarks and the origins of markets. Emerging research fields within CIBH include
 the history of entrepreneurship and the evolution of multinational firms in the creative industries.

 ICMA Centre (Finance): Formed in 1992 as the first active collaboration between the securities
 industry and a university finance department, the ICMA Centre is a leader in producing both
 enquiry-driven academic research and industry-focused research for financial institutions,
 corporations and government agencies. Behavioural finance now constitutes an important focus,
 incorporating ESRC-funded work by Brooks (with Hillenbrand from the Marketing & Reputation
 research division) on retail investor behaviour and other projects with the psychology research
 division. The ICMA Centre has developed a unique research area in historical finance
 (discussed in Section 4). The Centre also focusses on socially responsible investing, green
 bonds and sustainable finance, linking with the work on sustainable accounting in HARP; recent
 appointments (Sangiorgi, Schopohl) have added further depth to this group. Another emerging
 topic is that of ‘fintech’, with work by Sutcliffe and the appointment of Urquhart, research
 funding from National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC, Moore) and the launch of a new MSc
 programme in Financial Technology and a major conference on cryptocurrencies scheduled for
 2021.

 Leadership and Organisational Behaviour (LOB): The most extensive research division in the
 submission, hosting three research centres: the Centre for Euro-Asian Studies (CEAS), the
 Henley Centre for Entrepreneurship (HCFE), and the Henley Centre for Leadership (HCL).
 The core of the division’s work covers the two main fields: leadership, in which Henley has a
 proud tradition, and entrepreneurship, for which Reading University is long renowned following
 the research of Casson and colleagues. A strategic decision was made to focus on these core
 areas since 2014, with new hires adding significant depth to both, including Jansen, Laker,
 Pendleton (leadership) and Belitski, Mariano, Morawetz (entrepreneurship). Research outputs
 have been aimed at practitioners as well as academic audiences (e.g., Vogel’s work on
 engaging leadership for the digital era was produced following close collaboration with industry
 partners). The HCFE was recently selected by the AACSB as one of the world’s top 20
 entrepreneurship centres, while the CEAS’ work on local content policy supports the
 development of entrepreneurial capacity and has found widespread application in Eastern
 Europe and the Gulf region funded by the Newton Fund, underpinning the case study by
 Kalyuzhnova. Recent research themes have included entrepreneurial ecosystems,
 cosmopolitanism, digital business models, entrepreneurship in emerging economies, the co-
 creation of leadership, followership, emotions in organisations, change leadership, ethics and
 sustainability. Henley is one of the few providers of coaching scholarship in the UK and is
 developing the research base in this area, facilitated by a team of academics and practitioners
 who have shaped the profession and set the research agenda since the 1990s, with particular
 strength in governance and ethics in coaching services.

 Marketing & Reputation: The Marketing & Reputation group (M&R) delivers academic
 leadership and practitioner guidance in the areas of marketing, reputation, sustainability,
 governance and responsible business. Two well-established research centres develop
 specialised knowledge in customer service excellence (the Henley Centre for Customer
 Management, HCCM), and reputation and responsible business knowledge (the John Madejski
 Centre for Reputation, JMCR). More recently, a dedicated focus has been established in the
 area of governance and board directorship (Henley’s Director Forum). Following extensive
 research, A.Kakabadse and his team hold a vast database of boards, containing data from 37
 countries, which they use to inform their work. In addition, recognising the changes that

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 marketing theory and practice face due to the dominance of digital media, a new initiative has
 formed in M&R specialising in digital marketing. Several faculty members who have joined since
 2014 (Grigore, Palmer, Perez-Vega) have developed research agendas linking digital
 marketing to areas such as corporate responsibility, online consumer behaviour, AI and social
 media marketing. The JMCR has recently broadened its focus from business reputations to
 researching reputation in a wider societal context, including improving the impact of government
 and corporate communications.

 Research strategy
 The research strategy for the UOA lies at the core of our overall mission and has been in place
 since the merger of Henley Management College (HMC) with the Reading University Business
 School (RUBS) in 2008. The Henley Director of Research is an ex officio member of the
 School’s Senior Management Committee. The strategy comprises three core elements:
     • Maintaining a dynamic research environment that influences everyone connected with
         the School.
     • Being recognised and consulted for our leading-edge thinking and our research.
     • Delivering research that makes a positive impact on business, policy and society.

 In particular, the strategy embodies the twin objectives of producing both high-quality, scholarly
 research that furthers knowledge in its subject area, and conducting research that makes a
 difference to governments, companies and the third sector. These dual goals emerged naturally
 from the School’s two original component parts: RUBS, with its long tradition of conducting
 intellectually rigorous output, particularly in international business, and HMC, which was focused
 on working closely with industry to produce applied practitioner research in areas such as
 leadership and coaching (for instance Belbin’s ground-breaking work on team roles conducted in
 the 1960s and 70s). Over the past decade, the previous distinction between the kinds of
 research conducted by the two components has been replaced by an integration between
 scholarly and user-oriented outputs with numerous examples of staff engaged in both. For
 instance, staff in the JMCR have produced academic publications appearing in top-rated
 journals and applied publications aimed at practitioners; they have also led on two of our
 submitted impact case studies (Hillenbrand, Money).

 To implement the overarching strategy outlined above, our primary aims from REF2014 were to:
     • Bolster key areas such as marketing, accounting and entrepreneurship with the
        appointment of new senior staff as well as growing the numbers of faculty in those sub-
        fields.
     • Strengthen our engagement with business, government and the third sector, embedding
        a culture of impact generation more deeply.
     • Further develop the supportive research environment that had been established.

 We have made significant strides in delivering on the strategic objectives as discussed in the
 remaining sections, but in summary, we have:
    • Grown the UOA considerably, hiring 40 new lecturers, 11 Associate Professors and eight
        full professors.
    • Substantially grown both the volume of outputs and the proportion in leading journals
        with higher visibility, producing over 100 outputs in journals rated at 4* or higher by the
        CABS/AJG, including 16 publications in ‘World Elite’ journals.
    • Raised the standard of research training offered as part of the Doctoral programme.
    • Developed new strategic collaborations with commercial and government partners and
        embedded engagement and impact more deeply within the activities of the research
        divisions.
    • Established school-wide research projects explicitly delivering media engagement on the
        four-day week and the ‘side hustle’ (people having an additional side-job).
    • Worked with a vast range of companies, third sector and government organisations to
        maximise the relevance and use of our research.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Made a strong commitment to open research, consistent with the University’s strategy, to
        enhance the visibility and replicability of our work.

 To develop our strategic objectives, we intend to build on our areas of strength and to support
 emerging new areas. For example, a football economics grouping was established in 2017 and
 now runs an annual conference, numerous workshops and an international (online) seminar
 series. The group involves staff from across the Prosperity & Resilience research theme. We are
 also pursuing collaborations across other themes within the University to develop joint research
 in areas such as economic history, food stakeholder expectations, and climate risk pricing.

 While developing our national and international scope and exposure, we recognise that we can
 achieve more in the future by expanding our links with local firms given our position in Reading,
 the fastest growing town economically in the UK, and within the Thames Valley region, home to
 the European headquarters for numerous multinationals. These companies are global, and
 therefore we will be able to achieve an international reach even though they are locally based
 and where we have a particular reputation and thus a comparative advantage. The case study
 by Brooks, working with a Reading-based fintech company via a KTP, provides an example of
 how this works in practice.

 We also acknowledge that we can do more to publicise our research, and we will shortly
 commence an initiative to produce video summaries of recent work to reach new and different
 audiences than through more academic publication channels. We have also worked more
 closely with The Conversation to produce podcasts and blogs on a variety of topics linked with
 our research strengths, resulting in 31 articles being published with 430,000 combined reads
 since 2014. This translation of sometimes esoteric research into a more palatable format should
 support wider engagement leading to an increased potential for impact generation.

 Impact strategy
 Conducting research aligned with the needs of user groups is part of the DNA of our
 organisation and is embodied in our marketing strapline of being the place ‘Where Business
 Comes to Life’. In its approach to impact, the Unit has built on the twin pillars of strong
 engagement with senior public policymakers and with managers in leading commercial and not-
 for-profit organisations. This dual approach to different non-academic audiences is derived from
 the different origins of the two constituent elements of the UOA.

 The Economics and IBS divisions have acquired a world-class reputation for advising senior
 policymakers and leading NGOs, delivering two of our submitted case studies (Meen, Narula).
 Both Henley and Economics have a deeply embedded standing for their work in applying
 economic frameworks to business policy, and its leading researchers (e.g., Casson,
 A.Kakabadse, Narula) are in high demand by policymakers around the world seeking to
 improve industrial policy. Henley also has an excellent reputation for its innovative tools and
 approaches for business strategy development. Its researchers are commissioned to assist
 world-leading corporations in designing and implementing major organisational change.
 Consequently, the current Henley Business School builds on the best of both political and
 corporate engagement to achieve impact, maximising the synergies between them and
 influencing a wider range of non-academic users. Most obviously, faculty are encouraged to
 engage with non-academic users of their research through the University’s Consultancy Policy,
 which allows up to forty days of consultancy work per annum.

 Dissemination, engagement and building long-term stable relationships of trust are our key
 ingredients to generate impact by first ensuring that our work reaches the right audiences. We
 have identified the research centres as the best organisational vehicles for continuing to
 strengthen and broaden our engagement with communities of non-academic users. ECRs, as a
 part of their mentoring by senior faculty, are included in engagement activities so that they can
 gain experience and understand the benefits of involving non-academic users in research
 planning.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have established a multi-stranded approach to the developing influence and impact through
 several channels:
    • Senior faculty undertaking advisory roles in government and NGO working
        groups: As described Section 4, our staff work with a wide range of policymakers and
        NGOs acting as advisors, committee members and in writing reports and policy papers,
        enabling them to draw on the counterparts’ expertise together with their own research
        knowledge and insights.
    • Co-creation of research: From their inception, the HCCM and JMCR have included
        user-members in developing research agendas and participating in the research. Since
        2014, the HCCM has served 75 different organisations, producing 18 research reports,
        five policy papers and 192 slide presentations from 36 events including 12 public
        conferences. Other Centres are now also adopting this approach. For instance, the IRC
        recently established the Berkshire Health Informatics Forum after collaborating with the
        Royal Berkshire NHS Trust, notably through successive Knowledge Transfer
        Partnerships. The co-creation of research was so well received by non-academic users
        that the HCCM and JMCR were able to begin charging a subscription fee to reinvest
        back into the Research Centres, now generating an annual income of c.£150,000.
    • Dissemination of research findings through Henley ‘white papers’ and practitioner
        conferences, for example, the HCCM and Director Forum make their research reports
        and models available to members as discussed in Section 4.

 Some senior appointments since 2014 have been made explicitly on the basis of their strong
 networks with government and companies and their track record of conducting research that
 makes a difference (e.g., A.Kakabadse, Laker). Impact training, mentoring for junior colleagues,
 discussions at PDRs and integration into annual personal research plans emphasise the value of
 impactful research for career development. For example, following previous all-staff initiatives,
 we organised a whole-day workshop for ECRs on engagement and impact, and plan to continue
 to hold these at regular intervals in order to strengthen the impact culture from the bottom up. A
 number of Visiting Fellows have been appointed from industry (e.g., Arundale and Bevan in the
 ICMA Centre) who share their inside knowledge of current issues of most relevance to firms in
 those sectors.

 The University has a Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme and associated impact
 team (see IES, Section 2.3) with the Prosperity & Resilience Theme having a dedicated impact
 officer (a PhD-qualified and experienced researcher in her own right). Financial support is
 available for projects at all stages of development where impact is likely or already emerging,
 and a total of £38,000 has been allocated since 2017. This can be used to pay for teaching
 buyouts, support for ‘desk research’ and gathering of information, organising events or other
 publicity.

 In future we will further build on Henley’s strong reputation and long history in the executive
 education market to develop joint research based on established and emerging relationships. By
 engaging in executive development programmes, staff are able to learn more about the real
 issues facing business and government departments, and clients gain insights from our latest
 research. For example, the Army Higher Education Pathway is being used as a conduit to
 develop research links in the leadership area; the associations with external stakeholders
 underpinning the case studies led by Hillenbrand and A.Kakabadse both arose from
 relationships with many companies including the John Lewis Partnership, Unilever and Zurich
 Insurance, established through executive education.

 We can also leverage our vast alumni network of more than 70,000 graduates in over 100
 countries, many of whom are now senior business leaders. The Henley Live platform, which
 features articles about our research, is used as a directed channel of engagement with industry
 to develop new collaborations where we already have a relationship.

 As outlined above, we have implemented several initiatives to embed the generation of impact
 more deeply across the school, and it is noteworthy that all six research divisions are returning

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at least one case study. Conducting research of relevance to non-academic users is encouraged
 and valued by the UOA and University for staff at all levels. Research engagement and impact is
 one of the criteria that staff can draw on when submitting cases for promotion; the University has
 established an annual Research Engagement and Impact Award to showcase and reward the
 leading examples of such work that have already taken place, which has raised the profile of
 user-oriented research.

 Open research
 The UOA has a strong commitment to the principles of open access research and has,
 alongside the University, invested heavily in its development. This includes a biennial University
 Open Research Conference, financial contributions for scholars who wish to publish their work in
 open access formats and the institutional repository to which all published work is uploaded
 (subject to publisher restrictions). Since its inception in 2010, more than 4,000 items from the
 UOA have been deposited, and these have resulted in well over 250,000 downloads.

 Research ethics and integrity
 A robust framework is in place to ensure that all research by staff and students is conducted
 ethically, with new projects using human subjects or human personal data required to be
 approved by the University’s Research Ethics Committee. A system of informal and formal peer
 review underpins our approach to research integrity and our annual Personal Development
 Review incorporates a strong professional standards aspect which provides an opportunity to
 review training needs. Staff are made aware of the values set out in the University Code of Good
 Practice in Research and responsibilities under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 through the University’s committee (IES, Section 2.2).

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Recruitment and retention of excellent staff is key to the Unit’s continued success. The core
 recruitment strategy aims to maintain and build upon existing areas of strength while
 simultaneously nurturing important, emerging fields. The appointment of ECRs with enormous
 potential ensures that the pool of activity is continually refreshed and capacity grows within each
 discipline while also generating a healthy balance of junior and more experienced staff. The
 UOA currently has 35% of staff at Professorial level, 26% Associate Professors and 40% at
 Lecturer level. Each research centre has a more than sufficient critical mass of staff so that it
 could continue to function effectively if one or more senior figures left. Strategic appointments of
 senior staff during the reporting period include Jansen and Laker in leadership, Rimmel in
 accounting, Mariano in entrepreneurship, Piscitello in international business and Clements in
 Economics. These areas were selected for funding at the professorial level due to a need for
 leadership in those sub-fields or seizing opportunities to hire outstanding individuals as the
 prospect arose.

 We have a strong commitment to recognising and rewarding excellent performance in research,
 and since 2014, 17 existing staff have been promoted to Associate Professor and 13 to full
 professor. Research successes are communicated to both internal and external audiences
 through a variety of means, including features in a regular staff newsletter (The Watercooler);
 the annual journalists’ day at the Henley Regatta, where recent topical research is featured;
 media work; the Henley and the University’s research communications websites and social
 media feeds.

 Staff development
 At School level in both Henley and SPEIR, we have numerous formal and informal mechanisms
 in place to support the career development of staff, building on University-wide policies and
 structures. All ECRs and Research Fellows are assigned a mentor to support and guide them for
 the duration of their probation; all other professional and academic staff have the opportunity to
 be mentored at any point if they wish. Reflecting our commitment to staff development, we have
 identified that 22 of current academic staff (permanent or fixed-term) were PhD students in the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UOA and this, together with the large number of staff who have been promoted over the period,
 is testament to the strength of support offered to staff throughout their careers. Indeed, several
 of our staff started as PhD students at Reading and have progressed to full professor level (Bell,
 Brooks, Della Giusta, Hillenbrand).

 All staff are required to complete a five-year personal research plan (PRP) and to update it
 annually; they also receive an annual performance development review (PDR). The PRPs in turn
 feed into the annual Operational Plans produced by each research division, to ensure that the
 plans are grounded in the activities that staff are actually engaged in. The PDR involves one-to-
 one discussions covering research (drawing information from the PRP as a starting point for
 discussion), teaching, and other areas. It allows the opportunity to reflect on progress over the
 past year, noting best practice to share and any development needs, identifying reasons for
 setbacks and offering guidance to overcome them, and setting challenging but achievable
 targets for the following year.

 While outputs in elite journals, engagement and impact, and grant funding are all valued
 activities, the Unit is not excessively prescriptive and individual targets are tailored to encourage
 specialisation according to the staff member’s particular skills and interests and the opportunities
 available in their sub-field. Although staff are encouraged to submit their research to journals
 with high impact factors to maximise the work’s visibility and readership, we place emphasis on
 the quality of the scholarship rather than the place of publication, and thus staff are supported in
 selecting the outlets most appropriate for their outputs, be they books, generalist or field
 journals. We seek to maximise the academic and non-academic reach by ensuring that all
 research outputs are discussed with our research communications team (three full-time staff),
 and a wide range of techniques including social media are used to ensure the widest possible
 dissemination.

 ECRs benefit from reduced teaching loads in their first two years following appointment as they
 establish or strengthen their research pipelines. The standard probation period for new lecturers
 is three years. They are given clear guidance about what is required to be made permanent
 members of staff, with the normal expectation that they will not only publish at least one output in
 the equivalent of an ABS 3* journal but also that they will have developed a stock of high-quality
 outputs at various stages of the process and will have been involved in making at least one
 external grant application as principal or co-investigator. It is common for senior staff to co-
 author with junior colleagues as part of the latter’s development path, and for staff at different
 career stages to co-apply for grant funding.

 The UOA employs small numbers of postdoctoral researchers (typically, c.10 at any one time),
 mostly on a fixed-term basis linked with externally funded projects, who therefore have a more
 fluid career progression. Post-docs are entitled to the same enhancement opportunities and
 funding as lecturing staff, and are full members of the academic communities in their divisions.
 They are assigned mentors (agreed after discussion with the mentee, and not their line
 manager), have annual PDRs, are able to apply for promotion, and are supported to deliver
 small amounts of teaching to develop their skills and experience of this activity. The University
 organises career development workshops specifically for them, and many have gone on to
 become permanent lecturers after their research contracts ended (e.g., Sangiorgi, Saraeva).
 The University was one of the first ten HEIs to receive the HR Excellence in Research Award
 (and has retained it ever since) in recognition of its implementation of the Concordat to support
 the Career Development of Researchers.

 A consistent and transparent workload model is employed throughout the UOA, with a baseline
 35% of time allocated for research, and frequent light/no teaching terms. Administrative duties
 are substituted against teaching, and workload credit is also given for other activities such as
 module convening, new teaching preparation and PGR supervision. Emphasis throughout
 workload planning is placed on professional development, with more junior staff encouraged to
 assume positions of responsibility, extensively supported, whenever they feel ready to do so.
 Staff can also apply for a sabbatical on a one-term-in-nine basis and use grant funding income

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to buy out teaching time. Sabbaticals have been used fruitfully on numerous occasions – for
 instance, Ghobadian visited the University of the South Pacific and the University of Cape Town
 and wrote a successful Leverhulme major research award; Vogel visited IESE Business School,
 Spain and Claremont Graduate University, USA, resulting in two new outputs with co-authors;
 Chung visited Yonsei University, South Korea for field study and data collection; Narula was
 awarded a Fellowship from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science and visited Keio
 University, Tokyo. During his time there he drafted three papers subsequently published in
 leading journals.

 At the University level, the Centre for Quality Support and Development and the People
 Development team in HR share joint responsibility for running a wide-ranging programme of
 events for all staff, including workshops on publishing in top journals. Research and Enterprise
 Services run regular seminars and other events on various aspects of the grant applications
 process, including funding opportunities, managing externally funded projects, managing
 Research Assistants, etc. A well-received series of workshops has been established at research
 theme-level, drawing upon successful applicants for research funding to inspire and scaffold our
 ECRs. As well as providing support, the University also seeks to celebrate achievement through
 annual prizes for the best outputs in each research theme by an early career researcher, as well
 as annual Research Engagement and Impact Awards.

 Through staff surveys and focus groups, we have made considerable efforts to understand the
 challenges that face our staff, and we have proposed actions for the future in order to address
 the issues raised. The Henley Hives has recently been established as a forum for staff
 engagement and well-being. Currently, it focusses on seven key areas:
     • Social collaboration
     • Learning and development
     • New starters and collaboration
     • Diversity and inclusion
     • Stress and well-being
     • Cross-team collaboration
     • Communication

 A recent successful change arising from this initiative was the New Starter Hives review of the
 staff induction process in 2019, which, according to survey feedback, resulted in a significant
 improvement in its effectiveness.

 We are proud of the relatively informal and collegial atmosphere in both Henley and SPEIR,
 which has allowed us to experience a prolonged period of stability in staff retention, and over the
 past five years, the annual turnover has been less than 5% of the permanent academic staff.
 Staff are given support and encouragement to achieve their full potential while retaining freedom
 to set their own research agendas. We have fostered an environment where colleagues routinely
 support each other’s career development, including internal seminar series and ‘brown bag’
 lunches where work in progress is presented. All research divisions hold their own weekly
 seminars which are advertised across the UOA to facilitate cross-attendance. Some
 departments hold regular writing retreats – an initiative we are keen to propagate more widely –
 where all research-active staff commit to two days away from other activities to focus on the
 mutual support of paper development, each presenting their ideas and problems they have
 encountered, with colleagues proposing solutions and ways forward.

 Candidates for promotion complete a form demonstrating how they have achieved the required
 quality standards for the level at which they are applying along nine criteria spanning citizenship,
 teaching and/or research. The Head of School then prepares a two-part contextual statement
 that details the expectations for staff in that discipline area. Staff have the opportunity to prepare
 a statement, agreed with their Head of Department, outlining any relevant exceptional
 circumstances that they wish to bring to the promotion panel’s attention (e.g., significant caring
 responsibilities). The scheme has two stages, with a School committee scoring each element
 and candidates progressing to the second University committee if a benchmark level is reached.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oral feedback is offered to any candidates who are unsuccessful, and candidates can appeal
 the decision based on any perceived procedural deficiency.

 Training and supervision of research students
 Doctoral students are an integral part of our research community, and we have made a strategic
 decision to invest resources in their support and development. Reading is a member of the
 ESRC’s South East Network for Social Science Doctoral Training Consortium (SeNSS), along
 with seven other universities in the region, and participates in three subject pathways:
 Management and Business, Economics, Geography. We have also developed innovative
 partnerships with three institutions to offer joint PhDs: Copenhagen Business School (Denmark),
 School of Management, Politecnico Milano (Italy), and the Moscow State Institute of
 International Relations (Russia).

 PhD students are often attracted externally by the programme’s reputation, through advertising,
 or drawn from our Master’s programmes, and are selected through a competitive application
 process. All research divisions offer several PhD scholarships each year, of equivalent value to
 ESRC awards. The amount in PhD support invested from our own funds is now close to £3m
 every year with over 40% of our students receiving scholarships from internal funds. This
 investment in doctoral training has led to the creation of a vibrant and growing community of
 PhD students who play a vital role in the life of the divisions and also participate as Research
 Assistants in funded research projects. Growth in PhD recruitment is reflected in the number of
 students graduating (see Figure below), which has grown to 242.5 between 2013/14 and
 2019/20 compared with 79 in the previous REF period. Full-time submission rates within 48
 months are around 70%, with 90% of students passing their viva examination with no or minor
 corrections.

 Students are assigned two supervisors (one acting as the primary supervisor), who guide the
 academic research and provide mentoring to the student (e.g., advice on research design and
 ethics, publication, conference presentation and network building). Supervisors provide the key
 contact point with students, but they operate within a clearly defined framework that is carefully
 managed by both the School and the University. Along with an overall PGR Director at the
 School level, all research divisions in Henley and SPEIR have a Director of Postgraduate
 Research responsible for overseeing PhD programmes, providing a further line of support for
 students and monitoring the provision of research training and supervision within their area.

 Since 2014, we have enhanced the training offered to PhD students, and all are now required to
 undertake four assessed 20-credit modules in the first year, designed to support their critical
 engagement with the academic literature and the quantitative and qualitative research methods
 commonly adopted within their chosen field. In addition, students attend training organised by
 the University’s Graduate School as part of the Reading Researcher Development Programme,
 covering study skills, communication skills, personal development, etc. Further opportunities are
 afforded by our involvement in the SeNSS DTP which offers training focused on specific
 pathways, an annual conference and networking opportunities.

 All students undergo an annual review of their progress, involving a presentation to peers and
 staff with a formal discussant and the submission of a draft chapter and progress report to an
 independent assessor. The student, supervisor and assessor reports are considered by the PGR
 Committee in each division, which provides recommendations on continued registration to the
 Graduate School. Upgrades of registration from unspecified higher degree to PhD take place in
 students’ second year, with a longer and more formal presentation and interview by two
 independent assessors from among the faculty.

 Students are invited to present their research at the annual Henley Doctoral Conference
 (initiated in 2017) attended by staff and students across the School, as well as a yearly research
 workshop held by each division. They are also encouraged to present work at major academic
 conferences in main sessions or doctoral workshops and receive £1000 per year of funding for
 training and conference activity. The University hosts an annual conference at which doctoral

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students from all disciplines showcase their work, and prizes are awarded in categories ranging
 from ‘researcher of the year’ to the ‘3-minute thesis’ competition, and SeNSS students also
 participate in the annual network conference. The structured provision of training opportunities at
 both the school level and in the University’s Graduate School is designed to develop broader
 employability skills as well as research expertise. Involvement in research centre activities also
 provides a route for PhD students into a range of academic and practitioner networks, and PhD
 students from the UOA have co-authored more than 100 outputs with academic staff since 2014.

 The quality of research produced by our PhD students has been recognised through various
 prizes and awards. These have included Palgrave Best Paper Award at Academy of
 International Business, UK & Ireland Annual Conference; Prize for the Most Original New Work
 in the Doctoral Colloquium at the Academy of International Business, UK & Ireland Conference;
 Best Developmental Paper Award from the Leadership Development track at the British
 Academy of Management; Highly Commended Award Winner for Doctoral Research in the
 Emerald/European Foundation for Management Development awards; the Coleman Prize
 (2020) for best PhD in business history undertaken in the UK; and a former PhD student from
 Henley was awarded a prestigious Fulbright scholarship.

 Graduates from our PhD programme since 2014 have taken up their first academic posts as
 lecturers or post-docs in universities in the UK such as Bath, Belfast, Birmingham, Imperial,
 King’s College London, Oxford, Portsmouth, Sheffield, Sussex, and Warwick. More than 80
 graduating students are employed in academic roles in their home countries including Canada,
 Chile, China, France, Germany, Ghana, Hong Kong, Ireland, Jordan, Korea, Kuwait, Libya,
 Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Thailand and the USA. Graduates have also taken up posts in
 prestigious private sector or government organisations (e.g., Credit Suisse, Deloitte, Ernst &
 Young, the European Commission, the Bank of England).

 Doctorate of Business Administration (DBA)
 Henley’s DBA programme, running since 1992, has over 200 graduates. It attracts individuals in
 senior-level leadership or consultancy roles and serves as a route into academia for professional
 managers wishing to make a career change, with seven of the programme’s graduates having
 been on the full-time teaching staff at Henley during the REF2021 reporting period. The
 programme has a strategic partnership with the Rotman School of Management, University of
 Toronto and currently has an intake of c.16 students per year. The total student body is drawn
 from 28 countries (with 71 current DBAs and 23 current preparatory Master’s year students).
 DBA students have gained highly praised achievements, such as meeting with the Canadian
 Prime Minister to discuss diversity issues (Georgette Zinaty, 2017); being recognised in the
 AACSB’s list of Influential Leaders (Paul Orajiaka, 2018); being recognised among Automotive
 News Canada’s list of Industry All Stars (Raed Kadri, 2018); numerous journal and press
 publications.

 The programme is structured into two distinct phases to reflect the professional background of
 most students. The first phase is an MSc in Business and Management Research, which
 provides training in research methods, requires students to engage critically with the academic
 literature, study a range of methodologies, undertake a detailed pilot study and create a full
 research proposal. During this phase, students are attached to one of the subject groups and
 appointed a mentor to guide them through the transition to academic study and to develop their
 proposed topic of doctoral research.

 Typically, around two-thirds of students completing the MSc choose to progress to the DBA
 phase, which involves producing a thesis under the guidance of two supervisors. DBA students
 are part-time, and so a less regular presence on campus than PhDs, though they are expected
 to present their research at a doctoral symposium at least once a year and are encouraged to be
 members of the academic community including integration into the relevant research centre and
 attending research seminars.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2012, the Henley DBA programme was formally accredited by AMBA and re-accredited in
 2019 (one of only nine DBA programmes globally to have gained this accreditation). The 2019
 panel congratulated the School on sustained, strong recruitment and commented that, ‘with the
 average number of withdrawals and deferrals per intake being less than one participant recently,
 it is clear the School has created an environment where students can progress … The DBA’s
 continued success … is an admirable achievement, and testament to the efficient management
 of the programme’.

 Table 1 provides detail of the number of awards per year and type during this REF cycle,
 including two EngD where staff in the unit are co-supervisors.

 Table 1: Number doctoral awards per year and type
           2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 20161/7 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
  PhD         26.7         20     19.5     31.66   31   34    31.5
  DBA            4          7         8         4   8    7       7
  EngD           2          1                          0.5
  Total       32.7         28     27.5     35.66   39 41.5    38.5


 Equality and diversity
 The principles of Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) underpin all our activities. The Henley staff body
 is characterised by its diverse nature, spanning 39 different nationalities with 52% of faculty
 being non-British; 49% of its core faculty are women and in the 2017 Financial Times Executive
 MBA rankings, Henley was placed second in the world for its percentage of female faculty,
 showing its strong commitment to gender equality.

 Demonstrating its commitment to advance women's careers, Henley has been awarded the
 Athena SWAN Bronze Chartermark; Economics (as part of SPEIR) is currently applying for
 Bronze. Institutionally, the University is a Silver Athena SWAN Charter holder, is a member of
 the Race Equality Charter, and is the 10th ranked UK university in the Stonewall Workplace
 Equality Index (2020) (IES, Section 3.2).

 Henley created the role of Director of D&I and established a D&I Committee in 2017, and SPEIR
 has recently appointed a School D&I Lead. The Committee meets termly and oversees our
 activities in this area. The objectives of the D&I Committee are to:
     • Implement its strategy for achieving greater diversity and inclusion in the School through
          the protected characteristics of the Equality Act 2010.
     • Communicate these actions effectively to build awareness among both staff and
          students.
     • Identify channels for support.
     • Harness ideas for activities/improvements to be heard and acted upon.

 The D&I Committee's work is now well embedded within Henley structures and has its own web
 pages providing a ‘one-stop-shop’ for relevant information; the Henley Director of D&I is an ex
 officio member of the School’s senior management committee. Together with the strides in HR
 policy made at University level, we believe that we have made considerable progress in
 advancing women’s careers in recent years. We also have initiatives in place to support female
 students, including our partnership with the 30% Club to provide talented women with the
 opportunity of a fully funded place to study on the Executive MBA Programme. We established a
 number of initiatives in support of our D&I objectives, including:
      • In January 2019, we organised an event featuring talks under the theme ‘Embedding
         Diversity and Inclusion into the Way We Work’ delivered by speakers from inside and
         outside the University.
      • We organise an annual event, now in its third year, entitled the ‘Changing Role of
         Women in Business’, where professional women share their insights on life as a female
         leader in business.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Over the last two years (the only period for which we have precise data), Henley has recruited
 almost twice as many women as men in academic roles. Considerably fewer women have
 applied for academic roles, although more female than male candidates have been appointed to
 them; 10% of women applicants in 2016-17 were interviewed for posts and were successful (8%
 in 2017-18), compared with 5% for men (7% in 2017-18). Within the Economics Research
 Division there is an equal balance of female and male academic staff.

 While we seek such equality of representation at all levels and across other dimensions of
 diversity, historically, the Business School had a relatively low proportion of female professors,
 although this to some extent reflects the national pattern in the subject area as the major
 accreditation bodies in both the USA and Europe report similar issues. Nonetheless, we are
 committed to taking positive actions to improve this situation, and there are strong grounds to
 expect improvement in the future. We have recruited two new female professors since 2018, and
 six women were promoted to full professor in 2018 and 2019 combined. The large number of
 female Associate Professors provides a strong pipeline for subsequent promotion. For both
 advertised posts and as part of the University’s annual personal titles process, we seek out and
 encourage applications from suitably qualified individuals who for some reason may otherwise
 have been reluctant to come forward (with each Head of Department carefully reviewing the
 faculty list to identify such individuals), and this particularly relates to women.

 We have also made progress in improving the ethnic diversity of the faculty body, with 33% of
 the REF2021 submitted staff being Black or Ethnic Minority Asian compared with 23% for
 REF2014 and 61% of the staff being international, up from 50% for REF2014.

 Henley Business School has a number of formal and informal mechanisms to support maternity
 and parental leave which go well beyond statutory entitlements. All eligible employees are
 entitled to 52 weeks’ maternity leave; adoption leave is treated the same as maternity, with same
 entitlements including pay and leave allowance. 25% of the University’s funding to schools to
 meet the costs of maternity leave or shared parental leave is ring-fenced to aid the transition
 back to work for the individual in a manner to be determined via discussion with the returner.
 The use of this funding can include relief from teaching or administrative duties, funds for
 conference attendance, including additional childcare costs, additional training, etc. The funding
 can also be used to provide support to re-assimilate the colleague back into work and to
 underpin their forward career. Our data show that, in a typical year, more than 90% of female
 academic staff return to work for at least a year after maternity and 100% returned for at least six
 months. More generally, the Business School seeks a supportive environment that goes well
 beyond the legal minimum for those with caring responsibilities. Flexibility can be formal (written
 into contract) or informal (agreed with line manager).

 This REF submission comprises all staff with significant responsibility for research as defined in
 our Code of Practice. A transparent process to select outputs was developed in line with the
 Code. Utilising our online outputs selection tool, each member of staff was invited to nominate
 up to ten of their outputs for consideration. These outputs were examined by a Peer Reading
 Group, convened in 2018, comprising members of staff experienced in research evaluation, and
 spanning all research divisions in the UOA. The Group, led by a REF2014 sub-panel member,
 conducted an extensive calibration and training exercise and then rated more than 600 outputs,
 each of which was independently read by two separate Group members who conferred to reach
 an agreed score. Output selection was made primarily by optimising the aggregate score, and
 the submitted output portfolio is balanced across all parts of the UOA, representing the full range
 of our research. We reflected on the outcomes of the University’s Interim Equality Impact
 Assessment (2020) and bias analysis of the final selection (2021), which showed no statistically
 significant differences by protected characteristics.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income and funding strategies
 While all academic staff on teaching and research contracts are encouraged to apply for external
 research funding at a level appropriate to their career stage, our approach is to focus on
 applications where researchers have both the strong desire to apply and the appropriate
 background to provide credibility and with particular support and encouragement for ECRs. This
 follows from our strategy to seek ‘high quality’ research income from a diverse range of sources
 rather than simply maximising the total amount. Thus, while each division has a research income
 target (which have been met on aggregate over the REF assessment period), no targets or
 requirements are imposed on individual researchers or research centres. After the FEC shortfall
 is covered, all the remaining overhead is distributed to the division where the grant is held and
 can then be used to fund further research activity. Funded research has provided the genesis for
 numerous submitted outputs in, for example, historical finance, and retail investing. It has also
 formed the basis of the submitted case studies led by Brooks, Li, Meen.

 Support for applying for research grants is mainly through the University’s Research and
 Enterprise Services (RES), which provides a dedicated team of highly experienced Research
 Development Managers, many of whom previously worked for funding bodies, providing expert
 advice on all aspects of the application process and necessary ingredients for success. RES
 support includes identifying funding opportunities, costing advice, separate guidance for drafting
 impact and data management plans, and detailed reviewing of draft grant applications. RES
 organises a termly programme of workshops specifically for the Business School covering
 various aspects of the grant application process; recent examples include sessions aimed
 specifically at ECRs considering their first application, and on engagement and impact. The
 University also operates various schemes to provide pump-priming funding for pilot and proof of
 concept work leading to grant applications via its Research Endowment Trust Fund.
 Opportunities for teaching buyouts offer additional incentives to apply.

 The University runs an Undergraduate Research Opportunities Scheme, which provides funded
 summer placements for undergraduate students to work on research projects led by academic
 staff. Across the University, more than 600 students have been supported since its inception,
 and it has provided excellent training for students interested in pursuing doctoral studies or a
 research career, sometimes leading to joint publications with staff. The latter also benefit from
 the scheme, allowing access to short-term research assistance, and scholars, including Bell and
 Moore, have used the scheme to facilitate their output production.

 A group of experienced faculty who have had success in major grants and/or experience in grant
 panels or review provide support through a Prosperity & Resilience research theme Grant
 Development College by refereeing applications and providing constructive critical feedback
 prior to submission. This operates as a two-stage scheme, first giving feedback to an expression
 of interest, and then a detailed review of the full application draft. This scheme encouraged and
 supported four applications to the AHRC and ESRC (both ECR-focused and open call) within the
 UOA in the year 2018/19, two of which were recently awarded (Bell, AHRC research grant of
 £777k, £330k to Reading; Clot, ESRC new investigator grant, £225k). It is understood how
 competitive the landscape is now for research grant awards and thus recognition is given to
 academics for engagement with the application process whether successful or not. Indicators of
 quality applications, e.g., the second stage of Leverhulme or favourably reviewed RCUK
 applications, can be included as evidence in a case for promotion.

 Headline research income has been consistent over the period since 2014 against a backdrop of
 increasing competition for funding with an average of £665k per year captured. Income has been
 generated from a diverse range of sources, with a balance between government-related and
 corporate funders, which ensures its sustainability and suitability for a variety of purposes.
 Income has been obtained from prestigious refereed bodies such as the AHRC, British
 Academy, British Council Creative Spark, ESRC, Innovate, Leverhulme, NCSC as well as from
 companies such as Deloitte.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have identified KTPs as an area where we have perhaps been under-ambitious in the past:
 five such projects have been held within the Business School over the reporting period with four
 of those in the informatics area on semantic technology and text analytics and on knowledge
 management and collaborative systems. Project partners are typically SMEs and the research
 advanced their technical solutions provision and digital transformations. We believe we could
 enjoy much greater success in the future, leading to impact alongside co-created academic
 outputs, linked with our approach to engaging with end-users directly, understanding their needs
 and producing research accordingly. We recently ran a workshop with presentations from the KT
 Advisor (Innovate UK) and previous KTP lead academics in order to stimulate further interest
 and applications from colleagues.

 Our applied research centres, including the HCCM and JMCR, generate income through a
 subscription model where companies, charities and public sector organisations pay an annual
 membership providing them with access to faculty expertise and the latest outputs produced by
 the centres. The fees support the production of research of relevance to members, and also fund
 wider scholarly activities such as academic journal publications. Work funded in this way has led
 to a string of papers published in leading journals, such as those by Hillenbrand and Money on
 responsible tax and stakeholder engagement. We have a strong commitment to the continuing
 success of funding from this route with dedicated support staff responsible for managing the
 relationships underpinning the centres.

 Research infrastructure and facilities
 The University has made a substantial investment in new buildings and infrastructure since
 2014, including a £40m library refurbishment completed in 2019. Since 2008, the Business
 School itself has been housed in a dedicated £20m building, alongside the ICMA Centre, which
 had its own extension to its award-winning building completed in 2008. Together with a
 redevelopment of the Academic Resource Centre at the Greenlands site, these provide an
 outstanding place for research with individual offices for all academic staff and several PhD
 student rooms. There are extensive informal networking areas for discussion and debate, and
 cutting-edge teaching spaces also serve as high-quality conference and event facilities.

 In addition, the Business School has made a substantial investment in support for research
 through a variety of means. Important to developing the research culture and as discussed
 above, we offer almost £3m of PhD scholarships annually (including the cost of fee waivers) and
 invest almost £120k per year in PhD student conference funding, contributing significantly to the
 research culture and vitality.

 All staff (both teaching-and-research and teaching intensive) receive funding into their staff
 development accounts, typically £1500pa, which can be used to finance conference attendance,
 research visits or a limited amount of research assistance; top-ups are available to fund further
 conferences on an as-needed basis and in total around £55k per year is provided for this
 activity. Additional financial support is available through the University’s Research Endowment
 Trust Fund (RETF). This internal fund of around £1million per annum is distributed to strategic
 priorities and has a number of open competitions for pump-priming funds every year (IES,
 Section 4.3). An example of success is Wese-Simen, awarded a 2020 Fellowship in 2018/19,
 allowing him teaching buyout that provided the time and space allowing him to publish two
 papers in highly prestigious journals; Bell was awarded £5,500 in 2018 to pump-prime a
 successful £777k AHRC research project grant awarded in July 2019; Godley, Kalyuzhnova
 and Belitski were awarded £180,000 from Creative Spark following RETF pump-priming.

 As well as working with the University’s press office, the Business School has its own PR and
 marketing team of three, to disseminate research findings to the most appropriate non-academic
 audiences. Media training is available for all staff with specialist support available where needed
 for particular work. This increased investment in disseminating research to non-academic
 audiences is already leading to a dramatic increase in the Unit’s media coverage from around
 300 items per year to almost 1000 over the 2014 to 2019 period. This coverage included

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 features in the national press, including the Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, Daily Express,
 Guardian, etc.

 As well as the University’s Knowledge Transfer Centre, Henley also has its own business
 development team seeking opportunities for collaboration with external organisations. For
 example, academics from ICMA Centre and Marketing & Reputation, led by Bell, worked jointly
 with the Financial Conduct Authority to co-create an MSc in Financial Regulation based on our
 research leadership in financial market regulation and consumer behaviour. The programme has
 involved academics delivering research-led teaching from the ICMA Centre, M&R and
 Economics. The research reputations of Hawkins, A.Kakabadse, Passmore and Pendleton
 have led directly to involvement in executive education delivery based on their research.

 The Business School spends more than £300,000 p.a. on specialist data services and electronic
 library resources. Staff have access to Business Source Complete, Lexis Nexis, Proquest,
 Bloomberg, Reuters, Datastream, Thomson One Banker and (through Wharton Research Data
 Services) CRSP, Compustat and Optionmetrics. A vast array of software packages is available
 for data analysis through the University’s ‘Apps Anywhere’ initiative, including various
 econometric software, NVivo, Matlab and Qualtrics.

 The University is home to a range of archives and collections that are regularly used by faculty.
 In addition to the extensive collections relating to agri-business and the food industry held at the
 Museum of English Rural Life, the University acquired the WHSmith archive, the papers of John
 H. Dunning, and the Lyndall Urwick papers. These have underpinned much of the work
 undertaken by the Centre for International Business History and have resulted in a stream of
 outputs by Miskell, Scott and Walker.

 As part of the Prosperity & Resilience theme, the Business School benefits from the recent
 establishment of the BESS Lab, a facility to enable experimental research to be conducted, and
 further encouraging interdisciplinary work in this area.

 The Business School also works with the Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and
 Neurodynamics (CINN) in Psychology, which has access to an MRI scanner that was used to
 evaluate the brain activity of business leaders (project by Hillenbrand and Money). The
 Informatics and Economics research divisions also make extensive use of the University’s cloud
 computing facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 Staff from the six divisions work with an enormous range of colleagues in other parts of the
 University, other UK universities and internationally. Numerous initiatives have been established
 to facilitate interdisciplinary work, and Henley has many fruitful cross-collaborations. The
 founding of the overarching Prosperity & Resilience social science research theme has
 increased opportunities for interactions with other scholars, including joint seminars and
 workshops.

 There is much work conducted within the University but across schools, such as Bell and
 Casson who work with History on medieval housing markets; Collins and Della Giusta with
 Education and Law on gender; Lazar with Mathematics on the pricing of derivatives instruments;
 Mariani with Computer Science; Newton with Law; Rook and Sangiorgi with Psychology in the
 areas of resilience and behavioural finance respectively; Money with CINN; Arch with English
 Literature on responses to the financial crisis. More recently, the football research cluster
 (headed by Bell, Reade) has led to the establishment of a University-level initiative including
 academics from Economics, the ICMA Centre, IBS and LOB research divisions, which has
 resulted in funding applications for a multidisciplinary sports, society and culture research centre.
 This initiative has the potential to result in significant impact as well as new knowledge through
 our links with Reading Football Club and the League Managers’ Association. In early 2020 the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team seized the opportunity presented by the COVID-19 pandemic to create the Reading Online
 Sports Economics Seminar (ROSES). Their initial call for papers was over-subscribed and they
 now run well-attended weekly meetings featuring talks from scholars in the UK, Europe and USA
 presented live and on YouTube.

 A particular example of this sort of cross-disciplinary collaboration is the ICMA Centre’s initiative
 between medieval historians and finance academics that challenged existing literature and drew
 parallels with modern financial markets, providing lessons for contemporary policy issues – e.g.,
 on the origins and development of real estate bubbles, financial crises and liquidity issues,
 modelling exchange rates and the determinants of interest rates. This series of projects, led by
 Bell and Brooks, has drawn over £1m of research funding from the ESRC, AHRC and
 Leverhulme, and has been the subject of much media interest; recent appointments (Arch,
 Moore) have cemented the Centre’s position as pioneers in historical finance.

 The interdisciplinary Centre for Institutions and Economic History is led from Economics with
 members from the ICMA Centre, LOB, and IBS as well as from other research divisions
 (Archaeology, History). On the institutions side, it focuses on assessing institutional
 arrangements between markets, governments, and non-governmental organisations, addressing
 issues including: how to engender trust in institutions and society at large; the responses of
 households, firms and communities within developing countries to institutional change; and the
 management and regulation of financial institutions. The historical aspects of the Centre’s work
 provide rigorous analysis and long-run historical perspectives on topical issues covering an
 extensive chronological period. Members of CIEH have been involved in several collaborative
 projects with government departments and international organisations including the Department
 for Trade and Industry, HM Treasury, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, the European
 Commission, UNCTAD, UN-ECLAC, and the World Bank. The Centre collaborates closely with
 the Dunning Centre on the economics of international business (Casson’s post is a joint
 appointment between the Economics and IBS research divisions).

 Recently we have developed a concept of working across the research divisions on ‘hot topics
 for business’, to bring cross-disciplinary insights to contemporary issues in management. This
 has led to highly media-cited work on the ‘side hustle’ and the four-day working week.
 Additionally, we have a headline topic around the ‘world of work’ which cuts across our research
 divisions and organises an annual conference showcasing our research alongside external
 speakers. Our researchers respond to opportunities when they arise – for instance, Rook
 worked on a unique research project with a cross-Atlantic rowing team, Heads Together and
 Row, to investigate team resilience under extreme pressure.

 All research divisions hold weekly seminars with both internal and external speakers, providing
 opportunities for researchers, including ECRs, to gain feedback on their work at an early stage
 of development. Research centres typically organise at least one major international conference
 per year in addition to other more specialist events and workshops. These conferences,
 collectively attracting thousands of delegates from across the globe, cover a vast range of fields
 including business history (Fifteenth-Century England; Fashion and the Supply Chain: A
 Business History; War and Peace in Organisational Memory); CSR (Social Responsibility, Ethics
 and Sustainable Business); finance (Cryptocurrency Research Conference); accounting (the
 23rd Financial Reporting and Business Communication BAFA FARSIG conference);
 organisational behaviour (BAM OB Doctoral Colloquium; OB Spotlight on Diversity and
 Inclusion); International Business (International Business Meets International Trade; 5th and 7th
 UNCTAD International Business Conference; 44th Academy of International Business
 Conference). Other conferences aim primarily to unite academics and practitioners such as the
 annual JMCR Conference that has attracted high-profile speakers from government, the media
 and the private sector as well as scholars. Faculty attend and present at international
 conferences as a normal activity, with well over 100 presentations in a typical year.

 We also collaborate with universities across the South-East through our involvement in the
 SeNSS Doctoral Training Centre and joint training for doctoral students. Additionally, we

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regularly host visiting scholars from a wide variety of institutions. In particular, the Dunning
 Centre has had a research visitor programme since 2010 with an emphasis on promoting
 collaborative research, attracting leading early and mid-career researchers from around the
 world through extended visits. Since 2010, it has hosted 25 such scholars as Dunning Fellows
 and 10 Rugman Fellows.

 Our scholars work with researchers from around the world. Since 2014, almost three-quarters of
 all outputs produced by the UOA were co-authored with colleagues outside the institution. Staff
 have held more than 40 visiting positions at universities across 20 countries all over Europe and
 as far afield as Australia, Dubai, Israel, Mexico and the USA. The HARP research centre has
 developed collaborations with the Lloyds Banking Group Centre for Responsible Business at
 Birmingham University, accounting researchers from Royal Holloway, Sheffield University
 Management School, the Center for Finance, Corporate Governance & Sustainability at Yildiz
 Technical University Istanbul, as well as the Professional Accounting Practices and
 Sustainability Group at the University of Sköde.

 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Section 1 highlights the frameworks that we have established to maximise the reach of our
 research in influencing policy and practice, and in addition to the submitted impact case studies,
 colleagues at Reading have led or been involved with numerous other research projects that
 have made significant contributions to scholarship and the economy or society.

 Many of the discipline’s intellectual foundations in international business were laid by scholars
 associated with the ‘Reading School’ with current research-based within the John H. Dunning
 Centre for International Business. The Centre houses scholars such as Brewster, Casson,
 Castellani, Narula and Verbeke exploring key issues related to the geographical location,
 management structures and business strategies of multinational firms. Their work has achieved
 a far-reaching impact both academically (Google citations > 100,000) and in terms of policy
 development, for instance, with OECD, UNCTAD and the World Bank.

 Several of the faculty hold learned society fellowships – for example, A.Kakabadse and
 Passmore are Fellows of the British Psychological Society and the former is also a Fellow of the
 British Academy of Management; Lane is a Fellow of the Operations Research Society;
 Ghobadian is the recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award from the British Academy of
 Management; Clements is a Fellow of the International Association for Applied Econometrics.
 Finally, Meen, Casson and Ghobadian hold prestigious Fellowships: Ghobadian and Meen of
 the Academy of Social Sciences and Casson of the British Academy and the Royal Society of
 Arts.

 Staff are deeply embedded within their subject areas, being actively involved with learned
 societies and other professional organisations. For example, Rimmel is a member of the
 Corporate Reporting Committee of the European Accounting Association; Casson is Chair of
 the Assessors’ Panel for British Academy-Leverhulme Small Research Grants in Business and
 Management Studies; Della Giusta was the Deputy Chair of the Conference of Heads of
 University Departments of Economics (CHUDE); Godley is Convenor of Corley Prize,
 Association of Business Historians; Passmore is a Committee member of the British
 Psychological Society and Chair of the European University Coaching Network; Castellani is a
 Member of Executive Board of Academy of International Business UK & Ireland; Piscitello
 chairs the European International Business Academy; Walker is Co-Chair of the CABS Journal
 List and Secretary of the Association of Business Historians; Newton is currently President of
 the Association of Business Historians; Miskell was elected to the Council of the European
 Business History Association.

 Reading academics have shown a commitment to developing their subject area from the
 grassroots by their involvement in doctoral training networks and symposia. For example, IBS
 has been running a series of intensive masterclasses at Reading for PhD students and recent
 post-docs. These consist of four sets of two-and-a-half-day courses on conceptual issues and

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 current debates in particular aspects of International Business taught by Reading’s leading
 intellectual figures in that field including Brewster, Casson, Castellani, Narula, Piscitello,
 Verbeke. These courses are free to affiliated partners, and IBS provides travel and living costs
 for up to five students per year, sponsored by the Alan Rugman Memorial Fund. Since its
 inception in 2015, the programme has educated over 270 students from 49 countries, providing
 competitive scholarships to more than 15 participants. It is a compulsory part of training for PhD
 students in IB and is available to students from cognate areas. Henley, jointly with the University
 of Leeds, sponsors the Peter Buckley and Mark Casson AIB Dissertation Award for the best PhD
 thesis within the Academy of International Business.

 Academic staff also make a major contribution to scholarship in their subject areas by editing or
 acting as associate editor for journals in their fields. More than 40 act as associate editors while
 several are the main editors of leading field journals: Han is Consulting Editor for the
 International Small Business Journal; Liu is Senior Editor, Management and Organization
 Review; Passmore is Editor of the International Coaching Psychology Review; Prokopczuk is
 Founding Editor of the Journal of Commodity Markets; N.Kakabadse is co-Editor of the
 European Management Review and Editor of Problems and Perspectives in Management;
 Newton was recently appointed Co-Editor of Business History; Miskell has been Editor-in-Chief
 of Management and Organizational History since 2015; Narula is Editor-in-Chief of the
 Multinational Business Review and Area Editor of the Journal of International Business Studies;
 Verbeke is Editor in Chief of this flagship journal.

 Colleagues in the UOA have been involved in drafting major policy briefings for government – for
 instance, Longhi co-wrote reports on the ethnicity and disability pay-gaps for the Equality and
 Human Rights Commission; Woodrow drafted a report for the British Medical Association on
 Bullying and Harassment at Work; A.Kakabadse led a major inquiry into the functioning of the
 UK Government, ‘Is Government Fit for Purpose?’, under the auspices of the Public
 Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee and the Cabinet Office.

 Faculty have frequently been consulted by the UK and other governments when gathering
 evidence to formulate policy. Lane is a member of the select Home Office Science Advisory
 Council, providing the Permanent Secretary with independent advice to improve the quality of
 the science that informs government policy. Sutcliffe was the Academic Expert invited to
 provide evidence to the UCU-UUK Valuation Discussion Forum concerning USS. In the
 healthcare area, Dalton contributed academic input and oversight of a publication on NHS
 Improvement, ‘Valued Care in Mental Health: Improving for excellence, a national mental health
 improvement model’, NHS England. Li has acquired a Joint Academic Board Collaborative
 Innovation Fund grant (a pump-priming initiative between the University and Royal Berkshire
 Hospital (RBH) NHS Trust to predict blood glucose variability for people living with Type 1
 diabetes) and a PhD studentship from RBH. In addition, the informatics group has been
 developing a research collaboration with Oracle through Henley’s Patronage Programme and
 works with the Oxford Academic Health Network and with the Technology and Information
 Management group at Royal Holloway. The JMCR has been called upon by various bodies to
 provide research expertise in governance and how it relates to education, public health,
 charitable organisations and sport governing bodies.

 Money sits on the Government Communication Service (GCS) Strategy and Evaluation Council,
 which has the remit of improving government communication; recently, he has worked with the
 Cabinet Office advising on the COVID-19 response. Scott was an invited member of a panel of
 experts to advise the Bank of England Governor regarding the archival preservation of Monetary
 Policy Committee transcripts. Narula was Senior Adviser to the UNCTAD World Investment
 Report (2017-19), a contributor, World Bank-UNCTAD Knowledge Notes project, and a member
 of the Advisory Group on Innovation and Inclusive Growth, OECD (2015-16). He was also part of
 the EC expert group on Key Long-term Transformations in Research, Innovation and Higher
 Education (2014-15). Casson has provided advice to the Department for Transport on railway
 timetabling and is an Associate Member of the Rail Delivery Group’s Passenger Demand
 Forecasting Council. The EARG group has worked in collaboration with the Bank of England, the

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fondation Banque de France, the European Central Bank, the Money, Macro and Finance
 Research Group as well as with other international, national and local research and
 policymaking institutions.

 Castellani acted as Expert Advisor to a Joint Research Centre of the European Commission on
 a study of Internationalisation of R&D Investments in Urban Areas Worldwide and as Consultant
 for London Economics, conducting an analysis of the economic impact of FDI for the
 Department for International Trade. He also acted as a consultant to the National Institute of
 Economic and Social Research on a study that evaluated the impact of trade and investment
 assistance on the UK economy, and is a member of the private sector research organisation,
 High-Level Group on Trade Policy Innovation. Greve provided research advice on two
 collaborative academia-industry projects (GDC I and II) funded by the Swiss Federal Office for
 Gender Equality. Chung acted as Overseas Advisory Fellow for the Samsung Economic
 Research Institute, a policy-related think-tank in South Korea. Day has partnered with the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply to develop category management best practice;
 Casson is Chair of Trustees for the Business Enterprise Heritage Trust.

 Numerous staff have multi-faceted links with firms, providing executive education services to
 support development of the firm’s strategy and operations. Colleagues make use of their own
 research when providing the executive education for which Henley is renowned, so that their
 work reaches a wide audience who can take the ideas on board and use them in their own
 practice. This includes Passmore on coaching, Dalton and Jansen on leadership, and Day and
 Greve on strategy. The HCCM facilitates the in-depth exchange of knowledge between
 corporate members (business practitioners in senior positions), industry thought-leaders and
 academic experts to define and research current challenges in customer excellence. In spring
 2019, a strategic decision was taken to set up a termly high-level academic-practitioner advisory
 board meeting to further the reach of the HCCM in terms of its academic outputs, its impact on
 practice from research and its links to executive education. The HCCM has developed a
 community of interested organisations (including Capita, ING, Kelly Services, Mercedes Benz
 and Microsoft) to fund and collaborate in conducting and then disseminating research findings.
 Money co-founded the JMCR in 2000, developing the subject area of ‘reputation’. The JMCR
 has since engaged with a wide range of organisations including Clydesdale Bank, SABMiller,
 UNICEF and others, co-creating new models and influencing practice through innovative
 corporate programmes.




                                                                                           Page 21
