Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at Chichester sits within the inter-disciplinary Institute of Arts and Humanities, led by
 Director of Arts and Humanities Prof Hugo Frey, who had previously served as Head of History
 until 2017. Frey’s leadership of the Institute has allowed the History unit to build upon a
 successful return in 2014, which provided a productive model across the institution as the most
 successful internal score for environment at the University of Chichester. This History unit model
 – encouraging inter-disciplinary research which engages beyond the institution while taking care
 to develop researchers within a tight-knit team – has seen the unit consistently and sustainably
 grow since previous assessments. The number of researchers returned in RAE 2008 was
 5.0FTE and in REF 2014 was 7.5FTE. The ambition to grow was met while maintaining a good
 underlying financial base, so that our 2021 assessment now consists of 10 members of staff
 (8.25FTE) with responsibility for research, not including Frey himself whose inter-disciplinary
 work on film and graphic narrative is returned with the English Unit of Assessment.

 The research strategy for the History unit is led by two Professors, Professor Hakim Adi, one of
 Britain’s pre-eminent historians of the African diaspora, and Professor Andrew Chandler, a
 leading scholar of the church. Additionally, History research strategy is shaped by two ‘Research
 Champions’ Andrew Smith and Danae Tankard at Senior Lecturer level. With Frey they
 provide mentoring and support to the unit’s Senior Lecturer team who all have research included
 in their academic contracts. Research is reviewed by a central University Ethics Committee and
 members of the team have been delegated or nominated members of the University’s Research
 and Enterprise Committee, as well as elected members of its Academic Board (equivalent to
 Senate). As Research Champions, Smith and Tankard are involved in shaping institutional
 research policy through membership of sub-committees dedicated to interpreting national policy.
 Research is a standing item within the unit’s own team meetings and the terms of these
 committees ensure that equality and diversity are reviewed at each stage of these processes,
 with both ‘Research Champions’ having completed unconscious bias training. The History team
 advise Frey, who is also supported on research by Professor Benjamin Noys (English) who
 takes a cross-institute lead. The unit has preserved its identity and independence as a centre for
 historical research while benefiting from inter-disciplinary synergies and economies of scale.

 Research Strategy
 Four strategic mechanisms have framed research in the unit and helped to deliver these goals
 during this census period:
     (a) the maximization of research power through overlapping and shared research
         interests among the historians in the unit and through new inter-disciplinary opportunities
     (b) connecting members of the unit to engage with the wider global research community
     (c) a new and important aim to advance BAME engagement in historical research
     (d) investment in research through dedicated research time and monetary expense.

 (a) The History UoA is a research centre and while each individual in the unit is supported to
 fulfil their individual potential, the unit gains more than the sum of its parts through concentration
 and synergy in the overlapping areas of social, cultural and political history. The historians in the
 unit therefore share a range of concerns particularly around the exploration of historically
 marginalized or under-researched groups and subjects. The gain from the unit’s cohesion is to
 allow intra-staff research conversations and connections to flow naturally when relevant and
 encourage mutually supportive efforts.

 Subject specialisms have led to meaningful research concentrations and the ability of the unit to
 maximise outcomes from shared opportunities. As a worked example, Frey, Smith, and Bryant
 co-hosted the 30th Annual Society for Study of French History (SSFH) Conference in 2016
 (featuring keynote addresses from Professor Sylvie Lindeperg (Paris 1), Professor Richard

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Golsan (Texas A&M), Professor James B. Collins (Georgetown University, Washington),
 Professor Robert Gildea (Oxford), Professor Margaret Atack (Leeds) and Professor Máire Cross
 (Newcastle). This was a successful international conference which subsequently led to a further
 collaborative funding bid to support Professor Richard Golsan (Texas A&M) as a Visiting Scholar
 at Chichester the following year. This funding facilitated a public engagement event on the
 memory of Jean Moulin on 8th June 2018 at which Smith spoke alongside Golsan, Professor
 Hanna Diamond (Cardiff), and Joan Tumblety (Southampton). Another result of this funded visit
 was a roundtable discussion at the Modern French History Seminar at the Institute of Historical
 Research in London on 11th June 2018 featuring Golsan, Frey, and Tumblety, and chaired by
 Smith. Contacts and research exchange which occurred at the 2016 SSFH conference also
 served as a platform for Smith and Bryant to travel to the USA and present their research at the
 French Historical Studies conference in Washington DC in June 2017. These in turn led to
 published outputs for Smith and Bryant submitted in this REF census period.

 Richardson and Tankard contribute to the exploration of new medieval and early modern
 histories of southern England, including a suite of public engagement events based around
 Clarendon Palace in Wiltshire. Adi and Smith intersect on questions of Francophone
 decolonization and post-colonial Africa and have both published on Pan-Africanism, with Adi
 being a noted international leader of this field. Adi, Chandler, Georgiou and Turner address
 aspects of modern British cultural history and have frequently intervened in public debates and
 media commentary (as outlined in Section 4 below). The broadly shared emphases of research
 themes between researchers in the unit creates cohesion and external identity, helping the unit
 concentrate and maximise its research power. For the PhD student community it also provides
 strong supervisory teams and internal additional expertise. The same is true for the group’s
 ability to work collectively on hosting research events where more than one member can
 administer or present research findings or to internally peer review writing prior to publication or
 to link together each individual’s research networks to gain synergies. This strategy will be
 maintained over the next five years as we seek to maximise impact from shared staff expertise,
 for example through Tankard, Richardson and Clark’s work on late medieval and early
 modern domestic buildings.

 (b) In addition, since the last REF return, there has been a significant deepening of the research
 strategy of developing shared and networked activities with research partner organizations. The
 unit has hosted and funded events on its Chichester campus which have engaged with research
 partner organizations. As an example of overlapping expertise and sharing experiences from
 networked activities, Smith was part of the inter-disciplinary collaborative project Cultural Value
 at the British Council and BBC World Service which published its outcomes in 2014. Smith’s
 research here touched on BBC vernacular broadcasting leading to a published output in 2018,
 and also allowed the possibility of supporting Frey in a British Council project which engaged
 with Vietnamese cultural heritage (2019). Similarly, Tankard’s longstanding work with the West
 Sussex Record Office has opened links there for Price (English) to work on the ‘Transatlantic
 Ties’ project. Developing long-term relationships with external partners allowed for informal
 collaboration and support around new avenues of research and impact, supporting outward-
 facing inter-disciplinary activities within and beyond the UoA. Previously ‘siloed’ ideas, activities,
 partners and networks have been changed for inter-disciplinary co-operation and sharing,
 notwithstanding discipline specificities key to research fields.

 As impact has grown in significance in the research community, so too has our commitment to
 making history accessible. The unit has pursued an active interest in sharing our work with both
 specialists and non-specialists (as outlined in the activities in Section 4, below). This approach
 has been central to the unit’s research and impact policy, which are viewed as coterminous and
 mutually reinforcing. Connectivity and collaboration have been the watchword priorities to allow
 for our historical research to reach and connect with non-academic audiences most effectively.
 Thus, the unit has relied on cultivating enduring connections with non-university historical
 associations (Tankard), the heritage and museum sector (Tankard, Adi, Wilson, Turner and
 Smith), and widespread public engagement through the mainstream media (Chandler, Smith,
 Turner). In a comparatively small team, we have sought to champion public-facing research with

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a dynamic and agile approach which has aimed to allow all colleagues to develop and flourish.
 The two successful case studies (Adi and Smith) represent our engagement with the fields in
 which our research has made most long-lasting and wide-reaching impact: commemoration and
 diversity. However, these case studies represent the tip of an iceberg, with colleagues’ research
 speaking to multiple non-academic audiences.

 (c) The strategic approach of a focussed group of scholars working on some shared research
 themes continues the strategy set out in REF 2014. However, building on success has not
 limited innovation. On the contrary it has opened up space for significant new emphases and
 achievements in our research strategy. Thus, in 2017 led by Adi the University committed to a
 significant agenda to support the development of historical research in the UK BAME
 community. The University invested in school level outreach programmes (2 years of annual
 BAME history film competition) for long-term enhancement of diversity in the profession, and
 supported public engagement events for Black History Month in our local area (for example in
 2017, 2018 and 2019 at the New Park Cinema, Chichester). On a more immediate basis the
 University supported Adi and Law to validate an MRes programme via distance learning, MRes
 Africa and the African Diaspora. Since launch it has registered a total of 20 postgraduate
 students and awarded 4 MRes degrees (with 10 full-time and 6 part-time students registered
 currently). The online pedagogy of the MRes has allowed a diverse, global student body to
 create an emergent cluster around this research area, contributing an important investment in
 the unit’s wider research environment. This has helped encourage a new supportive research
 cluster, with emergent scholars in this important area being supported to fulfil their potential.
 Recently, one student from the MRes had a peer-reviewed article accepted for publication with
 the OUP journal Church and State. In a survey of current MRes students conducted in
 December 2020, respondents noted the importance of “a strong support system”, “flexible
 distance learning approach”, and “accessible study”. One student noted: “What attracted me to
 the MRes at Chichester is that it is at the forefront on research focusing on Africa and the
 diaspora. Also, this MRes was designed to be accessible to many individuals around the world
 interested in pursuing postgraduate research.”

 (d) Research for the unit is supported through investment in staff time that aims to balance the
 duties of Professorial and Readership roles with supporting the development of research from
 early career to Senior Lecturer positions. Primarily, this has been established by achieving fair
 workload allocations on undergraduate teaching to allow 2 research days a week for 1.0FTE
 colleagues throughout the period. The University has supported the unit with the award of a
 centrally managed sabbatical (Hakim Adi – 2016/17); and through the remission of teaching for
 early career colleagues in the first semester of their appointment.

 At unit level each member of the research unit was provided with seed funding to conduct
 archival research and to attend conferences. In addition, the research unit supported publication
 expenses to ensure that early career and established colleagues were able to find the best
 outlets for their research: this included paying for image rights, editorial assistance, and
 indexing, amongst other things. At the start of the census period, this was allocated at an
 average of GBP750.00 per annum per researcher, before being raised for a period to
 GBP1,000.00 as an individual allowance.

 In summary, these 4 key strategies have guided the unit’s research environment. We have made
 central our belief in the value of networking and engagement through regional and international
 partnerships. We have ensured that paying attention to the commemorative calendar in our
 collaboration with local heritage institutions has served the needs of our immediate community,
 while providing platforms from which to develop impactful research. We continue to evaluate this
 good practice on an annual basis, including research and impact as part of PRDP and
 appointment processes. We are proud of our roots in Sussex and South East history, not seeing
 that area as a geographical bind, but rather as a springboard to address global connections. We
 will continue to maximize our impacts through collaboration with associations, national and
 international scholars, and through interested community partners, for example through


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tankard’s new project on early modern Chichester. Advancing the cause of BAME young
 historians and diversifying the profession is a goal shared by the entire unit.

 Impact Strategy
 The History unit has consistently sought to maximise its engagement with non-academic
 partners, and particularly the rich environment of heritage organisations in our local area. We
 seek to make our work available and useful to these organisations by promoting research impact
 and Open Access publishing at the outset of planned research projects, and by ensuring that we
 coproduce projects with long-term heritage partners. For example, Smith conducts regular
 meetings with Tangmere Military Aviation Museum and is a Trustee of the Chichester Marks
 Holocaust Memorial Day Charity, allowing him to ascertain where research can be planned
 alongside heritage activities to achieve maximum impact. Tankard has had a long involvement
 with the Weald and Downland Living Museum, applying her research expertise to the
 development and interpretation of its exhibit buildings and artefact collections. As an active
 member of the volunteer group Friends of Clarendon Palace, Richardson is involved in a variety
 of outreach events which seek to explain the site’s historic significance. Involving these heritage
 organisations as co-producing partners at the research planning stage has been a consistent
 and successful means of ensuring maximum research impact. As well as building impact into
 research planning, the unit invests in staff research time where a project has moved from its
 fundamental research stage to one of realising meaningful impact.

 Yet, the History unit speaks far beyond its local environment, and seeks to engage with other
 partners where opportunities arise and to create opportunities for collaboration. One way of
 achieving this is to ensure that Open Access publication can connect to unplanned and new
 potential impacts. The UoA has sought to develop engagement with Open Access in all of its
 activities, encouraging researchers to prioritise Open Access outlets for their work, in addition to
 supporting the institutional Open Access ChiPrints Repository. In particular, Smith has led on
 ensuring the Department works in concert with the published institutional Open Access strategy,
 and as one of the ‘Research Champions’ has gone further in liaising with publishers like UCL
 Press and the University of London Press to shape institutional approaches to Open Access.
 Working with the RHS, Smith has been involved with the launch of the University of London
 Press series New Historical Perspectives and has been active in contributing to the RHS
 responses to UKRI Open Access policy. He has co-edited an Open Access book and launched
 an Open Access publication with UCL Press (Paper Trails: The social life of archives and
 collections), encouraging interdisciplinary engagement from colleagues in other units and tabling
 regular discussions of Open Access at departmental meetings. Part of this strategy of
 encouraging Open Access adoption has been to implement this into the unit’s PRDP procedure,
 which already values and celebrates Research Impact amongst all of our research-active staff
 on open-ended contracts.

 Future Plans
 Within the REF2021 assessment period the unit has returned 8 monographs, 9 academic
 articles, an edited volume, and an edited source collection. All the staff have been returned and
 no historians in the unit are on ‘teaching only duties’. PhD completions and registrations have
 grown alongside this staff-led research, demonstrating a positive trajectory in the vibrancy and
 sustainability of the research environment. Our central aim henceforward is to maintain the
 current ambitious level of sustainable growth.

 Staff research time is protected and planned through PRDP processes, which allow meaningful
 discussions of individual plans alongside monitoring of undergraduate and postgraduate
 teaching and supervision allocation. The development of research that engages with and
 supports diversity in the historical profession will continue to be pursued through growing student
 registrations on the MRes and encouraging this group of students to continue on to MPhil/PhD
 study. Similarly, as the wider Institute of Arts and Humanities matures, new inter-disciplinary
 opportunities will be explored for working with colleagues in other units, including English,
 Theatre, Politics, and Theology.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our staffing strategy is to make outstanding early career research appointments, and this has
 proven a positive way of investing in and supporting researchers while generating a vibrant
 research environment. We will continue to pursue this strategy in a sustainable way, looking to
 make appointments subject to growth in undergraduate and postgraduate student numbers.
 Within this strategy, our priorities are to enrich and facilitate greater research depth in the fields
 of cultural history, French history, and African and African diaspora history, where existing
 research depth and profile currently exist and can be further developed.

 As part of this, the history research seminar/guest speaker programme will continue to invite
 external partners whose work connects especially well to early career appointments, in order to
 help support their networking beyond the institution and create new opportunities for external
 collaborations.

 In 2021/22 the unit will review research investment opportunities. This will consider the best use
 of resources for doctoral fee waivers, doctoral scholarships, post-doctoral scholarships, open-
 access work, and administrative support for the recording and archiving of research impact. This
 investment review will measure where investment can make a real difference to the unit’s
 capacity to bid successfully for external research funding and where investment will make the
 most substantial difference to the research life of the unit as a whole.

 2. People

 The unit consists of 8.25 FTE staff, all of whom have a significant responsibility for research. We
 are all active researchers and teachers and subscribe to the institutional strategy of creating a
 supportive research environment in which all our academics are both encouraged and expected
 to contribute to knowledge creation through research, so that ‘all of our teachers research and all
 of our researchers teach’. The UoA has actively sought to encourage members of staff to
 redesign and reshape module provision within the curriculum to allow them to integrate their own
 research into their teaching, and all staff members have the opportunity to teach modules on
 their research specialisms. The institutional strategy has as a core objective that it seeks to
 provide an excellent staff experience based on the values of the University community. To this
 end, the UoA is supported by institutional structures that encourage staff development and build
 considerations of equality, diversity and inclusion into every stage of recruitment and human
 resources.

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The unit is committed to developing its whole researcher community. This includes focussing on
 staff development and being strategic in terms of staff recruitment. All staffing appointments to
 the unit have included research and impact as key criteria as well as sub-disciplinary fit to
 specialisms in culture, society and politics. In addition, all appointments follow national equality
 guidelines and the University is particularly pro-active in this area, as evidenced by its role as a
 Stonewall Diversity Champion, Mindful Employer, and Disability Confident Employer.

 All new-starting staff are automatically offered the opportunity to be paired with a senior
 colleague mentor within the Institute of Arts and Humanities for 6 months as part of our
 institutional probationer scheme. This ensures that new starters are able to quickly settle in the
 organisation, though in addition this also sets up opportunities for inter-disciplinary research
 collaboration across the wider Institute in which the unit is situated. In addition, the department
 has arranged for additional mentoring where there is the possibility for research collaboration
 within the unit, as with Smith and Georgiou.

 The staff team are all appraised annually; these discussions include clarification of research
 plans and needs, alongside the balance of future teaching loads. The PRDP is an opportunity for
 staff to discuss research project management (e.g., the balance between shorter writing and
 longer monograph-oriented projects) and to identify grant bidding opportunities. It is also a space
 to discuss PhD supervision experience and other associated research management
 opportunities. Additionally, these conversations represent good venues for analysing individual

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and group REF processes in the context of the unit and broader Institute. Staff in the unit are
 sympathetically and flexibly (based on individual circumstances) encouraged to aim for the
 completion of 1 major research project in each 6-year period, including the publication of a
 monograph with an appropriate press.

 The University of Chichester’s overarching strategy, Open for Change, outlines its commitment
 to developing career progression routes and opportunities. To this end, our unit has favoured
 developing young researchers, and within the census period has offered first open-ended
 academic posts to Smith, Georgiou, Clark, Gianfrancesco and Turner. As outlined in section
 1, at the start of the census period, staff research and development were supported through an
 individual allowance at departmental level, which moved to a centrally administered system as of
 2019. This has facilitated a wide range of development opportunities, ranging from conference
 participation, collaboration with external partners, and academic research (as outlined in section
 4). Senior research development has also been supported with two promotions within the unit
 from Reader to Professor: Adi (2014) and Chandler (2017).

 Because our chief staffing strategy has been to recruit talented emerging researchers, and to
 support their development within the unit, we acknowledge that this is likely to lead to researcher
 mobility. For example, within this census period, the unit has included: Ross Wilson (returned;
 now University of Nottingham) who works in inter-disciplinary cultural history of the First World
 War; Marco Wyss (now University of Lancaster, not returned in this unit) international military
 history and Africa; Aveyard (now Manchester Metropolitan University, not returned in this unit)
 on the history of Northern Ireland and the ‘Troubles’; and Kate Law (now University of
 Nottingham, not returned in this unit) on decolonization and women’s history. The unit has
 provided first full faculty posts to each of these scholars whose careers continue to thrive at
 Nottingham, Lancaster, Manchester Metropolitan and Nottingham respectively. This concern to
 recruit and support early career historians in the broad area of cultural history has continued with
 the replacement of these posts with further first full research contracts of the outstanding new
 early career colleagues, Smith, Georgiou, Clark, Gianfrancesco and Turner.

 Staff are also supported with internal schemes to gain further training that will supplement and
 improve their performance within the unit. For example, since January 2019 Smith has been
 enrolled as a Degree Apprentice at the University, studying a Senior Leadership MBA and the
 UoA supports this 0.2FTE time commitment (estimated completion Autumn 2021). This has
 recognised and supported Smith’s engagement with national leadership bodies in the discipline,
 allowing him to fulfil executive roles in organisations such as the Royal Historical Society and the
 Society for the Study of French History, alongside leading an innovative Open Access
 publication with UCL Press.

 The University Research Office has provided significant training for research supervision,
 ensuring that staff within the unit are equipped to supervise postgraduate researchers and
 providing online refresher courses for established PhD supervisors. In addition, early career
 scholars have benefitted from development via forums such as an annual university wide
 research conference. The unit has organised and supported a regular seminar series which
 invites and includes researchers across the unit (both staff and PGR). These annual cycles of
 research speakers have been curated to support early career researchers and new
 appointments to the unit by connecting to researchers specifically in their field. Speakers have
 included specialists on the First World War and Memory; African history; and international
 history.

 The university’s central marketing department holds a register of research specialisms and its
 press office celebrates and communicates achievement. The university library online repository
 ChiPrints provides the Open Access space for all publications to reach fellow researchers and
 interested members of the public. In summary, there is an efficient and transparent management
 of staff research that can focus on both micro-targets (PRDP) and review national agendas (REF
 committee/Research committee), while managing all points between (ethics; PGR student and
 supervisor development).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Postgraduate research students
 The unit is currently supervising 18 PhD and MPhil students in history, and since 2013/14
 academic year there have been 10 successful PhD and MPhil awards: Brinded, Mason, Peal,
 Smale, In ‘tveld, Tristram, Albazoon, Warner, Richardson, Turner (7.90 PhD awards, factoring
 interdisciplinary/shared supervision). This represents a growth from our previous return in
 REF2014, when the unit had 11 students registered and 8 doctorates awarded during that
 census period. Bursaries and/or fee waivers have been provided through open competition and
 during this period we have granted 10 fee waivers to support PhD study (student fees for
 2019/20 were GBP4,340 p/a for full-time students and GBP2,560.00 p/a for part-time students).
 The figure of total bursaries paid by the History unit during the REF2021 census period is
 GBP94,075.12. The support provided for these postgraduate students to undertake original
 research thus represents a significant investment in the department’s research environment.

 PhD students are provided with a supervisory team of at least 2, comprising a Director of
 Studies and co-supervisor. Full-time students are provided with desk facilities on campus,
 ensuring that they are able to participate in events and make the most of informal opportunities
 for engagement and support. Supervisors and students complete an annual review and after a
 period of progress a ‘Major Review’ (or upgrade). All PhD students can access a Travel and
 Conference Fund, which offers up to £500 over the period of their studies (£750 for bursary
 students), supporting travel for research (and also includes equipment if required). Student
 registration and administration is supported through academic leadership (Prof Fiona Price,
 UoA27) and dedicated administrative time. All research events (conferences/seminars) have
 been open to our students. The university-wide annual research conference has been a key
 forum through which our PGRs can pilot ideas and receive peer-to-peer support. We have also
 provided PGR students with teaching opportunities on UG modules (e.g., Modern and
 Contemporary British History, Africa and the African Diaspora, Fascism and Post-Fascism).

 PGR students receive a comprehensive training offer organised centrally by the University
 Research Office, which includes research skills training, viva preparation and career guidance
 (History colleagues lead on these sessions annually). Opportunities to teach are augmented by
 the Postgraduate Certificate of Teaching in Higher Education, a requirement for all doctoral
 students interested in pursuing HE teaching as a part of their career. Supervisors and students
 record progress through tutorial forms and annual review documentation/meetings. Progress is
 monitored again by the University’s Research Degrees Group and Annual Monitoring of
 postgraduate work. Uptake of training at the University and externally is recorded in the
 students’ Personal Progress Log which is submitted annually to the Research Office for review
 within Annual Monitoring. Training days across university have occurred on a 6-monthly basis,
 engaging with the whole life cycle of PhD programmes.

 Equality and diversity
 The unit is integrated into the Equality and Diversity Strategy of the University, and this is
 specifically implemented through the Equality and Diversity officers (Naomi Foyle (returned in
 UoA27) represents the Institute for Arts and Humanities). The unit regularly reviews equality
 issues surrounding appointments, access to research opportunities, career development, and
 research expectations. Foyle uses Institute of Arts and Humanities meetings as a regular forum
 to address and raise equality and diversity issues, including in relation to research. Equality and
 diversity are standing items on the agenda for departmental meetings and during these, both
 Adi and Smith have discussed their involvement with recent RHS surveys and reports which
 address these issues. Adi’s work is cited prominently in the RHS report on Race, Ethnicity &
 Equality in UK History (2018), and Smith was involved in the production and publication of the
 report through his role as RHS Director of Communications. In addition, Smith has been active
 in supporting the publication of RHS reports on Gender Equality in UK History (2018) and
 LGBT+ Histories and Historians (2020). The findings of these reports and their
 recommendations have been discussed not only as part of meetings within the unit, but also in
 institutional-level meetings of the Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee in Smith’s role as
 Research Champion.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Specific metrics relating to key equality and diversity measures within the UoA and wider
 institution are presented below:

   UoA submitted staff contract level (HESA) profile
                                    Submitted staff (%)                 Eligible staff (%)
   F1 (Professor)                   30                                  30
   J0 (Senior Lecturer post-92)     70                                  70


   UoA Staff on permanent/fixed-term/atypical contracts
                                          Submitted staff (%)                  Eligible staff (%)
   1 - Open ended / Permanent             100.0                                100.0
   2 - Fixed term contract                0.0                                  0.0


   Disability profile of UoA staff
                          Submitted staff (%)    Eligible staff (%)
   Disability declared    10.0                   10.0
   No known disability    90.0                   90.0
   Unknown                0.0                    0.0

   Gender profile of UoA staff
                        Submitted staff (%)      Eligible staff (%)
   Male                 60.0                     60.0
   Female               40.0                     40.0

   Age profile of UoA staff
                         Submitted staff (%)     Eligible staff (%)
   Aged 20-29            0.0%                    0.0%
   Aged 30-39            30.0%                   30.0%
   Aged 40-49            10.0%                   10.0%
   Aged 50-59            50.0%                   50.0%
   Aged 60+              10.0%                   10.0%



   Ethnicity profile of UoA staff
                          Submitted staff (%)    Eligible staff (%)
   White                  90.0                   90.0
   Black                  10.0                   10.0
   Asian                  0.0                    0.0
   Other/Mixed            0.0                    0.0
   Unknown                0.0                    0.0

   Gender pay gap for academic staff (HEI level)
   Mean gender pay gap                                                5.1%


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Median gender pay gap                                            0%


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Researchers within the unit have been encouraged to undertake grant bidding as a core part of
 the unit’s research strategy. This approach has been flexible and sympathetic, and has been
 targeted to career stages throughout the PRDP process. This has helped researchers during this
 period secure the following funding opportunities.

 In 2014, Frey (as then Head of History) worked in partnership with community groups to gain
 Heritage Lottery Funding for a public history of Graylingwell Hospital in Chichester 13/14
 (GBP5,000; 14/15 (GBP11,995). This income supported a meaningful connection between the
 unit’s research and the city of Chichester. Also 13/14, Smith was awarded an Innovation Award
 which provided GBP3,000 to research the links between the campus and its wartime occupation
 by the Air Ministry, working in partnership with Tangmere Military Aviation Museum. In addition,
 within the REF2021 census period, Wyss secured a British Academy Small grant for research in
 his field (the global Cold War/defence and military aspects) in 2015/16 (GBP2,000), and Wilson
 was awarded an AHRC Gateways grant of GBP10,037 for work on heritage and the First World
 War. In 2017/18, Law also successfully bid for a British Academy Small grant, gaining funding of
 GBP6,000, and Wilson a second AHRC Gateways grant of GBP9,944. In 2018/19, Smith was
 successful in bidding for funding as co-Investigator on a collaborative project with the University
 of Sussex Digital Humanities Lab entitled ‘Lysander Flights: A Story told through Digital
 Cartography’. The entire project was worth GBP50,000 (funded by the Holdsworth Trust), with
 Smith’s contribution returning GBP2,736 directly to the unit. The unit targeted appropriate
 funding streams and was successful in the vast majority of its bids, demonstrating the way in
 which staff time was prioritised and adequate support provided in order to facilitate and evaluate
 bids.

 Facilities
 The University has constructed a new academic building, completed in August 2016, which
 serves as a public platform for research events and conferences organised by the unit. This has
 enabled us to host a number of public-facing exhibitions of our research, such as the culmination
 of the commemorations for the 75th anniversary of D-Day in 2019, and public workshops
 exploring the memory of Jean Moulin (May 2018) and commemorating local links to the French
 Resistance (March 2018). These workshops specifically supported the impact on public
 understandings of wartime resistance networks outlined in Smith’s impact case study (see
 REF3). These flexible and adaptable spaces have been accessible to the general public,
 facilitating further opportunities for research engagement.

 In addition, the unit has been able to make use of its specific links to historical processes. The
 campus was occupied by the Air Ministry during the Second World War and this allowed the unit
 to make use of this fact when staging a re-enactment of an RAF Sector Control Operation Room
 as part of a public engagement event in June 2019. The event drew members of the public,
 students, and staff together as part of the D-Day commemorations, and the specific
 characteristics of the campus enabled and accentuated the impact of the event, which acted as
 a showcase for Smith’s research.

 Library Resources
 Research in the unit is supported by the Learning Resource Centre (LRC), which has extensive
 holdings and online resources, including Project Muse and JSTOR. The unit is also supported by
 a dedicated subject librarian. Our subject librarian (a graduate of the unit) actively supports
 teaching, learning and research, conducting sessions for all taught year groups which highlight
 access to research resources. The library is especially well resourced in the overlapping fields of
 cultural history, political history and church history (especially thanks to the availability of the
 unique Chichester Theology Trust Collection).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The subject librarian also attends subject meetings and responds to requests for acquisition from
 research staff. The University has spent over GBP16,000 on library resources for History alone
 in the last three years, and has invested and completed a new teaching space primarily
 dedicated to humanities and social science teaching and hosting of external events
 (GBP9,000,000).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As a unit, History at Chichester is committed to collaboration with external partners and has
 nurtured a series of long-term relationships with organizations both locally and internationally.
 Through supporting UoA staff to pursue their research with impact, engagement and co-
 production at the forefront of their planning, the UoA has realized both long-term impacts and
 been able to realize emerging opportunities for engagement. The integration of the unit within
 the new Institute of Arts and Humanities in 2019 has further strengthened its collaborative and
 outward-facing orientation. The unit has had successful collaborations with local and regional
 partners: Tangmere Military Aviation Museum (Smith), Friends of Clarendon House and
 Salisbury Museum (Richardson) Weald and Downland Living Museum (Tankard); Chichester
 Cathedral (Chandler); West Sussex Record Office and associated local history societies
 (Tankard); Pallant House Gallery; ‘Outside In’; Chichester Community Development Trust (Frey
 when employed within the unit. Throughout these partnerships, staff within the unit have shown
 themselves committed to the preservation of tangible and intangible heritage. As well as
 focussing on public engagement with the past, the unit has been (and remains) committed to
 ensuring that it has a clear position within the field, contributing to the wider sector through work
 to support research. Chichester historians contribute significantly to their wider international
 research communities, including undertaking active roles within professional bodies and subject
 organizations, and prominent editorial contributions to book series and periodicals. Senior
 colleagues are trusted members of their own research fields, actively supporting their further
 development and enrichment. Here we are keen to ensure that all of our research work is
 outward facing and that it speaks across disciplines and divides.

 Connecting Research into the Community
 Researchers within the unit have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to engagement with the
 community in Sussex, maximising opportunities for our research to help contribute to our
 immediate economic and social environment (see above). This in turn has aligned with our
 strategy of maximizing research power through overlapping and sharing research interests
 among/between the historians in the unit. Our contribution to our local community has been
 consistently built on robust, internationally recognised research conducted from our base in the
 Cathedral city of Chichester, West Sussex. Danae Tankard has maintained a commitment to
 developing and sustaining research on Sussex history. She has published a monograph and 8
 articles during this census period which focus on the history of Sussex and is closely involved
 with the journal of the Sussex Archaeological Society, Sussex Archaeological Collections, and
 with the work of the Sussex Record Society. Accentuating the institution’s historic ties to the
 Church of England, the work of Professor Andrew Chandler has been influential in guiding
 public debate around this wider issue in the context of Chichester. Chandler, a biographer of the
 former Bishop of Chichester George Bell, has been active in high-profile media debates about
 his legacy. This involved expert comment in The Telegraph, The Church Times, Die Zeit, BBC
 News and elsewhere, where he was described as leading the defence of Bishop Bell. Amanda
 Richardson also applies her academic expertise in medieval royal palaces and parks to public
 history through her work with the volunteer group, ‘Friends of Clarendon Palace’, established in
 2013, which seeks to promote and assist with public understanding of the archaeological
 remains of this significant historic site. In 2019, in partnership with Historic England, Natural
 England, Durham University Archaeological Services and The Salisbury Museum, the project
 secured an HLF grant of GBP48,300 to create a website and a variety of free local events
 focusing on new excavations at the Palace taking place that year.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building on his well-established expertise in the history and commemoration of the First World
 War, Ross Wilson set up and directed two community-history projects in Chichester and the
 local area, ‘Chichester in the Great War: mobilisation, care and compassion and
 memorialisation’ (2015-2016); and ‘Over Here – Tangmere and US Airmen in World War I’
 (2016-2017). Both projects, run in partnership with the Chichester Community Development
 Trust, were supported by the centre for public engagement, ‘Gateways to the First World War’
 (led by the University of Kent and funded by the AHRC), and involved a number of Chichester’s
 educational and cultural organisations, including the Prebendal School, New Park Cinema, West
 Sussex Record Office, and the Novium Museum. Outputs included public talks, heritage trails,
 the development of online resources and exhibitions. Wilson was also project leader on Priory
 Park Memories (2017-2018), which recorded and examined how people had used the area since
 it became a central part of Chichester life after World War I. The project formed part of the Priory
 Park 100 centenary celebrations held in 2018 to mark the gift of the park to the city by the 7th
 Duke of Richmond and Gordon in September 1918. In a similar way, Andrew Smith has worked
 closely with Tangmere Military Aviation Museum, and his wider research into Franco-British
 cooperation and wartime legacies has seen him become a Trustee of the Charity ‘Chichester
 Marks Holocaust Memorial Day’. In this capacity, Smith was involved in planning the
 performance of the opera PUSH at Chichester Cathedral in January 2018, in Speaker’s House
 at Parliament in January 2019, and at Chichester Festival Theatre in January 2020. In 2019 he
 organised the 75th Anniversary D-Day Commemorations in Chichester in conjunction with
 Tangmere Military Aviation Museum, West Sussex Record Office, the Novium Museum
 (Chichester), the Save Tangmere Tower Campaign, and New Park Cinema. This involved a
 local history project with East Wittering Local History Society to create an online archive of local
 experiences, and a schools’ day at West Sussex Record Office, working with students from
 Bishop Luffa School. All of these moments drew on research into wartime legacies and led to
 opportunities to contribute directly to the wider public understanding of their heritage within
 Sussex and on a national level.

 Our research does not, however, stop at the borders of Sussex, and the contribution of
 researchers in the unit has addressed issues of national and international significance.
 Understanding how this research can contribute to our national economic and social
 environment has constituted an important facet of our research strategy, as monitored in PRDP
 processes. One of the most prominent contributions of the unit has been to ensure that historical
 knowledge supports BAME communities and contributes to national policies on inclusivity, as
 outlined in our research strategy. This approach entails altering the national story to feature
 greater inclusivity and ensure that neglected histories are heard. Professor Hakim Adi is a
 Trustee (2015-) of Black Cultural Archives (Brixton, London), the only national heritage centre
 dedicated to collecting, preserving and celebrating the histories of African and Caribbean people
 in Britain. He is also the founder and consultant historian on the Young Historians Project (YHP),
 established after the History Matters conference (Institute of Historical Research, London, April
 2015) which highlighted the low numbers of history students and teachers of African and
 Caribbean heritage in Britain. He is joint author of Explaining the Modern World: Migration,
 Empire and the Historic Environment, a textbook designed to accompany the OCR GCSE
 thematic module Migration to Britain (part of History A Explaining the Modern World). This new
 GCSE course contributed to a major revision of the history curriculum in secondary schools and
 was championed by the Teaching Migration report by the Runnymede Trust. Adi also
 contributed his research to the Runnymede Trust’s award-winning Our Migration Story website.

 In addition to these direct collaborations, Members of the unit have given public lectures and
 talks to local branches of the U3A (Smith, Tankard) and the Historical Association (Clark,
 Gianfrancesco), to local history societies such as the Titchfield Historical Association, The
 Hampshire Field Club and the Havant History Group (Richardson), the West Sussex Archive
 Society and the West Sussex Archives Society (Tankard). Clark has spoken at Tudor study
 days at Historic Royal Palaces and The National Archives (2018). Georgiou was guest speaker
 at ‘London After Dark: Night Life from the 1920s to Today’ public event at the Bishopsgate
 Institute, London (2017). Smith has given talks to Tangmere Military Aviation Museum in 2018,
 2019 and 2020.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to the Research Base
 While focussing on the contributions of our research, researchers within the unit have also
 sought to contribute to the wider research base through academic service, editorial work, and
 invited opportunities to present on their research. Staff have also conducted external PhD
 examinations at the Universities of Coventry, Amsterdam and SOAS, London (Adi); East Anglia
 and King’s College, London (Chandler) and East Anglia, Winchester and Nottingham
 (Richardson). Clark is external examiner for the BA History at the University of Plymouth (2019-
 ).

 We believe that playing an active role in scholarly editorial work allows our researchers to
 position themselves strongly within their specific fields, and to contribute meaningfully to the
 wider research base. Adi is on the editorial board of Pan-African University Press and part of the
 editorial working group for Review of African Political Economy. Chandler is founder member of
 the editorial board for the US-based Contemporary Church History Quarterly and a board
 member of the German-based journal Kirchliche Zeitgeschichte/Contemporary Church History.
 Georgiou was guest editor of a special edition of the London Journal (Vol. 39, No. 3 (2014)):
 ‘Leisure in London’s Suburbs, 1880-1939’. Richardson has been an editorial board member for
 publication resulting from the Colloque International Chantilly (France), 17-18 November 2015
 (Florent Mérot et al., eds, Les forêts européennes: Gestions, exploitations et representations,
 Xie-XIX siècles [Bordeaux University Press, 2018] and from 2015-2017 was assistant book
 reviews editor for The Antiquaries Journal. Smith is on the editorial board of French History,
 contributing editor for French History Network blog and Lead Editor on the Paper Trails BOOC
 (Book as Open Online Content - a flexible Open Access journal format) project with UCL Press.
 Tankard is a member of the editorial board of the county journal, Sussex Archaeological
 Collections, and general editor of the Sussex Record Society, which publishes scholarly editions
 of historical records relating to the county of Sussex. Tankard was also a consultant editor for
 Adam Matthews Digital for the digital project ‘Early Modern England: Society, Culture and
 Everyday Life’ (January 2019-May 2020) and is a member of the British Academy Hearth Tax
 management committee.

 In addition, members of the unit acted as reviewers for the following journals: Publishing History,
 Women’s History Review, The Court Historian, Historical Research, National Identity, Sport in
 History, Sport in Society, Medieval Archaeology, Business History, the Journal of Language &
 Intercultural Communication Journal of Historical Geography, Contemporary French Civilization,
 Cultural & Social History, French History, French Colonial History and English Historical Review.
 Members of the unit acted as reviewers for the following book publishers: Routledge, Palgrave,
 Anthem Press, British Archaeological Reports and Bloomsbury Academic.

 Our contributions to the research base do not stop with publications, however, and opportunities
 to disseminate the work of researchers within the unit have been maximised wherever possible.
 This has supported our stated research strategy of connecting our researchers with their wider
 global research communities. Adi has presented keynotes, invited papers, and presentations at
 the Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, Brazil (2019), the University of Oxford (2018), the
 University of Cambridge (2017), the University of Central Lancashire (2017), the University of
 Fort Hare, South Africa (2016) and Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada (2014). Chandler was
 keynote speaker at a symposium on ‘Catholicity’ under the auspices of the Society for Faith at
 Southwark Cathedral (2017) and the Anglo-American Civil Rights commemoration at Canterbury
 Cathedral (2017), and has presented research at the Anglican Centre in Rome (2018) and the
 Anglican History Research seminar at the University of Oxford (2019). Nikki Clark has
 presented at the University of Oxford (2015), the University of Plymouth (2016) and the
 University of Winchester (2018). Dionysious Georgiou has presented at the Social History
 Society Annual Conference, University of Portsmouth (2015), the Anglo-American Conference of
 Historians: ‘Fashion’, University of London (2015), War, Society and Culture Seminar, University
 of London (2016), and the Contemporary British History Seminar, University of London (2018).
 Lorenza Gianfrancesco has been an invited speaker at the Institute of Japanese Literature,
 Tokyo (2020), the Fondazione Real Monte Manso di Scala and Università di Studi di Napoli,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Naples (2017), the University of Oxford (2017), the University of Warwick (2016), and has
 presented at the University of London (2016, 2015), the University of Riga (2015) and the
 University of Vienna (2014). Richardson was keynote speaker at the Council for British
 Archaeology South-East annual conference (2016) and has given papers at the International
 Medieval Congress, University of Leeds (2018), Canterbury Christ Church (2018), the University
 of Girona, Spain (2017), and the Colloque International Chantilly, France (2015). Smith was
 invited to speak at the Gerald Aylmer Seminar at the National Archives (2017) and the Modern
 French History Seminar, Institute of Historical Research (2014, 2019 and 2020), as well as
 speaking at the annual conferences of major subject associations, such as the Society for the
 Study of French History (in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019), the Society for French
 Historical Studies in Washington DC (2017), and the Social History Society Annual Conference
 (2015). He also was invited to ‘state of the field’ workshops in: Populism at University College
 London (2016), Global history at the University of St Andrews (2014), new histories of
 decolonisation at the University of Portsmouth (2017), and creative co-production at the
 University of Bristol (2017). Tankard has presented at the University of Roehampton (2015), the
 Anglo-American Conference of Historians: ‘Fashion’, University of London (2015) and the
 International Conference of the European Rural History Organisation at the University of Leuven,
 Belgium (2017).

 Clark is co-convenor of the Tudor and Stuart seminar at the Institute of Historical Research,
 London, and was seminar secretary and committee member for the Society of Court Studies
 between 2014 and 2018. Georgiou was co-convenor of the Sports and Leisure seminar until
 2018 and from 2016 has been co-convenor of the Life-Cycles seminar, both at the Institute of
 Historical Research, London. Smith was convenor of the Modern French History Seminar at the
 IHR (2014-2020), is Secretary of the Society for the Study of French History (2015-current), and
 Honorary Director of Communications at the Royal Historical Society (2018-current). In 2018,
 Tankard initiated the Sussex Record Society’s Small Grants Scheme, which provides funding
 (maximum GBP500 per project) for individuals and organisations undertaking archival research
 on aspects of Sussex history. Grants have been awarded to a number of community history
 projects including ‘Shalom Sussex – Jewish Sussex in World War I’ and ‘Portslade Past –
 Exploring Local Memories and Learning from the Past’.




                                                                                          Page 13
