Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: D26a Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since REF2014, QMUL Linguistics has grown by 50% to a total of 16 (15FTE) research-active
 staff in 2020, and now represents all core fields of linguistics. Whilst making focal contributions
 in each core field, we maintain our original distinctive strength of working across fields to
 develop a broader and deeper understanding of language as simultaneously a cognitive and a
 social phenomenon. We have ensured a rich research environment to support leadership in this
 area, with benefits evidenced in previous research assessment exercises (top of the THE
 League tables in RAE 2008 and REF 2014 (80% of the research environment was assessed at
 4*)). QMUL has actively supported substantial enhancement of this research environment, with
 the following results:

    •   50% increase in research-active staff (5 posts), reflecting ability to attract major
        investment within Humanities and Social Sciences, and support for ECRs
    •   over £250k spent on enhanced infrastructure for new research strengths (new
        laboratories with world class technical specifications) and a new permanent full-time
        technical lab manager post to support staff and student users
    •   sustained increase in external research funding (£1M in REF2014, over £1.7M in new
        income in REF2021)
    •   increase in funded postdoctoral researchers (6 in REF2014; 8.5 in REF2021)
    •   increase in PhDs awarded (11.5 in REF2014; 19.9 in REF2021, with a further 20
        currently enrolled)
    •   increase in funded studentships (11 in REF2014; 28 completed and current in 2020)

 As in REF2014, there are two main research groups, loosely conceptualized as the formal
 linguistics group (FLRG) and the sociolinguistics group (SLRG). FLRG addresses topics in
 generative grammar (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics) and, more generally, explores
 the relationship between the human linguistic cognitive capacities. SLRG focuses on variation
 within and between language communities and explores connections between linguistic
 behaviour, social and cultural life, and cognition. Our tight-knit unit is notable for its commitment
 to bridging these domains. To sustain this distinctive strength, our departmental 2014-2020
 strategy committed to expanding the two groups at the same rate, with each new appointment
 not only enriching one group but building interfaces, particularly with new experimental
 approaches.

 Our department is one of 5 within the School of Languages, Linguistics and Film (SLLF),
 situated in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS). The Linguistics Research and
 Impact Director develops research strategy with the SLLF Head of School, Research Director,
 and Impact Coordinator (post created in 2015). The strategic direction of QMUL’s research is
 overseen within HSS by a Faculty Dean for Research and Faculty Impact Coordinator (from
 2016) and by a Vice-Principal for Research and Innovation.

 We have strong research links beyond our school, e.g. we co-supervise PhDs with individuals in
 the Medical and Science faculties and were founder members of the cross-Faculty Centre for
 Mind in Society. We also have substantial research links with other federal institutions of the
 University of London and beyond (below and section 4).

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research objectives 2014-2020 and beyond
 Our strategy, set out in REF2014, has been to: (i) further strengthen and expand existing
 research foci and support transformative individual and collaborative contributions to the
 discipline; (ii) dismantle intra-disciplinary barriers by integrating formal, sociolinguistic, and
 cognitive perspectives on language; (iii) develop new tools for achieving these goals, especially
 by consolidating strength in experimental approaches; (iv) increase the impact of our research.
 Each was achieved in the following ways:

    (i) Strengthening research foci: 5 new appointments since REF2014 have extended the
          reach of the major intellectual contributions from our two research groups. Our submitted
          outputs reflect what we see as foundational work in our main research areas.
    (ii) Integrated research: We have built an international reputation for departmental
          collaborative work e.g. Adger, Borer, Stockall (FLRG) and Cheshire, Cotter (SLRG)
          integrated formal and sociolinguistic methods to analyse urban multilingualism through
          the EU-funded AThEME (‘Advancing the European Multilingual Experience’) consortium
          (Framework 7, 2014-2020); Stockall (FLRG), Pearson (FLRG) and Cotter (SLRG) co-
          supervise PhD research (Hunt) combining experimental, sociolinguistic, formal semantic
          and pragmatic perspectives: in 2018 they established a Sociosemantics reading group to
          introduce other staff and PGRs to the approach. Our MA programmes are designed to
          train students in the research concerns of both sociolinguistics and formal linguistics.
          Many PGTs continue as PGRs, where their Research Training further encourages
          integrated experimental, social, and formal thinking e.g. Hunt, Young, Passoni, Oxbury,
          Tenderini, Ardoino, Zhao. Additional perspectives come from cross-Faculty PhD
          supervision e.g. with Computer Science (de Leeuw/Pearce), Medicine
          (Cotter/Swinglehurst), Dentistry (Cheshire/Pine) and from research groups elsewhere in
          the UK and beyond (section 4).
    (iii) Integrated methods: Our new laboratory infrastructure (section 3) and technical lab
          manager have transformed the potential for us to adopt experimental research methods.
          We have used them to address theoretical questions in morphology (Stockall), syntax
          (Adger, van Urk), semantics (Pearson, Stockall), phonology (Chong, McCarthy),
          language acquisition (McCarthy, Stockall), multilingualism (de Leeuw, Lyons, Stockall),
          linguistic variation (Levon, Sharma), and language and sexuality (Levon); [REF2]. We
          have new lab director roles for staff and regular cross-area meetings; an Experimental
          Linguistics Reading Group for staff, postdocs and PGRs was established in 2017.
    (iv) Expanded impact: Details immediately below.

 Our key aims for 2021–2027 are to use the facilities established in this cycle to consolidate new
 integrated and interdisciplinary approaches to the understanding of language, to greatly extend
 the impact of our research (detailed in section 4), and to sustain our excellence in scholarly
 outputs, whilst further progressing our commitment to EDI and to Open Access.

 Strategies for enabling impact
 Since 2014 we have: (i) embedded impact into the department’s research culture, (ii) engaged
 with a substantial range of research users (section 4), and (iii) participated in public engagement
 at local, national and international level (section 4), in line with QMUL’s research impact strategy
 (REF5a:2,II). Strategies to enable (i) include brainstorming on the social relevance of all our
 research as an agenda point in research group meetings and, as a full department, at our annual
 Away Day; best practice mentoring by ICS leads; encouraging staff to participate in SLLF’s
 Coordinated Impact strategy; and protecting dedicated time to work with non-HEI partners. We
 attend SLLF impact training workshops and meet with the School Impact Coordinator to develop

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact opportunities from our research. Faculty-level workshops focus on preparing case studies
 (attended by Sharma for ICS1; Adger and van Urk for ICS2). Since 2014, 7 staff members have
 developed secondary school resources based on their research (ICS1), and van Urk, who
 previously concentrated on the theoretical implications of his research, has worked with Adger to
 develop primary/secondary school resources (ICS2). Nine staff are involved in Multilingual
 Capital (www.multilingualcapital.com), established in 2013 by de Leeuw and Sharma to publicise
 insights about multilingualism and arrange events with local community organisations, and
 shortlisted in 2017 for a QMUL Centre for Public Engagement Award (REF5a:4). Members of
 both research groups write for our three departmental research-based blogs: the Linguistics
 Research Digest (ICS1), the Queen Mary Invented Languages Scheme (ICS2), and the now
 archived QMULBilingualism blog.

 We have incorporated impact and public engagement training into departmental PhD training
 workshops, resulting in, e.g., co-organisation by PGRs and staff of conferences for teachers
 (Cheshire/Gates/Ilbury, 2017; Sharma/Ilbury 2019; ICS1).

 Substantial financial support for impact work comes from the Faculty (REF5A:4) and the School;
 advice comes from the School and Faculty Impact Coordinators (section 3).

 Our plans for 2021-2027 are to extend the areas of professional and public life where resources
 based on our research can inform and change professional practices for the better, and where
 uninformed views about language can be challenged. The foundation for this is already in place
 (section 4). We aim for every staff member to maintain their active involvement in research
 impact, and to further involve our postdocs, PGRs, and PGTs (e.g. a 2020 MA Research
 Practicum project developing A-Level teaching materials).

 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 Our distinctive strategic aim of bringing together the cognitive and social sciences through an
 understanding of language necessarily involves pursuing an interdisciplinary approach, not just
 within HSS but across faculties. We have successfully competed for QMUL’s interdisciplinary
 PhD studentships (REF5a:3,III) e.g. Life Sciences: Linguistics with Dentistry; Mind in Society
 Research Centre: with Psychology, Electronic Engineering and Computer Sciences; Media and
 Arts Technology PhD programme: with Computer Science; Principal’s Studentships: with the
 Centre for Primary Care and Public Health; Film Studies; and History. These PGRs participate
 fully in our research events and are a vital way of integrating interdisciplinarity into our research
 culture.

 We collaborate with other HSS Schools, e.g. in the establishment and management of the
 Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships ‘Mobile People’ (led by Politics and International Relations),
 and by making our new research facilities available to the Psychology Unit in the Biological and
 Chemical Sciences and the Natural Language Processing group in the Electronic Engineering
 and Computer Sciences. We participate in their research seminar series, as do they in ours. This
 provides opportunities for informal discussion about shared research interests, resulting in the
 studentships mentioned above, and in research grants (e.g. Sharma ‘Why do people from
 different cultures think differently?’ ESRC 2013-2016, PI in Psychology, with CIs in Computer
 Science and SLLF (£369,437 fEC); Levon PI and Sharma, ‘Accent bias and fair access in
 Britain’, ESRC 2017-2020, with co-CI in Law (£580,455 fEC).

 We are founder-members of the ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral
 Training Centre (LISS-DTP), with leadership roles in the organisation, and two further inter-

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disciplinary, inter-college London Doctoral Training Partnerships (section 2). Beyond London, we
 have many research partnerships with colleagues from other disciplines (section 4).

 The Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences (established 2018) supports our
 interdisciplinary research as an ideas-generating hub and provider of pump-priming funds
 (REF5a:2,I,[5]) e.g. Lyons for research with the National Childbirth Trust.

 Progress towards an open research environment
 We embrace an open research environment, making excellent progress towards compliance
 with the Concordat on Open Research Data. 98% of our research outputs comply with UKRI OA
 policies; 100% of journal articles are deposited in QMUL’s OA depository (REF5a:2,IV) with an
 increasing number published in gold and diamond OA venues. We upload pre-publication
 versions of articles and slides from conference presentations to personal websites and online
 repositories (e.g. LingBuzz, ResearchGate). Adger serves on the editorial board of Glossa and
 Pearson is Associate Editor of Semantics and Pragmatics, which both provide immediate open
 access to their content.

 A longstanding strategy is to contribute to the discipline by making our research data available to
 other researchers. We work with IT Research Services to incorporate the FAIR principles in Data
 Management plans for our research projects and digital preservation practices and policies,
 promote the FAIR principles in Research Training, and encourage staff and students to deposit
 data in archives that embody them. To date these include depositing in the Open Science
 Foundation and, where participants have given permission, allowing bona fide researchers
 access to anonymised transcripts and/or audio recordings via project websites e.g. Scots Syntax
 Atlas [REF2], searchable corpus collections e.g. Multicultural London English via SketchEngine,
 or the UK Data Service (e.g. data from the Accent Bias project). They are used by researchers
 worldwide (e.g. Université de Bourgogne, the Johanes-Gutenburg Universität, Mainz). We share
 audio recordings with SPADE, an externally-funded research collaboration across five North
 American and UK institutions, and give free access to analytical tools developed for our research
 e.g. our bespoke extensions to Qualtrics experimental software via GitHub, including a new
 media player and an online real-time graphical evaluation tool (Levon/Sharma,
 www.accentbiasbritain.org). Data from the research of 7 staff members are freely available in the
 form of dozens of sound clips on our Teach Real English! Website [ICS1].

 Approach to research integrity
 QMUL’s commitment to Research Integrity (REF5a:2,III) is strongly endorsed by the
 department’s research culture. We were founder members of the QMUL Research Ethics
 Committee and incorporate research integrity into PGR research training e.g. through discussion
 of appropriate methods, basing conclusions on critical analysis of evidence, responsibility
 towards participants (especially given extensive work with disadvantaged or vulnerable
 communities), and reporting findings and interpretations fully and objectively, including where
 these may be negative. In reading group discussions (section 2) we evaluate the research
 methods of other researchers and track how methods have developed over time, thereby
 engaging PGRs and postdocs in thinking about research ethics. We teach, and follow in our own
 research, discipline-specific guidelines on good practice and research integrity, e.g. those of the
 British Association of Applied Linguistics and the Linguistic Society of America.

 We contribute to the development of good practice within the discipline through publications and
 presentations e.g. Levon publishing on issues of ethical research practice when conducting
 linguistic ethnography, responsible recording practices, dealing with communities and human

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subjects, methods of quantitative analysis; Cheshire on ethical considerations in open access
 data; Lyons on ethics in digital team ethnography. Sharma co-edited CUP’s Research Methods
 in Linguistics and wrote that handbook’s chapter on transcription. Lyons spoke on social media
 research ethics at the SONOGLO workshop (Denmark, June 2017) and Cotter on researcher-
 community responsibility at the AAA (2015, 2018).

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Five new posts have been created since 2014, expanding the unit by 50% and reflecting
 sustained investment. Internal promotions have led to rising seniority in the unit, so succession
 planning dictated that these were all at junior level. Work conditions and factors promoting
 wellbeing encourage senior staff to remain. All category A staff except Cheshire (approaching
 retirement) have permanent long-term contracts.

 We advertise posts widely, aiming to reach the best in the world and timing our recruitment
 process to fit with international cycles. All staff comment on applications, agree shortlists, and
 feedback after applicants’ job talks. This ensures that new appointments complement and
 appropriately expand our existing strengths. We are fully committed to equality and diversity in
 hiring and are proud of our staff diversity (identical gender balance in FLRG; balance in career
 stage and age; diverse ethnicity and sexual orientation). Members of appointment panels are
 trained to treat candidates equally and support diversity; if no clear quality distinctions can be
 made when shortlisting we select on the basis of EDI. All staff attend equal opportunity and
 unconscious bias training focussed on the workplace and classroom, with refresher courses
 every 2 years.

 New hires have fulfilled our strategic aims. Lyons’ (appointed 2015) focus on multilingualism and
 multimodality in electronically-mediated communication expands the SLRG’s work on urban
 multilingualism (e.g. de Leeuw, Sharma) and media discourse (e.g. Cotter, Levon). Van Urk
 (appointed 2015) consolidates and enhances existing expertise in theoretical syntax, his interest
 in understudied languages complementing that of Cotter in SLRG and Adger and Harbour in
 FLRG. Pearson (appointed 2016) reinforces our research in formal semantics after the departure
 of Elbourne to a chair at Oxford. Her work on experimental semantics/pragmatics adds to the
 department’s expertise in experimental methods and connects with the interests of SLRG (e.g.
 linguistic variation, sociopragmatics, sociosemantics), and her work at the intersection of
 linguistics and philosophy extends our interdisciplinarity reach. McCarthy (appointed 2017)
 expands experimental expertise whilst consolidating our focus on multilingualism in the city
 through research on child bilingual acquisition; this also extends existing departmental research
 on sociophonetics (de Leeuw, Levon). Chong (appointed 2017) adds theoretical phonology to
 the FLRG; his work on phonetics/morphology and computational modelling extends the group’s
 research on interfaces, while his work on phonological variation, acquisition and processing
 complements the research of the SLRG (Cheshire, Levon, McCarthy), as does his work on
 World Englishes (Sharma). McCarthy, Chong, and Pearson have all built our experimental
 strength, as planned in our 2014-2020 strategy.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development strategy
 The institution’s rigorous mentoring schemes (REF5a:3,I) are implemented with each staff
 member, including postdocs, assigned a personal mentor: junior staff are mentored by a senior
 academic and professors by other professors. Mentoring includes feedback on draft work, career
 planning, and discussion of well-being. All staff, including postdocs, are appraised yearly by a
 senior colleague to monitor and set research objectives. We make full use of QMUL’s award-
 winning programme of professional development courses and researcher training and
 development (REF5a:3,I). The HSS Early Career Researchers Network provides workshops and
 networking opportunities across the Faculty. Staff preparing grant applications benefit from a
 peer review process with both mentors and other senior staff experienced in gaining research
 funding and/or membership of grant-awarding bodies.

 New staff have a reduced teaching load during probation in order to maintain research whilst
 completing the Post-Graduate Certificate in Academic Practice and attending their selected
 professional development and researcher training courses. They are paired with senior staff for
 training in decision-making, e.g. ranking applications for postdoctoral Fellowships, and further
 integrated into the department through our active social programme (department parties, social
 events after departmental seminars, informal staff gatherings).

 Postdocs participate fully in our research culture, impact-generating activities, and social
 programme, improving our research environment significantly. To date all have moved on to
 permanent academic or research posts (space precludes examples).

 Staff on parental leave (seven in current period) are replaced by lecturers on (necessarily
 temporary) Teaching and Scholarship contracts. Like postdocs, these lecturers are mentored,
 included in all department activities, and appraised every semester. They can participate in our
 research and impact activities to support aspirations to develop a research career and can
 access funds for professional development. They attend career development opportunities
 offered by the aforementioned HSS Early Careers Network.

 Guidance on career progression is clearly provided by QMUL’s Human Resources department;
 mentors and senior Linguistics staff advise on the timing and preparation of promotion
 applications. All applications in 2014-2020 were successful, ensuring retention of staff and
 rewarding their excellent research performance. De Leeuw and Stockall were promoted to
 Senior Lecturer in 2015, then Reader in 2019 and 2020 respectively; Levon to Reader in 2016
 and Professor in 2019; Harbour and Sharma to Professor in 2016; Lyons, Pearson, Martí, and
 van Urk to Senior Lecturer in 2019. The most recent ECR is being mentored for a promotion
 application after probation. That excellence is rewarded regardless of particular circumstances is
 evidenced by Harbour’s promotion to Professor (employed at 0.5 FTE). Female Readers and
 Professors outnumber males at present (5.5:2.5 FTE).

 REF5a:3 details Faculty and School policies promoting and rewarding research, including
 sabbatical leave. All permanent Linguistics staff have been awarded sabbatical leave during the
 REF period. All have at least one day a week guaranteed for research during term-time. PIs of
 major externally-funded research grants receive 10% of grant overheads to support further
 research development and can have teaching relief, as can individuals involved in developing
 current and future impact, e.g. McCarthy, whose research is a planned ICS for REF2027, was
 relieved of a teaching module when engaging with nine primary schools (section 4).



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students
 Our recruitment strategy, as in REF2014, has been to expand the quantity and quality of
 research students through a highly selective admissions process. Our sensitivity to EDI issues
 has resulted in a diverse student body; of the 43 2014-2020 PGRs, 30 are female and 15 BAME.
 Since 2014 we have secured 27 funded studentships from UKRI (17), China National
 Scholarships (4), QMUL internal competitive studentships (5), and one funded externally by
 Cambridge University Press (2015-2019) linked to the journal Language in Society, edited from
 our department.

 We train our PGRs to develop into well-equipped independent researchers. A points-based
 system allows students, with their supervisors, to monitor participation in our rich provision of
 research training and support. Our structures of support have led all PGRs since REF2014 to
 submit their dissertations within 4 years, and almost all have secured academic lectureships,
 postdoc and industry positions. Space permits just five recent examples: Gates, UK National
 Centre for Social Research; Young, Stockholm University; Wang, Nanjing University, Yao,
 Chinese Academy of Science; Zhao, Nottingham University.

 To offer PGRs the very best training, we co-founded and co-finance both ACTL, a multi-
 institutional advanced core training programme in formal Linguistics (actlblog.wordpress.com,
 co-organised by van Urk since 2016), and CLSS, a cross-London sociolinguistics training
 programme (www.facebook.com/CLSociolinguisticsGroup). We are founding members of the
 ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Centre (LISS-DTP), the
 preceding QMUL/Goldsmiths ESRC LSS-DTC (London Social Science Doctoral Training
 Centre), and the Leverhulme ‘Mobile People’ Doctoral Scholarships Programme (QMUL-LTDS),
 and are members of the AHRC London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAH-DTP). Stockall
 has been Director of LSS-DTC since 2017 and Deputy Director of LISS-DTP 2014-2020. Levon
 was Pathway lead for the LISS-DTP Linguistics, Media and Culture section 2017-2020.

 QMUL’s Doctoral College provides general training and support for PGRs (REF5a:3,II), including
 on Researcher Wellbeing, Development, and Careers, to which our own PGRs contribute e.g.
 Hunt and Strange co-organised a 2019 workshop on mental health and the PhD experience for
 supervisors and research students, co-funded by HEFCE Catalyst (REF5a:3.III) and LISS-DTP.
 Linguistics staff and PGRs complement this University support with an annual series of training
 workshops e.g., staff-led workshops on prepping for the academic job market, academia-
 adjacent careers (including talks from our non-academic contacts; see above); and student-led
 workshops on, e.g., creating a professional online presence.

 Subject-specific departmental Research Training is delivered through fortnightly reading groups
 and LingLunches (section 3), research seminars with external speakers, and RT workshops led
 by internal/external experts on topics/skills requested by students. New appointments have
 enabled the long-standing Formal and Sociolinguistics reading groups to be complemented by
 reading groups on Experimental Linguistics, Sociosemantics, Sex, Gender and Language, and
 Language and the Media, plus a series of Phonetics lab talks with internal/external speakers.
 Our Social Theory Book Club runs every 3 years, so that all PGRs can participate. Micro-
 discourse analysis data sessions were organised by PGRs throughout 2018, to sharpen skills in
 conversation/discourse analysis of spoken, written and electronically-mediated data. The annual
 Randolph Quirk Fellow (section 3) meets PGRs individually, building in new international
 networking opportunities within PGR training. FLRG runs workshops after PhD vivas where
 candidates present their work alongside experts in the field (their externals), e.g. Cinque (for
 Panayidou), Kyle Johnson (Kalinin), Cheng (Niu), Ramchand (Wang). In addition, PGRs attend

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 theory and methodology courses from our PGT offerings to fill any gaps in knowledge or skills.
 Our lab manager provides technical, statistics, and computational skills training.

 PGRs have a vital role in the departmental research culture, engaging in closely monitored
 undergraduate teaching assistance and the organisation of reading groups, research seminars,
 public lectures and international conferences (section 4), as well as organising events
 themselves e.g. Yip and Du: a one-day international symposium, Reading beyond words:
 Approaches to multimodality in the media, April 2019. They can apply for university and School
 funding to attend national and international conferences, and we encourage them to apply
 elsewhere too, e.g. the Linguistics Society of America’s Committee on Ethnic Diversity in
 Linguistics sponsored Gates to attend the 2017 LSA conference. Ilbury and Gates obtained
 ESRC funding for Language Variation in the Classroom, a 2017 workshop for secondary school
 teachers (ICS1), subsequently presenting the work at BAAL and publishing it as a book chapter.

 We organise regular pre-conference dry runs where students (and staff) receive feedback before
 attending major conferences. Newer PGRs present their dissertation work under conference
 conditions at our annual postgraduate conference, while final years give a lecture based on their
 research at a LingLunch, as preparation for job talks.

 We encourage and tutor students to publish in OPALs (our working paper series), in conference
 proceedings such as CAMLING and, in the later stages of their research, the mainstream
 journals e.g. Adams, Language and Communication 2018; Coimbra Gomes, Language in
 Society 2019; Hall, Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 2019; Ilbury, Journal of
 Sociolinguistics 2019; Baggio, Linguistic Inquiry 2020.

 Each research student has a desk and computer in the Linguistics Research Centre (“LingLab”,
 a newly refurbished suite containing 26 workspaces, all with associated computers). Their
 shared space facilitates a much appreciated lively and mutually supportive research student
 culture that is frequently commented on, e.g. from the 2019 national PRES: “the working space
 is one of the main benefits of my department (Linguistics), as it allows [sic] to feel part of a
 community, and not feel isolated (e.g. working at home), talk through problems with others,
 makes you feel more part of the university, and really helps me progress with my degree”. PGRs
 are assigned a primary and secondary supervisor, with proportional inputs to take account of the
 needs for different expertise. Progress is monitored via departmental annual reviews and
 reporting to the School Graduate Studies Committee to comply with wider policies. Our joint
 supervision system means that both new and experienced supervisors supervise PhD students.
 Supervisors receive appropriate training and updates from QMUL’s Centre for Academic and
 Professional Development.

 Linguistics has a Director of Graduate Studies who reports to the School Director for Graduate
 Studies and attends the School Committee for Graduate Studies. A dedicated School
 postgraduate team deals directly with most aspects of the postgraduate student experience.

 Our research environment has proved to be robust during the Covid-19 crisis, proof of the
 strength of our ties of intellectual solidarity and organisational agility. We were particularly
 concerned to maintain a framework for intellectual growth and companionship for our PGRs and
 postdocs, so all reading groups immediately transferred online, with no delay in the programme,
 followed soon by the LingLunches and RT workshops.



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity
 Linguistics staff have taken a leadership role in EDI issues, with Chong, Lyons, Martí and
 Stockall founder members of the 8-person School EDI Committee, with Adger co-chair in 2017-
 2018 as Head of School. The Committee is overseen by University EDI governance
 (REF5a:3,II); its remit includes casualisation of work, transgender and non-binary gender issues,
 support for carers, managing health and families, freedom of speech, and socioeconomic
 concerns. We requested the addition of Luo (staff covering parental leave) to ensure
 representation of staff on fixed-term contracts. Lyons is a member of the Faculty EDI Committee.
 Linguistics staff actively participate in the HSS Gender Equality Network (with Lyons a member
 of the University Gender Equality Self-Assessment Committee), the University Women into
 Leadership programme (e.g. Pearson was an invited speaker in May 2020 at Springboard:
 REF5a:3,II), and QMOut (QMUL’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender staff network, with
 Adger one of the first three QMUL LGBTQ+ role models). Lyons is the School Athena Swan lead
 and a panellist on the national Advance HE Athena SWAN Committee.

 We follow QMUL’s Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work Policies and enthusiastically support
 principles of equality, diversity and inclusion in every area of our professional activity. At annual
 Away Days we reflect on how to promote a culture of inclusivity in our research-led teaching
 curriculum, e.g., by using written and visual material that promotes diversity and reflects the
 varied experiences and identities of our students. We strive to increase the visibility of role
 models from under-represented groups e.g., to date the 4 formal linguists who have been
 Randolph Quirk Fellows (section 3) have all been women, one African-American. Much of our
 sociolinguistic research and impact relates to EDI issues. The department co-wrote a statement
 (June 2020), circulated to students, on current and planned content to support a decolonised
 curriculum.

 Pearson is a trained Mental Health First aider and receives regular support and refresher
 training from QMUL’s Mental Health First Aid Network; most of us attend QMUL training events
 on mental health awareness and other aspects of wellbeing e.g. Adult Mental Health Aware Half
 Day, February 2019.

 Seven staff members, male and female, have benefitted from full cover for parental leave since
 2014, as has one (male) postdoc. Three PGRs (two male) have taken parental leave. Staff
 approaching or returning from parental leave or recovering from ill-health have adjusted teaching
 and administrative responsibilities so that they can gradually reintegrate into departmental
 activities (e.g. de Leeuw, Pearson, McCarthy, Lyons had no recruiting commitments immediately
 prior to maternity leave, and requests for extended leave or adjusted sabbaticals were
 accommodated). Timetabling is organised so that staff can choose flexible working times to fit
 with caring responsibilities. We share QMUL’s commitment to ensuring that the majority of
 research-related events occur within core hours to ensure that all staff can participate in our
 research culture (REF5a:3,II). PGRs with transnational caring responsibilities are allowed
 extended periods of remote working in their home countries, with supervision sessions
 conducted on virtual platforms. We have liaised with QMUL’s Disability and Dyslexia Service to
 ensure appropriate support for PGRs with long-term illness and disability.

 Linguistics closely followed the University Code of Practice (REF5a:3,II) when preparing the
 REF submission. We operated an EDI audit to check the results of REF selection processes
 against EDI criteria. All staff were fully informed of REF-related decisions and had the right to
 appeal. Cotter as Faculty Dean contributed to the university’s EDI discussions and at national


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Higher Education forums, informed by language and social justice research in her linguistic
 subfield.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding
 Our strategy since 2014 has been to mentor junior staff to develop applications for external
 research funding (section 2), and for us all to consider applying beyond the conventional funding
 agencies. Its success is shown by the increase in external research funding since REF2014,
 totalling over £1.75M in REF2021 (£1.7M (REF4) plus £58k research funding from CUP), an
 average per capita research income of £150,000. Competitive funding has been won not only via
 UKRI and British Academy but also from, e.g. the EU (Framework 7 Collaborative award
 (section 1) and a Marie Curie Career Integration Grant), the Alexander von Humboldt
 Foundation, the Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, and CNRS-GNRI. Borer
 (2015-18) and Adger (2020-23) received Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships. Lyons
 obtained a QMUL competitive Large Grant Seed-corn Fund award in 2019 (REF5a:1,I,[5]);
 Sharma was awarded a Research Award by Google in July 2020.

 We have successfully applied for postdoctoral research fellowship awards from EU Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Actions, Leverhulme, and the British Academy. Much of the research
 underlying ICS1 and ICS2 stems from our funded research, as do impact-related publications
 (e.g. Cheshire, Adger & Hall, Languages, Society and Policy 1, Sharma, The Conversation,
 2019).

 Organisational infrastructure
 Our research activities are structured to ensure that all researchers gain both focus and breadth
 in their work, using available finances to invest equally in the intellectual research environment
 of SLRG and FLRG. Linguistics receives £2000 from SLLF annually to fund a research seminar
 series with external speakers. Visiting speakers are nominated by staff and PGRs and then
 selected by voting, ensuring that the choice reflects the diversity of our staff, students and
 research groups. All departmental researchers (staff, postdocs, PGRs, visitors) attend seminars,
 fostering research collaboration across groups. We organise frequent, informal LingLunch
 meetings each term, where staff, visitors, and postdocs present their ongoing research or future
 research plans. LingLunches are a mechanism for intellectual cross-fertilization, allowing us to
 develop more rounded research proposals and impact-generating ideas. We attend and
 contribute to the monthly School Research Coffee Hour, where staff from various disciplines
 come together to share and debate research problems.

 We have two annual public lectures/workshop series, one in sociolinguistics and one in formal
 linguistics. SLLF funds the Jenny Cheshire Lectures in Sociolinguistics; the Randolph Quirk
 Fellowship is funded by a donation from the late Lord Randolph Quirk. This Fellowship brings a
 distinguished overseas linguist to the department for one week to deliver a mini-course and a
 public lecture in their field of expertise. We open these events to the London linguistics
 community and beyond, thereby benefitting from open discussions with researchers beyond our
 department. We ensure that invitees reflect the social diversity of our staff and students (section
 2).

 QMUL’s devolved system of financing allows SLLF significant latitude in the allocation of
 resources: 12-14% of its annual consumables budget is dedicated to research support (c. £40k
 p.a.). Research-active staff can apply for up to £1200 per year to support their research. Thanks

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to this arrangement, Linguistics staff (and research students) have presented papers at all major
 international conferences over the period. SLLF also sets aside £5000 p.a. for the Research
 Environment and Impact Initiative, to which staff can apply to fund activities that will substantially
 enhance the research environment and support impact. Linguistics has successfully bid for
 funding from this budget to enhance PhD Research Training and to support impact (2015, 2017,
 2019).

 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Our suite of laboratories (a sound-proofed recording studio with ultra-high resolution phonetic
 recording capacity and an ultrasound machine; and an electro-magnetically shielded faraday
 cage housing an EEG recording system for experiments on children and adults) plus the post of
 a technical lab manager have transformed experimental research in the department (section 1).
 A further successful bid to QMUL’s Strategic Facilities Investment Fund for £50k in 2019 adds
 two experimental booths and an eye-tracker station, thereby assuring long-term availability of
 experimental facilities and helping to achieve our aim of becoming a flagship experimental
 research hub in London. Our facilities attract high-profile international visitors, e.g. Steinhauer
 (McGill), funded by a British Academy award to Stockall, whose work with FLRG/SLRG staff has
 resulted in further collaboration (e.g. a Fonds du Québec grant with Stockall as named
 collaborator). We make our labs available to QMUL users from, e.g. Computer Science and
 Psychology, and other London colleges, e.g. UCL. In return we use research facilities elsewhere
 e.g. we have formal research links with the Cognitive Development Lab, York University,
 Canada, the Institute of Phonetics and Speech Processing, LMU, Munich); the Neurobiology of
 Language labs at NYU and NYUAD, the Université de Montréal, and the Université de Laval.

 General departmental administration is helped by a rotating Departmental Support Assistant role
 filled by 2nd year PhD students (0.2 FTE). QMUL’s Library holds most major journals
 electronically, has Academic Reading rooms for staff and research students, and has purchased
 multiple licences for major corpora, e.g. LexisNexus, the British National Corpus and the
 International Corpus of English; other major digital corpora are available via QMUL’s
 subscription to Sketch Engine. We have full access to the other libraries of the federal University
 of London as well as the London-based British Library. The School Research Manager (post
 created in 2014) provides guidance on grant applications, helps with the administration of
 research grants, and fosters collaborative research synergies through organisation of events and
 training. We can draw on the School and Faculty Impact Coordinators for advice on impact
 planning, QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement on public engagement activities, the Faculty
 PR Office on media communication, and the QMUL Partnerships Team on brokering
 collaborations with non-HE organisations. QMUL’s Joint Research Management Office works
 with individuals developing grant applications to supply costings, expert advice and
 administrative aid. We are sensitive to Equality and Diversity issues related to research grants
 e.g. other staff act as interim directors during parental leave; the Linguistics Head of Department
 and Research Lead provide advice and feedback on draft funding applications; several members
 of staff on parental leave used KIT days, with flexible laboratory access and other working
 needs. SLLF provides and upgrades all computing equipment on a three-to five-year basis.

 Our successful request for physically contiguous staff offices, the LingLab, and the new
 experimental facilities create a rich and exciting research environment. We have been able to
 host academic visitors from Brazil, Canada, the EU and elsewhere over the period, and visiting
 PGRs and postdocs from countries including Italy, Romania and Japan. Space permitting,
 visitors are given a workstation in the LingLab. They participate fully in our research events,
 adding a valuable international dimension to our research environment.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for impact
 We have received generous financing from QMUL’s award-winning Centre for Public
 Engagement (REF5a:4) e.g. for the launch of Multilingual Capital (section 1), language
 workshops for teachers (£980 in 2016; ICS1), the filming and online dissemination of the British
 Library conference on the portrayal of ageing (section 3) and a Minority Language and Media
 public workshop (Cotter). McCarthy was awarded £10,000 in 2018 to support her ‘Bridging the
 Gap’ project and £1000 in March 2020 to compile a related ‘Stories from Home’ film (section 4).

 Sharma won £3000 Faculty Funding (REF5a:4) in 2017 to support work on ICS1, and £2000 in
 2018 for activities to capture impact. McCarthy was awarded £6000 from the HSS Collaboration
 Fund (REF5a:4) in January 2020 for a partnership with East London schools, to expand her
 literacy research to children with early reading difficulties as a pilot for a later UKRI application.
 Faculty-funded teaching relief for ICS development was mentioned above.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations and networks
 We have extensive formal research links with over 20 institutions worldwide (in addition to co-
 founding multi-institutional training networks ACTL and CLSS [section 2] and overseas lab-
 based research links [section 3]). Space prevents more than one illustration of their success:
 Levon, with Milani (Gothenburg) has secured two British Academy research grants, co-authored
 7 publications and has a textbook contract with Routledge; with Mendes (Brazil) he co-edited a
 2015 OUP volume, Studies in Intersectional Sociolinguistics; with Maegaard and Pharao
 (Copenhagen) he co-edited a 2017 Special Issue of Linguistics (55(5)). We belong to many
 international research networks, e.g. OASIS, a CNRS-based European interdisciplinary research
 network (Martí, Stockall, Harbour, Borer, Adger), leading to co-authored papers with OASIS
 partners (e.g. Stockall, with Lazaridou-Chatzigoga and Katsos (2019), Journal of Semantics
 36(4)), classes for an interdisciplinary audience (Adger) at OASIS2 conference, Nantes 2019,
 and more.

 Collaboration with other London institutions has led to funded research grants with e.g. Birkbeck
 (Cheshire and Gardner-Chloros, ESRC 2010-2014), UCL (Adger and Abels, with Culbertson,
 Edinburgh, ESRC 2015-2019). Funded research with colleagues beyond London includes
 Adger’s Scots Syntax Atlas, with Heycock (Edinburgh) and Smith (Glasgow), AHRC 2015-2019
 (REF2), and Levon and Sharma’s Accent Bias in Britain project, with Watt (York), ESRC 2017-
 2020.

 Interactions with key research users
 Our relations with research users enrich our understanding of how our research can benefit
 professional and public life. All members of the department work actively with non-HEI users.
 We have long-standing ties to non-academic partners and sustain these relationships through
 impact-generating research, public engagement activity, inviting partners into PGT/PGR training,
 and working with former PhD students, whose employment and geographical reach is
 widespread. For example, we have a well-established exchange with the British Library (BL),
 whereby we teach on BL Adult Learning courses and teacher conferences, and BL staff share
 their Library’s audio holdings and other research resources with our postgraduates (e.g. via the
 Research Practicum module on our MA in Linguistics). We have a BL/QMUL CASE PhD
 studentship (2017-2021) and co-organised a conference on the Portrayal of Ageing (April 2014)
 with the BL and the Centre for Policy in Ageing.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In education, we collaborated with the Centre for Literacy in Primary Education (Adger, van Urk),
 continued a decade-long partnership with A-Level English Language subject examiners
 (Cheshire, Sharma), organised QMUL workshops for secondary school teachers and
 schoolchildren, and spoken at British Library teacher conferences, the English and Media
 Centre, and regional UK A-level English Language conferences [ICS 1&2]. McCarthy worked
 with Special Education Needs Coordinators, speech therapists, and parents in primary schools,
 and children’s centres for caregivers of infants, leading to funded research on phonological
 awareness and reading skills in sequential bilingual children (British Academy, 2017).

 We also engaged extensively with the professional sector. Levon and Sharma consulted 12
 major law firms, the Social Mobility Commission, the Chartered Institute of Personnel
 Development and HR professionals to discuss accent bias in job interviews, leading to funded
 collaborative research with these users to develop training materials to counter accent
 discrimination (ESRC, 2017-2020). Cotter organises an annual ‘professional divides’ panel at the
 American Anthropological Association conference, where linguists and journalists share views
 on the representation of disadvantaged groups in media and public discourse. One outcome is
 changes to The Associated Press Stylebook (“the journalists’ ‘bible’”). Other established
 relationships are with the BBC Pronunciation Unit, and Mothertongue, a multilingual counselling
 service (from 2018, the Pasalo Project) who contribute PhD Research Training sessions and
 arrange internships, e.g. in 2017 a PGR, Rausch, worked with Mothertongue to develop distance
 support resources for counsellors in refugee communities overseas.

 Our action plan for 2021-2027 is to build on this successful model to expand into new areas of
 professional and public life where resources based on our research can inform and change
 practices for the better. We are currently developing unconscious language bias tutorials for law
 firms and HR, and are planning a suite of short online courses for key groups with whom we
 already interact (teachers, journalists, HR teams, and government researchers). We are
 cultivating new mutually beneficial relationships with Wikimedia UK, the Oxford English
 Dictionary, Historic Royal Palaces, Encounter Arts, the Home Office and the Bank of England,
 with the aim of organising future staff and PhD internships. Honorary lecturer Adib Mehrabi, a
 former Linguistics Technical Manager, now Principal Audio Research Engineer at Sonos Inc.,
 offers staff and PGRs a key research and career bridge to the audio tech industry. Other
 relationships, still one-way at present, include Headway (Cotter, consultant on media
 representation of brain injury, 2015), HSBC (Sharma, consultant on predicted accent changes
 for voice biometrics, 2016), and ITV (Adger, collaboration on a constructed language for the
 Beowulf series, 2017 [ICS2]). EDI-driven exchanges resulted in, e.g. a 2020 $20k award from
 Google Research to Sharma to help create a multidialect dataset as part of a major Fairness in
 AI initiative, and Lyon’s consultancy on Avon’s 2020 Speakout for Women’s Equality initiative.

 Engagement with diverse communities and publics
 At a national level, we speak to government departments about language policies and practice,
 e.g. House of Commons, Cheshire 2019 on the language question in the National Census;
 Home Office, Sharma 2019 to train government researchers; Government Digital Services,
 postdoc Hall 2017 on Multicultural London English; All party Parliamentary group, postdoc
 Kasstan, 2018 on the state of modern languages in the UK; Department for Education, Adger
 2019 on linguistics in Key Stage 3 and 4 of the National Curriculum. We engage with school
 children through Harbour’s development of materials for the annual UK Linguistics Olympiad;
 see also ICS1 and ICS2.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We reach wider national and international audiences through media activity. A small selection:
 BBC TV’s The One Show, radio interviews for Sky News, BBC Radio 4, BBC World Service,
 BBC Midlands, BBC Berkshire, TalkRadioEurope, Australian Broadcasting Corporation;
 interviews reported in the Telegraph, Economist, Independent; article for New Scientist. Harbour
 published an article on his research impact in UKRI’s UK-USA Impact Brochure. QMUL’s Media
 Training for Researchers course has helped with this dissemination of our research.

 Locally, we engage closely with East London communities, a defining feature of QMUL’s
 research profile (REF5a:1), e.g. McCarthy’s ‘Bridging the Gap’ project engages with the Mile
 End Community Project and Special Needs coordinators from East London primary schools to
 promote heritage language use and increase cultural awareness across generations. The project
 won a 2018 QMUL Community Engagement Award. Staff and PGRs participate in our local
 borough’s annual ‘Tower Hamlets Festival of Communities’, with stalls on e.g. language and
 public health (2017), language games (2018), heritage language stories (2019). Levon and
 Sharma have conducted unconscious language bias training for HR and law firm recruiting
 teams (2019). Further afield, Cotter’s work on ‘language tracking’ engages with arts
 organisations and ‘disadvantaged’ communities in several towns in South Devon through the
 Paul Hamlyn-funded Encounters Arts ‘Chrysalis’ mobile arts/community project. Still further
 afield, Harbour continues to engage with the Kiowa tribe, e.g. collaborating on the portrayal of
 important Kiowa historical events (youtube.com/watch?v=Dvd5PO_Sn6w).

 Contributions to the sustainability and research base of the discipline
 Leadership roles in subject associations allow us to contribute to decision making on the future
 of the discipline e.g as President of LAGB, 2015-2020 (Adger), and members of AILA and BAAL
 Special Interest groups. We see PhD examining as sustaining the future of the discipline and
 between us have examined close to 100 dissertations since 2014 for the UK, Europe, North
 America, Australasia and elsewhere. Senior staff are invited members of the ESRC and AHRC
 Peer Review Colleges and the ESF College of Expert Reviewers. Junior and senior staff alike
 peer review for UKRI, Leverhulme, the Royal Society, the British Academy and international
 research councils (Hong Kong, Canada, South Africa, United States, Germany, and many
 others). We all regularly review for journals, publishers and conference organisers. Senior staff
 all serve on professorial appointment and tenure panels in the UK, USA and beyond. Sharma is
 a member of the 2021 UK REF Modern Languages and Linguistics Panel; Cheshire is Chair of
 the 2020 Hong Kong RAE Humanities Panel.

 Much of our research speaks to international priorities, e.g. research on Kiowa, Dinka, Fijian,
 Gaelic, Imere (Harbour, van Urk, Adger, Martí) connects to the United Nations Year of
 Indigenous Languages (2019). United Nations sustainable development goals 3, 4, 5 and 10
 (good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality, and reduced inequalities) are
 addressed by our research on language and gender (Levon), language in immigrant
 communities (Cheshire, Sharma, McCarthy), language and health communication (Cotter,
 Lyons), literacy (McCarthy), media literacy (Cotter).

 Contributions to the research base include serving as Editor-in-Chief or Associate Editor of
 international journals (since 2014 Glossa, Language in Society, Natural Language and Linguistic
 Theory, Second Language Research, Journal of Sociolinguistics, Linguistic Inquiry, Linguistics
 Vanguard, Lingua, Semantics and Pragmatics). Between us, we are editorial board members of
 14 leading peer-reviewed international journals and editors of journal special issues, handbooks
 and book series. Since 2014 we have hosted 7 major international conferences at QMUL (e.g.
 LAGB, UKLVC, IGALA, Sinn und Bedeutung) as well as organizing many more focused events,

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 e.g. The Alphabet of Universal Grammar, British Academy, June 2019 (Harbour, Martí, Pearson,
 van Urk) and co-organising conferences held elsewhere, e.g. 3rd International Language
 Attrition conference, University of Essex, 2016 (de Leeuw).

 We have given keynote lectures at major international conferences in Europe, America, South
 Africa, and beyond, including GLOW 2017 (Borer), BAAL 2016, 2018 (Levon, Sharma), Sinn und
 Bedeutung 2015 (Martí) and, in October 2013, 2016, 2017 and 2018, keynotes by Cheshire,
 Adger, Levon and Sharma at NWAV, the leading US conference on language variation. The
 inclusion of Adger at NWAV (and likewise Levon at Experimental and Theoretical Approaches to
 Prosody 2018) is indicative of our reputation for work across (sub)disciplinary boundaries. We all
 maintain an active presence at national and international conferences as well as delivering very
 many invited national and international lectures and contributions to colloquia. Some examples
 from a very long list: Borer delivered a lecture series as distinguished visiting professor at the
 University of São Paulo, 2014, 2015, and Beijing University, 2017; Adger was Bagget Lecturer
 2016, ZAS Fellow 2016, and LSA Forum Lecturer 2017; Lyons was an invited speaker at the
 BAAL Language and New Media SIG research seminar, Edinburgh 2020.

 Finally, we make a major contribution to research training at an international level, teaching
 courses at summer and winter schools across the globe (e.g. USA (LSA), Scandinavia, India,
 Georgia, South Africa, Brazil) and serving as Steering Committee members, e.g. of the
 Norwegian Graduate Research School in Linguistics and Philology.

 During the Covid-19 crisis three staff contributed lectures to two of the highest-profile
 international virtual series: Abralin ao vivo – Linguists online series (aovivo.abralin.org; June/July
 2020) and Linguistics Flashmob – Epic Battles in History
 (youtube.com/channel/UC5_qo6Nx8ziGLTwai9QokaA; July 2020). Martí and Pearson organised
 with UCL the first online Sinn und Bedeutung conference in September 2021: working with the
 LSA’s committee on the Status of Women in Linguistics they included a pop-up mentoring
 session for junior researchers.

 Borer was elected Fellow of the Linguistic Society of America in 2014 and Fellow of the British
 Academy in 2018, joining Cheshire (elected 2011). Looking forward, our future vitality is
 assured: e.g. Adger was elected to the British Academy in September 2020, so three of us will
 now contribute to the Academy’s work applying research in the humanities, social sciences and
 the arts for public benefit and social wellbeing; further infrastructure is committed for new
 experimental booths and equipment (£96,621); a further £858,000 external research funding has
 already been secured since July 2020, including an ESRC standard grant and another
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship; a new lecturer (Holmes-Elliott) was appointed in
 September 2020 in anticipation of Cheshire’s retirement (end 2020); and our PGRs moved to
 larger accommodation in Nov 2019, with 9 more workstations. Stockall is now a Central
 Management member of LISS-DTP and Pathway 7 lead and a Subject Area Panel Chair for the
 LAHP-DTP.




                                                                                               Page 15
