Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and Mission

 Research in Architecture, Built Environment and Planning is carried out within the Belfast School
 of Architecture and the Built Environment (BSABE), one of four schools comprising the Faculty of
 Computing, Engineering and the Built Environment. The unit successfully integrates a range of
 engineering solutions and technologies to inform policy, investment and development decision
 making. Sustainability and enhancement of the quality of the built environment for societal well-
 being provides a common underpinning to our research agenda through the evaluation of societal
 and environmental challenges of global significance. Our extensive international partnerships
 provide recognition for our scientific expertise and are influencing global research agendas. A
 critical mass for the unit is achieved via a strong nucleus of research staff, a vibrant PhD
 community, a solid track record of national and international research funding and impact through
 engagement with stakeholders in industry, professional practice and government bodies. Our
 activities cover a wide range of research areas including sustainable design, retrofitting building
 technologies, alternative energy sources, net-zero carbon building, fire safety of buildings and
 materials, safety of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies, resilience of infrastructure, urban
 regeneration, housing and real estate, future well-being of urban environment and digital
 construction.

 In REF2014, 100% of our research environment and impact were judged to be world-leading and
 internationally excellent. We have built on this excellence within the reporting period to be a
 leading internationally focused research unit delivering our research towards the creation of a
 more sustainable and resilient built environment with improved health and livelihoods. To achieve
 this our mission is to:

    •   apply our research for solutions to real-world problems associated with built environment,
    •   ensure a supportive and intellectually challenging research culture,
    •   support strong infrastructure for interdisciplinary research,
    •   deliver research with global impact,
    •   facilitate multidisciplinary interactions and collaborative research environment, and
    •   maximise the benefits of our research to the scholarly community.

 b. Structure and Research Management

 The unit constitutes of four established Research Centres and two new Research Groups formed
 within this REF cycle and have over 145 research active staff (Academics, Contract Research
 Staff (CRS) and Post Graduate Researchers (PGR)) spanning across all disciplines within Built
 Environment:

 Research Centres

 Centre for Sustainable Technologies (CST) (Director: Hewitt; 12 FTE) –               delivers
 decarbonisation solutions for energy supplies and their energy efficient use within the built
 environment through technology development informed by economic and social analysis.

 Research on Property and Planning (RPP) (Director: Haran; 16.5 FTE) – provides innovative
 insight and objective research to support sustainable urban and rural development, tackle climate
 change while simultaneously working in partnership with policy makers and industry to address
 social exclusion, deprivation, and deficiencies in housing provision.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hydrogen Safety Engineering and Research (HySAFER) (Director: Molkov; 5 FTE) – leads
 hydrogen safety and fuel cell research and education globally to underpin the international
 standing of Ulster University.

 Fire Safety Engineering Research and Technology (FireSERT) (Director: Nadjai; 7.8 FTE) –
 enhances the public safety and the competitiveness of UK industry through development of fire
 safe materials and products, performance prediction methods and measurement technologies.

 Research Groups

 Studies Allied to Built Environment Research (SABER) (Director: Woodward; 7 FTE) – This
 Research Group represents the collative interests of an emerging research culture within the unit
 spanning the core subject areas of highway engineering, construction management, quantity
 surveying, building surveying and civil engineering. SABER was established in late 2014
 specifically to raise the underpinning research base in these subjects and delivers applied
 research solutions and technology development in collaboration with the built environment.

 Architecture Research Group (ARG) (Director: Houlihan Wiberg; 4.5 FTE) – The merger
 between the previous Belfast School of Architecture and the School of the Built Environment in
 2017, has created an opportunity to deliver interdisciplinary research by combining the
 architecture discipline with sustainable technologies, construction and planning. Established in
 2020, ARG consists of four research clusters: (i) Zero Emission Buildings and Communities; (ii)
 Hidden Barriers and Divisive Architecture; (iii) Drawing: methodology, making and media; and (iv)
 Practise Based Research. The vision is to develop an international, interdisciplinary, innovative
 research portfolio to design appropriate concepts and strategies for net zero emission buildings
 and communities, with strong interests in the health and well-being of the people.

 The unit’s research is led by the Research Director (RD) (Mondol) who is an integral part of the
 School Leadership Team. Each Research Centre and Research Group is led by a Director
 (RCD/RGD), who is responsible for implementing the associated research strategy. Our School
 Research and Impact (R&I) committee is chaired by the RD and the members include RCD/RGD,
 Head of School (Hewitt) and Post Graduate Tutor (Davison). The committee meets 6 times per
 year to oversee all research activities including setting up the R&I strategic goals for the unit,
 maintaining operational excellence, devising the strategic plan for the training and support of
 academic staff and researchers and formulating ideas for the development of interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary research projects. The RD works closely with the faculty’s Associate Dean for
 Research & Impact to support the strategic direction of the faculty research, to promote inter-
 disciplinary research and to achieve impacts. Coherency of purpose arises from
 complementarities and supportive management structures within the Faculty and School.

 Research in UoA13 maintains the highest standards of professionalism in research as set down
 by the University (See REF5a). All research projects that need ethical approval are managed by
 the Faculty Research Ethics Committee which comprises discipline specific experts drawn from
 each school within the Faculty. 100% of our research active staff members have completed the
 online Research Integrity Training course. New CRSs take this course as part of their induction
 activity and PGRs during their first year of the research programme.

 c. Research Strategy and Outcomes

 In our REF2014 submission it was stated that our research strategy going forward to the current
 exercise would be influenced by the global, national and local economic conditions, public policy,
 government expenditure, societal needs and mitigation of climate change via sustainable
 development. The key objectives in regard were to

    • design new technological solutions and standards for societal well-being,
    • develop research in renewable energy and energy efficient technologies,
    • deliver policy relevant research,

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     • increase collaborative research in partnerships with industries and commerce, private
       sector, government bodies and local stakeholders,
     • expand our research network and collaboration,
     • disseminate research output to wider communities,
     • evaluate impact via demonstration,
     • exploit technologies into commercially viable products, and
     • deliver research informed courses and trainings.

 Over the assessment period, we have successfully achieved all these objectives as evidenced
 through the following key indicators:

 •    Growth of Research Active Staff: increased the number of staff returned in this submission
      from a headcount of 40 in REF2014 to 55 in REF2021 (see Section 2a) clearly indicating
      our active engagement in research and the positive outcomes from our mechanisms for staff
      supports.
 •    Increased the PGR Completion Rate: a total of 74 PhDs were awarded, 20% higher than
      REF2014. Importantly, our collaborations with external organisations have facilitated growth
      in PGR numbers through exploiting alternative funding sources (see Section 2c).
 •    Increased Research Spend: higher levels of success for Research Council (RC) income
      (£6.8M) coupled with diversified external research funding base has seen the total new
      research spend over the assessment period to reach £22.9M, an increase of 74% compared
      to REF2014 (see Section 3a).
 •    Research Networking and Collaboration: extensive engagement with partners regionally,
      nationally and internationally is evidenced (see Section 4b,c) by an increase in research
      income from EU Government bodies and other EU sources, 118% higher than REF2014
      values (see Section 3a).
 •    Engagement with Industries, Commerce and Private Bodies: enhanced our engagement
      with these communities locally and nationally and have delivered 8 Invest Northern Ireland
      Centre for Advanced Sustainable Energy (NI CASE) projects, 3 KTPs and 3 Innovate UK
      funded projects in partnerships with industries and commerce (see Sections 3a and 4a,b)
 •    Commercial Exploitation: commercial potential of the research project has been exploited
      through 4 Invest NI Proof of Concept (PoC) funding awards, 12 patent applications and 24
      invention disclosures.
 •    Contribution to the Local Economy: delivered more than 50 innovation voucher projects
      funded through Invest NI and Enterprise Ireland to support industries in developing their
      products, processes, and services.
 •    Dissemination: published over 465 peer reviewed journal articles, 225 conference papers,
      58 research reports for government bodies and industries and contributed 60 books/book
      chapters within this REF period.
 •    Support New Research Areas: established two new Research Groups (SABER and ARG)
      with the expectation that they will evolve into Research Centre signifying our strategic
      initiatives to develop disciplinary research.
 •    New Research Informed Courses: introduced a new MSc programme in Energy Storage
      and a PgCert programme in Hydrogen Safety that directly originated from our research
      contributions.


 A summary of key research activities within each Research Centre within this REF period is
 provided below:

 CST: CST’s research has continued to focus on the development, integration and assessment of
 decarbonisation allied to future energy scenarios and renewable energy technologies, a strategic
 priority research area identified in REF2014. CST has secured over £14.7M new grant income in
 the areas of heat pump, energy storage, heat distribution network, solar technologies, clean coal
 and carbon capture and efficient building components (see Section 3a). Building upon a previous

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EU funded project (SPIRE), the group has secured £2.3M INTERREG funding for stage 2 of the
 project (SPIRE 2). A cross-border SFI-DfE funding award (£633K) has allowed researchers to
 investigate the impact of wind generation penetration and the deployment of large-scale energy
 storage system on Ireland’s electricity market. New areas of research have also emerged within
 this REF period funded via H2020, for example, the research on the urban wastewater
 management to address the future challenges arising from climate change (in ALICE, £104K);
 investigation on healthy environment and suitable urban solutions for an aging society (in GRAGE,
 £66K); and feasibility study on application of renewable energy and energy efficient solutions into
 buildings and public infrastructure (in CLARA, £131K).

 HySAFER: The Centre has extended their fundamental and industry-driven research to engage
 with breakthrough safety strategies in hydrogen and fuel cell (HFC) technologies and has attracted
 over £4.3M in new research projects in this REF period. Key research outcomes include the
 invention of explosion free in a fire TPRD-less hydrogen storage tank, CFD modelling of hydrogen
 tank under a vehicle in a tunnel, development of fire test protocol for UN Global Technical
 Regulation No. 13 and quantitative risk assessment of hydrogen onboard storage. Within the UK,
 HySAFER has made valuable contributions in two EPSRC CDT projects in ‘Fuel Cells and Their
 Fuel’ and ‘Sustainable Hydrogen (SusHy)’ by training a new generation of scientists/engineers for
 the emerging hydrogen economy and to champion hydrogen safety research in the UK through
 EPSRC SUPERGEN H2FC hub.

 RPP: The Centre has a longstanding and critically acclaimed international research portfolio
 across the inter-related spectrum of the built environment, including property and real estate
 research, housing, regeneration, planning, sustainability, urban development, facilities
 management and infrastructure investment and development. The team has secured circa £4.2M
 in new research funding. RPP continues to produce sector leading quarterly reports on the ‘NI
 House Price Index’ providing valuable information on the private housing sector and utilised
 extensively by policy makers and industry bodies to inform new product innovation and perform
 viability assessments. RPP has initiated a new research strand in Marine Spatial Planning (MSP)
 and has also established a growing global reputation in the areas of energy efficiency of buildings
 and the decarbonisation of the built environment.

 FireSERT: Success in attaining £1.5M of new research funding within this REF cycle has allowed
 researchers to continue research on blast and fire protection system; integration of fire safety
 mechanism within buildings; investigation of localised and travelling fire in compartments;
 development of CFD codes for fire dynamics and preparation of training materials on fire safety.
 Several smaller, but equally important projects have involved working with Essexford Joinery Ltd
 to improve the fire resistance of timber doors; assessment of sprinkler performance under fire for
 Marks & Spencer; investigation on flash over and smoke movement for Longboat Quay
 Development in Dublin. In 2017, a new joint venture between FireSERT and the Efectis Group,
 a sector leading international fire testing and engineering company has facilitated research in the
 commercial arena resulting in £475K in consultancy income within this REF period.

 d. Future Research Strategy

 With the exponential development in the field of Data and Information Science (e.g. the advent of
 big data and the rise of cloud-based computing and remote sensing), industries operating in the
 built environment are experiencing a transition to new revolutionary paradigms for the design and
 management of Buildings and Infrastructure systems. Hence, central to our research strategy over
 the next five years is a focus on digital approaches and technologies that integrate ‘Smart Cities’
 with ‘Transforming Construction’ across the construction supply chain. Our research will
 contribute to “Sustainable Smart City Infrastructure” ensuring that we build sensitively (SABER)
 with respect to our existing built environment and their communities (ARG), legislative compliance,
 procurement, financial sustainability in construction and operation and future value are realised
 (RPP), that systems are smart (CST) and low/zero carbon (CST, HySAFER), and that the
 buildings are safe (FireSERT). Our research will therefore contribute to the goal of industry


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meeting the UK’s national infrastructure programme target of £650B worth of projects by 2025. In
 this regard, our strategic priority research areas will focus on:
    •   development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies that would facilitate
        the net zero carbon legislation of the UK.
    •   integration and assessment of decarbonisation approaches allied to future energy scenario
        developments.
    •   delivery of digital construction and building information modelling (BIM) research that is
        visionary and complementary with the activities of our research unit.
    •   advancement of the decarbonisation agenda within the commercial real estate and
        housing sectors.
    •   expansion of research in fire safety engineering, fire behaviour, HFC safety engineering,
        MSP and waste management.

 Our associated targets metrics for the unit in the next REF cycle are to:
    • increase the number of staff returned by 30%,
    • increase research income by 25% with 50% growth in RC grant awards,
    • increase the number of PhD graduates by 25%,
    • expand our research network globally by 25%,
    • increase the number of journal publications by 25%,
    • grow the number of post-doctoral researchers by 25%, and
    • establish new research centre focusing on Digital Construction theme.

 We will continue to invest in the technologies, tools and datasets that are needed to realise this
 vision, and which ultimately will generate algorithms whose co-location will lead to use in industry
 standard tools such as BIM. Our staff recruitment strategy will support this growth by employing
 internationally leading experts in the priority research areas. Inter-disciplinary and multidisciplinary
 approaches will be fundamental to tackling modern societal and development challenges across
 the built environment and we will utilise our extensive contact networks both locally and
 internationally to leverage the necessary expertise and specialisms alongside complimentary skills
 sets and knowledge. The strong internal collaboration between our Research Centres and
 Research Groups within the unit and through the University will facilitate innovation through
 knowledge sharing and best practice exemplars via peer reviewed publication and dissemination
 at conferences and workshops. Strategic investment will facilitate a better alignment with UK
 Government Research and Development strategies and a closer alliance with national and
 local industry. The impending move of our research base from the Jordanstown Campus to the
 newly constructed Belfast Campus, the cooperation with local industry will be enhanced in line
 with Belfast’s continuing construction growth and City Deal aspirations.

 e. Impact Strategy

 In REF2014, our strategy for achieving impact was two-fold. Firstly, by developing strong
 relationships with industry, the professions, regulatory bodies, policy makers and the wider
 community we delivered demonstrable research activities that shaped the new sustainable built
 environment and addressed the challenges and complex issues that exist with society. Secondly,
 we sought to ensure that impact was fully exploited through changes in policy (legislative or
 regulatory changes) or via product development and innovation. We successfully achieved these
 impacts in this REF period as evident in the submitted impact case studies (ICS). In brief, RPP’s
 research has informed policy on modern and fairer domestic property tax system both locally and
 internationally and thus has direct impact on the society and the economy (PROPTAX ICS). RPP’s
 research on behalf of Government bodies has also enhanced and shaped housing policy in NI
 and provided a guideline for strategic growth, societal development and economic regeneration
 (HOUSEMARKET ICS). CST’s solar research has contributed to a change in the lifestyle and
 health in rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa and empowering them through the deployment

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of innovative solar technologies (SOLAR ICS). HySAFER’s research has influenced Safety
 Regulations, Codes and Standards on HFC based technologies by providing the technical
 requirements through industry relevant guidance (HySAFER-RCS ICS). Finally, FireSERT’s
 research on the redesigning fire-resistant building materials is informing the current policy and fire
 safety guidelines on resilient infrastructure (FIRETRAVEL ICS).
 We will continue to grow our support for research with impact in the next 5 years by engaging with
 the University’s Impact Team, Innovation office and Marketing and Communications Team (see
 Section 3a) to disseminate published research outputs more widely to communities. We will also
 utilise PoC funding for the marketing and commercial exploitation of our research outcomes. Links
 to industry will be formalised through Non-Disclosure Agreements, options for licensing and spin-
 out capability will be actively pursued with dissemination to a varied range of stakeholders that
 can benefit from our research. We will encourage staff to participate in the Ulster Impact
 Development Series programme (see REF5a) to maximise their research impact and to use social
 media platforms to engage with communities. Communication, connectivity and collaboration are
 fundamental aspects of the plan to effectively translate impact into products and services and
 maximise potential societal gains from built environment research.

 We have developed an open access strategy for our publications in this REF cycle. Our
 published outputs are deposited in the university managed repository (in PURE) within 3 months
 of publications and are made available in the public domain. We will encourage staff to publish in
 high quality open access journals and will continue to allocate funding to cover the fees.


 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy
 We aim to attract, develop, retain and reward high performing staff. Our staffing strategy is built
 upon the following process:

    •   recruit staff with an international reputation of excellence that is aligned to our future
        strategic growth area and research themes,
    •   maintain research strength and expertise via new recruitment addressing the gaps arising
        from the departure of staff,
    •   offer permanent or long-term contracts to high performing CRS,
    •   promote staff to recognise their success and achievements,
    •   create a supportive environment for all staff that allows for career growth through
        processes of continuing personal and professional development consistent with the current
        and future needs of the University,
    •   provide mentoring support to Early Career Academics (ECA) and other ECR research staff
        to enable them to become an independent researcher,
    •   implementation of the University’s Concordat to support the Career Development of
        Researchers’ principles with annual opportunities for advancement, regular training and
        development, and
    •   invest in research facilities that allows staff to develop and deliver high level research and
        outputs.

 Key successes associated with realising our staffing strategy within this REF period are
 highlighted below:

    •   Increased our staff returned (SRR) by 37.5% with the female participation rate raised by
        85% from the last REF.
    •   55.4% of the staff returned in this REF assessment period are first time participants
        indicating a well-balanced team of new and experienced researchers.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •       6 Professorial appointments were made in the period through internal academic
           promotional route (4) and new recruitments (2) and further 7 new posts were created at
           lecturer grade.

 As shown in Table 2.1, we have successfully managed to maintain a healthy balance between
 staff at different career phases via new appointments and internal promotions to retain our
 research strength and expertise.

                Table 2.1: Designation off staff returned within REF2014 and REF2021

                                       % Total head                      % of total head
       Designation       REF2014          count           REF2021            count
       Professor           15             37.5              13                23.6
       Reader               6             15.0               9                16.4
       Senior Lecturer      3              7.5               8                14.5
       Lecturer            14             35.0              22                40.0
       CRS                  2              5.0               3                 5.5

 We have addressed the gap in expertise created by departing senior Professors (Delichatsios,
 Yohanis, Gray, Heaney, Hine, Levendis and Van der Krabben) by new Professorial level
 appointments (Wiberg, Chair in Architecture and Motawa, Chair in Digital Construction and
 Building Information Modelling) and via promotion to Professors (Griffiths, Huang Y, Clarke and
 Haran). Sustainability of research growth has been maintained via recruitment of young research
 active academics with complementary expertise that are aligned to each research group. For
 example, 4 new recruitments are associated with CST’’s energy research agenda (Shah, heat
 pump; Brandoni, water energy nexus and waste management; Keatley, demand side
 management; Vorushylo, energy market modelling and analysis), 1 with RPP (McElduff, social-
 ecological resilience & MSP), 1 FireSERT (Alam, Fire safety engineering) and 1 HySAFER
 (Shentsov, hydrogen safety engineering, HySAFER). For CRS appointments, the recruitment
 reflects success in achieving externally funded research awards, publication records and field of
 specialisation.

 We have also attracted internationally renowned leading experts and practitioners as Visiting
 Professors, Fellows and Visitors (Prof Cabeza (thermal energy storage, University of Lleida,
 Spain), Prof Fitzsimons (planning and development, NI), Frey (housing development, Northern
 Ireland Housing Executive, NIHE), Prof Neogi (vacuum glazing, Jadavpur University, India), Dr
 Gaitani (sustainable building design, NTNU, Norway), Dr Hawksworth, (hydrogen safety, UK),
 Dr Das (solar thermal, NIT Silchar, India)) who worked closely with our researchers and
 contributed to shared journal publications.

 Staff promotion
 Excellence in research is one of the key indicators for the Academic Promotion Exercise. Staff
 promotions on the research and impact pathway are assessed based on research outputs,
 successful grant incomes, research supervision, esteem, impact and leadership. Promotional
 applications are assessed three times a year by a university committee. The university-wide
 workshops are organised to assist staff who are considering for promotion. In this REF cycle, the
 following unit staff were promoted through a rigorous assessment process.

       •    Griffiths, Y Huang, Clarke promoted from Reader to Professor
       •    Haran, Senior Research Fellow to Professor
       •    Mondol, Senior lecturer to Reader
       •    Zhang, Choi and McCord, Lecturer to Reader
       •    Zacharopoulos, Brennan, Eadie, Coyles, Lecturer to Senior Lecturer



                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 b. Staff Development

 We have undertaken several initiatives to support our staff for their career development. We
 allocate time for new staff to attend training needed to develop their career objectives and provide
 support by reducing teaching load and administration duties during their probation period allowing
 them to undertake research, fellowships or entrepreneurial activity. In addition, all new academic
 staff engage with an appropriate Research Centre/Research Group, develop publication plans,
 become involved in research grants and wider civic engagement. We give preferential allocation
 in the distribution of PhD studentships to ECA for internally funded studentships supported by
 experienced supervisory team. Academic staff with a practice-based background are encouraged
 to register for PhD study in their respective disciplines. Currently 5 FT academic staff (1 female)
 are registered for PhD study and 2 others have been awarded PhD degrees within this REF cycle.
 The School ‘Staff Development Fund’ ensures that all staff can avail of teaching relief. RD,
 Senior Professors and Department for Research & Impact provide training to ECR and ECA to
 support research funding applications and guidance for the submission of high-quality journal
 articles by reviewing drafts before submission and providing feedback on how to improve an
 article’s REF rating. Where awards are unsuccessful, opportunities for re-submission or alternative
 submissions are examined with one-to-one mentoring provided by the HoS/RD. Our experienced
 senior researchers shared their experience on competitive research grant applications and project
 management skills via organised workshops.

 An annual research budget (~£110K) is allocated by the Faculty and distributed within six research
 centres/groups to support staff for various research activities and external engagements such as
 hosting or organising events, participating scientific committee and attending conferences. Staff
 have also access to seed funding and pump priming funding to develop international collaboration
 for large scale funding application (Smyth and Golden received GCRF pump prime funding to
 deliver workshops in sub-Saharan countries). All research active staff have bi-annual review
 meetings with HoS and RD to discuss research progress along with training and support needs.

 Staff training
 The University staff mentoring scheme (see REF5a) pairs experienced senior staff with early-mid
 career staff and CRS or those academics wishing to be SRR. Over the two cycles to date, 25 staff
 have participated as Mentees and 13 senior staff have acted as Mentors. Mentees have received
 specific support to (i) prepare large scale grant application, (ii) improve quality of research outputs,
 (iii) develop link with the industries and academic institutions and (iv) apply future leadership
 fellowship programme. The majority of our staff have benefited by enhancing their research skills
 on writing proposals including costing, producing high quality outputs, project development,
 budget management, developing research network and achieving research impact by attending
 the University organised RIGOUR (Research Income Grant Opportunities for Ulster
 Researchers), SOARING (Significance and Originality in Academic Research: Interpreting
 New Research), IMPACT (a programme enhance impact to research and evidence the impact
 and/or define pathways to impact) and ‘U Communicate’ events (see REF5a). Almost 80% of
 our SRR staff (including ECRs/CRs) have participated in these events/programmes. Staff have
 also participated in PhD supervision training events designed for new and experienced
 supervisors under ‘Supervision Development Programme’ offered by our Doctoral College.

 Within this REF cycle, the success of our staff development programme is evident through a
 number of performance indicators as highlighted below:

    •   13 staff became first time PI in this REF period including 8 female staff, i.e. 58% of female
        staff returned.
    •   20% of staff who participated in the last REF were promoted to higher positions.
    •   5 CRS (RA/RF) were successful in being appointed to a permanent lecturer position.


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   4 staff returned in this REF submission are ECRs.
    •   7 PGRs progressed to postdoctoral positions after graduation.

 c. Post Graduate Researcher (PGR)
 PGRs are an integral part of the unit’s research culture. As shown in Table 2.2, during this REF
 period, a total of 74 PhDs were awarded, which is 20% higher than REF2014 and includes a high
 percentage (39.2%) of female researchers. Over 107 PGRs have been recruited within this REF
 period with 71 PGRs currently enrolled in the year 2019-20 (21.5% female, 69% full time and
 39.4% overseas). We have a strong international PGR community with nationalities including:
 Australia, Bangladesh, China, Egypt, France, Ghana, India, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kuwait,
 Lebanon, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland, Uganda, and
 Vietnam. Recruitment of high-quality PGRs is facilitated through an active advertising campaign
 which includes wide-spread dissemination to the professional sectors, alumni and undergraduate
 students. School based information sessions and application workshops are facilitated in
 accordance with the application timescale to actively attract local student applications.
 Additionally, marketing includes the promotion of PhD opportunities on several social media
 platforms.

        Table 2.2: Gender profile and mode of study of PGRs over the assessment period
                                                            %                    %
               Academic year       Total    Female      of Female      FT      of FT
               2013-14              10        6            60.0         9      90.0
               2014-15              13        6            46.2         8      61.5
               2015-16              13        3            23.1        10      76.9
               2016-17              6         3            50.0         6      100.0
               2017-18              12        5             50          9      75.0
               2018-19              11        3            27.3        11      100.0
               2019-20              9         2            22.2         7      77.8

 Recurrent PhD Research Scholarships are funded by two schemes: Department of Education
 (DfE) and University Vice-Chancellor’s Research Studentships (VCRS). These are awarded on a
 highly competitive basis for advertised topics through an annual call. Around 65% of awarded
 PhDs were funded by VCRS and DfE, 14% externally funded and 21% self-funded local and
 international. Additional studentships have been funded through INTERREG (7), EPSRC (6),
 Korean Government (2) and DfE-SFI (1).


 d. Training and Support for PGRs

 We offer excellent training support and research facilities for the unit PGR cohort. Since the
 establishment of the Ulster Doctoral College in 2017, PGRs can avail of a variety of in-training
 opportunities through the Researcher Development Programme (see REF5a) which has approx.
 150 training courses designed for researchers to develop their research skills. All PGRs are
 expected to undertake a Training Needs Analysis at the beginning of their studies and to review
 this on an annual basis, in consultation with their supervisor(s). Employability and Careers also
 offers a wide range of support for PGRs during their period of study. We also provide unit level
 training in discipline specific research techniques and research management via workshops
 and/or tutorials and promotes and supports interdisciplinary research with other faculty initiatives
 such as joint PhD supervision. Workshops include a tailored writing event to support researchers’
 progression as well as online support and training sessions for technical software such as ANSYS.
 PGRs are encouraged to attend on-campus Career Fairs to meet professionals and broaden their
 understanding of how their research can impact on business and industry.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each PGR has at least two academic supervisors. Occasionally, the supervisory team also include
 an international expert or expert from other Schools who acts as an advisor. Our PGRs receive
 additional mentoring support from the School Postgraduate Tutor (PGT) who ensures that all
 researchers receive pastoral support. Training in relevant research methods and generic skills, in
 addition to organising progress seminars is provided during the first year of study. A formal
 Confirmation of PhD assessment is undertaken between 9 and 12 months, with regular progress
 reports required thereafter. The progress assessment process is facilitated through the PhD
 Manager online platform and provides a structure to ensure that PGRs are progressing and
 meeting the necessary milestones required for a timely completion. There are a range of
 communication channels to support PGRs including a comprehensive online support area, as well
 as face to face postgraduate researcher forums which are held several times each year. These
 events ensure researchers can share good practice and discuss solutions to any issues that they
 may have. Several coffee mornings have been organised to meet and socialise with our PGR
 cohort.

 All PGRs are provided with a designated individual workspace aligned to one of the Research
 Centres/Groups and access to laboratories as required. All researchers also have access to
 support from full-time laboratory technicians when required as well as dedicated admin support.
 All FT funded PGRs are offered a new PC/laptop at the commencement of their studies. We also
 provide additional funding (ca £900 per annum) to PGRs to purchase lab equipment and undertake
 specialist training related to their research projects. Our PGRs have participated over 100 national
 and international conferences in this REF period. Each researcher is also offered the opportunity
 to present their work at the several annual events to include the Doctoral College Festival of PhD
 Research, and the regional and national 3 Minute Thesis 3MT® competition.

 Our PGRs are given the opportunity to complete the national Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES) and consistently return scores above the national average for all components of
 survey. In the most recent exercise (2019) the unit level values were: overall satisfaction (84%),
 research skills (85%), professional development (84%), supervision (85%), resources (86%), and
 wellbeing (74%). Feedback from this survey alongside that gathered from the researcher forum
 and seminar events are reviewed regularly to address PGRs’ needs.

 e. Equality and Diversity

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) are valued, actively promoted, and embedded in our
 research processes and policies. Our REF Code of Practice places people at its centre and
 ensures barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF, we used it as our
 roadmap for identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021.

 Our senior management team ensures that the Athena Swan Charter principles are followed and
 reflect Ulster University’s core values of: i) actively promoting a place to work and study where
 everyone is accepted, ii) striving to be the best we can be, iii) being open, honest and transparent,
 iv) ensuring people and relationships are central to what we do. The school has recently
 successfully applied for the Athena Swan Bronze award. We adhere to the University’s Equal
 Opportunity Policy to provide equality and diversity of opportunity to all.

 The School fully implements all the University’s People & Culture (HR) policies and procedures,
 and the HoS and RD work closely with the School People Partner to ensure that all current staff
 are treated equally, recruitment panels are gender balanced, and appointments are made solely
 on merit. The school supports applications to the University’s Returning Carers’ Scheme (RCS)
 in which staff who have been on leave of absence due to reasons connected to caring can apply
 for funding to help with their return to work. This includes support for teaching relief, funding for
 specialist equipment and conference attendance and covering costs to assist with childcare. Staff
 returning from maternity leave are invited to a ‘return to work meeting’ with HoS and RD to
 discuss the possibility of career breaks, flexible working or reduced hours. Staff can avail of up to
 10 ‘Keeping in Touch’ days to maintain contact, attend away days, research seminars or training.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Female staff are encouraged to participate in the Wo/men’s Network Mentoring events which
 provide a supportive and collegiate space for women to encourage personal and professional
 learning and development. Within the Faculty Mentoring Circle peer support is also provided for
 females in STEM, career development advice, and work-life balance. All female staff can also
 apply to participate in Advance HE’s Aurora women-only leadership initiative programme.
 Academic staff members are eligible to apply to take one semester of paid leave, free from normal
 teaching and administrative duties to focus on research via the University’s Sabbatical Leave
 Policy. The HoS and RD review sabbatical leave applications and the preference is given to
 support female and ECA members of staff. We ensure that all those on fixed term contracts are
 aware of the University’s redeployment scheme and the HoS and RD have meetings in advance
 of this process with all relevant staff. Our school specific workload model is highly sensitive to the
 importance of research led activities and is designed to encourage staff to be research active, a
 strategy aligned with REF requirements.

 The unit is a very diverse grouping and in recent years has become increasingly multi-national
 with new members of staff joining from a range of different ethnic backgrounds. The male-female
 ratio within the unit is increasingly balanced with new members joining over the course of this REF
 cycle predominantly female. Table 2.3 shows that there has been a significant improvement in
 terms of female participation in this REF cycle compared to REF2014 with almost the double the
 numbers of female staff returned.
        Table 2.3: Gender distribution of staff who participated in REF2014 and REF2021

              REF period    Total (Head count)      Male      Female           % Female
              REF 2014               40               33         7                17.5
              REF2021                55               42         13               23.6

 Our 7.6%, 32.1%, 35.8% and 24.5% of staff returned in this REF are within the age group of 26-
 35, 36-45, 46-55 and above 56 years, respectively indicating a good age diversity. The unit also
 shows a good mix of staff ethnicities returned within this REF cycle (see Figures 2.1 and 2.2). In
 July 2020, 22% of staff was international, 21% of all academics and this growth in our international
 staff was key part of our staffing strategy to broaden our international expertise with varied
 experience and research skills. Likewise, 62% of CRS are international, a proportion which
 exceeds the UK population figure which is 14% (UK Migration Observatory, 2018) and 38% are
 female.


                                           2%
                                      4%
                                            7%      4%           Asian or Asian British
                         22%
                                                      2%         Asian or Asian Pakistani
                                                                 Chinese
                                                                 Other Asian Background
                                                   11%
                                                                 Other Ethinic Background
                                                                 Other White Background
                                                                 White-British
                               48%                               White-Irish




     Figure 2.1: Ethnicity profile of SRR staff members participating in this REF submission.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                             Asian or Asian British
                                     6%
                         19%
                                                             Black or Black British- African

                                                 25%         Chinese

                                                             Other Ethinic Background
                  19%
                                                             Other White Background
                                                 6%
                                                             White-British
                                            6%
                               19%
                                                             White-Irish



                      Figure 2.2: Ethnicity profile of currently employed CRS



 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 a. Income

 As outlined previously, we have been highly successful in generating external funding in this REF
 cycle in a competitive funding environment and increased our research spend by 74% compared
 to last REF with total spending of circa £22.9M, (£9.7M higher than REF 2014) (see Table 3.1).
 The spend per FTE in this REF cycle is 25% higher than REF2014 with an annual average spend
 24% higher (see Table 3.1). Our RC income grew by 91% and EU funding from government
 bodies and other sources by 118% (see Table 3.2).

 Over the period, total 327 funding applications were made with a total requested value of ca £81M.
 A total of 128 grants were awarded indicating a high success rate of 39% and 28% in terms of
 grant applications and funding amount received, respectively. Of the total income obtained, 45.5%
 was generated from 11 large scale projects (>£500K), 47.6% from 61 mid-scale (£100K to £500K)
 and the rest from 56 small scale (<£100K) awards highlighting our involvement in projects at a
 range of scales.


              Table 3.1: Comparison of Research spend from REF2014 to REF2021

                                              REF2014             REF2021             Increase (%)
     Research Spending (£)                   £13,207,032        £22,962,925               73.9
     No of FTE                                   38                 52.8                  38.9
     Research Spending/FTE (£/FTE)            £347,553            £434,903                25.1
     Research spending per year              £2,641,406          £3,280,418               24.1




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                     Table 3.2: Research spend in terms of funding categories.

  Income Source                                           REF2014       REF2021         Increase
                                                                                           (%)
  Research Councils, Royal Society, British Academy        £3,568,029     £6,796,261      90.5
  UK-based charities (open competitive process)             £227,576       £398,074       74.9
  UK-based charities (other)                                £503,489       £77,062
  UK central government bodies and local authorities       £3,178,350     £3,366,382       5.9
  UK industry, commerce and public corporations             £451,062      £1,009,780      123.9
  UK central government tax credits                                        £247,000
  UK other sources                                          £210,193       £283,616        34.9
  EU government bodies and EU other sources                £4,778,504    £10,399,912      117.6
  EU-based charities (open competitive process)              £3,781            -
  EU industry, commerce and public corporations              £7,678            -
  Non-EU industry, commerce and public corporations         £24,292         £9,594
  Non-EU other                                              £254,078       £375,243       47.7


 Research Council

 Our enhanced collaboration with other UK universities (See Section 4b) and industries has led to
 success in 20 UKRI grant awards (EPSRC, ESRC and AHRC) and represents 30% of our total
 research spent (circa £6.8M). CST’s research in heat pump, thermal energy storage and
 distributed network has secured 5 EPSRC funded research awards:

  (i)   LoT-NET (£1.3M) – delivery of a cost-effective near-zero emissions solution for heating and
        cooling needs of UK buildings and industrial processes from waste heat.
  (ii) I-STUTE (£832K) – develop a portfolio of technologies to deliver heating and cooling cost-
        effectively.
  (iii) 4S-DHW (£376K) – develop an affordable domestic hot water system by combining
        innovative controller, heat pump and thermal storage technologies.
  (iv) DELTA PHI (£269K) – improving efficiency of the industrial processes by effective use of
        heat distribution via heat pump technology.
  (v) Comfort and Climate Box (£202K) – develop an energy package combining heat pump,
        storage and controls.

 Three projects ‘SolaFin2Go’ (£245K), ‘SolaNetWork’ (£211K) and ‘SwanaSmartStore’ (£66K)
 funded by EPSRC under the Energy Catalyst programme have allowed the CST team to design,
 develop and deploy a hybrid solar home system providing affordable access to clean energy in
 diverse rural communities in Sub-Saharan Africa.

 HySAFER has led a multidisciplinary team of researchers consisting of industrial experts and
 organisations from the UK (Warwick, Bath), USA, France, China, Korea and Australia in the
 EPSRC funded “Integrated Safety Strategies for Onboard Hydrogen Storage Systems”
 (£970K) which is informing the wider public to underpin safety of HFC technologies. The team has
 also awarded £552K for 7 PhD studentships in the CDT SusHy programme.

 RPP researchers have collaborated in Administrative Data Research Centre (£1.1M) project
 funded by ESRC to create a database to improve public service provision including education,
 housing, health and social care.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ARG received two AHRC funding awards for the ‘Communities as Constructs of People and
 Architecture’ (£312K) project examining the architectural legacy of the troubles in Belfast's most
 deprived urban areas and the ‘Divided Pasts - Divided Futures’ (£202K) project that investigated
 the impact of historical and heritage data on the urban design.

 EU Government bodies and other

 Our strategy to expand collaboration internationally with both academic and industrial partners
 has resulted in the award of highly competitive European funding totalling £10.4M (See Table 3.2)
 from EU Govt bodies and other sources which includes 32 awards funded through CEC FP7, CEC
 H2020, CEC Coal and Steel and CEC NPP Northern Periphery and 6 via INTERREG VA
 programmes contributed to 45% of our total spend.

 Several EU grants awards have supported CST’s energy research. CST is leading the £5.2M
 INTERREG VA SPIRE 2 project in energy storage and renewable energy technologies
 contributing to the region’s research and innovation capacity by creating a cross border Virtual
 Research Graduate School to advanced energy storage solutions. CST’s expertise on phase
 change material and heat pump design has been used to develop multifunctional building façade
 in the IDEAS (£510K) project and vacuum glazing techniques for fire resistance glazing systems
 in building facades and experimental characterisation at FireSERT laboratory (EENSULATE,
 £592K). In the CHESS-SETUP (£159K) project, our researchers have developed an integrated
 solution combining heat pump, solar thermal technology and seasonal heat storage to supply
 heating and hot water and also tested the performance of a high temperature heat pump system
 in the associated CHESTER (£203K) project. Along with 13 other universities, the CST team has
 delivered training programme for the PhD students across Europe on the thermal energy storage
 technologies under INPATH-TES Programme (£128K).

 Building upon excellence in techno-economic modelling using the in-house developed ECLIPSE
 model and Life-Cycle Assessment for new energy systems, CST researchers have collaborated
 in 3 large scale EU projects:

     (i)   DIRPRIMCOAL (£109K) – improving the environmental performance of a direct coal
           liquefaction process.
     (ii) LIG2LIQ (£119K) – developing an economically efficient concept to produce liquid fuels
           from the lignite and solid fuel recovered from municipal waste.
     (iii) SCARLET (£188K) – conducting a techno-economic and environmental assessment of
           coal and lignite fuelled power plants and cement and steel production plants.

 HySAFER has participated in 6 large scale multi-partner EU funded research projects on HFC
 technologies:

    (i)   NET-Tools (£227K) – developed new e-education methods and ICT-based tools for
          education and training in HFC technologies.
    (ii) HyResponder (£250K) – leading a train the trainers programme on hydrogen safety
          supporting the commercialisation of HFC technologies.
    (iii) HyTunnel-CS (£338K) – advancing innovative fire prevention techniques for HFC cars.
    (iv) HYLANTIC (£166K) – Atlantic network for renewable generation and supply of hydrogen
          to promote high energy efficiency.
    (v) PRESLHY (£204K) – Pre-normative research for safe use of liquid hydrogen.
    (vi) SUSANA (£249K) – support to safety analysis of HFC technologies.

 RPP has attracted 4 major EU grant awards:

     (i)   CRREM (£196K) – engaged with the industry and policy makers across Europe to inform
           the development of decarbonisation pathways at building level.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (ii) INSPEC2T (£147K) – developed a sustainable framework for community policing that
              effectively addresses and promotes collaboration between the police and the community.
        (iii) ASGARD (£420K) – lead by School of Computing and Informatics, to create a database
              on Forensics, Intelligence and Foresight in supporting a community of Law Enforcement
              Agencies.
        (iv) INTACT (£186K) – investigation of the socio-economic impact of extreme weather events
              on the critical infrastructure.

 FireSERT has been involved in 3 multi partnered EU projects:

        (i)   ELISSA (£286K) – development of nano-enhanced prefabricated lightweight steel
              skeleton/dry wall systems with improved thermal, vibration/seismic and fire safety
              performance.
        (ii) TRAFIR (£120K) – experimental and simulation study to improve structural safety
              contributing to safety guidance for large scale buildings.
        (iii) LOCAFIplus (£38K) – experimental testing of steel columns that can protect buildings
              under localised fires.

 UK Government Bodies and Local Authorities

 We work closely with government bodies and local authorities to support the sustainability agenda,
 influence local policies and develop the local economy through our research. In this regard, RPP
 has continued to secure funding through NIHE (£612K) and the Progressive Building Society
 (£190K) to inform policy development as well as the exploration of new and emerging housing
 market themes. Funded by Enterprise Ireland (£511K), CST researchers provided innovative
 solutions to monitor total energy consumption during manufacturing process to help to reduce
 energy in the stage 2 and 3 TEMPO research projects.

 Funding through the Invest NI PoC progamme (total £357K) has supported our researchers to
 develop 4 projects with commercial potential:

  (i)         development of a prototype tank for hydrogen storage which is able to withstand any fire
              without a catastrophic rupture,
  (ii)        fabrication of a hybrid building integrated solar thermal façade,
  (iii)       design of a smart, cost-effective Fire-Blast Protection system, and
  (iv)        manufacture of new optimised hybrid hydrogen storage tank using composite materials.

 UK Industries, Commerce and Public Corporation

 Our strategy to support local industries and businesses is evident through 8 industry focused
 research projects funded by the Invest NI CASE scheme with total funding of just over £1M and
 through the delivery of over 50 innovation voucher projects (£250K). These industry led projects
 involved development of multifunctional building façades technologies (CE-SEA, £202K); design,
 development and demonstration of a low-cost solar thermal collector for Senergy LtD (Senergy
 demonstrator, £197K); development of a concept for a mobile containerised battery storage
 system to be used as a ‘floating’ resource in NI Water sites (AQUAFLEX, £182K); creation of a
 carbon neutral development using on-site renewable and sustainable energy sources (Foyle
 River Gardens, £172K); laboratory testing of biofuels generated from agri-food chain
 (Sustainable Underutilised Biomass Boiler Fuels, £120K); and investigated pelletisation
 techniques for mixed fuels including biomass and various fossil fuels in ‘Pelletisation’ (£45K)
 project. In collaboration with Nottingham University and Trinity College Dublin, SABER
 Researchers have contributed to road safety design guidelines funded by National Roads
 Authority (£97K). These projects have had significant impact on the development of local economy
 via creation of new industries and innovations.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research has contributed to local communities and societies in the areas of spatial planning,
 fire safety, community development, distributed energy and flood protection and has secured
 £563K research income through UK charities such as Royal Society, Royal Institution of Chartered
 Surveyors, Royal Academy of Engineering, Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) Research
 Trust. Funded through Korean Government (£477K), FireSERT is delivering two projects:
 designing fire resistance protective clothing and developing emergency response training facilities.
 More than £400K of external donations have been received from Gerard O’Hare Foundation,
 Belfast Harbour Commissioners and a number of commercial property agents. This funding has
 supported short-term research assistant posts, created full time PhD positions and was used for
 undertaking industry related research for the sector.

 Future Funding Strategies

 To continue our success in growing research income, we will adopt a strategy built upon following
 approaches:

    •   Retain/renew existing funding awards and seek to expand into new areas with established
        funding partners and research consortia.
    •   Give staff the time and funding resources from our research budget to develop
        applications.
    •   Develop interdisciplinary and multi-contextual collaboration to deliver novel, innovative,
        complex and ground-breaking research projects.
    •   Exploit PoP/PoC funding to develop large scale commercially focused projects.
    •   Support staff for UKRI first grant applications and Future Leaders programmes.
    •   Engage with professional bodies notably those with global reach.
    •   Work closely with University’s Global Grant Manager, Strategic Research Development
        Manager and Interdisciplinary Theme Lead to develop new local and international
        partnerships to secure global funding.
    •   Utilise institutional grants (Research Development Strategy fund, Collaborative Research
        Fund and GCRF pump priming) to prime and develop large new grant applications.

 b. Infrastructure and Facilities

 Our infrastructure strategy is targeted to sustain growth in strategic priority areas and to invest in
 technical staff to support our laboratory provision for staff and PGRs. Over this REF period, we
 have invested over £1.5M in the research infrastructure and facilities via externally funded
 research projects and internal support funding. In addition, interdisciplinary collaboration with other
 schools has facilitated the sharing of laboratory facilities such as NIBEC (Nanotechnology and
 Integrated Bioengineering Centre) for the ALICE project.
 A full suite of ANSYS software licences was purchased (~£100K) for HySAFER to facilitate CFD
 modelling research on hydrogen safety design. Collaboration in Ulster-QUB Kelvin-2 project will
 allow us to utilise the new £5M EPSRC funded High Performance Computer (HPC) facility and
 high-speed network to assist HySAFER’s simulation-based research work. HySAFER Research
 facilities also include powerful processor computers (1056 CPUs across 15 UNIX workstations)
 and specialised software for modelling and simulation of HFC technologies. The NET-Tools
 project provided free access to online “e-Laboratory” and IT training tools on hydrogen safety.

 New facilities within CST include a high temperature heat pump and oil-viscosity test rig (£150K);
 upgradation of existing ‘Terrace houses’ as a living lab (£50K) with roof-top PV panels, battery
 storage and heat pump with thermal storage for monitoring demand side load profile. Investments
 were made to maintain our state-of-the art solar simulator facility which has been used extensively
 for industrial research such as for testing performance of photovoltaic mobile ice-cream freezer
 for Unilever, Senergy polycarbonate base solar collectors and Kingpans’s semi-transparent solar
 PV module. An outdoor test facility to characterise solar thermal systems was also funded through

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invest NI CASE project. An electric vehicle (EV) was purchased to study the impact of EV in the
 grid electricity network and future decarbonised homes.

 FireSERT has world class laboratory facilities including a full-scale test rig for fire testing of a range
 of buildings and materials. Around £50K has been spent on new equipment including a UV/Vis
 spectrophotometer, OPUS 8.2 Software and Eye Tracking: Tobii Pro Glasses for precise
 measurement of participant’s behaviour in emergencies including spatial and situational
 awareness.

 To support RPP’s ongoing research on real estate, planning and housing market analysis, around
 £80K has been spent on new data bases, software and equipment (GIS, Laser Scanner). ArcGIS
 software has been a key enabling tool in showcasing and visualising research findings. New
 database and licensing agreement for example Preqin’s databases for infrastructure and real
 estate; MSCI database containing performance indicators on the commercial property market
 around the world; INREV database which comprises key information on the European unlisted
 real estate funds sector and, E-views for statistical modelling and econometric analysis has
 permitted researchers to utilise data in a series of external research commissions and journal
 publications.

 The state-of-the art Highway Laboratory facilities at SABER are used for predicting the
 performance of highway construction materials and research projects related to racetrack
 performance; a hydraulics lab for research on flooding; and concrete laboratory facilitates for
 testing construction materials. New facilities (~150K) include Acoustic Doppler Velocimetry, Ford
 Custom van, VI-grade simulation software for modelling of tyre/surface interaction, laser scanning
 device, photographic equipment, Cooper accelerated polishing machine, Digital Surf Mountains
 Map software, thermal camera, InstaPro 360-degree camera and other smaller equipment.

 We have spent over ca £200K for a new Model-Making Workshop and a suite of 15 new CAD
 PC’s at the Belfast campus to support ARG’s ongoing research activities and around £75K on
 various software packages and licenses across the unit.

 Research Support Structure
 Our research infrastructure is supported by the School, Faculty, and Central Departments. Our
 daily research operational activities are managed by 4 dedicated admin staff and technical
 activities are supported by a team of 14 highly experienced technicians. In terms of R&D support,
 we have pre-bid grant support and post-research award support (drafting contracts and
 collaboration agreement, signing of grant contracts and managing finance) provided at both
 Faculty and Institution level. Our faculty dedicated R&I Research Development Manager offers
 support to grant application activities such as budgeting, resource allocation and proposal
 submission. The commercial activities of our research (IP management, licensing, support for
 spin-out company, inventions disclosures) are managed by Innovation Ulster Ltd.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As indicated throughout this statement, collaboration with universities, research institutions,
 government bodies, private sector and industries is integral to our research strategy to address
 key societal, environmental and policy-based challenges. Such collaborations have enhanced our
 ability to share and exchange resources. Key indicators of success in research collaborations in
 the REF period are highlighted below:

     •   Partnerships with 175 external bodies in collaborative research projects (68 universities
         and research institutions outside UK and Ireland, 35 universities within UK and Ireland, 17
         government bodies and 55 industries) from across 26 countries worldwide.
     •   Interdisciplinary collaborations with 10 other schools within the university.
     •   Co-authorship with 179 external academics from 103 institutions worldwide.

                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   53% of our publications are co-authored with international collaborators, 15% with national
        based partners and 30% institutional (based on Scopus).

 a. Interdisciplinary Research
 Pursuance of interdisciplinary research is fundamental to addressing the complex issues that
 relate to research in the built environment addressing societal need. We work closely with our
 Interdisciplinary Theme lead who promotes and identifies opportunities for greater cross-school
 collaborations across units, as well as with external partners. Within this REF period, we have
 delivered over £3.5M of funded research in collaboration with 10 schools within the university.
 Collaboration with Computing, Engineering and Intelligent Systems and Biomedical Science has
 allowed us to integrate our research with specialised research fields like IT, Big data analysis,
 computing simulation (e.g. TEMPO, INTACT, ALICE, Kelvin-2). Social policy, human behaviours
 and health and well-being are key areas that have been addressed in the unit by pooling research
 expertise from Social & Policy Sciences, Law, Nursing, Art and Psychology (e.g. INSPEC2T,
 House prices, rents and affordability, ASGARD, Divided Pasts - Divided Futures).
 b. Academic Collaborations
 Collaboration with internationally renowned academics and Research Centres is an effective
 means to enrich our research culture via the exchange of ideas, knowledge and complementary
 skills, delivery of joint scholarly outputs and staff-student exchanges. We have extended our
 collaboration with leading UK universities to deliver a range of UKRI funded research projects (see
 further details in Section 3a). For example, HySAFER has developed partnerships with 5
 universities within the UK to deliver EPSRC CDT programme in ‘Fuel Cells and their Fuels’ (£4.4M)
 and with 3 universities in CDT-SusHy project (£6.5M). The team is a part of the SUPERGEN H2FC
 project (£3.1M) in partnership with University College London, Birmingham, Newcastle University,
 University of St Andrews, Imperial College London and Bath.

 CST’s heat pump researchers have partnered with Loughborough, Warwick, and London South
 Bank Universities to deliver two large scale research projects (4S-DHW (£1.2M), LOT-NET
 (£5.4M) and involved in End Use Energy Demand Centres along with 9 UK universities to
 investigate thermo-economic performance of heat pump and thermal energy storage technologies.
 These collaborations have allowed for the sharing of research facilities within universities to deliver
 high level experimental based research projects.

 FireSERT has collaborated extensively with international research groups, including, Tokyo
 University of Science (Japan), and FM Global (USA), Coimbra University (Portugal), Liege
 University, Belgium, ArcelorMittal (Luxembourgh), Lorraine University (France), Poitier University
 (France), The British University in Dubai (UAE) and Efectis (France). The group is also providing
 research data related to combustion and fire to the International Centre for Numerical Methods in
 Engineering (CIMNE, Spain) for the development of Kratos CFD code, an open-source software
 which is available for a wide community of industry users.

 RPP’s ongoing research with Griffith University (Australia) is priming a proposal to the Australian
 Research Council on strata homes. RPP researchers are collaborating with University of Alicante
 and Tilburg University in CRREM project to promote decarbonisation agenda within the
 commercial real estate sector. A series of EU projects in the infrastructure and security domains
 have seen collaborations with the United Nations University (Japan), Stuttgart University,
 University of KonStanz, University of Amsterdam, University of Milan, University College Dublin
 and Dublin City University. RPP researchers have participated in the £6M ESRC funded UK
 Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE) consortium which consists of 14 UK based
 institutions addressing issues related to the UK’s housing problems. Expansion of RPP’s research
 on MSP has led to a strategic partnership with Aalborg University, University of Oldenburg,
 University of Liverpool, University of Nantes, Leibniz Institute for Baltic Sea Research, Breda
 University of Applied Sciences, and the Finnish Environment Institute. Through this partnership,
 the team is contributing to the development of new innovative approaches to higher education and
 training on MSP.

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ARG’s research employs multidisciplinary methodologies bringing together expertise from
 architecture, photography, urban planning, conflict studies, social policy, and history. Recent
 projects have brought together collaborators from London School of Economics, University of
 California, Irvine, Kingston University and range of community organisations.

 International academic collaboration has been developed via the Royal Society International
 Exchange Scheme with University of Wyoming (China) to investigate impact of flooding on bridge
 constriction, and Chinese Academy of Sciences to develop distributed energy storage systems;
 UK India Education & Research Initiative with IIT Guwahati (India) to carry out experimental
 work on nanoparticle based liquid biofuels for engines and Royal Academy of Engineering
 funding to conduct an experimental study on large scale hydrocarbon fire by using laboratory
 facilities at University of Science and Technology of China.

 These academic collaborations have led to the publication of 270 journal articles co-authored with
 external researchers. In this regard, our research has contributed to a range of subject disciplines
 as shown in Figure 4.1 which indicates the diversity and interdisciplinary nature of our research.




          Figure 4.1: Research publications in different subject area (based on Scopus)

 c. Collaboration with Government bodies, Private Sectors, Stakeholders and Industries

 Research carried out on behalf of government departments/agencies/stakeholders has had impact
 on public sector decisions and influences policy across matters pertaining to spatial planning,
 housing, property, energy, land and water. Non-academic partnerships has been developed with
 councils and other stakeholders such as GRESB (Netherlands), IIO (Austria), MSCI (UK), GLIO,
 (Belgium), Community Places (NI), Stichting Waag Society (Netherland), NI Water, Donegal
 County Council, Antrim & Newtownabbey Borough Council, Police Scotland, Greater Whitewell
 Community Surgery, Lower Oldpark Community Association, HR Wallingford, Trilateral research,
 Lancashire Constabulary, the NI Police Service, Belfast City Council and Belfast Harbour
 Commissioners.


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through our engagement with the private sector and professional bodies/associations such as
 Chartered Institute of Housing, Royal Town Planning Institute, Royal Institution of Chartered
 Surveyors, International Association for Hydrogen Safety, we are influencing current and future
 policy, practice, standards and legislation. HySAFER is a co-founder of the International
 Association for Hydrogen Safety and participates in activities of the International Standardization
 Organisation ISO/TC197 “Hydrogen technologies”. CST is working with the NIHE (one of the UK’s
 largest social housing providers) on field trials to evaluate low carbon retrofitting of social housing
 stock. In partnership with NI Fire and Rescue Service (NIFRS), FireSERT is developing a
 database for fire related deaths in NI to be used as a key regional resource. SABER has
 collaborated with the Road Authorities of England, Ireland and Denmark.

 Industrial collaboration within and outside UK has been established through funding sources such
 as FP7/H2020, UKRI, Innovate UK, Invest NI and Enterprise Ireland and has delivered projects
 that have commercial interests and thereby influenced the local economy. In the SPIRE 2 project
 we have collaborated with 14 businesses including Arbarr Group, Sunamp Ltd, Glen Dimplex Ltd,
 AES Kilroot Power Ltd, Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council, Community Energy
 Scotland, B9 Energy Group, Climote, SSE plc, Energia, ESB Innovation, Ulster Farmers Union
 and The Authentic Food Company. In partnership with dpSun, Solaform Ltd and Empowerd Pty
 we are developing a sustainable business model for a solar home system for customers with
 diverse economic background. Our researchers have provided a specialised review on the fire
 safety design strategy for the UK buildings and beyond for example DPP Belfast, Teesside
 University and the UEA International City project. RPP has developed research collaborations with
 industry including TNO, Deltares, CGI (Netherlands), VTT (Finland), KEMEA, Satways (Greece),
 Dragados (Spain), GLIO (Belgium), Aditess (Cyprus), Future Analytics Consulting (Ireland),
 VICOMTECH (Spain) and the Stiftelsen Norges Geotekniske Institutt (Norway). HySAFER
 researchers have extended their collaboration with industries in multi-partnered European projects
 (see Section 3a) such as Energy Limited (UK); Air Liquide (France); UlemCo Ltd (UK); APRIA
 Systems (Spain); Auriga Energy Limited (UK); A. Silva Matos (Portugal); Pure Energy Centre (UK);
 Pro-Science (Germany) providing solutions to HFC cell safety technologies.

 d. Wider Academic and Contributions to Professions and Learned Bodies

 We have made valuable contributions to the sustainability of the disciplines within the unit through
 active engagement with professional bodies and international organisations, keynote addresses
 at conferences, membership of Journal editorial boards and participation in international networks.
 Staff in the unit are members of relevant professional bodies such as Energy Institutes (Griffiths),
 Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation, Institute of Asphalt Technology
 (Woodward), Engineers of Ireland (Eadie), Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineering
 (Smyth), The Institute of Concrete Technology (Magee), Institute of Quarrying (Woodward), The
 Concrete Society (Magee), European Real Estate Society (Berry), Institution of Civil Engineers
 (Solan), Association of Civil Engineering Departments (Eadie), International Real Estate Society
 (McGreal, Berry), Royal Institute of British Architects (Murphy, Golden), Royal Society of Ulster
 Architects (Murphy), International Centre for Local and Regional Development (Rafferty, Ritchie),
 Royal Town Planning Institute (Berry), America Real Estate Society (Berry), European Academy
 of Science (Hewitt).

 Our staff sit on a number of policy forums, commissions established by local government
 departments and local authorities and involved in national and international expert panels,
 advisory committees and working groups making strategic decisions on policy, standards and
 government targets, examples include:

    •   Molkov, Chair of Education Committee of International Association for Hydrogen Safety.
    •   Berry, Executive Director and Board Member of European Real Estate Society.
    •   Haran, Member and Research lead NI Better Housing Forum.
    •   Motawa, Member of the European Group for Intelligent Computing in Engineering.


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Hyde, Member of Independent Insulation Performance Panel for Cavity Wall Research
         Project, NI.
     •   Richie and McElduff, Member of Irish Sea Maritime Forum Steering Group.
     •   Adair, Chair of Independent Tower Block Reference Group, NI.
     •   Davis, Chair of International Association of Assessing Officers.
     •   Griffiths, Member of NI Building Regulations Committee.
     •   MacIntyre, Member of Environmental Protection NI.
     •   Woodward, Member of British Standards committee for B/510/05 Surface characteristics
         and BS 8870 High Friction surfacing.
     •   Eadie, Member of International Working Group on E-Business in Construction.

 Staff members are also contributing to scientific, technical and international advisory boards and
 are members of organising committee for international conferences (for example WREN 2018
 (Huang M), EUROSUN 2016 (Mondol, Zacharopolous), SDEWES 2019 (Zacharopolous),
 IFIRESS 2015 (Boyce), IAFSS 2017 (Boyce), SOLARIS 2018 (Smyth), First International
 Conference on Smart Cities (Woodward), International Conference for Road Engineers
 (Woodward), MAIREINFRA1 2017 (Woodward), 6th and 7th ICONFBMP (Woodward); ICDCS
 2016 (Magee); ARCC-EAAE 2015, 2018 (Golden), AREUEA 2016 (McGreal), ERES 2014 (Berry).
 Hewitt, Shah, Huang M represent UK in IEA Annex 46 and 48 (Domestic Hot Water Heat Pumps
 and Industrial Heat Pumps, Second Phase respectively) and Annex 55 (Comfort and Climate Box);
 Houlihan Wiberg in IEA Annex 72 (Assessing Life Cycle Related Environmental Impacts Caused
 by Building) and Mondol and Zacharopoulos in IEA Task 63 (Solar Neighborhood Planning); EU
 COST Action TU125 (Smyth, Zacharopoulos, Mondol).

 Our staff hold Visiting Professor positions in national and international institutions, for example:
 McGreal (University of South Australia and Universidad de Alicante); Hewitt and Huang Y (Institute
 of Engineering Thermophysics, Chinese Academy of Science); Huang Y (National Compressed
 Air Energy Storage R&D Centre, Gui-Zhou); Huang M (Beihang University); Molkov (College of
 Engineering and Physical Sciences, University of Birmingham); Davis (Masaryk University),
 Motawa (Mansoura University, Egypt).

 Our staff serve on the editorial boards of scholarly journals in the built environment disciplines:

 •   Editor in Chief: International Journal of Ambient Energy (Hewitt); Journal of Structural Fire
     Engineering (Ali); Journal of Financial Management of Property and Construction (Davis).
 •   Editorial Board Member: Journal of Property Research and Journal of European Research
     (Adair, Berry, McGreal); Journal of European Real Estate Research and Journal of Real
     Estate Portfolio Management (McGreal); Journal of Property Research (Berry); Journal of
     Corporate Real Estate (Hemphill), Fire and Explosion Safety (Molkov), Archivum
     Combustionis (Molkov), Hydrogen (Molkov), Fires and Emergency Situations: Prevention and
     Control (Molkov), Combustion Explosions and Shock Waves (Molkov), Fire Safety (Molkov);
     Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers (Brandoni); Sustainable Building Journal and
     Journal of Renewable Energy (Mondol); Journal of Energy Reports (Huang MJ); Journal of
     Property Tax Assessment and Administration (McCord M); Renewable Energy (Smyth,
     Zacharopoulos), Fire and Materials (Boyce), Journal of Structural Fire Engineering (Nadjai,
     Boyce), Journal of Financial Management of Property and Construction (Haran),
     Environmental Research: Infrastructure and Sustainability (Houlihan Wiberg), Applied
     Sciences (Ali).
 •   Guest Editor: Infrastructures Journal (Woodward); Energies Journal (Mondol, Shah),
     Entropy Journal (Mondol, Smyth).

 Our staff have contributed to proposal review for different funding bodies such as EPSRC, ESRC,
 H2020, The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, Royal Society, South African
 National Research Foundation, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Education Trust, Natural

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Czech Science Foundation, Natural
 Science Foundation of China, British Council.

 d. Awards and International Recognitions

 Our staff have received national and international awards and recognition for excellence in their
 contributions to research:
  •       McGreal, the International Real Estate Society Achievement Award (2017) and the Pacific
          Rim Real Estate Society Achievement Award (2018)
  •       Hewitt, World Renewable Energy Network Pioneer Award (2018)
  •       Eadie, Bulgarian Scientific and Technical Union of Civil Engineering Award (2018)
  •       Hyde, Best paper award at ICSBDC 2017 and ICHREET 2018
  •       McCord M and Davis, Distinguished Research and Development award for best paper
          (2017)
  •       McGreal, Best Journal paper award, Pacific Rim Property Research Journal (2015)

 e. Conference, Seminars and CPD Activities
 In contributing to the research community, the unit has hosted several international conferences,
 seminars and training programme during the assessment period. HySAFER has regularly
 organised the biennial International Conference on Hydrogen Safety (2015, 2017 and 2019)
 and the triennial International Seminar on Fire and Explosion Hazards (2016, 2019); the
 International Seminar on Fire and Explosion Hazards (2016, 2019); an International School
 “Progress in Hydrogen Safety” (2019). FireSERT organised the “10th International
 Conference on Structures in Fire” in Belfast which was attended by 250 delegates from 33
 countries. CST has hosted a closing conference for the INTERREG IVA SPIRE project at the 21st
 ICE/IEEE International Technology Management Conference in Belfast with over 170
 delegates. CST has also made concerted efforts to shape the EU research agenda in energy
 storage and demand side response through co-hosting a Sustainable Energy Week event (15-
 19 June 2015) in Brussels which was supported by Invest NI; the First International Conference
 on Building Integrated Renewable Energy Systems in Dublin (2017) and the BESECURE
 project event to disseminate research outcomes on urban security (2015).

 We have organised workshops, training programmes and outreach activities to educate
 professionals and to engage with wider research community. For example:

      •    FireSERT organised an international workshop on the cost-effective design solutions for
           structural fire delivered to fire engineering professionals in Dublin (Nov 2018).
      •    RPP’s hosted the European Real Estate Society’s Industry seminar on “Recapitalisation
           of the European real estate market and lessons from Ireland” (Oct 2014).
      •    SABER delivered a workshop in conjunction with Engineering Ireland to explore the
           vulnerability and management of masonry arch bridges under major storm events (Jan
           2019).
      •    CST organised three workshops under ALICE project to disseminate knowledge on the
           impact of wastewater management on society and environment (Sept 2019).
      •    CST hosted workshops on the role of ageing society for a transition to low-carbon
           technologies at the household level under the ‘Women Buying Green’ project that brought
           together experts from energy, environmental and behavioural economics fields and local
           industries (Jan 2019, Nov 2018).
      •    Five workshops were organised by CST under “Zero in on NI Heat” project to initiate public
           debates on heat decarbonisation in NI.
      •    GCRF Pump-Prime workshop on Sustainable Design and Shared Space (Jan 2018) in
           Ghana and HERD Power workshop in Gaborone, Botswana (Feb 2018).

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research is disseminated through our undergraduate and postgraduate course provision.
 CST’s energy research feeds directly to BSc Energy and BEng Architectural Engineering
 programme and MSc in Renewable Energy & Energy Management and new MSc in Energy
 Storage programme launched in 2019. FireSERT and HySAFER research outcomes directly
 influences the MSc Fire Safety Engineering programme. A new research based PgCertPD
 programme in Hydrogen safety has started from 2020.




                                                                                   Page 23
