Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of West London
 Unit of Assessment: 24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context
 The University of West London (UWL) offers a broad range of courses; structurally it is divided
 into six Schools and three Colleges, each led by a Dean or Head of School. The University is
 submitting to this Unit of Assessment for the first time, as a result of ambitious research objectives
 driven by the last two strategic plans (Ambition 2013-2018; Achievement 2019-2023), which have
 seen significant investment in physical and human resources to generate research growth (see
 institutional statement, section 2). Through these plans, UWL has provided support for
 submissions in three new UoAs of which this is one. It has invested in new facilities (labs, studios,
 simulation environments) and created 7 new research centres (two in UoA24) to support research,
 innovation, and funding opportunities for PGRs (see institutional statement on research centres,
 section 2.1). UoA24 capitalises on a strong 70 years+ hospitality heritage within the London Geller
 College of Hospitality and Tourism (LGCHT).

 1.2. Structure of the Unit
 The UoA has been shaped over the REF21 period and grown into a strong and ambitious multi-
 disciplinary entity. It has done this through new appointments made from 2014 onwards. The UoA
 is interdisciplinary and includes six researchers from LGCHT, one from the Claude Littner
 Business School (CLBS) and two from the School of Human and Social Sciences (SHSS). Our
 submission spans the fields of hospitality, tourism, and aviation management; food product
 development and nutrition; and sports nutrition, and sports psychology.
 The unifying themes underpinning UoA24’s research are business and societal risk and
 resilience management. Research is co-ordinated mainly by two hubs:
    - The International Centre for Hospitality and Aviation Resilience Management
         (ICHARM), founded in 2014, is focused on the areas of risk management; human
         trafficking; consumer behaviour; industry dynamics and strategy; food and nutrition
         security. ICHARM and the integrated Centre for the Study of Human Trafficking are led by
         Paraskevas, Professor in Strategic Risk Management. ICHARM is connected to key
         industry partners and a strong advisory board chaired by John Ludlow, formerly Senior
         Vice President of Global Risk Management at InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) and
         now Chief Executive Officer at AIRMIC (Association of Insurance and Risk Managers in
         Commerce). This advisory board consists of leading industry and policy influencers with
         specialisation in the six research themes in ICHARM.
    - The West London Food Innovation Centre (WLFIC) is a research and innovation centre
         created in 2017, which was funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
         with match-funding from UWL. It acts as a research centre for work on sustainability and
         customer experience, and a commercial innovation hub for product development to support
         healthy and sustainable nutrition.
 This UoA comprises nine researchers, three at senior lecturer and six at professor/associate
 professor grades. The Unit’s research is currently clustered around six broad themes which
 address critical sector-relevant issues and have solid impact pathways resulting from the
 university’s extensive existing industry networks:
 1.     Strategic resilience management (including analysis of risk and crisis management
        systems in practice; emerging risks and ‘black swans’; cyber risk; operational, societal
        and environmental risks; corporate responsibility) with main contributions by Paraskevas

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         in hospitality and tourism, Papatheodorou (left in 2016) in aviation management, and
         Testa in a sport context.
 2.      Ethical labour recruitment and broader business-related human rights issues (including
         labour exploitation, human trafficking, and modern slavery; and trafficking survivors’ re-
         integration) with the sector-leading research of Paraskevas.
 3.      Consumer behaviour and reputation management (including new consumer trends;
         brand reputation development and protection; public sentiment monitoring systems;
         reputational risk management) with research from Iordanova, Li, and Xu.
 4.      Industry dynamics and strategies (including vertical disintegration in the corporate hotel
         industry; international business and tourism sustainable development challenges and
         opportunities; co-evolutionary sectoral and business dynamics) with contributions by
         Roper and Izadi.
 5.      Nutrition risks and well-being (including nutrition and well-being of vulnerable groups;
         plant-based nutrition and product development; multi-sensory and emotional food
         experience; sports nutrition; elite and professional athletes’ physical and mental health)
         with main contributions by Tsiami (in this REF submitted in UoA03), Li and Douglas.
 6.      Human error and accident prevention in high reliability organisations (airport and aviation
         risk management) with contributions by Padhra and Sikora (in this REF included in UoA
         12).

 1.3. Research and Impact Strategy
 UoA 24’s strategy for growth was supported through industry-engagement, and enhancement of
 the research culture, including through new appointments, facilitative structures, and extensive
 support for research development. This strategy is based on the University’s ‘lessons learnt’ from
 REF2014 and is articulated in our Research and Scholarship Strategy (RSS) and the Knowledge
 Exchange (KE) Strategy, and their engagement with national priorities (see institutional statement,
 section 2.1). This UoA has established its own specific objectives to meet the institutional targets.
 The capacity growth was facilitated by a combination of facilities expansion (two research centres),
 targeted recruitment, promotions, and opportunities presented by UWL’s research support
 programmes (study leave, conferences, interdisciplinary collaborative schemes), early-career
 researchers’ mentorship, and increase in PGRs recruitment.
 Having put its research centres at the heart of its research activities, the UoA has produced a
 dynamic research culture that is stirred by an empowered team of researchers working in a
 conducive research environment, engaging with colleagues across the University, and
 collaborating with external partners, regionally and internationally. The combination of people,
 infrastructure, and leadership both at College and University levels has produced significant
 individual and collective successes for this UoA over the census period with impact effected within
 and beyond academia. This outward looking approach forms the basis on which we aim to
 continue to develop and grow this UoA towards the next REF and beyond.
 1.3.1 Research objectives and achievements since 2014
 Our objectives and their achievements were:
      1. To grow capacity, develop expertise and pursue academic excellence in each of
         the Unit’s research themes and across them
         Significant efforts were made since 2014 for the Unit to build research capacity towards a
         2021 submission. We engaged with the large international industry network of LGCHT
         (see section 4) and with UK-based, European, and international academic collaborators to
         develop research in new areas. The foundational appointments of ICHARM’s first director
         (Roper) and of a Chair in Hospitality Management (Paraskevas) in 2014 were
         instrumental to generate growth velocity. Since then, the Unit has also benefited by the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        targeted appointment of experienced and junior researchers to support and expand its
        thematic research areas (see section 2.1).
    2. To develop industry-academia partnerships aiming at impactful research and
       knowledge exchange
       Building on our extensive industry networks, we have systematically (through public and
       direct engagement with users and industry) sought out new opportunities. For example,
       the Unit created a ‘place-based’ industry-academia research consortium involving West
       London Business, Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation, Brunel University
       and Middlesex University; a collaboration with West London Incubators and Accelerators;
       and further collaborations with professional bodies such as the Institute of Hospitality and
       the Association of Insurers and Risk Managers in Commerce (AIRMIC) to facilitate its
       research reach and impact.
    3. To develop links and pursue collaboration with national and international policy
       making bodies and organisations
       Over the REF period, and in the context of our research on human trafficking in hospitality,
       the Unit has extensively engaged with the UK Cabinet Office, the Welsh Government, the
       Association of Insurers and Risk Managers in Commerce (AIRMIC), the European
       Federation of Food, Agriculture and Tourism Trade Unions (EFFAT), the UN Institute of
       Migration (IOM) and the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD)
       and has influenced the development of several modern slavery policies and strategies (see
       section 4 and submitted ICS). The COMBAT research programme demonstrated for the
       first time the hotel sector’s specific vulnerabilities to trafficking in human beings (THB).
       The research team proposed risk assessment techniques and mitigating strategies for the
       full range of THB risks in hotels and their supply chains, translating this into a Toolkit. This
       Toolkit was not only widely taken up by the sector as a valuable resource for hotel
       businesses to train their staff and meet their legal obligations but also helped the
       organisations listed above shape their policies and strategies.
    4. To provide support and opportunities for research impact
       To achieve impact the UoA has supported research projects with defined groups of
       beneficiaries and with specific academic, public, and private sector research partners (e.g.,
       Lapland University of Applied Sciences, Arab Air Carriers Organization (AACO), Forum for
       the Future’s Protein Challenge 2040 Coalition). In addition to the University’s Impact Group
       forum (see institutional statement, section 4.3), the UoA has organised research
       workshops bi-annually for all researchers and doctoral students on how to facilitate impact
       (e.g., policy consultation, commercialisation, stakeholder mapping, community
       engagement) and on how to translate and communicate research impact (e.g., appropriate
       language, relevant examples).
    5. To develop a solid research and income profile towards a REF2021 submission
       Since REF2014 the Unit has deposited a total of 160 publications in the University
       Repository, 138 (86%) of which publications have full text associated with the record. It
       has submitted bids for 16 projects and has obtained funding from the European Regional
       Development Fund (ERDF), the European Commission (Directorate-General Enterprise
       and Industry and Directorate-General Home Affairs) and the European Union’s
       Competitiveness of Enterprises and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises programme
       (COSME).
 The two impact case studies submitted to UOA 24 demonstrate the range of activity and the close
 relationships developed with research users. One demonstrates the impact of the COMBAT
 research programme (described in 3 above) and shows this was widely taken up in the hotel sector


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the UK and internationally. The second shows the impact of UWL research on the legacy of a
 mega-event, the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. Focusing on the housing
 regeneration of east London, the research assessed whether an inclusive legacy has been
 achieved to date and provided an evidence base for campaigners holding public agencies to
 account on this issue. Outputs of this research are submitted in UoA20.
 1.3.2 Plans towards 2025
 The UoA’s 2025 strategy will be aligned with UWL’s 2025 vision of sustaining research with global
 significance, designed for a positive impact on quality of the industry sectors it serves and our
 local communities. The UoA will continue building its capacity for impactful interdisciplinary
 research, reaching out systematically to national and international academic/industry research
 collaborations. Areas we wish to further develop as a continuation of our present impact, are waste
 management, post-COVID risk management and business and people resilience.
 A significant focus will be on further capacity-building in both our established and ‘next REF
 generation’ researchers. We aim to double our PGR population through bursaries, scholarships,
 fees discounts, and by securing industry-sponsored PhDs (especially in the areas of sustainable
 food systems, and nutrition). In doing so, we will be actively promoting diversity in and access to
 doctoral education.
 Considering COVID-19, both the tourism and aviation sectors will need further research on
 business and human capital resilience and on the physical and mental wellbeing of tourists,
 passengers, customers, and employees; we will engage with these themes.
 The UoA will continue to support the ‘next generation’ of researchers to build capacity, ensuring
 diversity is nurtured. The UoA has embraced open research (for research and scholarship outputs)
 and will extend this in the future.
 To achieve these aims we will use as key levers will include our research centres, the facilities
 acquired during this REF period (see section 3), and existing collaborations described in section
 4, particularly the very strong networks developed with sports organisations, anti-slavery
 authorities and charities; and the impact of the pandemic on strategies and business models of
 the sectors at the core of this UoA. We will align the next research strategy with our increasing
 KEF activities.

 1.4 Support for research standards and ethics
 1.4.1 Academic research infrastructure to support standards
 The University Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) chaired by the
 Deputy Vice-Chancellor, receives reports on matters of University-wide interest, including
 regular updates and annual reports from schools on research, scholarship, and knowledge
 transfer activities. URSEC also advises on research governance within the individual Schools. It
 oversees key performance indicators and their fitness for purpose in the context of the
 University’s Strategic Plan. A University Research Degrees Sub-Committee oversees
 progression of postgraduate research students to registration to MPhil status, and onward to
 doctoral (PhD) completion.

 1.4.2 Ethics
 The University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) – also a subcommittee of The University
 Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) - has overall responsibility for ethics
 approval of staff and students’ research. The UoA’s approvals are scrutinised by the respective
 School/College’s Research Ethics Panels (SCREPs) which report regularly to UREC. UREC
 subgroups are convened where ‘high risk’ applications are identified by any School/College
 SCREP.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In terms of the integrity of our equipment and facilities, they are regularly tested and inspected by
 our technicians for health and safety, and to ensure they meet the required technical standards.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary Research and Open Research Environment
 Research in hospitality, tourism and aviation is, by its nature, interdisciplinary. Over the period, we
 have worked on interdisciplinary research bids through ICHARM and other UWL research centres
 (e.g., the Cybersecurity and Criminology Centre and the Geller Institute of Ageing and Memory).
 The UoA is meeting regularly as a team, and we actively encourage interdisciplinary PhD projects,
 co-supervising, for example, with colleagues from Public Health, Biomedical Sciences, and
 Psychology. We have introduced an ‘Interdisciplinarity Bootcamp’ (a full-day workshop on
 interdisciplinary research) to improve the scope and competence in interdisciplinary research
 projects, so that we gain better understanding of the issues and challenges of such projects and
 ultimately become ‘interdisciplinary integrators’.
 We fully observe the principles of open research, and promote inclusivity and accessibility. We
 share all aspects of our research and make it accessible to all, where possible. The
 dissemination of our research outputs and the underpinning research methodologies are
 available in the UWL repository. All members of the UoA have received training from the Library,
 including bespoke sessions on compliance. UoA24 has run seminars to discuss Open Access
 with its members. Of the 160 publications associated with the Unit deposited in the UWL
 repository, 17% go over and beyond the REF requirements. UoA24 has fully embraced this
 opportunity with 88% of submitted staff with an ORCID ID.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy
 In 2015, the University introduced a new Academic Employment Framework (AEF). The AEF
 addresses the recruitment, management, development, and support for all academic staff. It
 enables staff to focus (in addition to teaching) on research, scholarship and/ or knowledge
 exchange activities (see institutional statement, section 3.1). Academic staff agree targets for
 these activities which form part of their annual appraisals. Since 2015, the College and Schools
 supporting UoA24 have aligned their recruitment strategy with the AEF. Both the University’s and
 the UoA’s major priority has been to develop existing staff, and to appoint new expertise where
 relevant. The UoA has benefitted from the recruitment/promotion of 6 professors (Roper,
 Paraskevas, Papatheodorou, Xu, Douglas and Testa) and 2 associate professors (Tsiami and
 Sikora). It also includes other post-REF2014 appointments (Iordanova, Li, and Izadi). The UoA
 is also ensuring it is nurturing more junior colleagues and engaging them in its core research
 activities. Two colleagues who were appointed as lecturers on completion of their PhD, are
 amongst a group of 5 (at census date) ‘next generation’ colleagues identified for research
 mentoring. The Unit’s REF lead is a member of the College Executive to ensure that their interests
 are considered, and their research time is preserved and supported.
 2.2. Staff development
 Career development is shared between central services and Schools/Colleges’ specific activities.
 Centrally, Research and Enterprise Operations (REOps) run seminars on research issues
 including knowledge exchange; impact; collaborative projects; commercialisation; managing
 research budgets; funding opportunities, industry and user engagement. REOps also support
 applications for research funding. This UoA has greatly benefited from training and support with
 its funding applications. Staff on this UoA have also attended research-related sessions run by
 HR on equality and diversity, managing stress, appraisals, preparing for promotion, working with
 external collaborators, and leadership. The Unit’s leads and reviewers have attended mandatory
 training on Unconscious Bias. HR also hold a budget for conferences, sabbaticals, and other staff
                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development programmes. Researchers, including junior researchers and PGRs, are supported
 by UWL to attend national conferences (e.g., CHME, ATHE) and international conferences (e.g.,
 EuroCHRIE, APacCHRIE, Critical Tourism Studies, European Aviation Wellbeing Conference,
 International Conference of Autoethnography). Over the census period, colleagues in the Unit
 have attended 91 conferences.
 The University also pays for internal and external courses, and for staff to study additional
 qualifications, including MAs and PhDs (see institutional statement section 3.2). Staff who
 undertake PhD studies are supported financially (no fees are paid) and through a 100-hour
 reduction in their teaching load. Over the period, three LGCHT staff members were funded and
 awarded a PhD, one was funded by UWL and awarded at another institution, while a further three
 are expected to complete UWL PhDs in 2021 and one in 2022. One more is expected to complete
 a UWL-funded PhD in another institution in 2022. Two other members of staff completed an MA
 and are enrolling on a doctorate in 2021. These completions will significantly strengthen UoA24’s
 research and impact in the longer term.
 The Library has provided training and one-to-one support on open access; and has trained
 members of the UoA on compliance rules. The Graduate School provides a comprehensive
 programme of professional development for doctoral supervisors (see 2.3). The Communications
 department offers advice on media; public engagement; engaging with diverse audiences; social
 media; and lobbying. Its Research Communications Group meets monthly to strategize media
 exposure for its research; this UoA is represented on this group (Paraskevas).
 Each College/School involved in the UoA has its own research mentoring schemes, mostly led by
 experienced researchers at professorial level. LGCHT, for example, has introduced a structured
 mentoring scheme in which Paraskevas in Hospitality Management, Tsiami in Food Science and
 Nutrition, Sikora in Aviation and, more recently, Xu in Tourism management, mentor all junior
 researchers in the College who wish to benefit from their support. Mentors support junior
 colleagues in developing and sustaining research plans and provide advice on all aspects of
 developing a stronger research profile. They act as reviewers and offer advice on choosing a
 publication outlet, and in dealing with reviewers’ comments. Similar schemes exist in CLBS and
 SHSS.

 2.3. Research students (PGRs)
 Expanding doctoral education has been a key priority for this UoA, in line with the University’s
 strategy (see institutional statement, section 3.2) Our doctoral provision grew from 7 PGRs in 2014
 to 15 PGRs in 2020, all on traditional PhDs, none on Professional Doctorates. In parallel,
 supervisory capacity has increased (from 2 to 9). This growth has significantly transformed the
 research dynamics and the focus on research-driven activities.
 Doctoral training and support
 The formal doctoral training programme delivered by the Graduate School (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2) is informed by the VITAE Researcher Development Framework and
 includes embedded Epigeum interactive on resources. It runs throughout the period of study
 (intensely in the first year), with contributions from senior academics from across the institution. It
 covers all aspects of research and research development and includes several opportunities for
 students to present their research. Examples of training topics include research philosophies and
 methodologies; qualitative, quantitative, and mixed research methods (basic and advanced);
 literature review for PhD; research ethics and research integrity; managing your research project;
 achieving impact; writing for publication; identifying and dealing with predatory online journals.
 A dedicated UoA24 librarian is available to all PGRs and researchers within the Unit. Pastoral
 advice is provided through the University’s central student support services. These services
 offered additional financial support and advice during COVID-19 whilst the UoA put together a

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support plan to support students who needed additional time, support or resources. Our students
 also have access to a dedicated PRG building, the Rami Ranger House, which offers social and
 study space, with access to kitchen facility, computers, and seminar room (see section 3).
 Supervision
 Supervisor training is mandatory and takes place annually. The Graduate School provides a
 training programme for supervisors that covers all aspects of the VITAE framework, and ensures
 supervisors are familiar with the University’s Code of Practice for Research Students and
 Supervisors which describes the best approach, responsibilities as well as the priorities of the
 University (see institutional statement, section 3.2). The training also covers all aspects of
 supervision – regulations, progression, transfer, good practice, equality and diversity, university
 support systems. PGRs in UoA24 are supervised by at least two supervisors with at least one
 subject specialist; interdisciplinary projects may be allocated a third supervisor if relevant.
 Students meet at least once monthly (in most cases every two weeks) with their supervisory teams
 to report on their progress and take feedback/advice for next steps.
 Opportunities
 The University offers alumni discounts and fee waivers to widen access to doctoral education. It
 also provides annually a number of ‘Vice Chancellor’s PhD Scholarships’ on a competitive basis
 (see institutional statement, section 2.1, point 2), to encourage broader access to doctoral
 education. This UoA has benefited from the award of one scholarship and several fee-waivers
 over the period.
 We provide opportunities for PGR students to gain teaching experience wherever possible (6
 hrs/week maximum, including 3hrs of preparation time). Like all teaching this is assessed by
 students and feedback is given to PGRs by supervisors and line managers (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2). PGRs in Hospitality Aviation and Food Business/Nutrition Science have
 all taught in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the College. They are mentored
 by the supervisor in these duties.
 Our PGRs have access to a central conference fund for attending national and international
 conferences and doctoral colloquia and are supported in preparing their presentations. They are
 an integral part of our research community and have many informal opportunities to present their
 work internally. They attend and contribute to research seminars organised on a monthly basis;
 and other research events (research meetings and journal clubs organised by the LGCHT). They
 present at the UWL Annual Doctoral Conference organised by the Graduate School and get
 valuable feedback from peers and staff. The conference is always very well attended by this Unit
 and our PGRs have been awarded prizes over the assessment period, including best paper
 presentation awards (Czyzewska, 2015; Lengyel, 2016; Morales-Mediano, 2017), runner-up best
 paper (Morales-Mediano, 2016) and best poster award (Devlin, 2018). They are also encouraged,
 and supported, to publish in discipline-specific journals. UWL University Press publishes a bi-
 annual peer-reviewed academic journal (see institutional statement, section 2.1, point 5), New
 Vistas, to develop PhD students and junior staff in publishing work for a wider audience. Three
 PGRs have taken advantage of this publication opportunity.
 Progression and feedback
 One of the University’s priorities has been to support students to complete on time (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2). We aim for completion within 3 to 3.5 years of enrollment, and this is
 supported through mechanisms that enable student progression - monthly supervision meetings,
 annual reports, milestone presentations, and opportunities to speak directly to the Graduate
 School for extra support. Progression is monitored by the Graduate School through the university-
 wide ‘doctoral journey’. We subscribe to Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and
 results show a very high level of satisfaction of our graduate students with the support and


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities they receive. In the 2020 survey, UWL was ranked 4th (out of 103) on the research
 skills measure, 5th on Responsibilities and 7th on Progression.
 Our students also provide feedback throughout the annual cycle. An annual report is reviewed
 each year. PGR representatives attend, and make distinctive contributions to, the LGCHT
 Committees and the University Research Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC).

 2.4. Equality and Diversity
 62% of members in the UoA’s are female, with representation from six different nationalities.
 Countering the context of UK research funding which sees fewer women applying for grants, our
 UoA’s gender ratio for funding applications since REF2014 is three females to one male. We have
 arrangements to support flexible and/or remote working and we can ensure that the duties of
 women or male colleagues taking parental leave or adoption are fully covered. The
 Colleges/Schools supporting the UoA also operate flexible and with reference to personal
 circumstances. Our 15-strong PGR community includes seven female and eight male researchers
 from nine countries around the world.
 Research development opportunities
 The research development opportunities available to staff – including research funding,
 sabbaticals, and conference funding - always state the conditions and criteria that are applied.
 There is a transparent process for these applications. Academic staff in this UoA have attended
 briefing sessions on research funding opportunities and received advice when applying for funding
 and sabbaticals.
 Recruitment and progression of research students
 The recruitment of doctoral students is based on regulations that specify entry requirements, and
 their application is supported by a written statement and an interview by a panel including
 supervisors and a Graduate School Directors of Studies to ensure fairness and consistency across
 the institution. Progression is monitored by the Graduate School, and final registration to PhD
 status (transfer) is overseen by the University Research Degrees Sub-Committee.
 REF
 Members of the UoA have received training on recruitment, promotion, appraisal; and have been
 included in wider consultations on the code of practice for REF 2020; and the UoA lead and
 reviewers have received specific training on equality and diversity, and unconscious bias to
 support them in their role.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income
 Our strategy to grow has been to support applications to both external income (Research Councils,
 industry, government agencies, consultancy, etc.) and internal investments. Internal funding is
 used to support active researchers with travel and equipment, and to provide funding for bursaries
 for PhD students.
 The UoA has its own panel of expert reviewers to support bids development, and ensure high
 quality research bids. During the census period, the UoA has seen income generation of £105,000
 from UK central government bodies and local authorities; and £206,225 from EU government
 bodies for research projects in collaboration with other UK and European partners including:
 •   The University of Zaragoza (Spain) as lead partner, Bournemouth University (UK) and TEI of
     Crete (Greece) and partner organisations the Government of Aragon, Sargantana S.L.,
     Comarca La Jacetania (Spain), the NGO My World (Bulgaria) and 5-Senses (Malta) for the
     project “GRAIL: Mystic Routes and Activities to Improve Local Tourism” with Fidgeon (now
     retired) as co-investigator. The project was funded by the European Commission,

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Directorate-General Enterprise, and Industry (SI2.682292, GRAIL) and sought to identify,
     design and promote a tourist/pilgrimage route for the Holy Grail that would start in Bulgaria
     and through Greece, Malta, Spain and France, end to United Kingdom.
 •   The University of Zaragoza (Spain) as lead partner, and partner organisations the Fundación
     para el Desarrollo Social, Ayuntamiento Sos del Rey Católico, Diputación de Cáceres,
     Rodando (Spain), DIESIS (Belgium), Good Spot, Mazedia (France), and AITR/ Associazione
     Italiana Turismo Responsabile (Italy) for the project “FILM-SET Film Locations in Small,
     Smart and Significant European Towns” with Fidgeon as co-investigator. The project was
     funded by COSME (SI2.711047, FILMSET) and sought to design and promote a thematic
     tourist route where European cinema was the main driver reflected through the film locations
     in European towns.
 •   Oxford Brookes University (project co-ordinators), Lapland University of Applied Sciences
     (Finland) and the Ratiu Foundation for Democracy (Romania) for the project “COMBAT-
     Combat Measures Against Human Trafficking in the Tourism Industry” led by Paraskevas
     (PI). The project was funded by the European Commission, Directorate-General Home
     Affairs (HOME/ISEC/AG/THB/4000005873) and sought to assess the landscape of human
     trafficking in the European hotel sector, identify the sector vulnerabilities traffickers exploit,
     and propose policies and practices to address this crime within its operations and supply
     chains.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 In term of infrastructure, the University’s Estates and Facilities significant investment programme
 during this REF period allowed, among others, the creation of social and open learning spaces, a
 library without boundaries, a large flexible performance auditorium, and advanced simulation
 spaces for research. The University has also built a Sports Centre and a postgraduate building for
 doctoral students (the Rami Ranger House), and several laboratories and specialist facilities,
 including the West London Food Innovation Centre (WLFIC) mentioned earlier.
 This UoA has benefited from investment towards the creation of ICHARM and the West London
 Food Innovation Centre. Those centres offer an inclusive platform for UWL’s researchers to
 collaborate with leading practitioners to generate new knowledge, develop cutting-edge ideas and
 solutions, and disseminate to the wider business and societal environment. Through these, we
 are able to impact numerous beneficiary groups, as evidenced by the Unit’s REF2021 Impact
 Case Studies and the ERDF project outputs (see section 3.3). ICHARM has been set up with the
 generous support of c£800K from industry donors including InterContinental Hotels Group, Hilton
 Worldwide, the Lord Forte Foundation, Geller Investment Company and Westmont Hospitality
 Group (for Roper) as well as the Compass Group, Geoffrey Harrison Foundation and WSH
 Foundation (for Paraskevas). WLFIC is a £1.4 million ERDF match funded UWL research and
 development facility (ERDF 23R16P00904), used for research in new food products and for
 product development and processes within the wider hospitality sector. The University has also
 acquired a Boeing 737 flight simulator (FlightPad) which is used for airport-related teaching and
 supports experimental interdisciplinary research.
 WLFIC has been helping food and drink start-ups and SMEs turn concepts and ideas into
 commercially viable products. It also supports research experimentations on the modification of
 existing food and drink products, and production processes to adapt to issues related to nutrition,
 health, and product shelf-life and packaging. Primarily designed for commercial research, the
 Centre is also used for knowledge generation with research focusing on plant-based proteins and
 product development, nutrition of vulnerable groups and food waste management. The laboratory
 is fully fitted with cutting edge equipment such as mass spectrometer, oscillatory rheometer,
 enthalpy measurer, high performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC) with UV detector, texture and

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 protein analysers that allow accurate property measurements of the food and drink products
 developed and analysed in the Centre.
 In the three years leading to the end of the REF period, WLFIC was dedicated in new product and
 process research and development for 96 London-based food start-ups and SMEs developing 58
 new products - 29 of which were completely new to the food and drink retail market. In terms of
 socio-economic impact, this work has created 5 new jobs and an independent assessment at the
 end of the project estimated that, within the next 5 years, it could create 150+ gross FTE jobs (103
 direct and 53 indirect) and a total NPV GVA of £5.9 million. The Centre’s work with businesses
 has been synergistically used as a teaching and learning platform for both undergraduate and
 postgraduate programmes and opened new research directions for its post-ERDF era (vegan food
 analogues, multi-sensory and emotional food experience, innovations in food waste management
 adopting circular economy models, and food research and development (R&D) project risk
 governance).
 The FlightPad is a simulator offering a complete representation of the 737-800 passenger aircraft
 and uses Boeing original instrumentation and a wrap-around screen the simulator giving users a
 full sensation of movement. The simulator has a 220-degree cylindrical display system with triple
 projection and photorealistic scenarios (landing strips, taxiways, stands) with configurable
 weather, categories I, II and III, NPA, missed approaches, windshear, winter conditions, etc. It has
 CANBUS electronic control of all systems, real Boeing stick shaker with controller, seats with 5-
 points seat belts, panels with breakers for performing procedures according to the QRH and offers
 an immersive cabin with 100% real hardware (faithful to the original cabin, its functionality and
 configuration). It is linked with a global database with all airports and their updated approaches
 (ILS, LOC, GLS, VOR, NDB, RNAV, Radar, etc). The simulator includes an integrated instructor
 position isolated behind the cockpit with touch screens and dedicated software (tracking in all
 phases of flight, approaches, TCAS resolutions including TA/RA, loading sheets, technical
 analysis, generation of ECAM systems failures, etc).
 Apart from its educational and training purposes, it is used for experimental interdisciplinary
 research. It has been used for feasibility studies to support aviation risk management and has
 future applications for research on professional pilots’ cognitive psychology, pilot fatigue, reaction
 measurement, human error measurement and prevention, and flight risk and safety
 The Rami Ranger House (RRH) is a postgraduate research centre that was built for PGRs as a
 learning and social space. The house built over 3 floors, offers to the Unit’s PGRs spaces for
 collaborative working, socialising, supervision and mentoring on the ground floor. The first floor
 offers individual workspaces while the second floor provides teaching and learning spaces that
 can be used as a space for interdisciplinary collaboration. The centre has both quieter and group
 study areas, including networked computers and flexible seminar rooms that our PGRs and their
 supervisors can adapt to suit their research-led activities and events. This enables them to access
 support, work in a collaborative environment, and socialise with peers. RRH is host to regular skills
 workshops, as well as well-being and cultural events.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Collaborations
 Since REF2014 members of UoA24 have developed a significant range of national and
 international collaborations that reflect the UoA’s growing position within the research community.
 Examples include collaborations with:
 •   The Lapland University of Applied Sciences (Finland), the Ratiu Centre for Democracy
     (Romania) and Oxford Brookes University (UK) on human trafficking in the European hotel
     sector and the ensuing collaboration with the Home Office-led UK Anti-Slavery Training


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Delivery Group, the Welsh Government, InterContinental Hotels Group, Hilton Worldwide,
     Shiva Hotels and the Institute of Hospitality and anti-trafficking networks and organisations
     (Stop the Slavery Hotel Industry Network, Shiva Foundation) in adopting the project’s
     findings in their training programmes; with the Welsh Government’s Anti-Slavery Leadership
     Group, the Association of Insurance and Risk Managers In Commerce (AIRMIC), the
     European Federation of Food Agricultural and Tourism Trade Unions (EFFATT) and the
     European Trade Association of Hotels Restaurant and Cafes (HOTREC) for policy
     development (see submitted Impact Case Study); and with the UN Institute of Migration
     (IOM) on raising modern slavery awareness to the Swiss hoteliers and the UN International
     Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) on doing the same in Albania and
     subsequently in Azerbaijan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Moldova, Pakistan, and Turkey
     (Paraskevas and Roper).
 •   The University of Zaragoza and the Foundation for Social Development (Spain) on a
     thematic tourist route where European cinema is the main actor (Fidgeon)
 •   The University of Zaragoza (Spain), Bournemouth University (UK) and the TEI of Crete
     (Greece) on the Holy Grail route (Fidgeon)
 •   Leeds Beckett University, University of Hull and Liverpool John Moores and the Network for
     Performative Research in Sport and Exercise ("the boomerang project") on innovative
     approaches to sports narrative storytelling (Douglas)
 •   The University of Jyväskylä (Finland) on sport transition research (Douglas)
 •   Bologna University (Italy) and its SportComLab - Centre for Research on Sports
     Communication, Department of Education Science on the rise of populism and nationalism
     within the European democratic political arena and their influences on sport (Testa)
 •   Keele University on the ENABLE research project on safety and security challenges
     confronting crowds attending Swedish and UK professional football matches. In the UK, this
     project partnered with law enforcement organisations such as the West Midlands and
     Sussex Police and College of Policing, as well as Cardiff City Football Club and the Welsh
     FA (Testa).
 •   Essex University on research on football and the Italian Mafia in partnership with law
     enforcement agencies (Italian Ministry of Interior Affairs; Anti-Corruption Authority; Italian
     Police; National Anti-Crime Force; Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate; German State
     Criminal Police – LKA; and Interpol), football authorities (Italian Football Federation; Lega
     Serie B) and NGOs (Transparency International; Libera) (Testa).

 4.2. Networks
 The work of the Unit has greatly benefited from the ICHARM’s advisory board, with members from
 varied positions in the hotel real estate and investment sector, aviation safety and security, food
 sourcing and distribution, risk and crisis management and public service. The board offers
 guidance and strategic input on how the research undertaken can best meet the needs of the
 sectors the Unit serves and of society in general. Board members provide research resources,
 knowledge, and connections to experts around the world. WLFIC, as a research and development
 unit in the food and drink manufacturing sector, has strong ties with the Institute of Food Science
 and Technology (IFST), is a member of the Agrifood Knowledge Transfer Network and of the West
 London Incubators and Accelerators Group.
 Paraskevas and Roper have also developed impact-focused relationships outside the academia
 as, for example, the anti-slavery network which works on raising awareness of modern slavery
 and setting educational and training standards with the UK Modern Slavery Training Delivery
 Group (Cabinet Office), the Crown Prosecution Service (Cymru Wales), the Local Government
 and Communities department of the Welsh Government (Anti-Slavery Co-Ordinator) and the


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority (GLAA) and have worked with them policy and
 standards development.
 At hospitality industry level they have been working with Shiva Hotels to advise them on their
 anti-slavery strategy; and with the Institute of Hospitality (who endorsed the COMBAT training
 toolkit, a significant impact vehicle as described in section 1) and developed management
 guidance to its 15,000 members worldwide. The collaboration with Shiva Foundation (an anti-
 slavery charity) resulted on the development of a ‘Hotel Anti-Slavery Blueprint’ which became the
 national standard for the UK hospitality sector. This blueprint proposal was endorsed by UK
 Hospitality, the UK hospitality Trade Association (formerly British Hospitality Association).
 Another important collaborative network for the UoA is with the Forum for the Future’s Protein
 Challenge 2040 Coalition focusing on sustainable plant-based proteins. Within this coalition,
 WLFIC colleagues have collaborated with major national and international food manufacturers
 (Nestle, Hershey, Tulip, Danone), food retailers (M&S, Waitrose, Ahold Delhaize), caterers
 (BaxterStorey), and charities (Sustainable Restaurant Association, Seeding the Future, WWF),
 informing their strategies for reducing reliance on real meat. The network aims to contribute to
 sustainability strategies to globally reduce consumption of meat, fish, and dairy with a view to
 increase the proportion of non-animal protein in the average diet by 50%.
 We also have a significant place-focused network on food in the circular economy (from
 sourcing to recycling/reusing) which includes large local organisations (West London Business,
 Old Oak and Park Royal Development Corporation, London Waste and Recycling Board and
 Heathrow Airport) and local London Universities on innovative ‘circular economy’ models and
 approaches for commercial food waste management. This is an area where WLFIC will focus its
 research, over the next few years.
 Testa has worked with the European Commission’s Radicalisation Awareness Network
 (RAN) Centre of Excellence on research on the role of sports and leisure activities in preventing
 and countering violent extremism and in workshops for preventing hooliganism and right-wing
 extremism in sports. He has also worked the BRISWA Research Network consisting of academic
 institutions (University of Macedonia - Greece and University La Sapienza - Italy), and non-
 academic partners such as System Dynamics, Academy Football Club (Italy), Youth Football
 Tournament doo (Serbia), Debreceni Honved Sport Egyesulet (Hungary), Associatia Club Sportiv
 COLTEA 1920 (Romania), and the ‘Sport for All Association’ (Bulgaria) on research on racism and
 discrimination. Also, with the UN Institute of Migration (IOM) on mapping extremism in the Bosnian
 football terraces in the USAID-funded Bosnia & Herzegovina Resilience Initiative (BHRI)
 Programme.
 Papatheodorou has worked within the EU’s Air Transport and Regional Development COST
 network on research related with air transport and its economic, social and environmental
 implications aligned with Europe 2020 strategy.
 Douglas’ engagement with sports networks includes Raindance Independent film making
 network (2019 to date); Sport England and UK Sport (ongoing); Sport Resolutions, Specialist
 arbitrators and sport resolution panel (2012-2021); and Christians in Sport (2020).

 4.3 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
 This small but growing UoA has produced shared outputs with international collaborators and
 developed many UK and international partnerships. The increasing international recognition of our
 work is apparent in various academic formats; a) international peer-review journal editorial roles
 (7 members had editorial roles in 19 journals between 2014 and 2020), b) invited international
 conference keynote invitations (3 members were invited as keynote speaker at 16 conferences in



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 9 countries), c) participation in conference scientific committees (5 members on 12 committees)
 and d) visiting/adjunct professorship appointments (2 members).
 Editorships
 Members of the UoA make a range of contributions to the discipline and the research base. This
 includes serving as editors or in editorial boards and reviewing for broad-scope and discipline-
 specific national and international journals:
 •   Papatheodorou, Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Air Transport Studies (2010 – present)
 •   Papatheodorou, Resource Editor of Annals of Tourism Research (2015 – present)
 •   Paraskevas, Guest Editor of a special issue on ‘Global Refugee Crisis and the Service
     Industries’ in the Service Industries Journal, Volume 39, Issue 9-10 (2019)
 •   Testa, Co-Editor of the Security Science Journal (2020 – present)
 •   Testa, Review Editor of Frontiers (2019 – present)
 •   Testa, Associate Editor of the Journal of Qualitative Criminal Justice & Criminology (2015-
     2019)
 •   Xu, Associate Editor of Tourism Review (2018 -present)
 Membership of Editorial Boards
 • Iordanova, Cambridge Scholars Publishing (2017 - present)
 • Iordanova, The European Journal of Tourism Research (2015 – present)
 • Izadi, Cogent Business and Management Journal (2020 – present)
 • Izadi, Management and Business Academy (2016 - present)
 • Papatheodorou, Journal of Air Transport Management (2015-present)
 • Paraskevas, Tourism Review (2016 - present)
 • Paraskevas, Tourism Today (2004 - present)
 • Paraskevas, Tourismos (2014 - 2017)
 • Paraskevas, Journal of Tourism, Heritage & Services Marketing (2015 - present)
 • Paraskevas, International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management (2010 – 2016)
 • Roper, International Journal of Hospitality Management (2004 – present)
 • Roper, International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management (2004 – present)
 Invited Keynotes
 • Paraskevas: eight invited keynotes on risk management and human trafficking in
     conferences and research events organised by the University of Brighton and Leeds Beckett
     University (2015), the 2016 APacCHRIE conference (Bangkok, Thailand), the 2017 World
     Travel Market (London), Stenden University (Netherlands, 2018), CHME 2018 Research
     Conference (Bournemouth University), University of Sunderland (2018) and by the Federal
     Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA) and the International Organization for Migration (IOM)
     in Bern (2019).
 • Roper: one keynote on the hospitality industry’s disintegration at the Pandox Hotel Market
     Day (Stockholm, Sweden, 2015)
 • Testa: seven invited keynotes on far-right extremism in sports at the University of Vienna
     (2017), the Radicalisation Awareness Network (RAN) Centre of Excellence in Warsaw,
     Poland (2018), the International Security Expo 2019 (London), the Radicalisation Awareness
     Network (RAN) Centre of Excellence in Lisbon (2019), Portugal. the United Nations Human
     Rights Council in Geneva (2019), IOM-United Nations Headquarter in Sarajevo, Bosnia
     (2020) and at the USA Embassy in Sarajevo, Bosnia (2020).
 Conference Convenors and Programme Chairs
 During this REF period, the Unit has organised two research conferences in UWL under the aegis
 of WLFIC:


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Tsiami (submitted in UoA3) and Paraskevas “Nutrition and Hydration through life stages”
     (UWL, 14 March 2019)
 •   Tsiami (submitted in UoA3) and Paraskevas “Plant Based Diets” (UWL, 25 February 2020)
 UoA24 members in this submission were members of conference scientific committees:
 •  Douglas, Chair of the International Conference of Autoethnography (formerly the British
    Conference of Autoethnography) held in Bristol every year since the last REF.
 • Iordanova, Scientific committee of the 8th International Conference on Tourism (ICOT) on
    Emerging Tourism Destinations: Working Towards Balanced Tourism Development (Kavala,
    Greece, 2018)
 • Iordanova, Special Session Chair at 6th International Conference on Tourism (ICOT) on
    “New challenges and boundaries in tourism” (Naples, Italy, 2016).
 • Iordanova, Scientific committee of the 3rd International Conference on “Contemporary
    Marketing Issues” (Thessaloniki, Greece, 2015)
 • Izadi, Scientific committee of the International Conference on Accounting, Auditing and
    Finance - ICAAF 2020 (Perth Australia).
 Leadership of Advisory Boards, Industry, Commerce, Research Councils, Learned
 Societies or Professional Bodies
 • Douglas, Member of the National Anti-doping Panel for Sport (2014 – present)
 • Papatheodorou, Member of the Management Committee of COST (European Cooperation
    in Science and Technology) Action TU1408 (Air Transport and Regional Development) (2015
    –)
 • Testa, Expert member at the European Commission’s Radicalisation Awareness Network
    (RAN) (2017 - present)
 • Testa, UK representative at the Institute for National and International Security (INIS), the
    international think-tank for intelligence, national and international security, defence, and
    counterterrorism (2018 – present)
 Awards and Honours
 • Paraskevas and Roper CHME SHARE Award - Research Award Category awarded jointly
   by the Council for Hospitality Management Education (CHME) and the STR SHARE Centre
   (Smith Travel Research’s Supporting Hotel-related Academic Research and Education
   Centre) for their research work on Human Trafficking (2017).
 • Paraskevas and Roper, ATHE Making the Case Award - Research Award Category
   awarded jointly by the Association for Tourism in Higher Education (ATHE) and the
   Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) for their research work on Human Trafficking
   (2016).
 • Roper, Honorary Fellowship of the Council for Hospitality Management Education (CHME)
   for services to hospitality management education and research (2015).
 • Testa, Royal House of Savoy ‘s Cavaliere (Knight) of the Ordine Militare e Religioso dei
   Santi Maurizio e Lazzaro (KOSSML) in recognition of service to Italy for research impact on
   racism in football and the Far-Right (2018).
 Visiting Professorships and Research Fellowships
 •  Xu, Visiting Professor in Tourism at Cardiff University / Prifysgol Caerdydd (2018 – present)
 •  Testa, Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the SportComLab – the Centre for Research on
    Sports Communication in Bologna University, Italy (2014 - present)




                                                                                           Page 14
