Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling

 Unit of Assessment: D34

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context

 The submission consists of staff in the Division of Communications, Media and Culture (CMC)
 in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. Research is focused on producing interdisciplinary work
 that engages with national and international debates in communications, media and culture. CMC
 celebrated forty years of media research in 2018 and maintains a strong international research
 profile through its publications, collaborations and impacts. Highlights of our achievement include:

    •   Over the past six years the Division benefitted through growth from 14 to 19 FTE with
        subsequent investment in staff in early 2021. An expanded professoriate has given
        renewed academic leadership; a significant number of staff (25%) have been promoted in
        recognition of research excellence; and the expansion of the Division reflects a
        strategically focused university recruitment policy to improve the overall quality of the
        research culture, outputs and impact.;
    •   In the assessment period, CMC staff have been involved in research projects worth £3.2m
        (£1.14m in value), evidence of significant income growth from the previous REF period
        (£435,000). The income has enabled CMC to nurture post-doctoral fellows and
        researchers, some of whom have subsequently moved to full-time teaching and research
        contracts at Stirling and beyond;
    •    The Division sustains an open, inclusive and robust research culture through its breadth
        of research fields and ambitions, boosted by postgraduate recruitment, which has been
        driven by successes in funded studentships and Collaborative Doctoral Awards.

 Our research aims to produce impacts with a wide range of external stakeholders in the media,
 cultural and creative industries, the heritage sector, public policy and the third sector. CMC
 sustains its research profile via a commitment to enhancing its national and international networks
 in the field, building academic partnerships, representation on international subject associations,
 editorial roles, hosting major conferences and leading on new initiatives and research networks.
 The dynamism and reputation of its research culture has attracted international visiting
 researchers and postgraduate research students. Across the Division the research expertise
 underwrites due priority given to wider impacts in civic and public engagement, with representation
 on Governmental, non-governmental, third sector and cultural committees and boards.

 Unit Structure

 The Divisional Director of Research holds a senior role within the Division, providing support
 and mentoring across the subject area, with responsibility for leading, stimulating, influencing and
 monitoring research. The Director of Research also has responsibility for promoting continuous
 improvement in research performance, the growth of external funding, enhancement of impact
 activities and ensuring the general vitality and sustainability of the research environment. The
 Director of Research represents the Division in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities Research
 Committee, which sets the research agenda led by the Associate Dean for Research. A Faculty
 Research Officer provides administrative support to CMC and acts as liaison between the Division
 and the university’s Research and Innovation Service dedicated to strengthening interdisciplinary
 research, grant capture and training.

 The Associate Dean for Research is a member of the University Research Committee chaired by
 the Deputy Principal for Research, which is responsible for the institutional research and
 innovation strategy. The university’s three research themes (Cultures, Communities and Society;
 Global Security and Resilience; and Living Well) inform the research priorities of CMC, in particular
 the areas of research impact it seeks to deliver related to the social and economic impacts of the

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creative industries, the influence of communications in society and the importance of culture and
 the humanities for wider health and wellbeing. Societal concerns relating to the impacts of climate
 change and issues of inclusivity are reflected in the research of the Division in manifold ways.

 The university runs twelve Research Programmes which are interdisciplinary by design and open
 to contribution by all members of the Division. CMC are particularly active in four of these
 programmes: Digital Society and Culture, Being Connected, Cultural Heritage and Health
 Behaviour, which foster interdisciplinary research and initiate new research projects and
 collaborations. At Faculty level, there are interdisciplinary research centres and working groups,
 including the Centre for Environment, Heritage and Policy, Scottish Studies at Stirling and the
 Scottish Law and Innovation Network in which CMC staff have membership. The interdisciplinary
 research groups are designed to provide a critical mass of like-minded researchers and encourage
 innovation through networking, reading groups and research seminars. Some of these groups
 were initiated and established by CMC staff including: The Gender Studies Research Group; the
 Youth, Migration and Human Rights Group; the Health and Wellbeing Research Group; Visual
 Rhetoric / Media Semiotics (Vis/Res) Research Group; and the Sport and Culture PGR Group.
 The Division also has members in the university’s Data-driven Autonomous Technologies and
 Agents (DATA) Research Group which also brings together research expertise from computing,
 social sciences and natural sciences.

 The established structures of the research programmes, centres and groups enables researchers
 to operate across Divisional and Faculty boundaries, producing new connections and facilitating
 innovative interdisciplinary research activity. CMC staff have benefitted from these interdisciplinary
 structures, building new collaborations with research colleagues in environmental science,
 education, health sciences, computer science, education, social science, gerontology, sport
 science, law, political science, modern languages, literature, philosophy and heritage studies
 among others. Research that crosses disciplinary boundaries to create new innovative methods
 and applied theoretical approaches is, therefore, a signature feature of the Division’s research
 strength.

 Research Strategy

 CMC’s vision is to build an open, diverse and inclusive research community, recognised across
 the world for research that addresses the needs of society through innovative interdisciplinary
 work. CMC’s purpose is to conduct critical and impactful research across humanities and social
 science approaches to communications, media and culture. This strategy is informed by our
 assessment of the contribution we make, and the value we can add, to research of relevance to
 the media, digital communications and cultural sectors. We conduct research from a broad
 theoretical, empirical and policy-oriented base with projects that focus on socio-cultural change in
 the media and communications environment, as well as specific media content and genres. CMC’s
 strategy aims to:

    1. produce research outputs of the highest standards and integrity;
    2. sustain the scale and strengths of our research capacity across interdisciplinary
       boundaries;
    3. foster a vibrant postgraduate research community;
    4. build on our successes in grant capture by diversifying funding opportunities and meeting
       the global challenges and industrial strategy agendas;
    5. develop new partnerships and engagement with our research to produce wider social,
       cultural, economic and policy impacts;
    6. retain and develop early-career staff, postdoctoral researchers and PGR students to
       become the next leaders in our field.

 Implementation of Strategy and Research Focus
 Our strategy is focused around six research themes which openly intersect and integrate
 interests across the Division and are core to our mission and identity. These themes inform both


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual, collective and collaborative research projects, and while new appointments may shift
 the balance within them, they continuously shape our research endeavour. They are:

    1. Digital media and cultures (Singh, Bernardi, Harkins, Hadland, Zioga, Buchanan,
       MacRury and Esteves). Our research on this theme is leading on innovative ways to
       develop knowledge on how digital media are transforming people’s lives and the
       communities in which they live. This cutting-edge innovative work has focused on:
       participatory design and open data platforms; data literacy; cross-disciplinary approaches
       in digital methodologies, datamining and sentiment analysis; interactive media; digital
       health communications; and human information behaviour. Our approaches to digital
       communications research aim to address key global questions of social change influenced
       by the digital environment.

        Our approach to digital media is cross-cut by critical concerns for the migrant crisis, health
        information, gender politics, digital labour, democracy, international security, social
        inequalities and the climate emergency. The commitment to produce applied digital
        research is supported through the use of innovative datamining and digital methodologies.

    2. Media histories, heritage and archives (Haynes, Velez-Serna, Rolinson, Jones,
       Emeritus Blain and Emeritus Izod). We have actively sought to develop, enhance, research
       and make accessible special collections held at Stirling and elsewhere within Scotland
       which have media and cultural history relevance to both academic and public audiences.
       Archival research has placed emphasis on the co-creation of projects with a range of
       national partners that extend the reach and public impact of the activity.

        Our strategy has delivered archival, heritage and digital interventions, monographs and
        edited collections which have unlocked major cultural assets. Significant collections
        including the Musicians Union Archive and the Commonwealth Games Scotland Archive
        have formed the basis for both a major AHRC-funded-research project and a highly
        successful knowledge exchange activity in collaboration with the University Archivist, the
        latter providing multiple pathways to impact and heritage partnerships for one of the
        submitted Impact Case Studies.

        Our archival work expands on previous research on the Stirling-based collections of
        filmmaker Lindsay Anderson, documentarist John Grierson, animator and artist Norman
        McLaren and the interviews collected under the Scottish Cultural Memory Project funded
        by Creative Scotland (2013-2015), which have enhanced the importance of such precious
        archives, brought them to international attention and are now fully catalogued in readiness
        for future scholarship.

        Our research has also advanced new media histories, such an award-winning monograph
        on the history of BBC Sport, work on early Scottish cinema and long-standing work on
        experimental Scottish film-maker and poet Margaret Tait which has raised international
        public awareness of her work through film festivals, exhibition, blogging and new
        experimental film works. Work on early television drama has also brought wider public
        attention to the non-fiction work of screenwriter Denis Potter. While research on
        international broadcasting collections, particularly in South Africa, has extended the
        influence and significance of archival and historical work.

        Unlocking media and cultural archives for scholarship and public use therefore forms a
        central theme of CMC’s research strategy and shall continue to be an inspirational
        resource for future research projects, PGR recruitment, collaborations and impacts.

    3. Film Studies (Fleming, Singh, Elliott-Smith, Velez-Serna, Rolinson, Zioga, Lindner and
       Emeritus Izod). We have a forty-year-long research tradition in the field of film research
       which we continue to foster and diversify through recruitment of international film research
       specialists. Film research at Stirling has largely been focused on experimental themes at

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the margins of cinema or has been influenced by feminist and queer theory and more
       recently environmental issues.

       Our strategy has been to push the boundaries of film scholarship through innovative
       theoretical work reflected in: the theoretical inter-sectionalities of film, philosophy and
       technology; experimental cinema research; film and the environment; and feminist
       approaches to film linking back to the formation of Gender Studies at Stirling in 2012 which
       has supported work on queer cinema. For example, interdisciplinary interventions on new
       queer horror film interlink to Stirling’s distinctive Centre for Gothic Studies within the Faculty
       of Arts and Humanities. A Gender Film Club introduced in 2019 aims to foster further links
       across staff and students in the division and beyond.

       Our approach focuses on the cross-fertilisation of ideas across film, Scottish Studies,
       gender studies, environmental research, archives and interactive digital futures of cinema
       to ensure research in this theme continues to innovate and lead on fresh critical ideas in
       the field.

    4. Scottish media, communications and cultures (Champion, Berridge, Velez-Serna,
       Haynes, Dinan, Elliott-Smith, Buchanan, Jelen and Singh). Drawing on the geographical
       advantage of Stirling’s central location in Scotland our researchers have been ideally
       placed to investigate media and cultural industries both across the industrial Central Belt
       of the country and in the rural Highlands and Islands.

       Given profile through Scottish Studies at Stirling and our involvement in various AHRC-
       funded projects based in Scotland, our research in this area covers cultural policy issues
       related to the film, television and media sectors more broadly, as well as a specific focus
       on Scottish media and creative practices, content and cultural identities. Since 2014 active
       recruitment of a number of early-career researchers, including the Leverhulme Scholar
       Velez-Serna, Berridge, Champion and previously Munro, all coming from major Scottish-
       based research projects, has enhanced the reach and scope of research on Scottish
       cultural themes. Most of this work has been published in edited collections related to
       AHRC-funded projects.

       More broadly, our strategy in this area aims to illustrate international themes in media and
       communications research linking the Scottish context with global challenges in media
       production cultures and practices, media and communications regulation, diversity and
       inclusion in the media industries, political communications and democracy, health
       communications and transformations in aspects of popular culture and identities,
       especially focused on film cultures and media sport.

       Collectively researchers in this area maintain constant dialogue and our research has the
       capacity to develop multidisciplinary case studies on Scottish creative industries and
       communications contributing to advances in knowledge and comparative analysis of the
       global media environment. This will be enhanced by new opportunities related to the
       Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal which in part will focus on digital and
       tourism sectors aimed at boosting skills in the region. We believe discussions with
       practitioners in these areas informs research ideas and, in turn, media and
       communications research helps shape practitioner conception of the challenges they face.

    5. International Journalism (Hadland, Harkins, Ahmad, Jones, Haynes, Dinan and Borges-
       Rey). Colleagues in CMC continue a long-standing commitment to international journalism
       research which remains distinctive through both research focus and methodological
       approach. The journalism team form a distinctive component of CMC with a wide-ranging
       field of research focusing on large macro-political issues such as the media and
       democracy, transformations in journalism caused by digitalisation and social media,
       through to specific journalism practices in sport news and photojournalism.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        In line with the university’s strategic focus on Global Security and Resilience CMC’s
        journalism research places emphasis on international security and human rights, the
        politics of poverty, refugees and migrants, political communication in non-Western nations
        and environmental communications. Distinctive and original work on global
        photojournalism, filling a large void in research knowledge has led to impacts in
        professional practice in collaboration with World Press Photo and the National Union of
        Journalists. A long-standing specialism in sport journalism has led to numerous
        encyclopaedia entries and profiles for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography.

        Our strategy seeks to maintain innovative interdisciplinary research which has both an
        international focus, significance and reach, based on both excellence in scholarship and
        the international networks these staff connect us to. Cross-connections to other themes
        such as digital cultures, archives and public relations have materialised through work on
        data journalism, broadcast news archives and lobbying.

    6. Promotional culture (MacRury, Jelen, Bernardi, Dinan and Buchanan). The recent
       appointment of MacRury to the Chair in Communications, Media and Culture in 2019 has
       provided renewal, research impetus and leadership on advertising and the cultural
       influence of brands on consumer behaviour.

        Our strategy in this area is to build on long-standing critical public relations research to
        broaden the scope of promotional culture research and thus produce a leading presence
        in the research in fields such as digital advertising, applied public relations and social
        media marketing. These areas interlink across our other research agendas in digital media
        and case studies with a Scottish base.

        Furthermore, we have strategically developed distinctive areas of research through
        interdisciplinary collaboration across a wide spectrum of social, cultural and economic
        areas, exemplified by the ESRC/MRC-funded Right to Health in Prison project with
        colleagues in philosophy and law, psycho-social analysis of a range of commercial and
        public brands, research on health information and communications and research on
        lobbying transparency in the Scottish Parliament which informs the other Impact Case
        Study.

 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy is to make a difference in society, the economy and policy through applied
 research interventions in media practice and communications and knowledge exchange with a
 range of media and cultural stakeholders and diverse communities. We are committed to
 expanding our focus on impact within individual and collective plans, formed from the belief that
 impactful engagements benefit our media and communications research. This is achieved by
 integrating impact in five ways:

    1. Impact potential and engagement with external organisations is a key component
       assessed in staff recruitment, internal promotion applications and research leave
       applications. Across each of these processes impact is seen as an integrated feature of
       research activity.

        Recent recruitment practice has concentrated on balancing the various demands of a
        comprehensive research strategy with successful commitment to engagement with the
        world beyond universities. Building impact activity and potential has therefore been
        possible in areas including civil society and public discourse; archives and heritage
        practice; data literacy; photojournalism practice; film distribution and exhibition; equality,
        diversity and inclusion practices in the screen industries; and digital media cultures and
        activism.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Impact activities are shared and monitored on an ongoing basis through CMC’s
       monthly newsletter as well as annual research mentoring processes where research plans
       and pathways to impact are discussed between the Director of Research and each
       colleague.

       Our staff are encouraged to disseminate their research and knowledge through public
       talks, exhibitions, film and cultural festivals, blogging, media appearances, media training
       initiatives, consultancy and secondment with private, public and third sector organisations,
       engaging with media policy and regulatory agencies and sitting on media award panels.

       We focus on both formal and informal points of engagement with a range of stakeholders
       in our research and impact activity, which is supported through a non-staff research budget
       to cover travel and other expenses, as well as match-funding for materials and events.

       The University’s involvement with The Conversation, the online news website sourced and
       written by leading academic researchers, has allowed colleagues and PhD students to
       attend training on writing for news outlets. We are committed strongly to equality issues
       around public engagement and Stirling leads within Scotland in supporting feminist
       researchers engaging with public debate through its research placement on postgraduate
       and doctoral programmes.

    3. Pathways to impact are essential to all funding applications and embedded in the
       Divisional research culture to deliver broader relevance and benefit beyond the academic
       world. Non-academic partners are invited to participate and co-create research
       applications, and consideration is given to the most creative ways in which engagement
       can occur.

       We have striven to open out our research to broad audiences and to do so in innovative
       and enterprising ways. This has included work in prisons around health and wellbeing, film
       festivals and screenings with partners and in non-traditional venues, the creation of
       weblogs and other digital resources with lasting legacies, the creation of training and
       toolkits to enhance practices in the cultural industries; exhibitions in non-traditional
       exhibition sites, and new public policy interventions. Numerous contributions to DVD inlays
       and Blu-Ray booklets and contributions to the BFI’s Screenline and Mediateque represent
       applied screen knowledge to public projects and commercial media products.

    4. The development of applied research elements in our postgraduate research and
       programmes (notably in Gender Studies, Media Research, Public Relations, International
       Journalism and Factual TV), combined with our success in gaining both external and
       internal funding for applied PhDs has allowed us to embed impact activities into research
       at postgraduate level.

       Our PGR students are encouraged to build research relationships with external partners.
       PGR students have worked in partnership with the Scottish Football Association,
       Commonwealth Games Scotland, Scottish Women’s Football League, Glasgow Life,
       Glasgow Women’s Library and Document Human Rights Festival. Successful research
       placements with a range of third sector organisations, as well as archival placements in
       the university’s media-related special collections, have produced a wide-range of outputs
       including curated exhibitions, catalogued archives, blogs, briefing papers, CPD training
       and public lectures.

       Our students are involved additionally in research for Raising Films and Global Media
       Monitoring Project (whomakesthenews.org), and PhD students have showcased their
       practice-based research through public screenings as well as organising public events at
       Glasgow Women’s Library, Hampden Stadium and Stirling Hackathon.



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. CMC staff are actively encouraged to engage with practitioners, which is supported
       through our Subject Advisory Board, membership of staff on the boards of various cultural
       and policy organisations and the appointment of distinguished media professionals to
       honorary professorships.

        The Advisory Board includes representatives from the Scottish Government, the
        independent film and television sectors, journalism, Scottish creative industries, the
        information and technology industry and the public relations industry. The Advisory Board
        provides input into programme and research development activities and has also provided
        opportunities for research placements for postgraduate research students. The Advisory
        Board has a significant role to play in guiding our research vision, with our twice annual
        meetings providing stakeholder engagement on our knowledge exchange strategy.

        Whilst this is important in bringing stakeholders to the University to inform key
        developments, equally important is the wide range of external organisations in which CMC
        colleagues play an active role. Board and committee memberships are considered prime
        ways to shape social and cultural agendas through knowledge exchange, and CMC
        colleagues populate the boards of Lux Scotland, Creative Stirling, Document Human
        Rights Festival, ALTER EU, Scottish Alliance for Lobbying Transparency (SALT), Scottish
        Sporting Heritage Consortium and Consumer Scotland’s Data Commons Working Group.

        Honorary professors are utilised in the delivery of applied knowledge and research
        opportunities for staff and students alike and have been important for developing close ties
        with the media and cultural sectors in Scotland. For example, collaboration has come
        through a fully-funded AHRC PhD on the archives of the Scottish Newspaper Society 1994-
        2009, deposited by its chair and Honorary Professor, John McLellan. This association has
        also led to CMC staff working as judges on the Scottish Press Awards, thereby providing
        further impacts on the sector through networking and public visibility.

 Our Impact Case Studies focused on cultural heritage collaborations and lobbying transparency
 are designed to exemplify the diversity of our research across the arts, humanities and social
 sciences, and speak to key strengths around archiving and media policy. Each arises from
 sustained engagement with non-academic interest communities and each has had impacts on
 specific interest groups but also with a larger public. Accordingly, they demonstrate the success
 of our approach to impact, particularly through our focus on embedding engagement throughout
 the research endeavour.
 2. People

 Our staffing strategy is central to each area of our research strategy, providing distinctiveness to
 our research themes. The University has a robust recruitment and staff development strategy
 which openly and equitably supports all staff through their careers, enhancing the quality and
 extending the influence of its research. In keeping with our interdisciplinary research strategy,
 some faculty have academic backgrounds in media and communications, while others are trained
 in political science, philosophy, social psychology, sociology, geography, cultural studies and
 information science. This diversity enables strong interdisciplinarity, and the diverse origins of
 staff, with currently seven coming from outside the UK (twelve over the REF period), enables the
 Division to sustain and foster diverse networks beyond the University and the UK. Research
 capacity is enhanced by two RCUK Research Fellows, a Leverhulme Fellow and a constant flow
 of international visiting researchers (seven in the REF period to date).

 CMC’s staff have changed over the past six years, but collectively our profile is stable and
 clustered around our established areas of core strength. In 2018 we celebrated the 40th
 anniversary of film and media research at Stirling, bringing many former staff, student alumni,
 media partners, honorary lecturers and Emeritus professors together to celebrate landmark
 projects and personalities, showcasing the heritage of the division to broadcast and underwrite its
 renewal and continued growth.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Research and Innovation Service has direct input into research development and
 administration at Faculty level, which cascades down to Divisional level. Training offered by the
 University is interdisciplinary and in line with the national Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. All staff manage their research profiles, access to grant application support, peer
 review and impact repositories via the university’s research management system Worktribe.
 Training in the use of Worktribe is provided to all staff both in workshops and virtual learning
 environments. Research business is a standing item on the Divisional Meeting agenda: this not
 only ensures regular feedback from Faculty Research Committee, but also ensures that all
 colleagues are involved in developing and monitoring research strategy. CMC has maintained its
 commitment to nurturing and empowering staff and postgraduate research students to work in an
 interdisciplinary research environment, encouraging collaborations where appropriate, stimulating
 and facilitating exchanges wherever possible, within and beyond the University. Staff are
 encouraged to take risks, initiate and explore new research horizons, in an open and supportive
 environment. Likewise, PGR students are actively assisted in developing collaborations with one
 another and are supported in taking the lead on particular initiatives.

 Research activity and impact is supported by financial investment (with funding for impact activity
 and conference attendance), training (at university level and personal development initiatives),
 peer review (from concept to application) and mentoring at all stages of academic careers.
 Achieving Success, the University’s appraisal process, has been designed to identify staff needs
 and to agree annual goals which involve mutual obligations on the part of the institution and its
 staff. Reviews occur annually, with a mid-point progress meeting. Through Achieving Success
 meetings there are clear pathways identified for career progression, with colleagues encouraged
 to apply for promotion where and when appropriate.

 Additional support is provided for Early Career Researchers through the probation scheme which
 allows colleagues a further reduction in teaching hours (50% in year 1; decreasing in years 2 & 3)
 in the Workload Allocation Model to further develop their research. For staff returning from a period
 of maternity leave the Faculty makes available a period of research leave to help colleagues
 refocus on their research activity. Depending on prior experience, new ECRs are offered a
 probation period of 1-3 years and are allocated a mentor with whom they work closely during this
 period. Mentoring is crucially important and takes place in several ways. The responsibility for
 research mentoring lies with the Director of Research, who undertakes annual research mentoring
 meetings with all staff to provide opportunities to regularly review their targets and identify their
 support needs. This allows us to take a longer-term view of workload planning and aids planning
 and resource support for colleagues developing bids for research funding. This process is
 particularly important for gathering information on recent appointees and ECRs, as well as
 checking previous research plans are on track. Mentoring advice focuses on individual priority
 research activities, whether in outputs, developing impact or grant applications. These criteria will
 be contingent on where each member of staff is in terms of the development of their outputs and/or
 research grant awards and applications. In addition, the Faculty operates a mentoring scheme
 where any colleague – including those in senior positions - can request a mentor (from another
 Division or Faculty). Lecturing staff are also allocated a ‘senior colleague’ within CMC whose
 responsibility is to help with the transition of new colleagues into the division as well as provide
 support for career development more broadly.

 Being conscious of gender, we proactively support staff development and seek to ensure equality
 of opportunity for strategic roles within the CMC portfolio to help colleagues demonstrate their
 suitability for academic advancement. CMC colleagues have been fully funded to participate in the
 Aurora Leadership Development Scheme. The Division is actively leading the development of the
 Faculty’s Athena Swan applications providing leadership in the Faculty committee. This has
 provided valuable opportunities for us to reflect on equality issues, resulting in the adoption of an
 email calming policy and scheduling of all key divisional meetings between 10am-4pm. Equality,
 diversity and inclusion are regular discussed on our divisional meeting agenda, allowing us to
 continually reflect on and develop our practice. The Faculty has also provided financial support for
 colleagues to participate in the EPSRC’s CHERISH-DE leadership scheme. Bernardi was selected
 as part of the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Scottish Crucible scheme, a leadership and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development programme for Scotland’s research leaders of the future. This has enabled her to
 develop interdisciplinary research networks.

 CMC has been proactive in supporting postdoctoral researchers in their involvement in Divisional
 activity and research. The successful appointment of Leverhulme Fellow, Velez-Serna, to a full-
 time lecturing post is a recent example of this strategy delivering on our commitment to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The appointment of postdoctoral
 researcher and teaching fellow Esteves in 2021 is further evidence of our support and mentoring
 of talented early-career researchers into full-time posts. The promotion of mid-career staff to senior
 positions (SL, AP and Professor) has restored balance to the seniority in the division. Specifically,
 the period since the end of 2014 has seen investment in CMC as a growth area for research, with
 two new Professors, four new appointments in Digital Media, four in Film and Media, three in
 Media Management, three in Journalism and one in Public Relations. This growth has been further
 supported by the internal promotion of existing colleagues to strengthen the senior research team
 within the Division: three promotions to professor and five promotions to senior lecturer/associate
 professor.

 As well as supporting ECRs through lighter teaching and administrative loads during their
 probationary periods, individuals starting out on their research careers are encouraged to involve
 themselves in organising research seminars and gaining their first experience of PGR supervision
 and examining. ECRs were also heavily involved in the preparations and steering committee of
 the Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association Conference (MeCCSA) in 2019 for
 which they were given additional workload allocation allowances. ECRs are encouraged and
 supported to apply for small grant awards to initiate research ideas, and subsequently brought in
 as co-investigators to larger research bids to build a research track record.

 The University operates a Research Leave scheme, which allows staff to apply for leave every
 seventh semester. This allows for more concentrated periods of research, but ongoing activities
 are supported by protection of 40% of staff time for research annually within the Workload
 Allocation Model which collectively ensures a vibrant research culture. During the assessment
 period, twelve staff were able to take advantage of the scheme.

 Research students

 PhD students admitted to the Division benefit from a rigorous induction, supervisory and training
 system, developed in accordance with good practice guidelines from the Scottish Graduate School
 of Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) and the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences (SGSSS).
 Stirling has invested significant resources in developing training and support for PhD students and
 supervisors. All our PGR students use our online system, Research Compass, which allows them
 to keep records of all supervision meetings, undertaken regular skills audits, and log their
 researcher development activities. All students have annual progress review meetings where their
 work is reviewed by at least one member of staff external to their supervision team. The University
 provides dedicated space, a workstation for each researcher and access to the seminars and
 training sessions provided through the Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS).

 PGR monitoring, training and supervisory arrangements are overseen by the Divisional PGR
 Director. Supervisors attend annual training provided by the Faculty and IAS, and all students
 have two supervisors, allowing for mentoring of colleagues undertaking PhD supervision for the
 first time. We hold an annual PhD conference at which all students present their work-in-progress
 for feedback from their peers and staff, and students are centrally involved in planning our
 Research Seminar series throughout the year. There is strong encouragement for
 interdisciplinarity in both research and supervision, with an increasing focus on collaborative
 supervision across the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and with other HEI’s under the SGSAH and
 SGSSS studentship schemes. We also run staff/student reading groups in gender studies, sport
 and culture and visual culture to enable interdisciplinary conversations in scholarship across the
 Faculty and the university. PGR students are also encouraged to attend research seminars across


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Faculty and university more generally. CMC students have been active in the MeCCSA
 Postgraduate Network, and since 2019 a Stirling student has acted as chair.

 Stirling’s involvement in SGSAH has enhanced our offer to PhD students. All our PhD students
 now have access to a range of activities, training, and funding for cohort development. PhD
 students can apply to the Faculty for financial support with fieldwork and conference attendance.
 In addition, Stirling enables PhD candidates to participate in the annual summer school of the
 European Doctoral Network in Media and Communication and has sent at least one student per
 year. Stirling is a founding member of the Network, which offers the participants important
 opportunities for intellectual exchange.

 We have worked hard to increase the number of fully funded PhD students we attract to the
 Division and to increase the proportion of staff involved in PhD supervision. CMC staff have acted
 on selection panels for both SGSAH as well as the Scottish Graduate School for Social Science
 (the ESRC DTP) as pathway convenors (Haynes and Singh). We have been successful in these
 and other competitions: having had no UKRI-funded students in the last exercise, in between 2015
 and 2020 we secured a total of seven studentships from AHRC, ESRC, Scottish Funding Council
 and Stirling University schemes.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Division has a strong record of external income generation, with successful applications by
 most staff (the total value of research income in the period is £1,139,467). The University
 introduced new Concept Notification and Internal Peer Review to instigate administrative support
 from the Research and Innovation Service (RIS), and all funding proposals are discussed at an
 early stage of development. Internal systems for peer review and demand management for
 specific calls, are now managed through Worktribe, the university’s automated system used from
 the initial stages, when a draft proposal or concept note is assigned to a dedicated Research
 Support administrator from RIS. The system maintains accurate records of bid development,
 provides dedicated support to bid progression and transparency in the overall process including
 GDPR and ethical compliance. Worktribe data also informs information used to populate CMC’s
 research webpages which are managed with the support of the Communications, Marketing and
 Recruitment team to help publicly promote research activity and provide news items for university
 bulletins and external media relations.

 A dedicated digital media lab supported by both the university’s Information Services and technical
 staff within the Faculty for Arts and Humanities, with a suit of computers and industry software
 helps underpin research in Digital Media and Cultures, providing a hub for knowledge exchange
 and activity in this field for staff and PGR students. Smaller grants in digital media research have
 been used to develop proof of concept and build capacity. To develop more responsive modes to
 funding calls – with the support of the Deputy Principal for Research – CMC was instrumental in
 the creation of two interdisciplinary university-wide Research Programmes: Being Connected, and
 Digital Society and Culture. As a direct result of this work, resources were ring-fenced to build
 external networks of partners for project development, skills-development and capacity building.
 The EPSRC Digital Economy Investigator-led Research Project on participatory design and open
 data platforms for a data commons in Scotland (£455,269), is an excellent example of both
 research development and collaboration. The project was developed as a result of the Being
 Connected Programme which supported collaboration with colleagues in Education, two other
 Scottish universities, and project partners The Data Lab and Stirling Council. This award follows
 on from the Wikimedia UK project and the research network ‘Life in Data’ (RSE, £19,920.21). The
 RSE network has also provided a proof of concept which enabled international expansion of the
 project to ‘Life in Data: East Asia Development’ (£13,656). Additional funding (£6,776) through the
 University’s Connect scheme which pump primes ODA research was awarded to host an
 international conference with participants from China, Vietnam, and Mexico.

 Research funding into the Scottish Media, Communications and Cultures theme has been
 diverse, and driven by small awards, research networks and follow-on funding for research impact
 activity. Colleagues are encouraged to develop sustainable links with creative industry partners

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and policymakers in line with both university research themes on Society and Culture and Faculty
 research priorities focused on the creative industries. Future research in this field is set to benefit
 from new investment in research infrastructure as part of the Stirling City Region Deal worth
 £214m in the region which includes building sustainable and inclusive growth in the cultural sector.
 The investment will enable CMC to build on work in the field of Scottish cultural policy which has
 already led to significant impact activity with a range of stakeholders across Scotland. These
 include the AHRC Follow-on Funding Knowledge Exchange Hub for the Creative Economy,
 Design Innovation for New Growth (DING) project in collaboration with the Glasgow School of Art
 (£120,180) as well as two Royal Society of Edinburgh funded projects on the role of creative hubs
 in supporting contemporary craft and creative workers in rural and remote geographies (£6,158)
 and a project mapping ecologies of care in creative hubs in Stirling during COVID-19 (£5,780). All
 projects have developed considerable non-academic links with organisations including Creative
 Scotland, Creative Stirling, Highlands and Islands Enterprise, Arts and Cultural organisations
 (Shetland Arts, Emergents, Orkney Island Council) and industry which inform future cultural policy
 and support across the highlands and islands region.

 Other industry-related research investigating the gendered care responsibilities in Scotland’s
 television production sector has established another key intervention in media practice and led to
 subsequent work on care in the television workplace funded by the Carnegie Trust (£5,006).
 Successful cross-institutional networking bids include a Scottish Universities Insight Institute grant
 developed with partners from University of Edinburgh (£16,500) to explore media and cultural
 provision for young migrants in Scotland. Other smaller awards helping to foster partnerships with
 non-HEI’s include a Joseph Rowntree Award for a seminar on the Lobbying Register introduced
 in the Scottish Parliament which supported policy and knowledge-exchange activity in the related
 impact case study.

 The university’s status as the Scottish University for Sporting Excellence has encouraged
 interdisciplinary research on sporting themes across faculties, and divisional support for work on
 sporting media in Scotland fed into collaborative research with colleagues in Criminology and Law
 as part of the research team on the Evaluation of the Offensive Behaviour at Football (Scotland)
 Act 2012 (£154,528), a legislative review for the Scottish Government.

 The division receives a great deal of technical and administrative support from the University
 Archives, part of Information Services. Much of the work in Media Histories, Heritage and
 Archives is supported by the archival infrastructure and expertise at Stirling University, with
 industry standard air-conditioned stores to preserve precious collections and a dedicated reading
 room in which researchers can work. The strong working relationships built with the archives
 service underpins the work on sporting heritage in Scotland, especially the Hosts and Champions
 exhibition, which has been a key feature of work in the area receiving funded support from myriad
 sources including the Big Lottery Fund, the Scottish Government, Commonwealth Games
 Scotland, Active Scotland, Glasgow Life, National Lottery Heritage Fund, AHRC CDA funding and
 the University of Stirling’s pump-priming Connect fund amounting to £131,019. The archives and
 Information Services have also been heavily involved in other projects including the Scottish
 Cultural Memory Project, an archive of filmed interviews with leading producers, writers and
 directors in Scottish film and television funded by Creative Scotland (£160,000).

 The archive facilities and the Macrobert Arts Centre based on campus used for film screenings,
 public talks and screen-based conferences have provided key infrastructural support to CMC staff
 in the development of a number of large collaborative awards with other university partners
 including the AHRC-funded projects: British Silent Films and the Transition to Sound project (de
 Montford, £391,382) which used the Musicians Union Archive; the Major Minor Cinema (Glasgow,
 £357,867); and Cinema Memory and the Digital Archive: 1930s Britain and Beyond (Lancaster,
 £778,000). Work on the experimental filmmaker Margaret Tait received collaborative funding with
 LUX Scotland to celebrate the centenary of the film-makers birth from Creative Scotland’s Screen
 Funding programme (£63,000) which made a significant contribution to CMC’s impact activity in
 2019 again in collaboration with the Macrobert. Other funded work in Film Studies showcases


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the international nature of our research including the postdoctoral Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship of Velez-Serna on the project Ephemeral Cinemas in Historical Perspective (£80,267).

 The Division has had other success on larger collaborative bids, both within Stirling and with
 external partners. Interdisciplinary bids under the International Journalism theme include
 collaboration with Sociology on the World Press Photo Foundation project. The project again
 demonstrated the value of building from smaller awards initially supported by a grant from the
 Carnegie Trust which led to a further successful bid to the World Press Photo Foundation
 (£50,000). Research on photojournalism was supplemented by a Royal Society of Edinburgh
 award (£7,177) which will inform a future monograph. International collaboration in the field
 includes co-investigation on the AwarEU Erasmus+ project co-funded by the European
 Commission on ‘European Awareness’ with various European partners from Italy, Spain, France
 and Portugal (€575,435). Smaller scale funding for research into open-source investigations for
 journalists by the Carnegie Trust investigates fact checking in crisis and conflict areas across the
 world.

 Contributing to the area of Promotional Culture CMC are co-investigators on the AHRC/MRC
 Global Challenges-funded project ‘Right to Health in Prison’, with colleagues at the Universities of
 Stirling, Dundee and Strathclyde (£165,547) investigating health communications to inmates.
 Health communications also feature in the ESRC-funded (£259,915) work on understanding the
 Information Needs of Young First Time Mothers from Areas of Multiple Deprivation informing both
 policy and practice in Scotland’s NHS and social services. Other smaller awards in this field
 include a Carnegie Trust award to investigate the representation of Down Syndrome in social
 media, which produced complex data to help practitioners identify how the illness is
 communicated.

 The infrastructural support, technical and cultural facilities and diversity of funding streams
 supporting our research activity demonstrates our strengths in partnership working and allows us
 to develop a funding portfolio which is not overly dependent on individual research stars or on
 research council funding. Infrastructural support for digital media, journalism, archival and
 production-based research, where research staff can collaborate with teaching and scholarship,
 technical or archival staff on creative outputs, web-based outputs or exhibitions broaden the scope
 for research impact and reach.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The CMC Advisory Board is instrumental in building strong relationships between both local and
 national organisations. Collaborations have led to staff development of a new annual television
 industry conference launched in 2017, ‘Focus on Scotland’, organised by CMC staff and held at
 the Macrobert Arts Centre on the university campus. This forum gathers research staff, senior
 industry executives and practitioners to discuss contemporary issues across the television
 industry. Since 2018 the event has been fully funded by Creative Scotland with 300 practitioners
 and students in attendance. This annual event epitomises how the principle of building
 collaborative research bids with industry is now embedded in our research culture.

 Across our research endeavour we are collectively proactive in seeking new ways to engage with
 academic research networks and hosting events to showcase research expertise, making new
 connections and partnerships. In 2018 we celebrated the 30th anniversary of public relations
 research at Stirling with a national conference including leading figures in the field. Our future
 strategy is to build on the success of these and other conferences, symposia and workshops to
 broaden research networks and visibility in the field both nationally and internationally. In January
 2019, CMC hosted the Annual MeCCSA Conference, the first time the national subject association
 held its annual event in Scotland. This represented an opportunity to strategically underscore
 Stirling’s long-standing visibility in the field, engaging staff and postgraduate researchers in the
 organising committee.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff continue to take leading and active roles in supporting and developing our disciplines
 nationally and internationally. Colleagues have been involved in peer review for funding bodies
 nationally (AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, Carnegie Trust, Scottish Universities Insight Institute,
 Royal Society of Edinburgh) and on an international stage (e.g. National Research Council of
 South Africa, Research Council of Norway, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada). CMC colleagues have also taken leading roles in subject associations nationally and
 internationally including: executive representation on European Communication Research and
 Education Association (ECREA); the Executive Committee of Psychology and Moving Image
 International; the Board of the International Communication and Sport Association; the steering
 committee of the Alliance for Lobbying Transparency and Ethics Regulation (ALTER EU); and the
 History of Moviegoing, Exhibition and Reception (HoMER) Network.

 Many of the conferences we hold are industry and practitioner focused. CMC staff have organised
 practitioner events in collaboration with: the BBC (Data Journalism UK, 2017); Sporting Heritage
 and the Archives and Records Association with heritage and cultural sector practitioners at the
 Macrobert (2017) and Hampden Stadium (2018); and island craft practitioners as part of the AHRC
 DING project (2018).

 Other events have been designed to showcase applied knowledge from funded research projects
 with Silent Cinema and the Transition to Sound (2016), a Lobbying Expert Seminar (2015), the
 “What I Know Is’ symposium (2014), and a series of workshops on migrant youth identity (2015)
 all designed to develop knowledge exchange opportunities with non-HEI organisations and
 communities. Public events focused on gender studies research has led to the Women in Political
 Life workshop (2015), Women, Media & Politics Symposium (2016) and Nasty Women: Stirling
 (2017) organised in cross-Faculty collaboration with the Centre for International Communication
 and Publishing.

 Staff are encouraged to develop innovative partnerships and consultancies based on their
 research, with examples including the Leverhulme Fellowship collaboration with Polish artist Marta
 Adamowicz whose illustrations for the book 'A Screen Less Ordinary' were presented in an
 exhibition at The Pyramid at Anderson, Glasgow (2020). The Major Minor Cinema project
 produced an anthology of cinema-going memories of the Highlands and Islands Film Guild in Reel
 to Rattling Reel published in 2018. While the project on caring in the Scottish film and TV industries
 fed into consultancy for Raising Films on their ‘We Need to talk about Caring’ survey in 2019. It
 also led to discussions with BECTU in relation to their job-sharing initiative, Creative Scotland’s
 ‘Radical Childcare’ initiative, which included a series of Creative Scotland workshops for new
 mothers.

 Staff have given invited keynotes, lectures, and seminars at Universities across the UK as well as
 in Spain (University Pompeu Fabra), Denmark (Aarhus University), France (IUTB Universite de
 Lille, and IUT de Lannion), Germany (Heinrich Boll Foundation), the USA (Harvard University),
 China (Chinese Academy of Press & Publication Beijing) and Vietnam (USSH Ho Chi Minh).

 Matching the breadth of our research, colleagues have served on a wide range of editorial boards
 which also sustains wider research networks and collaborations. These include African Journalism
 Studies, Screen Bodies, Feminist Media Studies, Interest Groups and Advocacy, Communication
 and Sport, Online Journal of Communication and Media Technologies, Journal of Applied
 Journalism and Media Studies, International Journal of Jungian Studies and International Journal
 for the History of Sport. We have taken active roles in peer review and editing, reviewing for more
 than 70 different journals since 2014, as well as reviewing proposals and manuscripts for multiple
 publishers.

 CMC staff have served as external examiners for PhDs at numerous universities across the UK
 and 10 institutions internationally. Staff have also serve on judging panels for academic and
 practice-based prizes drawing on their expertise in journalism (Community Newspaper Awards
 and Scottish Press Awards), digital media (Smart Data Hack) and film (Lux Margaret Tait Award).


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conclusion

 Throughout CMC’s research endeavour we continue to advance knowledge in the media and
 communications field through a broad engagement with societal and economic issues that pertain
 not only to the media and cultural sectors, but also a wider range of industrial and societal
 challenges we now face in the 21st Century. We fully expect future research across our six themes
 to connect into agendas on climate change, freedom and democracy, demographic change and
 the post-pandemic recovery.




                                                                                          Page 14
