Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 07 Earth Systems & Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The submission returns 67 staff (60.0 Full-time equivalent, FTE, 49M/18F) from the School of
 Ocean and Earth Science (SOES), part of the Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences
 (FELS). SOES staff and research facilities are co-located with the National Oceanography
 Centre (NOC), a newly-independent self-governing organisation, at the National Oceanography
 Centre Southampton (NOCS), on the University’s Waterfront Campus. NOCS is a leading global
 centre of excellence for research, education, technology development, knowledge transfer and
 innovation in the Ocean and Earth Sciences.
 SOES has a distinctive profile of research aiming to develop a fundamental understanding of the
 whole Earth system, and to apply new knowledge to ensure the future sustainability of our
 planet.
 Major achievements since REF2014 include:
    •   Recognition of our world-leading expertise in the marine and maritime sector through the
        award in 2016 of a Regius Professorship in Ocean Sciences by HM The Queen.
    •   Publication of a substantive body of world class outputs, with an overall Field Weighted
        Citation Impact (FWCI) of 1.92 and >45 publications in key interdisciplinary journals
        (Nature, Science, PNAS).
    •   Significant impact through major scientific firsts including: demonstration of permanent
        carbon capture and storage in Icelandic basalt rocks; using innovative tools to identify
        underground fluid injection depth as a driver for induced seismicity magnitude; novel
        observations of sub-mesoscale ocean turbulence and its impacts using autonomous
        robots.
    •   Playing a leading role in international ocean-going science with 20 Category A staff
        (12M/8F) spending an average of ~70 days at sea (combined >1300 days), providing 9
        principal scientists for NERC and international cruises and 5 Co-Chief scientists for the
        International Ocean Discovery Programme (IODP, the largest number for any UK HEI).
    •   Continued development of a diverse, well-supported, collegiate international researcher
        community, including: recruitment of 8 new staff (4M/4F, 50% Early Career Researchers;
        ECRs) and 4 Independent Research Fellows (2M/2F), 16 associate professor (10M/6F)
        and 14 full professorial (11M/3F) promotions, and the graduation of 264 PhD students
        from the NOCS graduate school (run collaboratively with NOC).

 1.2 Research Strategy
 Our 2014-2020 Research and Impact Strategy aimed to deliver world-class fundamental and
 applied research addressing key environmental and societal challenges in Marine and Earth
 Sciences. Tackling emergent interdisciplinary challenges necessitates a strategy embedding our
 core principles of excellence, capacity, sustainability and agility into all research activities.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategy is built on:
      i)    Recruiting and developing diverse staff, fully supported in their research activities and
            well-being in a collegiate environment;
      ii)   Establishing and maintaining state-of-the-art facilities, sustaining research-income and
            recruiting, supporting and training a vibrant postgraduate researcher community;
      iii) Capitalising on synergies between the educational, research, enterprise and impact
           activities of SOES and our partners, to deliver a stimulating and supportive environment
           promoting intellectual development and timely world-class innovation.
 SOES is structured into six research groups: (a) Geochemistry (GC; 11M/4F), (b) Geology and
 Geophysics (G&G; 8M/6F), (c) Marine Biogeochemistry (MB; 5M/4F), (d) Marine Biology and
 Ecology (MB&E; 10M/3F), (e) Palaeoceanography & Palaeoclimate (P&P; 10M/1F), and (f)
 Physical Oceanography (PO; 5M). All SOES research staff have a primary association with one
 of these research groups while engaging in trans-disciplinary research across the groups, the
 wider University of Southampton (UoS), and a broad range of national and international research
 organisations (see §1.6 & 4.1). Major research areas within SOES are closely aligned with two
 UoS Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (USIRIs): the Southampton Marine and
 Maritime Institute (SMMI), which serves as a gateway for industry, government and civic bodies,
 and international collaborators to the maritime and marine expertise of UoS, and the Institute for
 Life Sciences (IfLS) which integrates bioscience research across UoS (see REF5a §2.6).
 Research, enterprise and impact strategies and decisions are facilitated through regular
 research group meetings, whole school ‘away days’, our dedicated Enterprise units and the
 SOES Research and Enterprise Strategy Group composed of research group heads (currently
 3M/3F: Foster-GC, McNeill-G&G, Lam-MB, Godbold-MB&E, Wilson-P&P, Haigh-PO) and the
 Deputy Head of School Research and Enterprise (James; F) and the Director of Enterprise (Dix;
 M).

 1.3 Achievement of strategic aims 2014-2020
 Our overarching aim to ‘lead international research in oceanography and marine geoscience’
 has been delivered through sustained research funding (see §3.1) for national and international
 collaborative interdisciplinary projects (see §3.4 & 4.1) that have produced world class outputs,
 with ~25% of our publications ranked in the top 10% in terms of citations with an overall FWCI of
 1.92. Our specific aims were to:
 •   Develop and apply new geophysical imaging techniques (G&G, GC, SMMI)
     Supported by >£7M, we led innovative applications of an array of geophysical techniques to
     answer major questions in the Earth Sciences including: the nature of the lithosphere-
     asthenosphere boundary (Rychert, Harmon), the processes of continental rifting and
     subduction (Minshull, Bull, Keir, Gernon, McNeill, Henstock, Rychert, Harmon), and
     suspended sediment dynamics in submarine gravity currents (Sumner). We tackled societal
     problems including offshore carbon capture and storage (Bull, Minshull, Henstock,
     Gehrmann), substrate controls on offshore marine HV cable installation and operation (Dix,
     Henstock, Gernon), the impacts of space weather on electromagnetic fields (Simpson),
     sustainable deep-sea mining (Minshull), and the controls on human induced seismicity
     (Gernon, Hincks). We also led the geo-components of one of the largest ever underwater
     marine archaeological investigations (Dix).



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Investigate the processes determining the rate, structure and climatic role of the global
     overturning circulation (PO)
     We attracted >£3M for major projects investigating global overturning circulation (e.g.
     DynOPO, MerMeed and BLT Recipes, Naveira-Garabato) and its climatic impacts (e.g.
     SMURPHS and Blue Action, Drijfhout), resulting in significant advances in process
     understanding (Naveira-Garabato, Oliver), links to ongoing global climate change (Skliris;
     Drijfhout) and new approaches to climate predictability (Sévellec, Drijfhout). We led the
     development of a major (£7M) NERC Strategic Research Programme (RoSES, Naveira-
     Garabato) addressing key uncertainties in the Southern Ocean carbon sink, and made
     important contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 6th
     Assessment Report (AR6; Drijfhout is lead author of the Ocean, sea level and cryosphere
     chapter).
 •   Determine the impact of the retreating cryosphere on ocean circulation, sea level and climate
     variability (PO, P&P, GC)
     We discovered new processes governing ocean-Antarctic ice sheet interaction (Naveira
     Garabato), improved the representation of icebergs in global-scale ocean models (Marsh,
     Skliris), and developed novel approaches for the detection and prediction of changes in the
     rate of sea level rise (Goodwin, Haigh), with contributions extensively cited in the IPCC
     Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C (2018). We explored the role of
     Mediterranean Outflow Water in driving Northern Hemisphere glaciations (Xuan) and studied
     past climates to quantify the instability of continental ice sheets under warmer-than-present
     conditions (Bohaty, Ezard, Foster, Kemp, Rohling, Wilson). We secured £2M for major
     projects improving iceberg forecasting for safer operations at sea (e.g. ICECAST and SOS-
     SOS, Marsh), advancing understanding of compound flooding (e.g. CompFlood and
     CHANCE, Haigh, Marsh), and determining optimal strategies for mitigating the adverse
     effects of global sea level rise (e.g. E-Rise, Haigh and ADJUST1.5, Goodwin, Haigh).
 •   Study carbon cycling, climate sensitivity and biotic change in past and future high CO2 worlds
     (P&P, GC, MB&E)
     We used innovative approaches and novel palaeo-data to reduce the uncertainty of future
     climate projections (Goodwin, Foster, Rohling) and demonstrate that climate sensitivity
     during past warm intervals was in the IPCC range (1.5 to 4.5 C per CO2 doubling; Foster,
     Rohling). We revealed that changing atmospheric CO2 concentration was the primary driver
     of early Cenozoic climate (£1M, The Descent into the Icehouse; Foster, Inglis), and secured
     >£3M for an interdisciplinary project, PISTON, to investigate the fundamental processes by
     which new species emerge (Ezard, Wilson, Foster, Trueman). We made major
     contributions to understanding the environmental causes, consequences and recovery from
     the end-Cretaceous (Gibbs, Wilson, Whiteside), end-Triassic (Whiteside) and end-
     Devonian (Marshall) mass extinctions. We also showed that rapid carbon release from the
     oceans drove the rise of CO2 during the last deglaciation (Foster, Palmer, Cooper) and
     extensively contributed to the forthcoming IPCC AR6 (Foster is contributing author on two
     chapters).
 •   Investigate the biogeochemical evolution of Earth surface processes (GC, G&G, MB, MB&E)
     We utilised novel analyses to identify the role of hydrothermal circulation in seafloor
     mineralisation (Roberts) and quantified its control on the thermal and chemical exchange
     between the ocean crust and seawater, underpinned by a major international ocean drilling


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     campaign (Coggon, Teagle). We quantified weathering-climate linkages in the past (James,
     Wilson, Gernon) and investigated enhanced weathering and mineral carbonation as CO2
     removal methods (>£1.5M; NERC-funded strategic programme on Greenhouse Gas
     Removal, the Leverhulme Centre for Climate Change Mitigation, and industry sources;
     James, Lam, Teagle, Matter). We advanced the understanding of volcanic processes
     (Gernon, Palmer, Taylor) and the linkages between volcanism and global mass extinctions
     (Whiteside, Wilson).
 •   Investigate biogeochemical cycles and their response to climate change (MB, MB&E)
     We demonstrated new processes governing the cycling and interactions of oceanic
     macronutrients (Lam, Purdie, Tyrrell) and micro-nutrients (Bibby, Lohan, Moore),
     uncovering links between marine microbial eco-physiology (Bibby, Brownlee, Hickman,
     Lam) and carbon cycling (Moore, Tyrrell, N.Bates, Trueman, Lucas). We led major
     projects (>£4.5M) to investigate how oceanic CO2 sequestration and other ecosystem
     functions are impacted by carbon and nutrient cycling, microbial ecology and ocean
     productivity (e.g. SONiC, Lam; COMICS, Lam, Moore; RoSES/CUSTARD, Moore, Bibby;
     ZIPLOc, FeRidge, Lohan; S3-EUROHAB, Purdie; I/URFs: Ward, Annett). We led the £3M
     pelagic component of the UK Ocean Acidification Research Programme (UKOARP) (Tyrrell,
     Moore) and were major contributors to the pelagic (Hickman, Moore, Purdie, Tyrell) and
     iron cycling (James, Lohan, Mills, Statham) components of the NERC Shelf Seas
     Biogeochemistry (SSB) programme (>£4M overall).
 •   Investigate the importance of sediment dynamics in biogeochemical processes (G&G,
     MB&E, SMMI)
     We led the £3.5M benthic component of the NERC SSB programme (Solan), demonstrating
     how seasonal changes and geographical variability are fundamental to the functioning of UK
     Shelf Sea systems, highlighting the impacts of intensifying human activities (Godbold,
     Thompson, Solan). We investigated how changing sea-ice conditions impact biological
     communities and sediment biogeochemical processes in Arctic sediments (ChAOS, Solan,
     Godbold). We also played a key role in a major NERC-funded project on monitoring seafloor
     sediment avalanche dynamics using novel in situ instrumentation, demonstrating their
     importance for organic carbon burial (Sumner).
 •   Establish relationships between anthropogenically forced environmental change, biodiversity
     loss and ecosystem processes to inform sustainability (MB&E, SMMI, IfLS)
     We demonstrated the impact of climate change on harmful invasive species in UK waters,
     including through the use of novel eDNA technology (Hauton, Rius, Solan). We promoted
     poverty alleviation through prevention and future control of pathogens in Asian shrimp
     aquaculture (Hauton). We elucidated the fundamental mechanisms by which oceanic
     inorganic nutrients affect the growth and resilience of coral reefs (D’Angelo, Wiedenmann,
     Wilson). We secured £2M to investigate the impact of non-traditional pollutants such as
     microplastics (MINIMISE, Godbold, Solan), artificial light (ALICE, D’Angelo, Wiedenmann)
     and sound (US Office of Naval Research grant, Solan) on coastal and shelf ecosystems. We
     detailed the importance of habitat continuity in shaping coastal diversity (Fenberg) and
     realised new biomimetic marine infrastructures to improve the ecological status of coastal
     waters and their role in coastal recovery (MARINEFF, Hauton, Collins, BLUE-coast, Solan,
     Godbold, Thompson). We investigated the ecological impacts of deep-sea mining (Copley,
     Hauton) and the effects of intense fishing on the management and conservation of
     threatened oceanic animals (Sims).

                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4 Research objectives 2021-2026
 Our overarching aim is to deliver ground-breaking knowledge on fundamental scientific problems
 in the Ocean and Earth System, and to apply this new knowledge to address emerging
 environmental and societal challenges and inform action to mitigate the effects of climate
 change. Specifically, we will:
 •   Reduce uncertainty in the climate system and climate models (PO, P&P, GC)
     We will integrate efficient Earth system models with new palaeo-data to inform mitigation
     efforts needed to meet climate targets, explore tipping points in the carbon cycle and climate
     system, and quantify the response of the cryosphere and hydrological cycle to warmer-than-
     present past climate states.
 •   Develop and test solutions for greenhouse gas emission reduction and atmospheric removal
     (G&G, GC, MB, SMMI)
     We will explore the viability of methods for CO2 removal from the atmosphere, including
     enhanced weathering, mineral carbonation and ocean alkalinisation. We will determine the
     potential of CO2 leakage from sub-seafloor storage reservoirs and will research: the potential
     of marine algae as a biofuel, geothermal energy sources and HV cable deployment, and
     quantify the environmental impacts of such clean energy solutions and infrastructures.
 •   Evaluate the sustainability of natural resources on land and in the oceans (MB&E, GC, MB,
     G&G, SMMI)
     We will develop novel techniques to find new sources of metals and elements critical to
     emerging “green” technologies. We will investigate the impacts of deep-sea resource
     utilisation on marine organisms and ecosystems, use novel chemical techniques to
     provenance natural resources (e.g. fisheries, radionuclides) and explore the impact of
     disease on aquaculture for food sustainability.
 •   Investigate the impacts of natural change and anthropogenic stressors on marine
     ecosystems and biogeochemical cycles (MB&E, MB, GC, P&P, IfLS).
     We will provide new understanding of oceanic carbon and nutrient cycling and quantify the
     response and vulnerability of open ocean and coastal ecosystems (e.g. coral reefs) to
     recognised and emerging stressors (including light pollution, inorganic nutrient inputs, sound).
     We will apply novel molecular techniques to investigate microbial community interactions and
     the mapping of marine invasive species.
 • Manage chemical risks in the environment (GC, MB, MB&E)
     We will study the processes that determine the fate of radionuclide and other contaminants in
     terrestrial, atmospheric and aquatic environments. We will determine contaminant
     ecotoxicology and assess the interactions of contaminants with other stressors on ecosystem
     functioning and services.
 •   Develop new technologies and strategies for increasing resilience to environmental hazards
     (PO, G&G, MB&E)
     We will use Earth observations, data monitoring, and numerical models to forecast and
     improve understanding of the frequency, severity, and interactions of natural hazards, from
     coastal, fluvial and pluvial flooding events to explosive volcanic eruptions and earthquakes.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Investigate connections between plate tectonics, mantle dynamics and natural hazards (G&G,
   GC, P&P)
   We will use a wide range of geological and geophysical methods, including ocean drilling, to
   improve our understanding of the evolution and connectivity between Earth’s tectonic
   systems, the dynamics of the deeper mantle, surface geological hazards and the drivers of
   natural climate change.
 • Digital Planet – Environmental data to knowledge (GC, G&G, PO, MB, SMMI)
   We will develop techniques for the collection and real-time analysis of high spatial/temporal
   resolution data using autonomous systems (e.g. utilising extant fibre-optic monitoring systems
   for ocean bottom temperature, autonomous underwater vehicles for water properties).
 Delivery of these objectives will be supported by:
    i)      Continued development of an excellent diverse and agile researcher base: We will
            increase academic staff numbers to 65FTE through hiring into the priority areas
            above and by building on our success in transitioning independent fellows to
            permanent contracts (4 during current REF period: Goodwin, Gibbs, Hickman and
            Hain; 2M/2F). We will continue to train the researchers of tomorrow through the
            NOCS Graduate School (GSNOCS) and leadership of the INSPIRE Doctoral Training
            Partnership (DTP).
    ii)     Sustainable and diversified income: We will attract UKRI funding and independent
            research fellowships, while further diversifying our funding streams, capitalising on
            new initiatives (e.g. Strategic Priorities Fund) and expanding our enterprise and
            knowledge transfer activities to become a significant part of our funding portfolio.
    iii)    Maintaining world class facilities: Strategic facility investments and space allocation
            will support changes in our portfolio resulting from recruitment (i) and income
            generation (ii).

 1.5 Facilitating impact
 We promote knowledge transfer to industry, public bodies and the third sector through the
 activities of the SOES Stakeholder Advisory Board, which includes representatives from BP,
 Lloyds Register, Halliburton and the Centre for Environment, Fisheries, and Aquaculture Science
 (Cefas), and is chaired by Townend, formerly Research Director of HR Wallingford. Recent
 activities have focused on designing impactful research projects, identifying major research
 challenges, and stakeholder involvement in education delivery. Our impact strategy is supported
 and facilitated by wider University activities (REF5a §2.9) and by stakeholder participation in the
 design and operation of our INSPIRE DTP (e.g. Met Office, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology
 (CEH), HR Wallingford, Autonomous Robotics Ltd, JNCC, Lloyds Register, Thales).
 All SOES research groups offer expert services with many of our world-class research facilities
 available for external use, supporting a diverse portfolio of enterprise activities, from
 quantification of trace metal contamination in contact lenses (for the UK’s largest contact lens
 manufacturer, CooperVision) to assessing the efficacy of anti-corrosion coatings on naval
 vessels for BAE Systems. Two dedicated enterprise units, GAU-Radioanalytical, and Coastal
 and Offshore Archaeological Research Services (COARS), provide the major focus for SOES
 enterprise activities (see §3.1).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The effectiveness of our impact strategies is illustrated by our selected REF2021 Impact Case
 Studies (ICSs):
        ICS1: Deep Impact: engaging public audiences and policymakers with the exploration
        and stewardship of biodiversity in the deep ocean (Copley, Mills);
        ICS2: Rising Tide: Informing management, planning and policy on acceleration of sea
        level rise, increased coastal flooding and changes in tide (Haigh);
        ICS3: Translating Coral Reef Science into Industry Products, Educational Initiatives, and
        Public and Stakeholder Awareness (D’Angelo, Wiedenmann);
        ICS4: Environmental Optimisation of Marine High Voltage Cable Design, Installation and
        Operation (Dix, Henstock, Gernon, Thompson, Bull);
        ICS5: Difficult to measure (DTM) radionuclide characterisation supporting nuclear
        decommissioning and environmental monitoring (Warwick, Cundy).
 Collectively, these ICSs include knowledge transfer from ongoing research and enterprise
 activities to: industry (ICSs 4, 5); public bodies (ICSs 1, 2, 5); the third sector (ICSs 1, 2, 3); and
 the general public (ICSs 1, 2, 3). The success of our strategy is further evidenced by a broader
 impact portfolio including: development of algal biotechnology (Bibby, FeedAlgae UK);
 commercial sensor development (Moore, Chelsea Technologies UK); hydrocarbon exploration
 (Marshall, Andina, BG, Chaco, PanAmerican, Repsol, Shell); traceability in wild catch fisheries
 (Trueman, Marine Stewardship Council, Marine Management Organisation, Young’s Seafood);
 disease management in Asian aquaculture (Hauton, ICAR Central Institute of Brackish water
 Aquaculture and ICAR National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, India; Marine Products
 Export Development Authority and Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India); and
 supporting safety at sea (Marsh & Skliris, Lloyds Register, Met Office).

 1.6 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity is built into the breadth of our six SOES research groups, the SOES-NOC
 partnership, and the inter/multi-disciplinary PhD supervisory teams and training activities which
 drive the postgraduate research programmes of GSNOCS, the UoS Doctoral college (REF5a
 §3.7) and the SOES-led NERC DTPs SPITFIRE (2014-2019) and INSPIRE (2019-2024). Our
 leadership of GSNOCS and the DTPs generates collaboration across UoS (e.g. with
 archaeology, biology, chemistry, engineering and medicine) as well as with our DTP host partner
 organisations (NOC, British Antarctic Survey (BAS), Marine Biological Association (MBA) and
 Natural History Museum (NHM)) and a range of CASE and collaborative partner organisations
 including the Met Office, British Geological Survey and CEH
 (http://projects.noc.ac.uk/inspire/partners), other leading universities, NGOs, and research
 institutes (see §2.5).
 Institutional interdisciplinary focus is provided by the University Strategic Interdisciplinary
 Research Institutes SMMI and IfLS (REF5a §2.6). SMMI (led by Teagle, 46 SOES members;
 36M/10F) projects UoS’s distinctive maritime research pedigree and represents a key hub for
 academics across UoS and commercial and public sector marine and maritime organisations,
 including those local to Southampton, one of the UK’s most important maritime cities. Significant
 outcomes include the establishment of a new research field in substrate controls on the life-time
 performance of marine high-voltage (HV) cables, which brings together SOES geoscientists with
 electrical and civil engineers from Faculty of Engineering (see ICS4).



                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The IfLS (22 SOES members; 16M/6F) supports interdisciplinary research across UoS within the
 full remit of the life sciences. Ezard currently leads the “Evolution” Research Theme that
 examines how living systems change over time and Wiedenmann, Hauton, Lam led the “Global
 Change: Systems & Cycles” Research Theme explicitly recognising the need for a multi-level
 (molecular through to Earth System) perspective in addressing complex challenges in the
 environmental biosciences.
 SMMI and IfLS both support interdisciplinary research through cross-campus studentships and
 seed-funding schemes, meetings, workshops and conferences (e.g. the IfLS international 'Life in
 a High Carbon World' meeting held at NOCS in 2015). Other notable examples of
 interdisciplinary activities across UoS have included: (i) geochemists working with archaeologists
 and anthropologists to reveal the Neanderthal origins of cave art (Milton); (ii) marine biologists
 working with medical lipidomic mass-spectrometrists to understand the nutrient stress response
 of phytoplankton (Mills, Moore) and symbiotic coral algae (D’Angelo, Wiedenmann); (iii)
 ecophysiologists, geophysicists, geochemists and lawyers working on the impacts of leakage
 from geological CO2 storage (Bull, James, Gernon, Hauton); (iv) SOES biogeochemists
 working with NOC engineers and commercial companies to develop novel sensors for
 autonomous measurement of macronutrients, trace metals and primary productivity (Bibby,
 Lohan, Moore, Hickman); (v) microbiologists and geochemists collaborating with the mining
 industry on carbon sequestration via mineral carbonation (James, Lam, Matter, Teagle); (vi)
 joint projects between SOES staff and the Cancer Immunology Centre to improve shrimp
 aquaculture conditions (Hauton); and (vii) physical oceanographers working with researchers in
 Geography and Politics on the tele-connected risks in the Atlantic of the expanding “Great
 Sargassum Belt” (Marsh, Skliris).

 1.7 Developing an open research environment
 SOES is committed to opening up all stages of the academic workflow from data generation and
 analysis through to dissemination of outputs to diverse audiences.
 Our staff take leading roles in generating new resources, e.g. through the UKOA programme
 (https://www.bodc.ac.uk/projects/data_management/uk/ukoa/; 99 datasets); museum collections
 (Fenberg: iCollections of British Butterflies and Moths at the NHM and the Digitised British
 Odonata collection, total >190k specimens; Ezard: the micropaleontological Buckley Collection
 of planktonic foraminifera) and by submitting over 300 data sets to Pangea, BODC and
 elsewhere since 2014. A component of the British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC) is also
 co-located at NOCS, facilitating innovation in data science.
 SOES staff also facilitate the availability of open access data through international programmes
 such as GEOTRACES (Lohan, Scientific Steering and Standards and Intercalibration
 Committee member) and COMPADRE (Ezard, Core Committee Member). We are leading
 (Haigh) the creation and dissemination of information on historical flooding through
 ‘SurgeWatch’ (https://www.surgewatch.org/), in collaboration with NOC and BODC, alongside
 the Global Extreme Sea Level Analysis global tide gauge data (https://www.gesla.org/; see
 ICS2).
 Through increasing publication of our analytical code and models and by striving to make these
 outputs more accessible to the general public, we promote transparency in our science, e.g. via
 a smartphone app of an Earth system model (http://www.co2modeller.info/; >2500 downloads;
 Goodwin) to better inform the public of the effect of carbon emission reduction on climate, and
 through other interactive web apps (e.g. http://pyramids.cpc.ac.uk/).

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open access publishing is undertaken in accordance with the UoS Open Access Policy, with the
 ‘green’ route utilising the UoS-developed ‘EPrints’ platform (REF5a §2.4). The percentage of
 SOES SCOPUS-listed research outputs published in open access has risen from <80%
 (2017/2018) to >86% (2019/2020), including >50% with gold OA. Multiple SOES staff members
 are also associate editors for open access publishers such as Nature Scientific Data (Haigh),
 Frontiers (Haigh, Lam, Kier, Moore, Mills, Sims, Townend, Wiedenmann), EGU Copernicus
 (Marsh), and Geochemical Perspective Letters (Foster).

 1.8 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 SOES is committed to high standards of research integrity and governance (REF5a §2.8). The
 culture of research integrity within SOES is embedded through the research groups, under the
 leadership of the group heads, alongside a staff mentoring and appraisal process which focuses
 on excellence, accountability, transparency and responsiveness. Training in research integrity is
 provided to PGR students through GSNOCS and the UoS Doctoral College (see §2.5). Ethics
 review is organised via the Ethics and Research Governance Online UoS system, with Robert
 Robinson (aquarium manager) a member of both the Faculty Ethics committee, and the
 University Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body. All staff are required to complete an annual
 register of interests return in accordance with the UoS Conflict of Interests Policy.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment strategies
 The international quality of SOES activities stems from the combined excellence and diversity of
 our staff which facilitates the versatility and adaptability required to address emerging challenges
 in the Ocean and Earth system (see §1.4). Strategic areas for recruitment are identified by
 considering: (i) synergies between our research, education, enterprise and impact priorities; and
 (ii) the nature of existing facilities, potential areas of future infrastructure investment and the
 external funding landscape. Recruitment across all levels is characterised by a global search via
 adverts in leading journals, online and using social media platforms. Staff undertake active
 searches, through their collaborative networks and at national and international meetings and
 conferences, where possible, placing a particular focus on underrepresented gender and ethnic
 groups. Short-listing, interviews and decision-making are carried out by panels chaired by
 experienced staff, informed by open school-wide consultation. All staff undertake comprehensive
 and appropriate Equality Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) training.
 Following significant expansion prior to 2014, we continue to pursue an overall strategy of
 consolidation and enabling as outlined in our REF2014 submission. Since the REF2014 census
 we have: (i) appointed 8 staff to permanent University positions (Cundy, Ezard, Godbold,
 Gibbs, Goodwin, Hickman, Hain, Lohan, 4M/4F) and recruited 4 Independent Research
 Fellows (IRFs; Annett, Ward, Inglis, Coggon, 2M/2F); (ii) recruited 3 apprentice technical staff,
 all of whom transitioned to open-ended contracts within SOES; and (iii) appointed Prof. Harry
 Bryden (FRS) as the inaugural Regius Professor in Ocean Science following the award of the
 Royal Warrant to SOES/UoS in 2016. In total 10 SOES staff from our 2014 submission have
 retired (10M) while 9 staff left (4M/5F), in most cases to take up positions overseas including the
 USA (Beaulieu, Hain, University of California Santa Cruz), France (Sevellec, Université de
 Bretagne Occidentale), Canada (A.Bates, Memorial University, Weitemeyer, now at OFG Inc.),
 Australia (Zika, now at University of New South Wales) and Germany (Achterberg, Gledhill,
 GEOMAR).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Appointments in priority areas identified in our REF2014 submission included a senior academic
 position in radiochemistry (Cundy, M) and new appointments (2F) in biogeochemistry (Lohan,
 Hickman). Priority areas in autonomous marine observing and coastal oceanography have been
 reinforced through new activities of current staff (coastal: Dix, Haigh, Hickman, Lohan, Purdie,
 Solan, Thompson; autonomy: Dix, Lohan, Moore), the latter in collaboration with staff across
 other UoS faculties (Thornton, Engineering and Physical Sciences) and NOC.
 This REF period has seen many of our younger staff become established members of the
 School, and hence we currently have an age profile that is strongest in the mid-career stages
 (Figure 1). To complement this, recruitment over the coming period will continue to focus on
 early career researchers (ECRs).




                                Figure 1. SOES Cat. A Staff by Age

 We remain a diverse department with 7% BAME and 27% of our staff being international.
 Improving staff gender balance at all levels has been a recruitment priority and female
 representation in SOES is now 27%, higher than at REF2014 (22%).

 2.2 Staff recruitment, development and support
 Researcher development is supported across UoS by the Centre for Higher Education Practice
 (CHEP; REF5a §3.5). Within SOES, all staff have a line manager and are encouraged to sign up
 to an independent mentoring programme. Research groups provide collegial support and advice
 to staff across all levels. Staff well-being is further supported through UoS-wide activities (REF5a
 §3.4), reinforced by the local SOES well-being champion (Moira MacLean). Staff induction is
 undertaken by the line-manager in co-ordination with research group heads. Researcher
 development is supported as follows:
 2.2.1 Support for fixed-term ECRs (PDRFs and IRFs):
 Career development of fixed-term researchers in SOES is aligned with UoS policy and practice
 (REF5a §3.5). In addition, SOES (together with NOC) has its own ECR network led by a
 member of faculty, an independent research fellow and a PhD student. Events to facilitate ECR
 development have included grant evaluation workshops, activities to guide independent
 research fellowship applications, and a residential workshop focused on working with industry.
 Exceptional contributions to collegiality, quality, internationalisation or sustainability are

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognised by the ECR Dean’s Prizes; SOES staff have received 14 of these awards over the
 review period. All Post-Doctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs) are encouraged to request an
 independent mentor and consider the development of their own ideas through submission of
 grants as ‘researcher-Co-Is’ and/or IRF proposals.
 Our 4 (2M/2F) Royal Society or NERC-funded independent research fellows (Annett, Coggon,
 Inglis, Ward) are represented on SOES committees and encouraged to contribute to teaching
 and co-supervision of PhD and masters students. SOES has a strong track record of bringing
 IRFs through to open-ended positions, and the importance of this route is well recognised by
 many of our senior research leaders who previously underwent this transition themselves
 (Bibby, Foster, Hauton, Moore, Minshull, Naveira-Garabato, Rychert, Wiedenmann).
 2.2.2 Support for Education, Research and Enterprise (ERE) ‘academic’ staff:
 New staff are supported in developing their research over an initial two-year probation period
 (one-year for senior appointments), and subsequently, through informal and formal mentoring
 and training and by reduced teaching and administrative loads in the first three-years. Research
 infrastructure requirements for new academic staff are supported through a start-up package
 (including PhD studentships), alongside full integration of new staff into the collegial culture of
 the School.
 Research grant applicants are mentored by experienced staff, and proposals are internally
 reviewed prior to submission; the success rate for SOES NERC Discovery Science applications
 increased from 5% (2014-15) to 20% (2018-19). Periods of one semester study leave are
 encouraged every four years (during 2014-2020, 35 staff had sabbatical leave), and are enabled
 through re-allocation of teaching and administrative responsibilities.
 A testament to the success of our approach to development and support is that during the REF
 period 35 ERE staff were promoted (24M/11F), including 16 to associate professor (10M/6F) and
 14 to full professor (11M/3F).
 2.2.3 Support for Technical and Experimental (TAE) staff:
 TAE staff are vital for sustaining SOES excellence in research, enterprise and impact. UoS is a
 signatory of the Technician Commitment and SOES policies and cultures aim to recognise the 4
 pillars of visibility, recognition, career development and sustainability. TAE staff are all
 embedded within research groups and line managed and mentored to ensure career
 progression opportunities.

 2.3 Recognition and reward for research and impact
 Aligned with the UoS ‘Reward and Recognition’ strategy (REF5a §3.1), clear targets and
 expectations for achieving research with impact are agreed between staff and line-managers in
 appraisals. Contributions to research, enterprise and impact are thus key staff performance
 indicators allowing merit-based promotion. Staff making a strong contribution to enterprise
 activities can adopt the enterprise pathway within the ERE job family (Milton, Michael Grant,
 David Reading, Warwick (now balanced)). Exceptional contributions by both TAE and ERE staff
 across all areas are recognised within the annual Dean’s and Vice Chancellor’s awards,
 awardees over the current period including Haigh (Impact), TAE staff Neil Jenkinson (career
 service), and Aaron Billen and Matthew O’Shaughnessy (collegiality).




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Procedures to promote interactions outside of academia
 The SOES Stakeholder Advisory Board provides a key focus to develop links with non-academic
 sectors. SOES staff can also apply for sabbatical leave to develop new links or strengthen
 existing ones with industry, public or third sector bodies. For example, Gernon spent his
 2014/15 sabbatical at the Chilworth Business Incubator at the University of Southampton
 Science Park (see “A sabbatical reboot” Science doi:10.1126/science.370.6517.738). SOES’s
 Impact Champion (Gernon) supports staff in applying for the University’s UKRI-funded Impact
 Acceleration Accounts, and other schemes, including the internal Public Engagement with
 Research Development Fund and a policy commission competition run by Public
 Policy|Southampton (REF5a §2.9). The FELS REF Impact Officer (Lisa Hanley), provides further
 support, including assistance in the production of ICSs (e.g. funds were awarded for the
 development of apps (ICS2), for public exhibitions (ICS3) and engagement with stakeholders
 (ICS5)).
 Our Impact Officer and the University’s Marketing and Communications group support our staff
 in promoting their research outside academia via: school visits, web resources, open days and
 ‘Discover Oceanography’, participation in science and employment fairs, broader outreach
 events such as Pint of Science, and summer schools supported by Headstart and BG group to
 widen participation. Other notable activities with a strong element of public and societal
 engagement, beyond ICS1 and 3, include workshops and symposia (e.g. at the UN Global
 Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, Godbold), and engagement with public audiences via
 radio (e.g. Mills featuring in the BBC’s “the Life Scientific”) and other media, in addition to public
 lectures, articles and podcasts (e.g. Foster on the BBC’s CrowdScience). SOES also has the
 largest Student Ambassadors Scheme in the UK placing >60 undergraduates into schools to
 support STEM teaching and provide role models.

 2.5 Research students
 Postgraduate student activities are co-ordinated through our world-renowned Graduate School
 of NOCS (GSNOCS), which currently comprises 200 doctoral researchers (89M/111F),
 representing a large, diverse, vibrant and international community of interdisciplinary
 researchers which spans our research portfolio. Around 90% of our staff, including 4 SOES
 ECRs and all 4 of our IRFs, have supervised PhD students over the REF period. The
 Southampton-based component of NOC is fully integrated within GSNOCS with NOC research
 staff engaged in supervision, training, recruitment, and progress-monitoring of graduate
 students. The two SOES-led NERC DTPs (SPITFIRE (2014-2019) and INSPIRE (2019-2024),
 https://projects.noc.ac.uk/inspire/) and the SOES-led NERC NEXUSS Centre for Doctoral
 Training (CDT; https://www.southampton.ac.uk/nexuss) play particularly important roles in
 enhancing research collaboration between UoS and external HEI and non-HEI research
 organisations nationally and globally (see §1.6 & 4.1; Figures 2 & 3). Our successful bid for an
 increase in studentships to the second phase of NERC DTPs provides an external measure of
 the success of GSNOCS. INSPIRE recruits a nominal 16 students per year (44 students with co-
 funding in cohorts 1&2).

 2.5.1 Recruitment:
 GSNOCS recruits ~40 PhD students per year, with a strong international membership (~40%
 from the EU and overseas), supported by a variety of: NERC DTPs, CASE, and tied awards,
 EPSRC grants, Leverhulme awards, BBSRC South Coast Biosciences DTP, University (e.g.
 SMMI, IfLS, and Vice Chancellor’s awards) and NOC funds, and a range of European and

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international scholarships, as well as direct industry support. PhD projects are developed by
 supervisors and peer-reviewed by colleagues before being widely advertised on the GSNOCS
 website, FindAPhD.com and elsewhere. Our philosophy is to attract the best students possible
 and facilitate the most appropriate project for them.




 Figure 2. Locations of UK (co-)supervisors of GSNOCS PhD students. All projects require a
 UoS supervisor but involvement in our grad school spans the UK.

 Students selected for interview visit NOCS for a full day that includes an independently chaired
 panel interview. Applicants are assessed according to their academic record, fit to topic,
 personal statement and references, as well as interview performance. This rigorous but fair
 process is undertaken by EDI trained interviewers and results in a diverse (see §2.6, Figure 5)


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-graduate community (averaging 49%M/51%F), recruited on the basis of candidate uniform
 excellence, with availability of co-funding and external sponsorship as secondary criteria.
 GSNOCS ensures similar recruitment processes for DTPs and other funding sources and has a
 standard of entry. Our Masters in Research cohort comprises ~10 students per year, >30% of
 which immediately progress onto a PhD.




  Figure 3. International locations of co-supervisors for GSNOCS PhD Students illustrating the
  global reach of our graduate school.


 2.5.2 Training and support:
 All PhD students receive UKRI level stipends (or higher) and have equivalent supervisory
 provision and, where appropriate, identical training opportunities (aligned with UoS practices,
 REF5a §3.7). Some programme-specific activities are associated with individual DTPs/CDTs
 (e.g. training on autonomous platforms within the NERC NEXUSS CDT). All students engage in
 a diversity of subject-specific training as well as generic skills training, including that facilitated
 by the UoS Doctoral College and CHEP (REF5a §3.7).

 All PhD students are expected to attend international meetings, and encouraged to participate in
 international exchanges and placements with leading national and international research (e.g.
 BAS, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), Scripps Institution of Oceanography),
 industrial (e.g. Spire Global, OptaSense, SRK Consulting) and governmental (e.g. Natural
 England, Department for International Development; Foreign and Commonwealth Office)
 organisations. Since 2014, >85 students participated in such placements. All GSNOCS students
 are also encouraged to take advantage of our close engagement with international programmes
 (e.g. IODP, GEOTRACES, GCOS/GOOS) even if these are not directly related to their research
 project; nearly all PhD students undertake (inter)national fieldwork, including cruise participation,
 during their studies.


                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.5.3 Monitoring and Outcomes:
 Students have an Advisory Panel that includes their supervisory team and an independent
 Chair. Progress is reviewed at least annually with written evidence provided to the Head of
 GSNOCS (Palmer) in a format designed by recent PhD students. Confirmation of PhD
 registration occurs after 18-21 months and involves a departmental talk, a written report and a
 viva chaired by the Advisory Panel Chair and an independent assessor.

                                                                                                                    0.9
                                                     50                                                             0.8
               Doctoral degrees awarded (per year)




                                                                                                                    0.7




                                                                                                                          Awards (per year per FTE)
                                                     40
                                                                                                                    0.6

                                                     30                                                             0.5

                                                                                                                    0.4
                                                     20
                                                                                                                    0.3

                                                                                                                    0.2
                                                     10
                                                                                                                    0.1

                                                     0                                                              0
                                                          2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20

       Figure 4. Doctoral completions by year and per staff FTE that year over the current REF
                                               period.

 This QA system is key to GSNOCS delivery of highly successful outcomes, evidenced by an
 average time to submission of 3.88 years. Sustained high intake rates and high completion rates
 combined to drive a substantial increase in awards over the early REF period (Figure 4) with one
 completion per supervising staff FTE every ~1.5 years. Over 80% of GSNOCS graduates are
 employed in highly-skilled first destination jobs (48% academic, 18% in Industry, 14% in
 Government and 20% in other forms of employment; GSNOCS survey, data 2014-2020).

 2.6 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
 EDI is a key component of the SOES strategy, facilitating excellence, capacity, sustainability and
 agility. Development of EDI strategy and policies, alongside improving practice and monitoring
 outcomes, is overseen by the SOES EDI Committee (chair Trueman) and ensured through an
 action plan informed by biennial SOES well-being surveys and regular topic-specific focus
 groups. The SOES EDI strategy recognises all protected characteristics and in particular
 ongoing national EDI challenges related to gender (Figure 5) and ethnicity representation in
 STEM disciplines. SOES staff play a key role in the institutional commitment to EDI detailed in
 REF5a §3.8, e.g. Ezard and Godbold are members of the Institutional Athena Swan Self-
 Assessment Team. Externally to UoS, we promote EDI by providing the Chair of Athena Swan
 Panels for Earth and Environment for the Equality Challenge Unit (Bull). During the last staff
 survey >80% of staff agreed that SOES is ‘a great place to work’.
 SOES policies and working practices for staff and student recruitment and development and
 progression are subject to review by the SOES EDI Committee. All staff are required to
 undertake EDI training, including unconscious bias training (>90% completion). A culture of EDI
 is reinforced by ensuring the broadest possible representation of all protected characteristics on
 all School committees and is embedded within SOES through inclusive open calls for promotion

                                                                                                                                                      Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and reward applications, with expressions of interest solicited from appropriate levels across
 SOES for all senior roles.
 We support flexible working (granting between 3-8 requests per year) and all departmental
 meetings are scheduled within core hours (10:00-16:00), rotating across different time and day
 slots, to facilitate participation of part-time staff. We developed guidance for the Faculty
 regarding: i) support for academic and research staff during family leave, and ii) return to work
 following long-term leave. Staff can additionally apply for career breaks of 1-3 years to undertake
 extended caring responsibilities, periods overseas with relatives, or to work toward further
 qualifications. In our most recent survey, more than 80% of staff agreed that SOES ‘provides
 them with adequate provision to work flexibly and support caring responsibilities’.
 Complementary to the Athena Swan Silver award held by UoS (REF5a), in May 2018, SOES
 achieved renewal of a departmental Bronze award for the development and implementation of
 equality and diversity policies to progress cultural change. Our equal opportunities, flexibility and
 benefits strategies are reflected in statements used in all job adverts. Since 2015 we have
 increased the proportion of female applicants across all advertised posts. Over the REF period
 75 Postdoctoral research assistants (level 4), and 4 Independent Research Fellows and 8 Staff
 (levels 5 & 6) were recruited of which 44% and 50% are female, respectively. To support
 progression, we have implemented a policy that ensures all ERE staff are reviewed for
 promotion at least every three years. We have introduced annual appraisal and promotion
 seminars for all staff to inform on process and responsibilities and highlight expectations.
 Feedback on promotion applications is provided by an informal promotions panel (chair James).
 As a measure of success of these efforts, since 2013/14 we have had 63 applications for
 promotion, of which 27% were female, and applications for promotion from female members of
 staff were successful on average 81% of the time (vs. 76% from male staff). Female
 representation has increased from 3 (14%F) to 5 (23%F) for associate professors and from 2
 (7%F) to 4 (13%F) for professors from 2013 to 2020 (Figure 5), this alongside a female Deputy
 Head of School Research (James) and Dean of FELS (Mills), with 27% female representation
 across the whole cohort of REF2021 submitted staff (compared to 22% for REF2014). Seven
 female members of research and academic staff have benefited from the Continuity to Career
 scheme (established by SOES in 2013 and now rolled out faculty-wide), a scheme that offers
 research support for those returning following extended periods of family leave (e.g. maternity or
 adoption leave).
 We will continue to develop and advance our EDI action plan over the coming REF period,
 including submission of a departmental Athena SWAN Silver application, close monitoring of and
 continued efforts to retain and promote female staff (i.e. ‘plugging leaks’ in the ‘pipeline’; Figure
 5) and a renewed focus on enhancing processes to encourage increased representation of lower
 socio-economic groups and more ethnic diversity across our staff and student profiles.
 Development of the current REF submission was the responsibility of the SOES REF committee
 (Moore/Foster, James, Gernon, Roberts, Rohling, Bull). Consultation across the whole
 school was ensured through a dedicated REF away-day focused on the development of ICSs,
 alongside comprehensive review of the environment statement, facilitated through group heads
 and the chair of the EDI Committee (Godbold/Trueman), complemented by individual staff
 interviews. Following the UoS Code of Practice (REF5a §3.9), outputs were first self-selected by
 all balanced and independent research-led staff. These were then assessed by a diverse
 independent panel on the basis of originality, significance and rigour, followed by moderation by
 the REF committee. Analysis revealed no evidence of gender bias, with the gender balance of


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our REF2 submission very similar to that of our returned staff (71%M 29%F in outputs vs. 73%M
 and 27%F for Staff).




   Figure 5. Gender breakdown of students and staff at all levels, illustrating hiring and career
                advancement-led growth in female representation at levels 5-7.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding portfolio and plans
 Our total research income over the REF period was £39.99M, an average of £5.71M/year,
 compared with £4.93M/year in REF 2014, an increase of 16%. Average annual grant income
 was £95k/FTE, and £123k/FTE including research income-in-kind. Research income (Figure 6)
 from UKRI sources was £26.1M, with other major funders the European Commission (£7.9M)
 and UK-based charities (e.g. Leverhulme Trust, British Ecological Society, Marine Stewardship
 Council, English Heritage, Wellcome Trust; £2.2M). Research funding from UK industry
 amounted to £1.8M, including £400k from the Arcadia Fund for the Deep Sea Ocean
 Stewardship Initiative.




     Figure 6. Research income over the current REF period. UKRI, Charities and EU funding
           dominates current income, demonstrating potential for future diversification.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Major individual awards (>£0.5M to UoS) included SOES leadership of the NERC-funded
 projects PISTON (£2M), MerMEED (£0.9M), CHIMNEY (£0.6M), STAFES-APP (£0.5M), SONIC
 (£0.5M), and the European Commission (EC) project SO-CHIC (£0.6M), major partnership in the
 EC project STEMM-CCS (£1.8M), and two European Development Agency grants (£0.7M total).
 European Research Council grants were secured by Rychert (StG, £1.2M), Foster (AdG,
 £3.2M; awarded April 2020), Sims (AdG, £2.3M; awarded April 2020), Brownlee (AdG, £2.4M),
 and Frajka-Williams (StG, £1.8M).
 Inclusivity in research activities across SOES is reflected by: (i) 78% of individuals having
 secured external funding over the REF period; (ii) female academic staff (27% of permanent
 staff) being PI on 23% of overall research income (£9.3 M), including 2 of the top 6 highest
 individual research incomes (Rychert, James)); (iii) significant research income (£1.7M)
 secured by 2 individuals who took parental or carer leave over the census period; (iv) ECRs
 being responsible for 5% of income (£1.8M), primarily in the form of 4 IRFs (Annett (F), Coggon
 (F), Inglis (M), Ward (M)).
 Enterprise activities within SOES are focused in two dedicated enterprise units supported by
 strategic investment of SOES staff time and facilities: the GAU-Radioanalytical (formerly known
 as Geosciences Advisory Unit) and Coastal and Offshore Archaeological Research Services
 (COARS). GAU-Radioanalytical provides radioanalytical consultancy and services to the nuclear
 industry, environmental sector, academia and local government and in 2018-19 had a turnover
 of £580k. GAU-Radioanalytical has supported significant nuclear decommissioning programmes
 including Magnox (across 12 nuclear licensed sites) and G E Healthcare (at both its Cardiff and
 Amersham sites). GAU-Radioanalytical is one of only six laboratories providing radioactive
 waste characterisation services within the Low-Level Waste Repository waste characterisation
 framework. In 2019, GAU-Radioanalytical (Warwick, Cundy) was awarded £1.2M by EPSRC to
 establish NNUF-EXACT, a world-leading radiochemistry facility enabling research and training in
 accelerated nuclear characterisation and remediation technologies. This, along with membership
 of the Southwest Nuclear Hub, provides a further key interface between academia, government and
 the nuclear industry. COARS, founded in August 2013 with a turnover of £75k per annum, has
 provided marine archaeological consent support for various offshore infrastructure projects
 including major UK windfarms, high voltage interconnectors and fibre optic telecommunication
 cables. Their 3D Chirp system also undertakes commercial work in collaboration with SAND
 Geophysics Ltd (a local marine survey company set-up by UoS alumni) on a range of riverine,
 coastal and offshore projects (e.g. major work on the Thames Tideway Tunnel) with £120k
 revenue in the last 2.5 years. COARS also provides a Continuing Professional Development
 training course in marine geoarchaeological assessment for English Heritage and the offshore
 energy sector.
 We will support our strategic research objectives (see §1.4) by sustaining our major UKRI
 income and growing and diversifying our funding portfolio by not only building on recent
 successes in terms of increasing the range of funding councils applied to (e.g. >£1.5M BBSRC,
 Hauton, Bibby, Moore and >£2.5M total EPSRC, Cundy, Warwick, Beaulieu and Teagle) but
 also through industrial and charitable streams, with leadership provided by the newly-established
 Director of Enterprise (Dix). The latter will include targeting opportunities and links provided by
 KTN, Innovate UK and the series of Royal Society Entrepreneurs in Residence associated with
 UoS. Successful grant capture will continue to build on a foundation of research excellence
 developed through our staffing strategy (see §2.1, 2.2), alongside the effective mentoring of staff
 and associated proactive collegial support for development of proposals including actively


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seeking and mentoring applications for personal fellowships by ECRs. We will continue to input
 ideas to NERC on areas for targeted strategic funding aligned with our objectives (see §1.4),
 while also horizon-scanning for upcoming challenges aligned to our expertise and facility
 capabilities (see §3.3). By leading and participating in applications to such strategic funding
 calls, we will build on our extensive network of national and international collaborators (see §4.1)
 and our overall versatility and adaptability strategy (see §1.4, 2.1).

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The National Oceanography Centre Southampton is a purpose-built world-class research facility.
 It is well-maintained and continually upgraded to ensure compliance with current regulations and
 guidelines, including accessibility. Examples over the review period include installation of
 accessible workspaces, fitting induction loops in lecture theatres, installing lifts with fully
 retractable doors, and applying contrasting colours in corridors to facilitate accessibility for the
 visually-impaired. A well-being room to support staff requiring rest breaks and expressing
 mothers was also established. A NOCS-wide Environment Advisory Group (including GSNOCS
 representation) seeks to minimise the environmental footprint of the building with a range of
 activities from encouraging sustainable transport and installing solar-powered showers to the
 introduction of sustainably-sourced food in the canteen. NOCS has achieved ISO14001
 certification for its environmental management system and ISO45001 certification for its
 occupational health and safety management system. Continuous improvement in all areas is
 part of the certification of ISO14001.
 Each SOES research group operates and/or utilises state-of-the-art facilities run by core
 experimental officers who are responsible for facility management and development. SOES has
 benefitted from University investment in developing the UK’s largest towing tank (£25M partly
 from external sources) and its high-performance computing infrastructure (IRIDIS; over £50M
 since 2014). Significant SOES investment into facilities since 2014 includes: (i) an
 Environmental Sequencing Facility that provides a range of next-generation sequencing and
 analysis services (£1.7M); (ii) an Organic Geochemistry laboratory comprising several GC- and
 HPLC-mass spectrometers (£0.5M); (iii) a state-of-the-art Palaeomagnetism Facility (£0.5M); (iv)
 laboratories for carbonate analysis and water-rock-carbon dioxide reaction experiments (£1.1M);
 and (v) an inductively coupled plasma time of flight mass spectrometer (icpTOF, one of the first
 in a UK HEI) and a triple-Quad ICPMS (£0.5M) for geochemical analysis. These investments
 were funded by competitively awarded grants, central UoS funds and by an equity sale from a
 SOES spin-out (OHM; £0.7M). All facilities are supported within both general and specialised
 laboratory spaces, the latter including an extensive suite of clean laboratories for both chemical
 and microbiological work.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure, including specialist facilities
 Facilities operated centrally by SOES include: our coastal and shelf research vessel the RV
 Callista (20m catamaran), which is supported by 1.6 FTE TAE staff (3M); and our sample
 preparation/thin-sectioning laboratory (2 FTE TAE staff, 2M). The National Oceanographic
 Library (NOL), hosted at NOCS, is run by UoS in collaboration with NOC as a resource for staff
 and students across SOES and UoS, the wider UK marine science community and public (by
 appointment). Other facilities are operated by individual research groups but are available to all
 staff as well as external users, representing a substantial income stream (e.g. the Geochemistry
 Facility receives ~£80k pa, research vessel ~£20k pa and the Environmental Genomics
 Sequencing Facility ~£10k pa).


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key infrastructure including specialist facilities by research group include:
 GC: Operates a state-of-the-art clean lab and mass spectrometry laboratory, equipped with two
 multi-collector Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometers (ICP-MS), three ICP-MS
 (including the recently purchased triple-Quad), a Thermal Ionisation MS and a new icpTOF,
 collectively representing one of the most comprehensively equipped inorganic geochemistry
 facilities in a UK HEI. We recently established an organic geochemistry laboratory with GC- and
 HPLC-MS and a GC-isotope ratio MS (£0.5M). Additionally, a low-temperature water-rock-
 carbon dioxide experimental laboratory was developed hosting a stable inorganic and organic
 carbon analyser, coupled to a Cavity Ring-down Spectroscopy analyser, alkalinity titrator and
 pH-stat instruments.
 G&G: Maintains the best equipped marine geophysical pool within a UK HEI, having a complete
 suite of conventional and bespoke equipment (e.g. a shallow and deep water swath; 3D Chirp;
 high-resolution multi-channel streamers; and deep-towed electromagnetic source and receivers),
 and equipment to perform seafloor Controlled Source ElectroMagnetic surveys alongside the
 Ocean Bottom Instrumentation Consortium (OBIC) co-run with Durham University. We also
 support four well-instrumented sediment flumes, larger scale flume infrastructure on the
 Boldrewood campus and have 2D and 3D sediment tanks which have been used for prototype
 HV cable experiments. We have a well-equipped sedimentology laboratory for standard
 sediment analysis including a range of field equipment (e.g. benthic landers, Conductivity
 Temperature Depth (CTD) probes, wave and tide pressure transducers, shallow water sonars).
 For research and teaching purposes we have licences worth ~£31M commercially for a range of
 top-end industry standard software: Petrel, 2D and 3D Promax, Caris, SonarWiz and CODA
 Octopus.
 MB: Operates a macronutrient, total organic carbon and nitrogen and carbonate chemistry
 facility using standard instrumentation (e.g. VINDTA-3C) including recent investment in: a new
 sea-going auto-analyser (£45K), chemostat systems, imaging flow-cytometry and a range of
 state-of-the-art biophysics instrumentation (including novel autonomous in-situ systems
 developed as a collaborative industry project via the NERC Marine Autonomous Systems project
 STAFES-APP; £0.9M). Custom-built containerised laboratories are used for large scale
 experimental manipulation at sea. SOES operates the shared (UoS/NOC) state-of-the-art
 environmental sequencing facility, including a grade 2 molecular biological clean room, an
 Illumina MiSeq sequencer, and high-performance computing for bioinformatics.
 MB&E: Operates two unique state-of-the-art mesocosm facilities: the Biodiversity and
 Ecosystem Futures Facility and the Coral Reef Laboratory aquarium facility. We also operate a
 multi-use research aquarium with a variety of tanks for keeping and handling live specimens for
 research, teaching and public outreach, host a hyperbaric experimental facility capable of
 maintaining in vivo experiments at high (full ocean depth) pressure, and have a new Acoustic,
 Sound and Vibration Ecology Facility (£240K, US Office of Naval Research) to study the impact
 of anthropogenic sound fields on coastal environments and ecosystems. Additionally, we have a
 biomineral/sclerochronology lab equipped for the imaging and micron-scale subsampling of hard
 tissues for chemical analysis.
 P&P: Has invested >£1.3M to upgrade instrumentation for high-precision and high-sensitivity
 stable isotope ratio mass spectrometry and elemental analysis in a range of substrates (from
 oxygen and carbon isotopes in foraminifera to nitrogen isotopes in biological samples),




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 elemental analysis via Energy Dispersive X-ray analysis scanning electron microscopy, and
 palaeo- and environmental-magnetism with a new cryogenic magnetometer.
 PO: Maintains a small suite of standard oceanographic equipment for deployment on the RV
 Callista, including two CTD systems, Acoustic Doppler current profilers and a towed undulating
 CTD system purchased in 2015 (£32k), and six pressure and temperature sensors. Open ocean
 observational work within PO is supported by the use of the NERC National Marine Equipment
 Pool (NMEP), which is based at the NOC. Past specialist equipment purchases within SOES-led
 NERC-funded science (e.g. microstructure profilers) are passed to the NMEP to facilitate wider
 community use. Modellers within the group are supported through access to a range of
 workstations, racks and high-memory machines alongside an on-site Mobilis 1152 core HPC
 and the UKRI Advanced Research Computing High End Resource (ARCHER).

 3.4 Collaborative use of research infrastructure
 Many of our research facilities have been and continue to be co-developed with NOC (e.g. the
 environmental sequencing facility and laboratories and instrumentation in the geochemistry
 facility). The OBIC, co-run by UoS and Durham University, provides the academic and
 commercial communities with access to instrumentation to image the sub-surface. The rest of
 our state-of-the-art marine geophysics equipment pool is also available for commercial hire. We
 make extensive use of key world-class UK facilities. Across all staff levels (i.e. Cat A. and
 PDRAs), SOES researchers have collectively spent >1500 days at sea on the NERC National
 Marine Facilities (NMF) ships operated out of both NOC (RRS James Cook and RRS Discovery)
 and BAS (RRS James Clark Ross), alongside making extensive use of the associated NMF
 equipment within the NMEP. We have made regular use of other national facilities including
 Diamond Light Source, ARCHER HPC facility, ion micro-probe facility and National
 Environmental Isotope Facility. We make use of many international infrastructure facilities
 including synchrotrons (Swiss Light Source), the ocean drilling activities co-ordinated by the
 Integrated Ocean Drilling Programme (see §4.1), and data from multiple components of the
 Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS) including the global ARGO float array and satellite
 remote sensing from both NASA and ESA platforms.

 3.5 Benefits-in-kind
 Halliburton has donated significant (~£31M) software for advancing our research in areas as
 diverse as rift fault activity at constructive plate margins to high resolution imaging of the
 subsurface to optimise the construction of offshore renewables. Research income in-kind
 equivalent to £11.6M is detailed in REF4c and is dominated by our leadership of NERC ship
 time activities.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations
 We collaborate widely with HEI and non-HEI organisations across the UK, Europe and
 internationally. 23% of our total £40M research income was awarded from non-UK sources
 (including EU), while over 74% of our extensive portfolio of publications were co-authored with
 international collaborators and over 20 international institutions are associated with our PGR
 supervision and training via GSNOCS (Figure 3).
 We are lead players in the IODP, arguably the largest, most enduring and successful long-term
 international collaboration in the environmental sciences: Teagle chairs the NERC-UK-IODP
 Programme Advisory Group and sits on the Executive Board that oversees the UK’s subscription

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the international program; McNeill is Co-Chair of the international IODP Science Evaluation
 Panel; Bohaty is member of JOIDES Resolution Facility Board (previously Wilson). Teagle and
 Coggon oversaw the evaluation and successful renewal of UK membership of Scientific Ocean
 Drilling, representing one of NERC’s largest long-term commitments (~£35M for ten years from
 2019). Coggon is co-editor of the 2050 Science Framework strategy “Exploring Earth Through
 Scientific Ocean Drilling”, for which she received a $50k award from ECORD. Coggon, Bohaty
 and Teagle will be Co-Chief scientists on up-coming Expeditions 390, 392 and 393 which will
 include a number of Southampton-based PhD students and ECRs.
 Other key contributions to major international programmes, include: €16M STEMM-CCS project
 (James, Bull, Minshull), €15M Blue Mining Project (Minshull), €12M EU MIDAS project
 (Hauton, James), €10M EU Initial Training Network project IsoNOSE (James (workpackage
 lead)) and £10M OMAN Drilling project (Matter (project director), Teagle) which involves 166
 scientists representing 30 countries across five continents. We also make significant
 contributions to a number of joint NERC-NSF programmes including: BLT-Recipes and DynOPO
 projects (Naviera-Garabato, PI) and UK-US RAPID array through the NERC Atlantic
 Biogeochemical (ABC) fluxes project (Moore, N.Bates). We have made major contributions to
 the international GEOTRACES programme (Lohan, Annett, N.Bates). International GCRF
 collaborative projects included: Building resilience along the Colombian Caribbean coast (Solan)
 and SARTRAC (Marsh). A number of projects were also undertaken with >20 leading UK
 universities and research institutes, including the NERC strategic grants CHIMNEY (Bull (lead),
 Matter, James, Minshull, Henstock) and GGREW (James, Lam, Teagle, Matter) and NERC
 large grants PISTON (Ezard, lead), SWEET (Foster, Inglis), COMICS (Lam, Moore), DeCAdeS
 (Naveira Garabato) and RiftVolc (Keir).
 We regularly host national and international visitors; these included 3 visiting UoS Diamond
 Jubilee Fellows (Ben Van Mooy, WHOI, USA 2013-1016; Peter Keleman, University of Columbia
 USA, 2013-2016; Matt England, University of New South Wales (UNSW), Australia, 2016-2019)
 and a UoS Global Fellow (Jeffrey Alt, University of Michigan, USA, 2019-present). The 5 formal
 seminar series run across SOES/NOCS play host to >100 research talks each year, with the
 flagship ‘Friday Seminar Series’ comprising >75 talks in the REF period (54%M/46%F), with 25%
 from international external speakers. SOES staff have also held a variety of visiting
 research/fellowship positions at institutions including: University of Sydney (Bibby); UNSW
 (Marsh); University of Florence (Keir); Hohai University, Nanjing Hydraulic Research Institute
 and State Key Laboratory of Estuarine and Coastal Research Shanghai (Townend); University of
 Western Australia and Vrije University Amsterdam (Haigh).

 4.2 Interactions with Research Users
 Engagement with end-users is driven at both an individual level and through institutional support,
 guided strategically via the Stakeholder Advisory Board. Specific examples of end-user
 engagement are highlighted above (see §1.5) and include our ICSs. Southampton also hosts the
 NERC IODP Knowledge Exchange Co-ordinator (Jude Coggon) to better project the activities
 and impacts of IODP both within the environmental and the wider science communities, in
 industry, government and among policymakers. The success of these IODP-focused activities is
 reflected in the disproportionally high success rate of UK-led IODP proposals, and the diversity
 of UK engagement with IODP in terms of institution, gender, subject area and career stage.




                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3 Wider contributions to economy and society
 Impact outside of academia is highlighted in our ICSs as well as broader activities. Examples of
 advice to policy-makers include: chapter lead (Drijfhout) and contributing authorship (Foster)
 IPCC AR6; development of DEFRA policy briefing on UK Shelf Seas (Solan, James);
 membership of DEFRA Science Advisory Council sub-committee on Ocean Acidification
 (James); provision of written and oral evidence to parliamentary select committees on subjects
 ranging from deep-sea environments (see ICS1), Ocean Acidification (N.Bates) and sustainable
 seas (Mills). We built capacity and provided advice on sustainable aquaculture and strategies
 for poverty alleviation in India and Bangladesh through the £2.1M Newton Bhabha consortium
 (UK BBSRC, ESRC, DBT India, DFID India) (Hauton), EU and NERC funded research on deep-
 sea mineral resources (£1M) informed the development of a regulatory framework for mineral
 exploitation on the high seas by the International Seabed Authority (Hauton, Copley, James).
 Work on the development of novel geochemical methods for fish traceability has also received
 funding from the Marine Stewardship Council (Trueman).
 Beyond the contributions to the commercial sector detailed in ICSs 3, 4 and 5, we have
 undertaken commercial sensor development (Moore, Chelsea Technologies UK) and provided
 advice to geothermal exploration companies in Africa (e.g. Reykjavik Geothermal; Keir).

 4.4 Community and public engagement
 Public and community engagement is central to much of the work done in SOES, as detailed
 extensively in ICS1 and ICS3. Beyond these activities our Discover Oceanography programme
 gives school children and members of the public a unique, hands-on opportunity to experience
 marine science by taking part in experiments and collecting samples and data aboard RV
 Callista. Since 2014, >2500 individuals have participated including >15 different school groups a
 year from Hampshire and the wider south of England. SOES also contributed successful exhibits
 to the Southampton International Boat Show in 2015 and 2018. We developed two new 5-year
 exhibits at the Winchester Science Centre (WSC), one of which is their largest to date (Godbold,
 Solan, Foster, Goodwin). Since opening in Jan 2020, these exhibits have attracted >45k
 visitors, despite access to WSC being restricted due to COVID-19. SOES staff are also actively
 involved in the Southampton Science and Engineering Festival that attracts 8000+ people to
 engage in our research. Additionally, multiple SOES staff have contributed mainstream media
 interviews (e.g. Bibby, Cundy, Wilson, Foster), including an episode of the BBC ‘Life Scientific’
 that has a potential audience of 10.7 million (Mills).

 4.5 Contributions to sustainability of discipline
 Since 2014, 20 SOES staff and >50 PG students and Post-docs have participated in UK or
 international research cruises, including 9 staff members that were principal scientists on
 research cruises using all of NERC’s research vessels and other international vessels. Fourteen
 SOES scientists have sailed on IODP expeditions since 2014, 5 as Co-Chief scientists along
 with 5 early career researchers and PhD students. This level of IODP leadership and
 involvement is the highest of any UK HEI.
 We provided members for 4 Scientific Committee on Ocean Research (SCOR) Working Groups
 on multiple topics including iron biogeochemistry (WG139, Lohan, WG151 Moore), microbial
 impacts of ocean deoxygenation (WG144, Lam) and fluorescence-based productivity
 measurements (WG156, Hickman, Moore) and a number of international model
 intercomparison projects, including RCMIP (Goodwin), DeepMIP (Inglis, Foster) and FeMIP


                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Moore). Other working group activity included the International Ocean-Colour Coordinating
 Group "Role of Ocean Colour in Biogeochemical, Ecosystem and Climate Modelling"
 (Hickman); Transparent Ocean Group workshop for the UN Decade of the Oceans (Marsh);
 International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme Past Global Changes (PAGES) Varves (Kemp)
 and PlioVAR Working Groups (Foster); British Ecological Society Strategic Plan Working Group
 (Ezard); Scientific Committee of ecoSERVICES, (Future Earth; Solan); Steering Group of
 NASA/CNES Surface Water and Ocean Topography Adopt-A-Crossover Consortium (Naviera-
 Garabato); Royal Society Working Group on Foresight Future of the Sea (Hauton). Since 2014
 we had 15 members on the NERC Peer Review College and provided >10 members for NERC
 grant moderating panels and fellowship interview panels. We also hosted and convened the
 Early Career IODP workshop in 2018 (Teagle, Coggon, McNeill, Wilson).

 4.6 International Academic Leadership
 In addition to the leadership we provide to IODP (see §4.1), SOES staff have been members of
 multiple international institute advisory boards including: the Alfred Wegener Institute (Tyrrell);
 GEOMAR (Minshull); GFZ Helmholtz Zentrum Potsdam (James); marine science University of
 Bergen (Minshull), the University of Namibia Faculty of Engineering advisory board (Palmer);
 Institute Evaluation Panel of Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research (Sims); International
 Scientific Council of the South Ural State University (Cundy); and the review board of Bjerknes
 Climate Centre in Bergen (N.Bates).
 We routinely provide reviewing and/or panel duties for international funding agencies, including:
 Norwegian Research Panel review panel Chair (Naveira-Garabato); Schmidt Ocean Institute
 Panel Member (Mills); Expert Evaluator of European Commission H2020 call LC-CLA-02-2019
 (James); Canada First Research Excellence Fund panel member for Environment and
 Agriculture (Mills); Polish Roadmap for Research Infrastructures (Bull).
 Other international roles included: Geohazards committee International Geoscience Programme
 (International Union of Geological Sciences and UNESCO) (Cundy); Advisory Board member,
 EU Horizon 2020 RETHINK project (Copley); ‘Food from the Oceans’ International Expert
 Network, Science Advice for Policy by European Academies (Sims). Intergovernmental Science-
 Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Regional assessment for Europe and
 Central Asia lead author (Solan). Vice President (Europe) International board of the Society for
 Environmental Geochemistry and Health (Cundy). UK representative Antarctic Science Drilling
 (Andrill) Science Committee (Bohaty), UN International Oceanographic Congresses-SCOR on
 marine ecosystem time-series (N.Bates); Co-chair of Standards and Intercalibration Committee
 and Scientific Steering Committee member for GEOTRACES (Lohan); UN International Seabed
 Authority Council Meeting (Hauton).

 4.7 National Academic Leadership
 SOES staff make major individual and collective contributions to the governance and operational
 activities of NERC, UKRI and the wider UK research community across multiple levels. The most
 significant of these include: Fellow of the Royal Society (Bryden, Shepherd); Trustee and Chair
 of Research and Enterprise Committee for Scottish Association for Marine Science (Brownlee);
 NERC Main Panel A Chair (Bull); British Ecological Society Honorary Treasurer (Ezard);
 National Environment Isotope Facility Strategy Group Member (Foster); Director of NERC Ocean
 Bottom Instrumentation Consortium (Henstock); Member of Expert Panel for UKRI Greenhouse
 Gas Removal Demonstrator programme, Strategic Priority Fund 2020 (James); Chair UKRI-
 NERC Climate Linked Atlantic Sector Science National Capability Advisory Group; Deputy Chair

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Quinquennial Review of Cefas 2018, President of Challenger Society for Marine Science (Mills);
 NERC Science Board Member, NERC Cruise Programme Review group Member & Chair of
 Scoping Group of RoSES (Role of the Southern Ocean in the Earth System) NERC Strategic
 Research Programme (Naveira Garabato); Chair of NERC UK-IODP Programme Advisory
 Group (Teagle).

 4.8 Other indicators of wider influence
 Prizes and fellowships (examples):
 Regius Chair, Ocean Science (Bryden); 4 Royal Society Wolfson Merit awards (Naviera-
 Garabato, Foster, Minshull, Wilson); Honorary Fellow, Natural History Museum and Fellow
 Royal Society of Biology (Mills); Fellow of the American Geophysical Union (Rohling), Fellow
 Royal Society of Biology and Marine Biological Association of the UK (Hauton); Elected Member,
 Academia Europaea (Sims); Coke Medal, Geological Society London (McNeill); Fellowships
 Challenger Society for Marine Science (Goodwin, Moore); NERC IRFs (Annett, Ward
 (declined)), Royal Society Fellowships (Coggon, Inglis, Ward); Scientific Associate, Natural
 History Museum (Copley); Honorary Fellowship - British Antarctic Survey (Naveira-Garabato);
 Fellow Geochemical Society and Fellow European Society of Geochemistry (Palmer); Fellow of
 the Alan Turing Institute (Gernon); Ecological Society of America’s 2019 Innovations in
 Sustainability Science Award (Solan); European Association of Geochemistry Early Career
 Science Ambassador Program (Inglis); Zoological Society of London Marsh Award for Marine
 and Freshwater Conservation (Sims).
 Journal review and Editorial boards:
 All SOES research staff regularly review for leading international journals and we provide
 members of editorial boards for a diverse range of journals (Figure 7).




                       Figure 7. Editorial board membership for SOES staff



                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Keynote lectures:
 >70% of SOES staff have delivered international invited keynote lectures, including: the 2014
 European Association of Geochemistry Distinguished Lecturer (James), 5th International Whale
 Shark Conference, Exmouth, Australia and International Netherlands Annual Ecology Meeting
 (Sims); The International Liege Colloquium (Solan); Paläontologische Gesellschaft (Marshall);
 International Conference on Paleoceanography (Bohaty); International Symposium on Aquatic
 Animal Health and Epidemiology for Sustainable Asian Aquaculture (Hauton); Spring
 Symposium, Australian Earth Science Convention (Gernon); European Marine Science
 Educators Association and Royal Society of Biology Education Awards (Copley); 31st
 International Conference of the Society for Environmental Geochemistry and Health (Cundy);
 8th Geochemistry symposium (Palmer); Ocean drilling Sumatra subduction zone meeting
 (McNeill); International Energy Agency Greenhouse Gas R&D Programme 4th International
 Workshop on Offshore Geologic CO2 Storage (Bull); and multiple invited talks and keynotes at
 Gordon Research Conferences (Lam, Minshull, Moore, Naviera-Garabato, Ward,
 Wiedenmann), AGU meetings (Foster, Goodwin, Keir, McNeill, Minshull) and Goldschmidt
 (Foster, Gernon, Lam, Moore).




                                                                                       Page 26
