Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Academy of Music

 Unit of Assessment: 33 - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Royal Academy of Music is a small specialist institution with c.850 students and c.400
 academic staff. 7.5% (31 members of staff, representing c.22 FTE) have significant research
 responsibilities in their contract; most of the remaining academic staff are professional
 performers and/or composers engaged on a part-time basis to teach at the Academy.

 When the Academy received its Royal Charter in 1830 its mission focused on the practical
 training of musicians, but described a wider brief that included reference to research in the form
 of ‘encouraging’ the ‘science’ of music and the ‘creation of new music’. All subsequent iterations
 of the mission have linked research and scholarship to professional training. The current
 Institutional Plan (2019–23) is explicit about the benefits of a healthy and flourishing research
 culture to our high-level training programmes (undergraduate BMus and range of PGT
 programmes at levels 7 and 8). Consequently, the Academy fosters research that is especially
 relevant to our taught programmes and to the artistic and scholarly concerns of professional
 musicians: in particular, explorations of musical creativity, the generation of new texts, and the
 development of innovative collaborative models between composers, performers, instrument
 makers and other creatives, all of which fall under the broad concept of artistry- and practice-led
 research. This approach feeds into the recruitment and development of new staff and the
 evolution of our taught programmes of study, as well as into our research strategy.

 Although the Academy is administratively divided into teaching departments organised by
 musical discipline (Strings, Composition, Piano, etc) we have an overarching institution-wide
 research strategy designed to encourage the development of inter-departmental collaborative
 research, promote a common set of goals, and enable the sharing of good practice.

 Building on the achievements of the previous seven years and addressing issues that we
 identified as strategic priorities, in 2014 we set out to achieve the following over the course of
 this REF period:

    1. To support our established researchers and grow our research capacity by developing
       new and early-career researchers from among our teaching staff, through the
       appointment of new staff, recruitment to our PGR programmes, and the development of
       internal and external research networks.

    Mechanisms for supporting our established researchers are described in sections 2 and 3
    below. Our ambition was to raise the number of our teaching staff participating in our
    research activities by 50% on the level achieved in the period 2008–2013. To accomplish
    this we established and publicised new themed research networks within the Academy,
    encouraged the development of short collaborative artistic research projects that paired new
    researchers with more established researchers, and developed more effective mentorship
    mechanisms for new and early-career researchers. As a result we exceeded our target, with
    participation levels rising by over 86% during the last seven years. Of the 31 staff whose
    outputs we submit in REF2 now, seven (West, Smart, Grime, Askenar, Clinch, Kilpatrick,
    Sheppard) appear there for the first time.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Over the next five years our strategic goals in this area will be to enhance the embedding of
    research in teaching activities, grow our capacity by increasing the participation of our
    teaching staff in research activities, and further develop new researchers so that they can
    take on significant research responsibilities before the next REF.

    2. To enhance our research facilities and infrastructure.

    At the start of the assessment period we estimated that the most effective enhancements we
    could make to our facilities and infrastructure would entail (1) a more researcher-friendly
    management of our museum collections and enhancement of our museum galleries to
    enable a more flexible range of research activities; (2) the establishment of a centralised
    research office to drive capacity building. However, the opportunity arose at the start of the
    period for us to undertake a more transformational enhancement of our facilities, making a
    more profound impact on the number and quality of research opportunities for a wider range
    of staff. This was a large, philanthropically supported capital project to build a new state-of-
    the-art theatre, a new recital hall equipped as a recording studio, and the acquisition of a
    substantial new off-site performance space (also equipped for recording). The new facilities
    came on stream in 2018, representing an immediate 67% increase in our large dedicated
    performance spaces. In order to meet the demands of this new capacity, our specialist
    Recording Department has grown from one to six members of staff over this period.
    Immediate beneficiaries who used the new facilities to prepare outputs submitted in REF2
    include Chadwick, Freeman-Attwood, Hayes, Heyde, Jones, and Pienaar.

    While significant improvements have been made in the accessibility of our collections to
    researchers (especially with goals met in large cataloguing projects), the refurbishment of
    our museum galleries was postponed because of the larger capital projects. It is getting
    underway in 2021.

    As we pursued our drive to increase our research networks and draw more teaching staff
    into our research culture, it became clear that the most effective support infrastructure would
    distribute responsibilities evenly across the institution rather than concentrating them
    centrally. We therefore focused our efforts on building a strong network of research support
    among administrative staff and managers across all departments. A key development that
    enabled us to build sustainable research capacity over this period was a significant
    restructuring and growth of the Academy’s Campaigns and Advancement Department. This
    has had a transformative effect on our ability to raise philanthropic support for our research
    activities, not only by underpinning large capital enhancement projects, but also in
    establishing networks of philanthropic support for particular research strands within the
    Academy (e.g., West’s work on musical creativity and therapies for those with dementias).

    Over the next five years our strategic priorities in this area will be to enhance our facilities by
    refurbishing several medium-sized performance spaces on the Academy’s main site and
    reconfiguring our museum galleries to allow more flexible use by researchers, teachers and
    students. As part of our ‘Third Century’ review of provision, marking our Bicentenary in 2022,
    we will seek to enhance and consolidate recording and IT support for research, learning and
    teaching, recognising that after the Covid-19 pandemic an infrastructure that supports
    remote collaborative working is more vital than ever.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To develop self-sustaining project funding models that represent excellent value to the
       public purse.

    The biggest challenge we faced over this period was the increasingly poor fit between the
    types of artistic research central to our research identity and the parameters of research
    council funding. Recognising that to build a sustainable culture of artistic research we
    needed to develop alternative funding strategies, we used seed funding to develop self-
    sustaining financial models based on commercial income and philanthropic support, topped
    up with support in kind. (This is described in more detail in section 2 below.) After successful
    pilot projects, pioneered by Freeman-Attwood, Pienaar and Sheppard-Skaerved, we have
    begun to roll the model out more widely. Of the 50+ outputs submitted in this REF2 at least
    17 (Pienaar, Sheppard-Skaerved, Freeman-Attwood, Heyde, Gorton, Grime, Holden, Hills,
    Sawer, Shipton, Carpenter, Jones, West) drew wholly or in large part on this model.

    We have yet to develop fully the mechanisms to track and evaluate this model, and this will
    be a strategic priority for us over the next five years.

    4. To strengthen pathways to impact by developing collaborative and professional networks
       globally with performers, teachers, other musical influencers, broadcasters, the press,
       record companies, venues and other cultural organisations

    The Academy has historically been well connected to the music profession, the media and
    other cultural organisations throughout the world. But leading up to past REF exercises these
    connections have not always been efficiently engaged in enabling and developing the impact
    of our research. Early in the period of the current REF we therefore took several strategic
    decisions designed to transform the ways Academy researchers think about impact, how
    they engage with existing impact pathways, and how new routes to impact could be
    collectively developed and shared:

       •   Experienced researchers with strong records in research impact were encouraged to
           mentor those with less experience, as a way of sharing good practice
       •   Applications for internal funding had to include coherent and deliverable impact
           strategies
       •   Research Committee acted as a nexus of ‘impact intelligence’, and individual
           members of the committee as ‘impact champions’ within the Academy

    As a result, our shared understanding of research impact is more nuanced than at the start
    of the period. We have become more effective in sharing good practice and intelligence
    about impact, and more adept at engaging with non-academic users to capture the ways in
    which our research affects their professional practice, cultural engagement, commercial
    success, etc. But we still face challenges in this area. We need to develop further the
    mechanisms by which we collect and evaluate impact data. This is especially challenging
    when our impact narratives are likely to be driven more by qualitative than quantitative data.
    It will be a strategic priority for us over the next five years.

    5. To address equality, diversity and inclusion issues, in particular the gender imbalance
       regarding staff with significant research responsibilities

    At the start of this period we took a strategic decision to prioritise the development of new
    and early-career female researchers and to address the gender imbalance through new
    appointments where possible. We set ourselves the informal target of doubling the number of

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    women submitted in our 2014 submission in our current REF2. Admittedly working from a
    low starting point, we have exceeded this target. Of the seven female staff included in REF2,
    four were appointed during the period of this exercise.

    Nevertheless, we recognise that there is still much pressing work to do in this area. Over the
    next five years we will aim to further redress the gender imbalance by at least doubling again
    the number of female researchers submitted in the next REF2. We will also address other
    EDI issues, particularly the under-representation of ethnic minorities in our research culture.
    This will take place in the context of institution-wide initiatives to redress historic under-
    representation in all areas of the Academy.

 2. People
 Staff
 Our staffing strategy has four key research-related aims:

    1. To sustain and develop the range, reach and quality of Academy research in the
       recruitment of new academic staff
    2. To develop teaching staff into early career researchers
    3. To develop, support and reward research excellence for all Academy researchers
    4. To promote equality and diversity in our support of research.

 Most new appointments to our Academic Studies department have significant research
 responsibilities in their contract, and we expect applicants to be developing a record of high-
 quality research. Our appointment process explores how the applicant’s research complements
 and develops the Academy’s profile (including the potential to develop new internal research
 collaborations), and how the Academy can support and further develop the applicant’s research
 and its impact. For example, since 1 January 2014 there have been three new appointments to
 Academic Studies lectureships: Clinch has extended our work on the generation of new musical
 texts to British music in the first half of the Twentieth Century, Kilpatrick has consolidated our
 critical mass in research on early-twentieth-century French music, and Sheppard has contributed
 to opening up historical perspectives on questions of music and wellbeing.

 The nature of the Academy’s mission means that new appointments to principal-study
 departments are made primarily on the applicant’s professional experience and expertise as a
 performer and/or composer and on their pedagogical excellence. Nevertheless, an increasingly
 important secondary consideration is whether the applicant is engaged in research, cultivates
 innovative professional and pedagogical practices, or has scholarly interests that might enable
 them to join the Academy’s research networks and develop as a new or early-career researcher.

 In July 2020 there were 370 teaching staff without significant responsibility for research at the
 Academy. These range from heads of large principal-study departments on fulltime contracts to
 part-time hourly paid staff who come into the building to teach just one morning per week in term
 time. This variety of participation in the Academy’s daily activities brings a challenge when it
 comes to engaging teaching staff in our research culture. Our approach has been to draw
 colleagues in through initially light-touch participation in collaborative research projects with
 established Academy researchers. Of the 370 teaching staff, 136 (37%) played an active
 collaborative role in one of more Academy research projects between 1 January 2014 and 31
 December 2020. Sixty-three of them were new participants in Academy research, representing a
 growth of 86% on the figure from the period 2008–2013.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Once teaching staff are drawn into our research culture, we deploy a range of support
 mechanisms to encourage them to develop their research further and become autonomous
 researchers. These include ongoing mentorship by more experienced researchers, introductions
 to leading researchers in their field, funding conference attendance and visits to libraries or
 instrument collections, seed funding for innovative projects, and funding doctoral studies. Of the
 136 teaching staff participating in research projects, 29 were supported with significant further
 mentorship and/or financial support during this assessment period and three had doctoral
 studies funded at the Academy and the University of Cambridge. Two indicative case studies
 are:

    1. Through her performing and teaching, cello teacher Josephine Knight identified
       significant editorial problems with the available editions of Schumann Cello Concerto.
       Mentored by Jones, Howat and Heyde, and supported with a travel grant, she
       investigated authentic source materials for the concerto in Krakow and Bergamo. Further
       mentorship, small discretionary grants and support in kind enabled Knight to produce a
       variorum edition of the score (Schumann’s Konzertstück für Violoncello), record its world
       premiere on the Dutton label with the Royal Northern Sinfonia [Dutton Epoch,
       B08619L7GB, 2020] and get it accepted for publication by Peters (currently in press).
    2. Through her teaching practice, violin teacher Sophie Langdon evolved an approach to
       mindfulness for people undertaking high-intensity professional training. Mentored by
       Gorton, Heyde and Jones from 2015, she was able to develop her ideas into a coherent
       research project, supported by the Academy. Introduced to others researchers in the field
       of music and wellbeing through the Healthy Conservatoire Network, Langdon has
       developed a series of collaborative research projects with staff in other institutions,
       including with medical staff at Queen Mary, University of London.

 Other research projects undertaken by teaching staff during the REF period, and supported by
 the Academy, include: world-premiere recordings of repertoire newly brought into the public
 domain (Walker, Gee, Cerasi, Podger, Johnstone, Liebeck, Glynn, Outram, Handy, Ragge), the
 creation of new repertoire (MacGregor, Murray, Bryndorf, Titterington, Moore), the development
 of innovative pedagogical materials (Churchill, Lidstrom, Robertson, Ashworth, Morely, Ragge),
 organological research (Silverthorne on Amati violas, McVicker on British organs), performance
 practice research (Faultless on unconducted performances of Beethoven symphonies, and
 Bach’s dynamic markings), the generation of new editions (Austin, Outram, Russill), and
 historical musicology (Stokes on German song).

 Because our programmes of study are founded on high-intensity training in one-to-one lessons
 and small-group classes, it is not practicable to award automatic periodic research leave. We
 have therefore developed alternative support mechanisms to ensure that researchers are able to
 pursue projects to completion and nurture the subsequent impact. They include:

    1. Managing flexible working patterns to give the researcher a regular research time free of
       teaching and administrative obligations, or a more concentrated, uninterrupted period of
       research.
    2. Buying out some or all of the researcher’s teaching and administration for an extended
       period up to a semester. This process is managed by the Academy’s Research
       Committee via an open competition, evaluated on the quality and strategic fit of the
       research proposal.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An indicative example of how these have enabled research to reach fruition is Nicolas Walker’s
 project to record the complete piano music of Balakirev. In preparation for the fifth and sixth CDs
 of this project, Walker needed to undertake archival work in Russian libraries and prepare new
 editions of some of the repertoire in addition to preparing his performances for the recordings.
 Walker and his line manager (Gritten) made a joint application to Research Committee for
 support. To enable Walker to complete the work over a 12-month period, Research Committee
 made a grant to buy out his teaching and administration over the first semester of 2018/19. The
 resulting outputs entered the public domain as two Naxos CDs (GP811 and GP846) in
 September 2019 and September 2020.

 The Academy has several mechanisms for rewarding excellence in research:

    •   through the annual appraisal process, line managers may identify the need to award
        sustained excellence in research and propose an incremental increase in the
        researcher’s remuneration through the annual planning round
    •   through enhanced support in kind, including increased access to specialist recording
        facilities, and subvention of costs associated with long-term loans from specialist
        instrument collections
    •   through the conferment of academic titles. (In this REF period Cashian, Chadwick,
        Gorton, Jones and Kenny have been promoted to University of London Professorships or
        Associate Professorships through the Conferment of Academic Titles process)
    •   through appointing retired staff, visiting staff, and PGR alumni to non-stipendiary
        honorary research Fellowships of the Academy, giving them continued access to the
        Academy’s research facilities and preserving collaborative research networks.


 Research students (including training)
 We recognise that our research degree environment is distinctive and unusual (both globally and
 in the UK context). The distinctive focus on artistry in our PhDs has been strategically
 consolidated during the REF period, building on earlier achievements and taking advantage of
 the perspective gained by Heyde as a member of the 2014 REF panel. Although our regulations
 (University of London) permit work that is principally musicological, we have prioritised PGR
 students who are working at the highest level artistically and will thus contribute most to our
 artistic, professional and research environment – and who, in turn will gain the most from contact
 with others in it. This consolidation has been effected by strategic developments in funding and
 training as well as recruitment. Its distinctiveness has been recognised in Heyde’s invited
 keynote for the ‘Beyond Mesearch’ conference hosted by the IMR in 2018, and subsequently a
 book chapter (not yet in print) for the Routledge Companion to Autoethnography and Self-
 Reflexivity in Music Studies by Callis and Heyde, exploring the ways in which our research
 degree environment has developed through six selected student projects from recent years. In
 addition to artistry-focused PhDs we have a number of projects that explore professional musical
 roles ‘from the inside’, through interviews and observation of practice.

 The Academy is not currently a member of any formal collaborative research training
 programme. Members of Academy research staff have made central contributions during the
 REF period to the Institute of Musical Research’s collaborative training programme but these
 sessions were perhaps most useful for students for whom a cross-disciplinary element of their
 research was not especially well served in their ‘home’ institution. (Academy students who need
 specific interdisciplinary training are allocated external supervision as required, drawing on
 discipline-specific training in the related field.) The IMR training events were discontinued at the

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 same time as the new AHRC-funded consortia were set up (following the closing of the original
 Block Grant Partnerships, through which we had a significant number of studentships). In the
 absence of this funding support, we have introduced scholarship and bursary support for PGR
 students through the Academy’s central funding system, much of which is supported by the
 Academy’s Development Team from donations. Over this REF period financial support for PGR
 students has varied between £29K and £41K per annum. In addition, we have consolidated a
 budget for research internships which can be used to pay fees or living expenses. Although this
 funding pot is relatively small (£15K per annum over the REF period) the flexibility to allocate this
 in direct relation to student need has enabled us to support students much more effectively than
 was possible with the inflexible AHRC grants. Almost all Academy doctoral students have active
 freelance careers that are tightly woven into their doctoral projects and the income from this
 work is an important element of each student’s individual funding strategy. We have prioritised
 institutional spending on international students whose visa conditions sometimes make freelance
 work impossible, retaining sufficient support for home students in need. The Academy provides
 extensive support (guidance, references, etc.) for external funding applications and c. 50% of
 doctoral students have a major source of external funding from a wide range of scholarship and
 other funds (either directly to support the student, or in the form of support for creative projects,
 such as recordings or performances as part of PhD portfolios).

 There is a formal annual cycle for recruitment and admissions, beginning in November with a
 public Symposium and Open Day and concluding in March with interviews (and auditions as
 required). In line with all of the Academy’s admission procedures, support is available for those
 unable to pay the application fee, and EIAs have been undertaken to ensure that applicants with
 protected characteristics have equal opportunity. All applications are assessed blind by a large
 panel to select a shortlist. Shortlisted candidates are interviewed by a panel of at least four
 members of supervisory staff. Applicants are encouraged to make contact with the team before
 submitting materials and we actively recruit students who will benefit most from the Academy’s
 research and artistic environment. There is a formalised cycle of induction (run by Callis, the
 dedicated Tutor for all PGR students), progression (end of year one) and transfer (end of year
 two). Progression and transfer assessments are managed by a team of two members of staff
 (including Heyde, as Head of Programme, or Callis as Tutor) and attended by the supervisor.
 These events have now been developed to include supervisor consolidation, which has proved
 more useful in developing the team than the separate consolidation events we ran in the past.
 The formalisation of this mechanism has allowed us to bring two new supervisors into the team,
 each of whom has been mentored closely by an experienced colleague in shared supervisions.

 There is not currently a part-time study option, which is a strategic decision to help encourage
 projects that are intimately connected with professional practice, but a significant number of
 students have to take a year out during study in order to build in sufficient time to complete, so
 this is under review. During the REF period we awarded 26 PhDs in performance and
 composition (12 performers and 14 composers).

 Because of the intensely practice-driven nature of the work undertaken by our students, the
 ‘artistic insight’ presented in the thesis portfolio is often a dominant element in the ‘distinct
 contribution to knowledge’ offered by the thesis. Our students thus need a research training that
 is specifically focused on the ways in which artistic work can be developed and framed. Our
 distinctive artistry-focused research training is delivered by a pool of experienced staff and
 visitors and built into the first term of our MMus programme, which is also attended by new

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 doctoral students. To complement these seminars, our regular PhD seminar is programmed to
 provide evidence of the ways in which these skills areas are realised and developed in work in
 progress, bringing student work together with staff projects and presentations from visiting
 musician-researchers.

 To provide an external perspective, and to complement our internal range of skills, we have a
 regular (twice-yearly) training exchange with the DocMus programme at the Sibelius Academy in
 Helsinki, which although not a PhD is the programme within the EU that we have identified with
 the most significant overlaps with ours in the emphasis placed on the artistic dimension of the
 output. This exchange entails four members of staff (Callis and Gorton) and a selected group of
 students visiting in each direction. The visits culminate in extended collaborative presentation
 and feedback sessions involving the entire cohort and the full complement of supervisory staff.
 During this REF period we have also established multiple supervision collaborations with the
 Bartlett School of Architecture (UCL), which has now been formalised with the appointment of
 Heyde as a visiting professor. RAM students regularly attend the training sessions provided by
 the British Library and a collaborative session with RAM staff and RILM staff was programmed
 for the delayed EPARM 2020 conference.

 Although a significant number of Academy doctoral graduates from this REF period have
 achieved positions in HE institutions (Askenar, Bowler, Festeu, Kanga, Latimer, Moorcraft,
 Morley, Samsulli, ter Haar) a survey of our students indicated that this was not a primary
 objective for doctoral study. Instead, the key aim was to use the doctorate to incubate and
 develop individual artistic projects in ways that are not directly supported by the professional
 environment. Many of our students have produced major commercial recordings during or
 immediately following their studies. These include a six-CD series for Naxos by Septura (Cox), a
 direct outcome of his PhD establishing a repertoire for Brass Septet, and a four-CD series of
 Emile Sauret’s Etudes-Caprices for solo violin for Naxos (the principal focus of Rashidova’s
 PhD). Establishing a professional footing for the research work is a central component of the
 supervisory strategy for all students, and where possible the Academy provides recording
 resources in the form of spaces, technology, and engineering/editing costs. A special funding pot
 (up to £3K) is available for each student in order to support costs in producing creative output.

 Promoting Equality and Diversity
 The Academy recognises the importance of building an inclusive, diverse and high performing
 institution because we have nearly 200 years of evidence to show how people from different
 backgrounds and with different perspectives can work together to enrich a creative research
 environment. Our goal is to make the Academy a place that actively attracts, engages and
 develops talented individuals from many different backgrounds. In line with the legislative
 framework outlined in the Equality Act 2010, and as part of our longstanding commitment to
 diversity and inclusion, we are dedicated to treating all people with dignity and respect equally,
 irrespective of their protected characteristics, and to creating an environment that enables
 people, regardless of their protected characteristics, to reach their potential as researchers.

 In our Code of Practice we outline the policy framework of our approach to promoting equality
 and diversity in research. Over the period of this exercise the practical steps we have taken to
 promote equality of research opportunities for all staff include:

    •   Transparent advertising of all funding, mentorship and collaborative opportunities


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Prioritising flexible one-to-one mentoring over timetabled group staff development events
        to reach those on PTHP contracts
    •   Promoting flexible working patterns to free up research time.

 As set out in section 1 above, we will continue to address EDI issues in the next five-year
 strategy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 During this assessment period Academy researchers with musicological (Howat, Kilpatrick) and
 interdisciplinary (West) projects have been supported with Research Council Funding. But we
 recognise that the artistic research projects that are central to our research identity – particularly
 with those whose outcomes are recordings or live performances – have increasingly become a
 poor fit for the Research Councils’ funding calls and are therefore unlikely to receive UKRI
 funding.

 To mitigate this trend we have encouraged the development of sustainable funding models for
 individual researchers and internal consortia in which the commercial income from one project is
 invested in the next, topped up if necessary by discretionary QR funds, philanthropic donations,
 and support in kind. For example, the commercial profit of Pienaar’s recording of Beethoven’s
 complete Piano Sonatas on the Avie label was reinvested in his next recording project of
 seventeenth-century repertoire. The latter project was also made viable by top-up support in kind
 from the Academy, including access to performance venues, instruments, instrument
 technicians, and recording equipment and support. Similarly, Holden recycled the commercial
 income from his 2013 Strauss monograph and the impact activities he subsequently undertook
 (public speaking, broadcasts, etc) into his 2016 Barbirolli monograph, topped up by philanthropic
 donations and support in kind from the Barbirolli Society and the Academy.

 There are several benefits to this model, including:

    •   It encourages individual researchers and consortia to build a sustainable funding pipeline
        for their research projects and thereby gain autonomy over the direction of their artistic
        research
    •   It encourages the development of collaborative research networks within the Academy,
        so that commercial resources can be pooled to sustain a collective pipeline
    •   It encourages researchers to build effective pathways to impact and knowledge
        exchange networks into each project in order to generate the necessary income to
        support the next project
    •   It frees QR funding to be targeted at innovative research proposals without obvious or
        immediate commercial prospects, to seed funding for new and early-career researchers,
        and for the development of new research networks and consortia.

 The chief challenges of the model are how to capture and evaluate the richness and complexity
 of the funding mechanisms, how to put a value on complex patterns of support in kind, and how
 to ensure that the necessity to derive commercial profit from artistic research projects does not
 deform or hamper the trajectory of researchers’ development. Our progress in meeting these
 challenges is at an early stage. We have viewed the last REF period as the space to experiment
 with, develop and refine this funding model. A strategic priority over the next period will be to
 develop robust methods of tracking and evaluation. We have already received philanthropic



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 income to enable a pilot exercise in 2021–22. We plan to roll this out across the board before the
 next REF exercise.

 We recognise that our income profile, as set out in REF4, is unusual in UK and international
 contexts. But we argue that the alternative funding models we have developed represent
 exceptional value to the public purse. As tokens of the initial success of our initiative, we point to
 the breadth and depth of our collaborative reach, as described in section 4 below, and to the
 range of research outputs submitted in REF2.

 Infrastructure
 The shape of the Academy’s research infrastructure stems from our size and specialist mission.
 Rather than concentrated in a dedicated research office, a coherent network of governance,
 management and administrative research support structures is distributed throughout the
 organisation. This model brings several advantages: it helps embed a research ethos across the
 entire institution and increases the number and range of staff who have a stake in fostering
 research excellence; it encourages greater links between the delivery of learning/teaching and
 research; and it helps identify and support the development of teaching staff who have research
 potential.

 The Academy’s Research Committee is a junior committee of our Academic Board. Its key remit
 is to develop the Academy’s research strategy and policies and oversee their implementation; to
 decide the distribution of discretionary funding for research projects, based on transparent
 competition open to all academic staff; and to oversee the sharing of good practice through
 mentorship and training. Membership of the Research Committee encompasses senior
 managers (Principal, Deputy Principal), experienced researchers in leadership roles (Heads of
 Research, Programmes, and some principal-study Departments, Librarian and Head of
 Collections), departmental staff at various stages in their research careers, early-career
 researchers, and research students. This ensures that the committee is able to hear diverse
 stakeholder voices and consider issues from multiple perspectives. Two members of the
 committee – the Deputy Principal and the Associate Head of Research – are also members of
 the Conservatoires UK Research Forum, and act as conduits for the sharing of information and
 good practice between the two bodies. In this way, the Research Committee remains in close
 touch with broader sectoral developments.

 The Academy subscribes to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The Research
 Committee ensures that a culture of research integrity permeates the institution by publishing
 our expectations of the highest standards of rigour and integrity, sharing good practice,
 promoting mentorship and training opportunities, requiring all funding applications to give a
 transparent account of the ethical, legal and/or professional issues raised by the proposed
 project, and monitoring research outputs. The Academy has not yet had to deal with allegations
 of research misconduct. Should such allegations arise, the Research Committee has
 transparent, timely, robust and fair processes to deal with them. The Academy has a standing
 Research Ethics Sub-Committee that scrutinises requests for ethical approval and disseminates
 good practice. It reports to each meeting of the Research Committee through a standing item on
 the Agenda.

 Management of research resources and activities begins with the Senior Management Team. As
 part of each annual planning round the SMT makes top-level decisions about the distribution of

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QR funding. The three key areas of funding are salaries (to enable dedicated research time in
 contracts), the maintenance and development of infrastructure (in particular, specialist facilities
 and equipment), and discretionary funding for individual projects (either made directly to
 departments, or disbursed by the Research Committee via open competition). The Deputy
 Principal, who is a member of the SMT, has overall responsibility for research management. He
 line manages all heads of academic departments who in turn have day-to-day managerial
 responsibility for the researchers in their departments. Heads of Departments manage and
 support their researchers through annual appraisal, ongoing mentorship, and monitoring
 progress in individual projects. They are charged with identifying, encouraging and mentoring
 new researchers, with identifying and supporting development opportunities for more
 experienced researchers, and with encouraging the development of research networks within
 their department, across the whole institution, and with external researchers.

 Administrative support for research comes primarily from the Head of Finance, the Director of
 HR, Senior Management Team administrative support (including the International Officer and the
 Executive Assistant to the Deputy Principal), the Postgraduate and Research Programmes
 Administrator, and fundraisers in our Advancement and Campaigns department. Given the
 centrality of artistic, practical work in the Academy’s research profile, significant support also
 comes from the Director of Artistic Planning, the facilities manager, administrators in our
 Recording Department and Instrument Curator’s office, and principal-study department
 administrators.

 Facilities
 Specialist research facilities at the Academy take four principal forms:

    1. Dedicated performance spaces and rehearsal studios
    2. The equipment and expertise of a dedicated Recording Department
    3. Museum Collections, including globally-renowned instrument collections, music-
       iconographic collections, and institutional archives with significance for historians of
       British music pedagogy, managed by expert curators
    4. Library Collections, including significant collections of manuscript and early printed
       materials (e.g., the Robert Spencer Collection, and autograph manuscript scores by
       Purcell, Mendelssohn, Sullivan, Elgar, Vaughan Williams, and Bartok etc) and
       performance materials from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries (eg the Henry Wood
       Collection, the Klemperer Collection, the Barbirolli Collection, the Foyle Menuhin Archive,
       the Mackerras Collection, and the Ferenc Fricsay Collection).

 Since 1 January 2014 there have been significant enhancements in all four areas.

 Dedicated Performance Spaces
 We have built two award-winning new spaces -- the Susie Sainsbury Theatre and acoustically
 isolated Angela Burgess Recital Hall -- on the Academy’s main site (almost wholly funded by
 philanthropic donations) and acquired an additional large performance space at St Mark’s
 Church on Old Marylebone Road. This has had a transformative effect on our research capacity,
 complementing the Dukes Hall and David Josefowitz Recital Hall, and increasing the number of
 performance spaces available to researchers by 67%.

 Dedicated Recording Facilities
 Since the last REF exercise the Academy has thoroughly overhauled its dedicated recording
 facilities. The new Angela Burgess Recital Hall has been furnished as a state-of-the-art

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recording studio, and enhanced recording facilities have been hard-wired into the Dukes Hall,
 the David Josefowitz Recital Hall and St Mark’s Church, enabling researchers to capture more
 easily the research processes underpinning their projects. Three new recording production
 suites have been installed: two in the main building and one at St Marks. Over the same period
 the Recording Department’s size and range of expertise have expanded significantly from one
 recording engineer in 2013 to six staff (Head of Recording, three engineers, a studio and
 production coordinator, and one Tonmeister intern) in 2020, enabling the Academy to provide a
 much higher level of support to researchers in editing and archiving recorded materials.

 Museum Collections
 The most significant enhancement to the Academy’s instrumental collections since 2014 has
 been the ongoing project, in collaboration with the Calleva Foundation, to commission new
 instruments from today’s most interesting and innovative makers. The aims of the project include
 fostering collaborations between leading players and makers, encouraging technological
 innovation, holding periodic seminars to bring the makers together to share good practice, and
 educating Academy students on how to negotiate a new commission and how to evaluate the
 qualities of a new instrument vis-à-vis a heritage instrument. The project is centered on
 orchestral stringed instruments and bows, but it also includes guitars, harps, and keyboard
 instruments. As of December 2020 over 60 commissioned instruments have been made by
 world-leading makers, including Zygmuntowicz, Raboutin, Kratenmacher, Abreu, and Kern. A
 significant collateral benefit of the Calleva project is how it complements our collection of
 heritage stringed instruments, and – by expanding the pool of fine loan instruments to students
 and staff – allows the heritage instruments to be more readily available for Academy research
 projects.

 The largest acquisition to the Museum Collections over the assessment period is the Mobbs
 Collections of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century pianos, almost doubling the number of
 heritage instruments in our keyboard collection, and adding particular strengths in London
 instruments from the turn of the eighteenth/nineteenth centuries.

 Library Collections
 Significant developments in our library collections during this period include:
     • The completion of large cataloguing projects with regard to performance-material
         collections (Henry Wood, Mackerras, etc)
     • The acquisition of new collections (e.g., the Ferenc Fricsay Collection) to complement
         our existing collections of performance materials, in particular conductors’ annotated
         working scores
     • The appointment in 2015 of a fulltime Digitisation Officer. The digitisation programme has
         prioritised the objects and sources that over the last decade have been most heavily in
         demand from visiting researchers as well as Academy researchers. The benefits of this
         process came into particular focus when the Covid-19 lockdown prevented access to our
         collections onsite in 2020.
 Academy researchers whose projects have relied particularly heavily on access to our
 collections over this period include Holden (Mackerras Collection, Barbirolli Collection, Wood
 Collection and Ferenc Fricsay Collection), Heyde and Sheppard Skaerved (heritage instrument
 collections), Kenny (Robert Spencer Collection), Smart (Kenny Wheeler Collection), and Jones
 (Calleva Collection).




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 A shift in strategic priority to emphasise the value of external research collaborations to our own
 environment was made at the beginning of this REF period, in part as a response to the difficulty
 of generating funding from research councils and other similar bodies for artistry-led research
 projects (recordings and performances in particular). This has been co-ordinated and managed
 through staff appraisal and supported by arrangements for flexible working patterns and periods
 of relief from teaching duties. Good practice in this area has been shared through the Research
 Committee, in reviewing of funding for research projects, the regular doctoral seminars, and in
 materials disseminated by the PGR interns.

 A relatively small number of our collaborations are in the form of traditional research
 networks/projects, which we have sought to combine with our teaching, as in the ‘Transforming
 C19th HIP’ AHRC project (Faultless), in partnership with Oxford University, which led to
 workshops with Academy staff and students, and the projects undertaken by West, which
 included an ERASMUS exchange to the university of Groningen in the Netherlands and ESRC
 and Wellcome Trust funded projects on co-creativity and dementia. (These projects instigated
 work with major professional orchestras and universities in Japan and partnerships with UCL,
 UAL, Canterbury Christchurch, EUA and Bangor, which have fed back into the Open Academy
 experience for both undergraduate and postgraduate Academy students.) ERASMUS links were
 also important for the work of Smart and Carpenter. Shipton has collaborated with the Research
 Group of the European Jazz Network (funded by the EU’s Creative Europe programme) and
 Gorton worked on a European Research Council funded project at the Orpheus Instituut:
 MusicExperiment2. Blier-Carruthers has been a member of a number of AHRC funded research
 networks (Art of Record Production, CMPCP Imact, Performance in the Studio) and Jones and
 Kenny have also worked on AHRC-funded projects.



 Several of our research partnerships have evolved into formal roles for individual members of
 staff at partner institutions. These have been instrumental in providing external platforms for our
 work, and in feeding into our own environment and internal research projects. Gorton is
 Associate Researcher, at the Orpheus Instituut; Heyde is Visiting Professor at the Bartlett
 School of Architecture, UCL, and, from Jan 2021, Visiting Professor at the Sibelius Academy,
 Helsinki; Howat is Visiting Professor at the Elder Conservatorium, University of Adelaide, Visiting
 Professor at the Unversité de Montréal, and Professor at RCS; Jones and Freeman-Attwood
 both held the position of Distinguished Global Visiting Professor at the Tokyo University of Music
 and the Arts; and Sheppard Skaerved is Visiting Research Fellow at Goldsmiths, UoL.

 The large majority of our research partnerships operate without funding from one of the research
 councils and are supported directly by one or more of the partner institutions, or by funding
 raised through performances and teaching/speaking to subvent research costs. The flexibility
 afforded by these kinds of relationships has proved a vital asset in generating a global network
 for our research environment – and for enhancing the range of creative approaches embodied in
 our work. Both staff and students in our environment directly benefit from this extended network
 of contacts established through these partnerships. An indication of the extent of the global
 distribution of our research partners in other HEIs is given below.

        Research partners
        UK:


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Bath Spa (Heyde, Sholl), Royal Birmingham Conservatoire (Shipton), Birmingham
        University (Clinch), City University (Chadwick, Hills), Durham University, Guildhall School
        of Music and Drama (Chadwick, Sholl), Queen Mary, Univeristy of London (West), Royal
        College of Art (Blier-Carruthers, Sheppard Skaerved), Royal Northern College of Music
        (Jones, Sheppard Skaerved), Sheffield University (Chadwick), Southampton University
        (Heyde, Sheppard Skaerved, West), University College London, University of the Arts
        London (West), University of Cambridge (Blier-Carruthers, Clinch, Faultless, Jones),
        University of Oxford (Clinch, Jones), University of West London (Blier-Carruthers, Sholl,
        West).



        EU:
        Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Paris (Howat, Heyde), Cyprus University
        (Sheppard Skaerved), Hochschule der Künste, Bern (Holden, Jones), Kunstuniversität
        Graz (Gorton), Malmö Academy of Music (Gorton, Sheppard Skaerved), Royal Irish
        Academy of Music (Howat), Royal Conservatory Ghent (Chadwick), Sibelius Academy
        (Gorton), University of Amsterdam (Sholl).

        North America:
        Blair School of Music (Sheppard Skaerved, Gorton), Boston University (Sholl), Dartmouth
        University (Heyde), Frost School of Music (Smart), Harvard University (Heyde, Jones),
        Indiana University (Jones), Ithaca College (Sheppard Skaerved), Notre Dame University
        (Jones), Peabody institute (Sheppard Skaerved, Chadwick), University of Montreal,
        University of Texas at Austin, Wellesley University (Howat).

        Other:
        Doshisha University (West), Elder Conservatorium Adelaide (Howat), Griffith University,
        Melbourne Conservatorium, National Taipei University of Education, Queensland
        Conservatorium, Singapore Conservatorium (Holden), St. Petersburg Conservatory, St.
        Petersburg State Institute of Culture (Walker), Sydney Conservatorium, Tsukuba
        University, University of New South Wales (Heyde, Howat, Sheppard Skaerved),
        University of Stellenbosch (Pienaar).

 This global network is small in comparison to the range of collaborations with organisations that
 might traditionally be described as ‘users’. Because of the artistic focus of much of our research,
 these organisations are critically important partners and the networks established here are
 essential to the vitality of our environment. On the one hand, these partnerships speak directly to
 the significance of our research work, but also, critically, these relationships provide financial
 support ‘in kind’ for research process time and expenses. The organisations listed below are
 often the first and most important links in the chain of impact stemming from the research.
 Sharing of effective practice in this area takes place in Research Committee, the Research
 Groups and the doctoral seminars.



 A list is required to demonstrate the range of partnerships. It will be noted that there are a
 number of particularly important partners in London: King’s Place, St. John’s Smith Square and
 Wilton’s Music Hall.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Organisations in the UK:
       Aldeburgh Festival (Cashian, Sholl), Arundel Cathedral (Sholl), BBC (Kenny), BBC
       Proms (Kenny, Sawer), BBC Singers (Sawer), BBC TV (Holden), BBCPO (Carpenter),
       BBCSO (Carpenter, Cashian, Sawer), BCMG (Sawer), British Museum (Sawer,
       Sheppard Skaerved), Britten Sinfonia (Cashian), BVMA (Sheppard Skaerved, Heyde),
       Café OTO (Hills), CBSO (Carpenter), CHROMA (Gorton), City University (Hayes),
       EXAUDI (Hills), Garsington Opera (Sawer), Glyndebourne Festival Opera (Holden), Guild
       of Church Musicians (Sholl), Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival (Chadwick,
       Gorton), Isle of Man Festival (Cashian), Jaqueline du Pré Concert Hall, Oxford (Kenny),
       Kammer Klang (Hills), Kettle’s Yard (Chadwick), King’s Place (Blier-Carruthers, Cashian,
       Hayes, Heyde, Jones, Kenny, Sheppard Skaerved, Smart), London Contemporary Music
       Festival (Chadwick), London Sinfonietta (Sawer), LSO Rattle (Grime), LPO Alsop and
       Colin Currie (Grime), Merton College Oxford (Clinch), Music We’d Like to Hear
       (Chadwick), Naxos (Clinch), New Music Biennale (London SBC/Glasgow) (Sawer),
       Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment (Kenny), Oxford Festival of the Arts (Kenny),
       Oxford Lieder Festival (Howat, Kenny, Kilpatrick), Oxford University (Clinch, Gorton,
       Hayes, Heyde, Kenny, Sheppard Skaerved, Shipton, Sholl), Philharmonia Orchestra
       (Howat), RAH (Carpenter), RLPO (Carpenter), Royal College of Music (Clinch), Royal
       College of Organists (Sholl), ROH (Sawer), Royal Musical Association (Sholl), RSNO
       (Carpenter), RSPB (Sheppard Skaerved), Salisbury Cathedral (Kenny), Salisbury
       Festival (Kenny), Sam Wanamaker Playhouse (Kenny), Snape Maltings (Carpenter,
       Kenny), Southbank Centre (Sholl), Spitalfields Music (West), St David’s Festival (Kenny),
       StJSS (Carpenter, Cashian, Chadwick, Gorton, Gritten, Hayes, Heyde, Sheppard
       Skaerved, Sholl, Walker), The Forge (Gorton), The Stables Wavendon (Kenny), Three
       Choirs Festival (Clinch), University of Aberdeen (Clinch), Westminster Abbey (Sholl),
       Westminster Cathedral (Clinch), Wigmore Hall (Kenny, Jones, West), Wilton’s Music Hall
       (Chadwick, Gorton, Heyde, Howat, Pienaar, Sheppard Skaerved), York Early Music
       Festival (Kenny).

       Organisations in the EU:
       Asociación Española de Orquestas Sinfónicas (AEOS) (Garcia Hernandez), Auditory of
       Tenerife (Garcia Hernandez), Basque National Orchestra (Carpenter), Bergen Festival
       (Chadwick, Sheppard Skaerved), Bergen Kunsthallen/KODE Museums (Sheppard
       Skaerved), Bibliotheque Francophone Media, Limoges (Shipton), Bilbao (Chadwick,
       Hayes, Hills, Sholl), CNDM, Madrid (Garcia Hernandez), Cologne Early Music Festival
       (Kenny), Dansk-Norsk Fondet (Lysebu-Oslo & Schaeffergaarden-Copenhagen)
       (Sheppard Skaerved), Darmstadt (Hayes), DSO Berlin (Grime), Fondacion BBVA,
       (Chadwick, Hayes, Hills, Sholl), Graz (Gorton), HK Gruber (Carpenter), IRCAM (Blier-
       Carruthers, Gorton, Heyde, Sholl), Karlsruhe (Hayes), L’auditori, Barcelona (Garcia
       Hernandez), Leipzig Hochschule (Howat), MA Festival Bruges (Kenny), Malmö Academy
       of Music (Gorton), ME-MMIX18 Festival Palma (Chadwick), MIAC, Lanzerote (Garcia
       Hernandez), Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum (Sheppard Skaerved), Notre-Dame de Paris
       (Sholl), Orpheus Instituut (Gorton), Pharos Contemporary Music Festival (Sheppard
       Skaerved, Chadwick), Philharmonie Berlin (Grime), Royal Conservatory Antwerp
       (Gorton), Sociedad General de Autores Españoles (Garcia Hernandez), Svalbard
       Kunsthall (Sheppard Skaerved), TEA and the Tank, Tenerife (Garcia Hernandez),
       Toulouse International Organ Festival (Sholl), Universität für Musik und darstellende



                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Kunst, Vienna (Hayes), University of Strasbourg (Sholl), Warsaw Autumn Festival
        (Chadwick).

        Organisations in North America:
        American Musicological Society (Sholl), Borealis Quartet (Carpenter), Boston Symphony
        Orchestra (Grime), Boston University (Hills), C4 Composer Collective New York (Hills),
        Chamber Music Society of New York (Jones), Cleveland International Classical Guitar
        Festival (Kenny), Columbia University New York (Shipton), DiMenno Centre NYC
        (Jones), Fordham University (Sholl), LAPO (Grime), Lute Society of America (Kenny),
        McGill University (Sholl), Metropolitan Museum New York (Sheppard Skaerved),
        Minneapolis Institute of Art (Sheppard Skaerved), Montreal Museum of Modern Art
        (Sholl), Tanglewood Music Center (Grime).

        Other organisations:
        Beijing Modern Music Festival (Cashian), Guiyang Symphony Orchestra (Cashian), Haifa
        Concert Halls (Jones), Japan New Century Orchestra, Osaka (West), Port Fairy Spring
        Music Festival (Kilpatrick), Tel Aviv Museum of Art (Holden, Heyde, Jones).

 Because of the creative focus of our mission, recording and broadcasting are central to the
 vitality and sustainability of Academy research. The absence of specifically-targeted external
 research funding for this element of our activity means that a combination of partnership
 development and Research Committee funding support has been critical in building and
 supporting this area. (Although the REF exercise itself expressly provides for research outputs
 that are essentially creative – accompanied by short explicatory texts – this kind of work is poorly
 supported by the research councils.)



 Several of the partners listed below have been instrumental in supporting research-led projects,
 by providing a platform with follow-on funding, or by offering special funding models for
 publication of recordings. There are a number of particularly important partnerships, which have
 developed in significance during the assessment period through the sharing of good practice
 and the building of new relationships. The BBC, Linn Records, Metier/Divine Art and Toccata are
 each associated with a large pool of Academy researchers.

        Recording companies, broadcasters
        Australian Broadcasting Coroporation (Kilpatrick), All That Dust, Another Timbre
        (Chadwick), Avie (Pienaar), BBC Radio 3 (Askenar, Carpenter, Cashian, Chadwick,
        Clinch, Faultless, Freeman-Attwood, Gorton, Grime, Heyde, Hills, Holden, Howat, Jones,
        Kenny, Kilpatrick, Sawer, Sheppard Skaerved, Shipton, Sholl, Smart, Walker, West),
        BBC World Service (West), BBCTV (Grime, Holden, Kenny, Sawer, West), Carrier
        Records (Hills), Channel Classics (Freeman-Attwood, Podger, Glynn, Jones), Classic FM
        (Walker), Classica FM South Africa (Jones), Delphian Records (Kenny), Divine Art
        (Chadwick, Gorton, Sheppard Skaerved), France Musique (Chadwick), Innova
        (Chadwick, Heyde, Sheppard Skaerved), Kairos (Hayes), Linn (Freeman-Attwood,
        Howat, Jones, Kenny), Metier (Cashian, Chadwick, Gorton, Heyde, Sheppard Skaerved),
        Move Records (Heyde, Sheppard Skaerved), Naxos (Chadwick, Clinch, Heyde,
        Sheppard Skaerved, Walker), New Focus Recordings (Cashian), NHK TV (Jones),
        Nimbus (Carpenter, Sawer), NMC (Cashian, Grime, Sawer, Hayes, Heyde, Sheppard
        Skaerved), NPO Radio4 (Askenar), Oberlin Music (Cashian), Orpheus (Gorton), Parma
        (Sheppard Skaerved), Peters Sounds (Howat, Kilpatrick), Radio Eclectus (Hills), RTVC
        (Askenar), RTVE (Askenar), SOMM (Clinch), Toccata (Chadwick, Gorton, Heyde, Howat,

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Sheppard Skaerved), Tzadik (Heyde, Sheppard Skaerved), WDR (Jones), WFMU (Hills),
        WNYC Studios (Askenar), WQXR (Askenar), WSFM (Hills).

 There is also a significant group of music and book publishers with whom we have made
 relationships, largely unsupported by research council funding. Chester Music and Edition
 Peters are especially important in relation to compositions and editions, and Ashgate, CUP and
 Routledge each connect with a substantial pool of Academy writers.

        Publishers (Composers and Editors)
        ABRSM (Cashian, Grime), Boosey and Hawkes (Freeman Attwood, Pienaar), Cadenza
        Music (Carpenter), Chester Music (Cashian, Carpenter, Grime, Hills), Composers Edition
        (Askenar, Cashian), Durand (Howat), Edition Peters (Howat, Kilpatrick, Sawer),
        Resonata Music (Freeman Attwood, Gorton, Pienaar), Universal Edition (Sawer), Verlag
        Neue Musik (Gorton), Wise Music (Clinch)

        Publishers (Writing)
        Ashgate (Cox-Williams, Gritten, Howat, Jones, Sholl), Boydell & Brewer (Clinch),
        Camberwell Press (Sheppard Skaerved), Cambridge Scholars (Gorton), Centre de
        Documentation Claude Debussy, Paris (Howat), Cinisello Balsamo, Milano: Silvana
        Editoriale (Sheppard Skaerved), CUP (Chadwick, Gritten, Holden, Howat, Jones, Kenny,
        Kilpatrick, Sholl), Edinburgh UP (Kenny), Edition Peters/TIDO (Kilpatrick), Editions
        Ardents, Limoges (Shipton), Éditions Symétrie, Paris (Howat ), Elsevier (West), Emerald
        (West), EMI (Holden), EPTA (Howat), Equinox (Shipton), Euterpe (France) (Sholl),
        Historic New Orleans Collection (Shipton), JRMA (Sholl), Kokusho, Japan (Shipton),
        Konzerthaus Berlin (Sheppard Skaerved), Leuven University Press (Gorton), Naxos
        Musicology Online (Sholl), OUP (Gorton, Holden, Shipton, Smart), PNM (Sholl), Presses
        Sorbonne Nouvelle, Paris (Howat), Richard Strauss Blaetter (Holden), Rochester
        University Press (Howat) Routledge (Callis, Cox-Williams, Gritten, Heyde, Howat,
        Sheppard Skaerved), Royal Academy of Music Press (Holden), Springer International
        Publishing (Gorton), Steiner, (Howat), Stuttgart (Howat), Taylor and Francis (Gorton,
        Sheppard), The Barbirolli Society (Holden), Wagner Society (Holden), Warner Classics
        (Holden), Wellcome Open Access (West).


 All Academy researchers contribute to academic conferences and support for attendance is
 provided by the Research Committee. Major keynotes were delivered in the assessment period
 by Heyde, Howat and West and Academy researchers made important contributions to events
 across the globe.

 The majority of staff with a significant responsibility for research are also engaged in doctoral
 examining across the world, although we note that North America is currently a gap in this
 respect. Developing this area of our work requires a sector-wide reappraisal of the fee paid to
 doctoral examiners, which is not properly reflective of the work involved in examining and is thus
 much less attractive to staff on part-time contracts.

 Ten of the Academy’s researchers are involved in editing/reviewing for publishers and/or
 journals and a rather different constituency of a similar size makes major contributions to
 reviewing/consultancy for organisations like ACE, university departments and other
 conservatoires, professional orchestras etc.

 A survey of public speaking engagements undertaken by staff in relation to their research
 produced a list of nearly 100 different organisations, ranging from choral societies, through TED
 talks, to large numbers of presentations given at the British Library, King’s Place, and for
 professional orchestras etc.


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The monumental ‘200 pieces project’ – conceived as one of the core elements of the celebration
 of the Academy’s bicentenary in 2022 – is a way of modelling what a ‘contribution to the
 discipline’ from an institution like the Academy might look like in the broadest sense. 200
 composers, including academy staff, alumni, students and honorands, as well as friends and
 associates are writing 200 new works for solo instrument and voice. Many of these pieces are
 being written in collaboration with students (and staff) and the premiering is well underway (c. 50
 pieces have already been performed/recorded). At the conclusion of the project this
 extraordinary contribution to the repertoire (both scores and recordings) will be available as a
 free resource on the Academy’s website, and will, we trust, prove an invaluable resource for
 future generations, as well as an extensive and detailed snapshot of the extraordinary range of
 creative work that currently interacts with the Academy’s research hub.




                                                                                             Page 18
