Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 23

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

The School of Education is one of six Schools within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences
(HaSS). The School’s overarching goal is to improve people’s lives in and through education. This
goal articulates closely with the University’s mission to be ‘the place of useful learning’. While a
discipline in its own right, Education traditionally also draws upon Philosophy, Psychology, History
and Sociology. In this respect, our work represents this element of multi- and inter-disciplinarity while
also drawing on other disciplines such as Health, Engineering, Social Work and Leadership. The
School takes a range of approaches to research, with both empirical and conceptual research being
valued and promoted. A multi- and inter-disciplinary approach also benefits our extensive research
and KE collaborations within local, national and international educational communities, and other
bodies working to better people’s lives.

Social justice was a primary motivation for the establishment of our predecessor institutions, the
Andersonian Institute in the 1790s, David Stow’s Normal School in the 1830s, and Jordanhill College
of Education in the early 1900s. Social justice in, and through, education is a particular focus of much
of the educational research at the University of Strathclyde; a commitment that is also evident in our
teaching and knowledge exchange (KE) activities. The School is the largest provider of initial and
continuing teacher education in Scotland, and one of the largest in the UK, with over 2000FTE initial
teacher education (ITE) students annually providing a direct route for research influence on teaching
practice across Scotland.

In contrast to REF2014 where the School of Education made up approximately 60% of the UOA, in
REF2021 the School of Education forms the entirety of the unit 23 submission. This reflects two
strategic decisions following REF2014:

1. Following a reorganisation in the School of Psychological Sciences and Health, a conscious
decision that our psychology work would fit within Unit 3.
2. Recognition of the potential for the research in the School of Education to be as strong as its much
larger teaching presence with the correct investment and decisions making.

Building on the positive outcomes of REF2014, and a major commitment by the University to
strengthen expertise in existing areas, we appointed a new School Leadership Team (SLT) in 2014,
and recruited a cadre of research-active academic staff including five new Professors (see section
2). These strategic appointments enabled participation in and contribution to two Strategic Research
Themes from the University Strategic Plan, Vision 2025: Society and Policy, and Health and
Wellbeing. Our alignment with the strategic plan afforded us the opportunity to create a more
research-intensive environment within the School of Education. The University has invested in a
range of new research-active staff in priority areas of the unit such as educational leadership, early
years, STEM, TESOL and practitioner inquiry. We have also recruited staff who are able to supervise
doctoral studies in order to support the expansion of the PhD and EdD programmes.

Research Support Structures

The current Senior Leadership Team (SLT) structure (under Head of School Brownlow) consists of
a Deputy Head Research, a Deputy Head Innovation and Impact, and a Deputy Head Teaching and


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Learning. The Deputy Head Research supports the Head of School in managing the workloads of
all research-active staff. This role also includes support for their professional development, in
particular for ECRs. The creation of the Deputy Head Innovation and Impact aligns with the
University’s vision and places increased emphasis on ensuring a growth in and capture of our impact
nationally and internationally. Further members of the SLT are nine Directors who have responsibility
for specific parts of the School’s strategic plan. The Deputy Head Innovation and Impact, and
Directors of Research, PGR, and Global Engagement, in particular, provide strategic support for
research and impact. The School has two standing committees, the School Ethics Committee, and
the School Inclusion, Diversity and Wellbeing Committee which among other responsibilities
oversees the implementation of the ATHENA Swan Action Plan.

Clusters Supporting Our Research and Impact

The School now enjoys diverse lines of research, with clear convergence around ten concentrated
clusters as shown in Table 1. As the School has recruited new research-active staff over the past
seven years the areas of research strength have evolved. These research groupings were identified
via an analysis of all research outputs from the School to identify research groupings or clusters
which best represent the School’s current research and inform directions for future growth.

Table 1: Research Clusters
     Research Cluster                                    Focus of Research
 Social Justice and Social       •   Poverty and its relationship to wellbeing, inequality, access
 Justice Pedagogies                  and educational attainment
                                 •   Inclusion and inclusive practice in relation to artificial
                                     intelligence STEM, parental attitudes, transitions, social
                                     exclusion and trauma of vulnerable groups, marginalisation
                                     and marginalised communities, babies’ and toddlers’ voices,
                                     young asylum seekers and refugees and disabled children
                                     and human rights education
                                 •   Critical pedagogy
                                 •   Interrogation of social justice public policy, and leadership for
                                     social justice
 Sexualities and Gender          •   Religion and faith, homophobic bullying; LGBT young people
                                     and suicidality and the risks and benefits of LGBTQI+
                                     inclusive classrooms and curricula
                                 •   In physical education, women’s sport, Muslim South Asian
                                     young women in science, and among student teachers of
                                     English in South Africa and Argentina
 Education & Policy              •   Theorizing educational policy and analysis of policies on
                                     inclusion, integrated working and transition across EU
                                     countries and policy development in the specific context of
                                     school physical education
                                 •   Scottish perspective to explore changing forms of
                                     governance and leadership in the school system, critically
                                     analyse policies on widening access to higher education and
                                     analysis of educational change policies in the Middle East
                                     and North Africa and in early learning services




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Higher Education            •   Student experience, in terms of intergenerational mentoring
                                 supporting school pupils into university and social origins and
                                 career destinations
                             •   Student transitions into higher education, student
                                 estrangement, imposter syndrome, and the negotiation of
                                 queer and religious identities
                             •   Academics, including feminist collaborations at various
                                 career stages, postcolonial critique of higher education
                                 leadership, and women’s leadership in Middle Eastern
                                 universities
 Philosophy of Education     •   Practical philosophy with marginalised young people in
                                 secure accommodation and mainstream settings
                             •   Philosophy of child and childhood, cultural resistance and
                                 transformation and transformations in scientific identity
                                 among adults and children
                             •   Religious education and religion and post-secular society
                             •   Comparisons between educational theories and practices in
                                 Germany and Japan
                             •   Practising philosophy as an approach to living well and well-
                                 being
 Autism and Other Socio-     •   Brain and motor development among children with autism
 emotional and               •   The self-regulation and participation of children with autism
 Behavioural                     and socio-emotional behavioural needs
 Developments                •   Learning disabilities
                             •   Interpersonal rupture and relational repair skills of autistic
                                 adolescents has been investigated
                             •   Experiences of educational transition for young women with
                                 autism
                             •   Medical models of disability
                             •   Humanistic methods to heal painful experiences through
                                 emotion-focused therapy
 Early Years and Primary     •   The use of arts-based methods and digital technologies in
 Education                       the early years
                             •   Scientific literacy using children’s stories
                             •   International comparisons of inclusive, creative and outdoor
                                 pedagogy and language development through playroom
                                 experiences
                             •   Fundamental motor skills and perceived and actual motor
                                 competence of young children in relation to developmental
                                 health and learning
                             •   Maternal factors in children’s language and reasoning skills
 Education and Digital       •   Childhood and early years
 Technology                  •   Identification and assessment of autism, mental health and
                                 accessing and working through trauma
                             •   Mobile technologies and their uses in learning and
                                 assessment of pupils and student teachers
                             •   Cross-disciplinary Laboratory for Innovation in Autism


                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Methods                 •   Development and psychometric validation of research
                                      instruments in assessing motor skills in early childhood
                                  •   Empathy for autism and emotional and behavioural changes
                                      in childhood
                                  •   Development of innovative research methods such as visual
                                      methods, in linking education and research in practitioner
                                      inquiry
                                  •   Arts-based methods
                                  •   Students as researchers
                                  •   Philosophical dialogue as a rights-based research method
                                  •   Ethical issues in the use of visual methods.
 Teacher Education &              •   Quality in ITE including student teachers’ uses of democratic
 Professional Learning                forms of assessment and uses of action research in learning
                                      to teach English
                                  •   The teacher in teacher-practitioner research
                                  •   Teachers as metacognitive role models
                                  •   Teacher professional learning
                                  •   Online teacher education in the context of forced immobility
                                  •   Study-abroad programmes
                                  •   Majority and minority language education
                                  •   Student teachers’ uses of educational research


Research and Impact Strategy

Consistent with the plans set out in the REF2014 environment statement, the School takes a
synergistic approach to research and KE, with KE essential to the production of impact. Our research
and impact strategy is planned on a triennial basis. Research and impact objectives for the three
year cycles are set out, including specific actions to be taken in the shorter (12 months) and middle
(24 months) terms.

First triennium
The overarching strategic objective for research in the first triennial cycle beginning in 2015 was:
(1) In order to produce world-leading research in terms of strong outputs and funded projects, we
seek to offer a vibrant research culture that is attractive to and supportive of all staff and PGR
students. This research culture facilitates the production and dissemination of knowledge that has
an impact and makes a difference for the better in people’s lives, and that enhances our position as
a leader in the UK and international educational research communities.

The overarching strategic objective for KE and impact was:
(2) In order to produce world-leading impact, we seek to develop a rich culture of scholarship that
has strong collaborative links with the wider educational community that is supportive of all staff, that
produces and disseminates knowledge that is relevant to, and has an impact on, educational policy
and practice in the UK and internationally.

Specific strategic actions to realise these objectives are as follows:
   • Supporting and enabling research-active staff to conduct and publish high quality and
        impactful research (through, for example, research sabbaticals, writing and publication
        workshops, internal feedback on manuscripts, support for attendance at conferences,
        supporting cluster and school-wide research seminar programmes, and workload


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       management through the University’s annual Accountability and Development Review
       (ADR);
   •   Growing the PGR community by improving conversion of PGT students to doctoral
       programmes and by recruiting more home and international students;
   •   Increase the number of grant applications submitted and income generation for research in
       recognition that our most successful and impactful research has resulted from funded
       projects;
   •   Consolidating existing partnerships with educational communities and local and international
       universities, and extending our networks to include new strategic partners both at home and
       internationally. In June 2020, the School created the post of Director of School and Local
       Authority Partnerships and Outreach to advance the impact of our work in this area;
   •   Provide further support for professional development (see Section 2) of research-active staff,
       in particular ECRs;
   •   Increase income generation through KE with international partners as a means to grow our
       influence beyond Scotland and the UK;
   •   Recruit more research active-staff to increase capacity for doctoral supervision and grant
       applications (including Chancellor’s Fellows (CFs) and additional professorial posts through
       the University’s Global Talent Programme (GTP)) – (see Section 2).

Second triennium
Following the completion of the first triennium of the planning cycle in 2017, further strategic
objectives were identified for the second triennium up to 2019:

   •   Increase the number of grant applications submitted and income generation for research;
   •   Increase the number of high quality publications;
   •   Provide further support for professional development of research-active staff, in particular
       ECRs;
   •   Consolidate the impact of KE work and the productive crossover between networks for
       teaching, KE and research;
   •   Increase income generation through KE with international partners.

In REF2014, the School of Education committed to increasing the number of research-active staff,
increasing the number of PGR students, and to increasing levels of research income. There was
also a commitment to improve the synergies between research, knowledge exchange (KE) and
teaching, and to strengthen the connections between Strathclyde educational researchers and key
partners in the local and global education communities. These plans, focused on achieving the
objectives set out below, informed our work since 2014, and as evidenced throughout subsequent
sections of this environment statement, have been successfully achieved.

The generation of a total of £3.3m research grant income during the REF 2021 census period reflects
the success of the strategies implemented. Table 2 shows that our strategy of improving the quality
(rather than simply number) of applications is bearing results in terms of success rates as well as
funding amounts (see Section 3 for more detail).




Table 2: Grant applications and % success rate


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Year                   2014-15    2015-16      2016-17      2017-18       2018-19
  Total
                           24          22           32              31           32
  applications
  No. successful           7            6           14              12           12
  % successful             29          27           44              39           37

Further demonstrating the success of our efforts, cumulative Table 3 shows an increase in outputs
in peer reviewed journals over time. These data provide evidence of the long-term effectiveness of
professional development strategies such as writing workshops, sabbaticals, internal feedback on
manuscripts, co-authoring with ECRs, and workload management, to enable staff to write
successfully for publication. The outputs recorded here were deposited in Strathclyde’s repository
and all were Open Access compliant in line with REF2021 guidelines.

Table 3: Published research outputs
      Year        2015      2016     2017       2018        2019         Total
   No.
   published
                             104      111        132         178
   outputs in       81                                                   606
                            (+23)     (+7)      (+21)       (+46)
   UoS
   repository

Third triennium

The research and impact strategy for the 3 years to 2022, reflecting the University’s 2025 strategic
vision, will focus on consolidating and sustaining the progress we have made towards achieving the
research and impact strategic objectives set out above. In particular, we will:
    • Further develop the School’s commitment to social justice in and through education to make
        a difference in people’s lives by ensuring we build in opportunities for impact in the research
        we undertake. In doing so, we will capitalise on the wide range of development work
        colleagues engage in with practitioners to increase the impact of our research;
    • Recruit, reward and retain excellent and productive research-active staff through support for
        conferences, management of workload through the ADR process, and a range of incentives
        for publishing in highly ranked journals and the submission of grant applications to major
        funders;
    • Maintain synergistic relationships between research, teaching and KE by developing
        planning and monitoring mechanisms to track and record success, progress and impact of
        new initiatives. The School has developed a protocol to support colleagues in planning for
        impact from the inception of initiatives and to aid impact capture over time. Training sessions
        are also scheduled to support less experienced colleagues in growing their KE activity from
        their teaching and research, and vice versa;
    • Sustain high levels of recruitment of PGR students, through conversion pathways from the
        Strathclyde undergraduate, PGDE and PGT courses, increased and more effective use of
        School-funded scholarships, work with national and international research and KE partners,
        and increased applications to supervisor and student-led competitive research council
        studentships;
    • Increase number of grant submissions by all research-active staff;
    • Increase number of peer-reviewed publications and monitor citation impact and other metrics.

Inter-disciplinary research



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School has a commitment to carrying out impactful research in collaboration with partners in
schools, colleges and other sites of education. It is widely recognised that the field of Education has
historically and culturally been constructed and constituted by a variety of humanities and social and
psychological science disciplines. We support this multi- and inter-disciplinary research in at least
five ways:

   1. Through the recruitment of research-active staff from a range of disciplines: While a majority
      of staff have in common teaching qualifications and experience, they also have expertise and
      training in diverse disciplines such as cultural studies, feminist studies, history, motor
      development, neuroscience, philosophy, psychology, public health, sociology and social
      theory. Staff are also recruited for their substantive knowledge in particular aspects of
      education, notably in relation to pedagogy. We have specialists in primary and most
      secondary school curriculum areas who, in addition to some research and KE activities, work
      together on multi- and inter-disciplinary teaching teams to the advantage of our students from
      undergraduate to doctoral levels.

   2. Through the research clusters outlined earlier in this section: The descriptions of the clusters
      show clearly the variety of expertise staff bring to the ten areas of focus that the research
      clusters provide, and that staff often work across themes.

   3. Joint supervision of doctoral students: Currently the School has joint supervision
      arrangements within the University with Speech and Language Therapy, Politics, English,
      Social Work and Social Policy, Counselling, and Biomedical Engineering. We also supervise
      external PGR/PGT students from a range of disciplines, including, Advocacy, Nurse and
      Medical Education, Community Learning and Development, and Business.

   4. Research Skills Training towards the PG Cert in Researcher Professional Development (see
      Section 2) is provided by the Graduate School of the Faculty of HaSS to all PhD students
      from across the Faculty’s six schools. Students (EdD students via the two compulsory taught
      modules) encounter a range of disciplinary perspectives and qualitative and quantitative
      methodologies within this programme (see Section 2).

   5. Through collaborative research projects: We offer advice and feedback through a system of
      internal review at both School and Faculty levels of all applications for grant funding. These
      reviews encourage the collaboration of scholars from diverse disciplines where this may
      strengthen an application. Many of the successfully funded projects in the School have been
      multi- or inter-disciplinary.

A key feature of the research undertaken by the School of Education is its synergy with our teaching
and impact activity. The deliberate closeness to practitioners (including policy makers, government
and voluntary organisations as well as teachers), their participation in and co-creation of research is
the essence of our impact strategy. The best demonstration of which is the symbiotic relationship
between the teaching and research elements of the School’s work. Researchers are encouraged to
follow this model; building it into the structure of their research and securing funding for research
and activities towards impact.

KE and teaching often form the basis for further research, as illustrated by the impact case studies
included in the Unit's submission. For example, in the Philosophy with Children (PwC) case study
(Cassidy) the research activity has informed PGT content, with graduates from this course forming
the Philosophy with Children and Communities Network, convened by Cassidy. The Network is
involved in research-informed KE through hosting PwC-related events for practitioners, policy-
makers and third sector organisations. They also collaborate with Cassidy on published research in

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their own classrooms. Network members have come from Strathclyde’s undergraduate courses to
PGT and now to doctoral level; thereby allowing the cycle of research/KE/teaching to continue.

A further example is the impact case study on closing the attainment gap (Sosu & Ellis), which was
based on a collaboration with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation. Although the initial funding for this
research was modest (£5K), the Head of School, noticing the national importance of the research
focus and strategic partnership with our non-academic partner, provided strong support through a
reduction in teaching commitment for the research staff. This allowed them to successfully complete
the research, undertake various KE activities with Government officials, Parliament, schools, local
authorities, media, and the organisation of a national conference. This strategic approach of
partnership has enabled strong impacts to be generated from research undertaken in the School.

Future plans

The research and impact strategy for the next 3 years, reflecting the University’s 2025 strategic
vision, will focus on consolidating and sustaining the progress we have made towards achieving the
research and impact strategic objectives set out above. In particular, we will:
    • Further develop the School’s commitment to social justice in and through education to make
        a difference in people’s lives by ensuring we build in opportunities for impact in the research
        we undertake. In doing so, we will capitalise on the wide range of development work
        colleagues engage in with practitioners to increase the impact of our research;
    • Recruit, reward and retain excellent and productive research-active staff through University-
        wide mechanisms including research leave, support for conferences, management of
        workload through the ADR process, and a range of incentives for publishing in highly ranked
        journals and the submission of grant applications to major funders;
    • Maintain synergistic relationships between research, teaching and KE by developing
        planning and monitoring mechanisms to track and record success, progress and impact of
        new initiatives. The School has developed a protocol to support colleagues in planning for
        impact from the inception of initiatives and to aid impact capture over time. Training sessions
        are also scheduled to support less experienced colleagues in growing their KE activity from
        their teaching and research;
    • Sustain high levels of recruitment of PGR students: through conversion pathways from the
        Strathclyde undergraduate, PGDE and PGT courses; increased and more effective use of
        School-funded scholarships; work with national and international research and KE partners;
        and increased applications to supervisor and student-led competitive research council
        studentships;
    • Increase the number of grant submissions by all research-active staff with a focus on quality
        and with the aim of each researcher developing a strong track record. This is a development
        from the first triennium of planning, in particular, when we were less concerned about setting
        targets for research income and more interested in increasing the numbers of academic staff
        who were writing the applications as part of staff development activity;
    • Increase the number of peer-reviewed publications and monitor citation impact and other
        metrics to demonstrate the quality of the research in the unit and to assist with gaining
        funding.

Research Integrity and Open Access

The University of Strathclyde promotes a strong culture of research integrity as a means to ensure
high quality research. All research is covered by the University of Strathclyde’s Research Code of
Practice. This is compatible with 2012 UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the RCUK
Policy and Guidelines on Governance of Good Research Conduct. In recognition of the importance
of research integrity to the quality of research specifically in areas of research within the School, in

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
addition to complying with the University’s ethical guidelines, we follow the ethical guidelines
produced by the British Educational Research Association (BERA) and the Scottish Educational
Research Association (SERA), and other organisations we work with, for example, Barnardo’s. The
School’s Ethics Committee meets monthly, and reports directly to the University Ethics Committee.
Our research in schools and other educational settings is in line with Local Authority policies on
working with children, and many of our research-active staff retain General Teaching Council of
Scotland (GTCS) membership, so are bound by GTCS Professional Standards. All staff working with
children have PVG membership. Also, we make a key contribution to the University’s safe-guarding
working group.

The University of Strathclyde follows the Open Access requirements of REF 2021 and other funder
policies, and aims to make as much content compliant and open access as early as possible to
maximise the visibility and impact of research. The School of Education’s compliance with OA for all
of its outputs (including and in addition to those submitted to the REF 2021) has averaged 96%
throughout the period under review. We have gone beyond the minimum requirements of the REF
policy by demonstrating an improved commitment to the openness of book chapters and grey
literature (e.g. reports). One hundred and forty of these types of item have been made Open Access
in this REF period.

 2. People

Staff Development Strategy

The strategy of the School has been to recruit research active scholars who are capable of publishing
in high quality journals, gaining grant funding, and supervising PGR students. This injection of senior
level talent was aimed at developing the research culture of all research staff. Over the REF period,
we have appointed new, mostly early career, research active academic staff (e.g. Banegas, Beck,
Breeze, Davis, Essex, Frimberger, Govender, Klein, Lewin, Mevawalah, Nikou, Salajhee). We have
also been supporting upwards of 15 of our teaching staff to gain doctorates, some of whom have
already completed (e.g. Coutts, de Britos, Firth). The success of this strategy is evidenced by the
growth in grant success and in published outputs in Tables 2 and 3. In this phase of the School’s
development, from 2014-2020, these needs have been seen as more important than the specific
areas of staff expertise. However, as the PGR programme has grown, particularly student numbers
in the EdD, future plans are for recruitment of research-active staff in educational leadership and
teacher-led inquiry. One common characteristic of many of our newly recruited staff (26 during the
review period including five new professors) is a commitment to scholarship in the area of social
justice in and through education. This is the most populous research cluster in the School and reflects
Strathclyde’s founding mission, therefore we aim to further develop this area of research.

The strategy for retention of research-active staff reflects our research strategy, outlined in Section
1, where we have sought to support and enable research-active staff to conduct and publish high
quality and impactful research. We have invested heavily in staff development in four ways:

   •   By supporting a sabbatical scheme initiated in 2014. To date, 12 staff have benefitted from
       School-sponsored sabbaticals (Adams, Cassidy, Delafield-Butt, Moscardini, Mowat, Sosu,
       Robinson, Arnott, Klein, Taylor, McPake, Lewin). A period of research leave offers up to four
       months every three years. Funding is provided by the School to support travel and meet other
       appropriate expenses during the research leave period;
   •   Providing funding for conference leave on an annual basis. All academic staff are eligible to
       apply providing they are presenting to the conference;



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Providing staff with financial support to undertake training and study for further qualifications.
       During the assessment period, 15 staff have benefitted from financial support to study
       specifically for higher degrees, many on teaching-only contracts;
   •   Supporting staff to achieve impact has largely been developed through the positive working
       relationships and collaborations we have with the GTCS, the Scottish Government,
       Education Scotland, Local Authorities, and local practice communities. The creation of
       Deputy Head Innovation and Impact and a new Director of School and Local Authority
       Partnerships and Outreach highlights our commitment to growing the impact of our work with
       our partners and a wider audience.

We have made full use of University schemes such as the annual Accountability & Development
Review (ADR) with which all staff are required to engage. The ADR is a formal process intended to
support staff development and enhance performance. Evidence gathered during the ADR process
is required for promotion applications. The ADR is centred on an annual meeting between a reviewee
and reviewer. The ADR provides staff with the opportunity to record achievements and to make
formal requests for professional development and support. As a parallel process of support, we
encourage all academic staff to take full advantage of University mentoring schemes so that they
can receive one-to-one, tailored guidance and support from an experienced academic in relation to
career development. The mentoring schemes complement the ADR process. In addition to
recruitment of research-active early career staff, we have made promotions in the past few years
including Dellafield-Butt (Professor), Cassidy and Sosu (Reader), Arnott, Essex and Klein (Senior
Lecturer).

A further factor influencing the staffing strategy has been the development of a Faculty workload
model that permits academic staff to balance the proportions of their contract to research (40%),
teaching (40%) and service (20%). Recent developments of Faculty policy have allowed staff who
have won research grants to buy out some of their teaching time if their grant is based on a full-
economic costing. The School of Education has expanded student numbers since 2014, in Initial
Teacher Education (ITE), career-long professional learning, and in PGR. This growth has permitted
the recruitment of new staff but has created challenges to protect the time provided for research and
service such as journal reviewing and editing. In anticipation and recognition of these challenges,
the School implemented a policy in 2015 that academic staff would engage in ITE school placement
work only in exceptional cases, which has freed research-active staff from time-consuming travel
and one-to-one placement supervision.

While academic staff may not undertake school placement supervision, many retain strong
relationships with the practice community and visit educational settings regularly to work with
practitioners on KE, often as part of collaborative research activity. This means that research active
staff also regularly work with those whom our research is designed to benefit, predominantly children
and young people from across the spectrum of abilities, needs, and experiences.

Support for Early Career Researchers

Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are supported through the Academic Career Development
Framework (ACDF), which provides formal and structured support for academic staff new to
Strathclyde or to the university sector. The ADR and ACDF provide opportunities for staff to request
tailored and individualised support that is specific to their needs, interests and career development
pathways. ECRs are assigned a School mentor on taking up their appointment who is able to guide
them through the ACDF process and to induct them into academic practice. Typically, teaching and
service workload is reduced in the first and second years of appointment in order to protect time for
research, with the expectation that ECRs will carry a full teaching load in their third year. Service
roles such as committee membership (internal) and peer-reviewing (external) are gradually

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
increased over this period. ECRs are supported through opportunities to collaborate on joint research
funding applications with experienced colleagues, joining established research teams and/or co-
authoring with more experienced colleagues.

We provide support for postdoctoral research associates and research assistants on fixed term
contracts. This includes a 6 months review aimed at supporting the development of skills in line with
the researcher’s career goals. Where opportunity for extension is available, this is communicated
clearly. Where this is not available, the goal is to help staff gain job security through encouraging
them to apply for other internal and/or external positions.

Research Students

Student Recruitment

The two main PGR programmes offered by the School of Education are the Doctor of Philosophy
degree (PhD) and the Doctor of Education degree (EdD).

Figure 1: Combined Doctoral (PhD and EdD) year-on-year new registrations 2014-2019


                           PhD/EdD Registrations
 40

 35

 30

 25

 20

 15

 10

  5

  0
        2014        2015        2016      2017        2018       2019




Figure 1 shows that PGR registrations have grown between 2014-2019, particularly for the EdD
programme, consistent with our strategy to grow the PGR community. In 2019-2020, we have 22
international students studying at doctoral level. We have been successful in attracting 22
scholarships for PhD students from ESRC and other sources such as governments, employers and
charities. Students are recruited in five ways:
    • targeted advertising conducted by the marketing and international officers of the Faculty;
    • open events held on campus advertised to schools and other educational institutions
        nationally;
    • word of mouth as members of University staff visit schools and as current and former students
        talk about their experiences with colleagues;
    • academic staff using their national and international networks to alert potential students to
        the availability of doctoral supervision;
    • by working hard to achieve loyalty from graduates and therefore retain students from their
        undergraduate courses who continue through to PGT and on to doctoral study.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The growth in EdD registrations evidences our increasing impact on professional learning, nationally
and internationally. This growth has been facilitated by increasing staff capacity to supervise PGR
students. Growth in the EdD is also due to a review and complete revision of the programme in 2017
by a group chaired by the School’s current Director of PGR (Wall). Among other things, this revision
allowed the introduction of six (initially, increased to eight in 2019-20) subject pathways, meaning
students are directed towards staff areas of research expertise, thereby increasing capacity and
generating active research cultures around these specialisms. For both programmes, growth has
also been supported by improved conversion from PGT programmes and increased international
recruitment. This growth in PGR students corresponds with increases in numbers of students in
PGDE and other PGT (e.g. Masters) programmes.

As is common in Education as a field, the majority of PGR students in the School are part-time. This
feature offers particular challenges to maintaining continuity and momentum in the research
supervision process since most part-time students work full-time in demanding jobs. More positively,
it also offers opportunities for influence and impact in the policy and practice communities, since
many of our students are teachers, educational leaders and policy-makers. Our PGR students also
include early years practitioners, community educators, further education lecturers, advocacy
workers, medical and nurse educators.

Student Progress and Monitoring

For PhD/EdD students, the Director of PGR assigns a minimum of two supervisors to each student
at the commencement of their programme of study or dissertation work respectively. While frequency
varies for students depending on their situations and needs, we expect greater frequency (at least
once fortnightly) in the first six months, with variations after this period depending on need. All
PhD/EdD students are supported through an Annual Review chaired by a senior member of staff
who is not involved in the project, and the two supervisors. The centre-piece of this process is an
annual meeting between student, supervisors and reviewer, supported by written reports on progress
from the student and supervisors prior to the meeting and the reviewer following the meeting.
Usually, an interim review meeting is held in mid-year.

Student Skills Development

All PhD students are required to complete a Postgraduate Certificate in Researcher Professional
Development (PGCRPD). This 60 credit point programme has five modules, some of which are
taught, and credit for others can be accumulated in a variety of ways, such as attendance and
presentation at conferences and summer schools. The School is a member of the Scottish Graduate
School of Social Sciences, and all PhD students have access to the professional development
opportunities it provides. PhD students also have optional access to the HaSS Faculty’s Research
Skills Programme, which provides additional training in literature reviews, the use of qualitative and
quantitative methods, academic writing, and engagement and impact.

In addition to these formal support processes for training and supervision of PGR students, all
students have library access, access to a desk space in the HaSS Graduate School, a shared
desktop computer when required, and free photocopying. Private study rooms can also be booked
in the Graduate School area. All PGR students are attached to at least one of the School’s ten
research clusters and are invited to participate in all cluster activities such as research seminars and
workshops. Some supervisors also collaborate with their doctoral students to submit and present
conference papers and symposia to national and international conferences. All students are
encouraged to present their research internally and externally during the course of their studies.
Doctoral students are eligible to apply for funding from the Graduate School for financial support for
conference attendance.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Doctoral students, in addition to gaining experience at conferences, are also often inducted into
teaching and assessment of undergraduate students. There are, though, some limits on this
involvement due to regulations relating to ITE courses set by the GTCS. Additionally, PhD students
are offered opportunities as research assistants on ongoing funded projects within the School to
enable them develop other relevant skills for success in the labour market

Equality and Diversity

The School is committed to ensuring equality and diversity in its staff group. We monitor carefully all
applications for the appointment of staff and for places in our programmes for students to ensure
that all candidates are treated equitably. The main data available to monitor the position of the School
focuses on grade and gender. While this does not cover the range of diversity characteristics in a
School of Education, these are helpful given the traditional gender balance of the overall education
sector (being predominantly female). A higher proportion of staff in the School are typically employed
at grade 8 and above, reflecting a common characteristic of university Schools of Education where
many have had previous careers as school teachers. As is the case in the professional sector, our
numbers are predominantly female, although the part-time EdD route is showing small but steady
increments over four years towards a more equal male to female split. With regard to the UOA23
REF submission, just over half of the academic staff returned are female, which means that male
staff are disproportionately over-represented in the return due to the equal split in senior level staff
at the end of the period impacting on the overall figure. Although the numbers are small, the increase
in male professors as a proportion compared to the overall unit composition indicates a need for
further analysis and monitoring. Just over a third of returned staff are from countries outside the UK.
While the School pays due regard to issues of equality and diversity as indicated above, selection of
the output portfolio was informed entirely by the judgement of the quality of the outputs.

Table 4: Highlights of Staff Data Analysis
 Academic Female          Male     Female    Male %     Grade      Prof       Prof
   Year                              %                     6      Female      Male
                                                        Female
                                                          %
  2018-19        75        34       68.8%     31.2%      100%        3               3
  2017-18        68        30       69.4%     30.6%      100%        3               1
  2016-17        67        32       67.7%     32.3%     66.7%        4               1
  2015-16        64        34       65.3%     34.7%     57.1%        4               2


We have a number of supervisory staff who are able to supervise at a distance and this means
students can study with Strathclyde part-time, staying in their home countries, in employment, and
with their families. This is challenging, but is increasingly of interest to prospective students.

The School actively promotes the University’s Equality Policy, and achieved the Athena Swan
Bronze Award in 2020. As part of the Athena Swan process during 2019-2020, staff and students
were engaged in the self-assessment process, in so doing, raising awareness of equality and
diversity issues in education and educational research. The School has also used the University
Mental Health and Wellbeing Policy to inform decision-making around workload allocation, which is
monitored through the ADR process, and has prompted a number of staff wellbeing initiatives. As
an outcome of the Athena Swan process, the School established an Inclusion, Diversity and
Wellbeing Committee that meets regularly during the academic year and promotes the University’s
policies on age, sex, disability and ethnicity discrimination, as well has health and wellbeing. The
School seeks to raise awareness of these issues by promoting University courses such as

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Understanding Bias, Gender Matters, Diversity in the Workplace, Cultural Awareness, and often
partners with external organisations to support staff in these areas, for example LGBT Youth
Scotland.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income Strategies

Our strategies to support income generation effort focus primarily on development of people. As
outlined in Section 2, the staffing and research strategies dovetail; these include activities such as
grant writing support/workshops, sabbaticals, and mentoring. We understand that in order to make
grant applications competitive, our staff need to be able to show strong track-records of successful
publication in high quality journals. Therefore, another key objective, as we noted in Section 1, is to
increase quality research output, again through supportive staff development such as writing
workshops, funding to present at conferences, co-authoring of grant applications and journal articles,
and critical friend feedback. We also support and promote intra-School and University collaborations,
national and international collaborations, and visiting international scholars and PGR students,
details of which we provide in Section 4.

Since 2014, a total of £7.2m grant income was awarded, including £3.2m of research funding. Figure
2 shows that the highest level of grant awards recorded for one academic year was in 2017-18 at
£1.5m a significant increase on the 2013-14 total of £545k. While the scale of funding has varied
according to funding agency and project, 14 grants have attracted more than £50k, with nine over
£100k, and another three attracting over £315k (NORFACE), £402k (Big Lottery) and £654k
(Harimata Sp z.o.o.) respectively. Seven of the top 12 biggest grants were awarded in 2017-18,
which accounts for the spike in funding for that year. While we aspire to year-on-year growth in
research income, the reality is that income fluctuates in ways that reflect cycles of academic work
as successful awardees commence work on funded projects and those who have completed projects
commence a new round of applications. We are satisfied that the measures we are taking are
producing an overall upward trend over the longer term.

Figure 2: All grant income and spend

                Total yearly grant award versus spend
 £1,800,000
 £1,600,000
 £1,400,000
 £1,200,000
 £1,000,000
  £800,000
  £600,000
  £400,000
  £200,000
        £0
              2013-14   2014-15   2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20

                                    Award    Spend




In Section 2 we explained how our staffing and research strategies are interrelated. Staff within the
UOA attract funding for research from a wide range of funding agencies, including research councils,
charities, central and local government and their agencies, and overseas organisations. Research

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
council funding has been awarded by the AHRC (Kirk) and the ESRC (Klein; Rivers; Taylor). A range
of charities and other organisations have provided funding, including: Autism Initiatives, UK
(Robinson); Barnardo’s (Cassidy); the British Academy (Ellis); the British Council (Sosu); Bailey
Thomas Charitable Trust (Wilson); Big Lottery (Wilson); Bord Na Gaidhlig (Birnie; McPake);
Carnegie Trust (Delafield-Butt; Taylor); Chief Scientist’s Office (Wall); Joseph Rowntree (Sosu);
Leverhulme (Lovin); the National Autistic Society (Robinson); Research Autism (Dunlop), the Royal
Philosophical Society of Glasgow (Cassidy); the Royal Society of Chemistry (Essex; Salehjee), RS
Macdonald (Delafield-Butt; Wilson); Scottish Autism (Robinson); Society for Research into Higher
Education (Taylor); and Train Visual (Beck).

Government agencies such as Scottish Government, including the Scottish Government’s
Attainment Challenge (Adams; Cassidy; Delafield-Butt; Rivers; Wilson), and Local Authorities (East
Ayrshire: Marwick; East Renfrewshire: Wall; South & North Lanarkshire, West Dumbartonshire: Ellis,
Wilson; Renfrewshire: Ellis, Essex; Glasgow City Council: (Cassidy, Costa, Ellis, Wilson), have also
been an important source of funding in support of research activity. This Government funding
evidences the UOA’s strong connections with the educational community in Scotland and the
extensive collaborative networks the School supports through this funding.

International sources of funding to support research have come through staff engagement in projects
as Co- and Principal-Investigators, such as the Australian Research Council (Kirk), the Council of
Europe (McPake), European Commission H2020 (Taylor), Harimata Sp z.o.o (Delafield-Butt),
NORFACE (Taylor), Hanban (Cassidy, Santoro), the Social Science and Humanities Research
Council of Canada (Kirk), and the Swiss National Science Foundation (Cassidy). Staff have also
been collaborators on international projects as members of scientific advisory committees funded by
the Lifestyle Foundation, Sweden (Kirk), and the Research Council of Norway (Kirk).

Supporting Infrastructure

The UOA benefits from support provided to grant applicants from the Faculty of HaSS’s Research
and KE Team (RaKET), who are able to provide detailed advice on the requirements of particular
funders, costings, and other technical matters in grant applications. A dedicated IT team within HaSS
also provides support to access on-line information for grant applications and on-line forms. Support
for grant applications from the HaSS team is further strengthened by the University’s Research and
KE Services (RKES). RKES consists of four teams with expertise in grants and contracts,
international business development, research and KE development, and researcher enhancement.

In addition to this technical support, researchers in our Faculty are further able to benefit from a two-
tiered peer-review process for each grant application. Once ready for submission, grant applications
are reviewed by two peer-reviewers each at School and Faculty levels. Detailed feedback is provided
through both rounds of review. One further and final level of scrutiny occurs within RKES prior to
submission to make sure all aspects of the application meet the technical specifications and
requirements of the funding agency.

Educational researchers at the University of Strathclyde have access to and use of good physical
infrastructure such as office space, seminar rooms and conference facilities. Indeed, the School has
regularly hosted conferences since 2014, as outlined in Section 4. Good quality educational research
rests on access to excellent library facilities. Print and online versions of most leading journals are
readily available. The University provides digital infrastructure for secure storage and back-up of
data, where data can also be curated and made available publicly. The University’s PURE system
provides a repository for all research publications of the UOA staff with pre-publication versions
available to the public through Strathprints.


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations

Education is an applied discipline and thus it is essential that a School of Education is embedded in
the local, national and international communities of educational practice. Much of the research in
Education at the University of Strathclyde prioritises networking and collaborative activity, such as
school-university research partnerships that bridge research and KE. As one of the largest teacher
education institutions in the UK, our staff and students visit and work in schools on a daily basis.
Monitoring of student-teacher progress occurs jointly between University and school staff. These
arrangements form a fundamental aspect of the infrastructure upon which much of our research
rests, since it is key to building strong relationships with school communities. This infrastructure
provides a synergy of policy, research and practice in such a way that dialogue and evidence are
multi-directional.

The nature of those we seek to influence is such that we take a broad view of knowledge exchange,
in that it includes contributions to academic and professional conferences, publications in academic
and professional journals, written reports, membership of advisory boards and working groups,
Career-Long Professional Learning (CLPL) courses and Continuing Professional Development
(CPD) sessions for practitioners and policy makers. Examples of KE contracts we have won in areas
of our research expertise include, for example, literacy (Ellis), Philosophy with Children (Cassidy)
and practitioner inquiry (Wall). Colleagues regularly present at practitioners’ conferences such as
the Scottish Government’s Scottish Learning Festival (Cassidy), ResearchEd (Cassidy, Wall), and
internally-organised events such as Engage at Strathclyde (Arnott, Beck, Cassidy, Ellis, Klein, Sosu,
Wall). We also advance our impact through public-engagement events, such as Psychology in Pubs
(Sosu), presenting to those scrutinising medical research ethics applications (Arnott, Cassidy, Wall),
and charities (Cassidy, Rivers). We have a presence on traditional and social media, and have
recently created a School Twitter account, blog and have established a podcast to increase the
audience for our work, nationally and internationally. In addition to the range of dissemination
activities listed here, because we are committed to evidence-informed practice, our research is
disseminated through the accredited courses we teach.

This means that the voice of the Scottish educational practice community, who are required under
current GTCS Professional Standards to be engaged in and with research, is embedded in our day-
to-day work. Moreover, the growth in our EdD registrations since 2014, which is largely made up of
full-time teachers and policy makers who are studying part-time, has been aided by this requirement.
In addition, Teaching Scotland’s Future (‘The Donaldson Report’, Scottish Government, 2010), a
review of teacher education in Scotland, played an important part in this growth in EdD registrations,
with its recommendations for greater school/university partnerships, evidence-informed practice, and
the Government financial support for practitioners undertaking Masters-level qualifications. This
infrastructure supports our research nationally. We also work with international partners in teacher
professional learning projects such as the Crescent Model School in Pakistan, Nanjing Normal
University and the Tianjin Ministry of Education Commission in China, and with Chancellor’s College
at the University of Malawi (Ellis).

Moreover, researchers in the School of Education are involved in collaborative activity within the
School and University and with researchers in other universities nationally and internationally,
evidenced in co-authorship of papers, conference presentations and reports, and in membership of
research project teams. We provide examples of funded collaborative studies in Section 3. Some
individuals belong to more than one of the School’s research clusters, which supports multiple
collaborations as well as multi- and inter-disciplinary research. Supervisors also collaborate with

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research students, in many cases producing co-authored papers, chapters and books in particular
areas of specialisation.

The School also hosts many visiting academics and research students across the range of the
clusters. Visitors have come to Strathclyde from the UK, Europe and other parts of the world, some
visits lasting several months up to a year. These visits often support collaborative research activity
and result in co-authored publications and presentations.

User Engagement

The funding sources outlined in Section 3 also provide evidence of wide-ranging user engagement
with our research. Much of this work takes place in schools, funded and supported by Local
Authorities. Research is also funded by and carried out in collaboration with Scottish Government
and its agencies. As we noted, in many of these research-based KE projects, teachers are directly
involved as co-researchers and users of the outcomes of research. For example, practitioners have
been involved as co-researchers on projects related to practical philosophy, for instance in relation
to children’s engaged participation and self-regulation, and also to their well-being (Cassidy,
Marwick). Physical education teachers in four secondary schools developed an activist approach to
working with adolescent girls through a two-year (2015-16) work-place based professional learning
project, which also formed the basis for a doctoral research project (Kirk).

Research is also extended to wider audiences through focused KE projects by, for example, the
Scottish Universities Insight Institute (SUII) (Cassidy, Mowat, Sosu). The SUII initiatives in turn led
to subsequent research activity with a range of collaborators. Researchers in the School also
organise several national and international research dissemination conferences in, for example,
Ghana, Malawi and Scotland (Sosu, Ellis) to engage stakeholders with findings from their studies
and discuss solutions to emerging issues. Another example is the development of a research hub at
Williamwood High School in Glasgow, changing their whole approach to professional learning for all
staff, moving from a top down to bottom up model, with a practitioner enquiry-based approach with
innovations such as cross-staff mentoring, a researcher-in-residence and innovative approaches to
sharing learning. Funded by the LA, the intention is to develop this hub across the school and then
widen the model to other schools across the LA (Beck, Wall).

A further example of user engagement is the Engage with Strathclyde events held each May. For
example, in 2019, Developing a research engaged teaching profession: practitioner enquiry,
attracted over 100 participants (Wall, Beck). The session included five case studies of Scottish
schools implementing a practitioner enquiry approach in partnership with the University team:
Cleddens Early Learning and Family Centre, Bearsden Academy, Williamwood High School,
Boroughmuir High School and Preston Lodge High School. These insights into real life practice allow
us to draw out key components of implementing a practitioner enquiry culture, including models of
coaching/mentoring, making time and space, understanding tools to support enquiry, opportunities
to share thinking, problematising roles of expertise and informed voice, and connecting to student
outcomes (Wall).

Contribution to the Discipline

Researchers from the School serve in a range of capacities on the boards and committees of
professional associations (e.g. Federation of European Literacy Associations, Ellis; United Kingdom
Literacy Association, Govender; Scottish Educational Research Association, Adams, Beck),
charities (e.g. Ditch The Label and LGBT Youth Scotland, Rivers), community organisations
(LGBTQI+ Lives Scotland, Breeze), regulatory bodies (e.g. Bord Na Gaidhlig, Birnie, McPake;
GTCS, Mowat, Wall; Scottish Qualifications Authority, Essex; Scottish Funding Council, Sosu), and

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
learned societies (e.g. Royal Society of Chemistry, Essex, Salejhee; Philosophy of Education Society
of Great Britain, Hunter, Lewin; British Psychological Society, Sosu).

Staff have played senior advisory roles in a range of organisations such as: Council of Europe's
European Centre of Modern Languages (Birnie); Chair of National P1 Practitioner Forum; Scottish
Government (Ellis); Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (USA) (Rivers); Education Scotland
(Cassidy, Sosu, Wall); Public Health England Advisory Board, MSM Sexual Health Strategy (Rivers);
The Runnymede Trust (Taylor); Scientix : The Community for Science Education in Europe (Nikou);
Scottish Government’s Education Policy Unit (Sosu); Scottish Government ASD Awareness &
Capacity (Robinson), and Talking Mats (Wall).

Indicators of Wider Influence

Researchers in the School have also contributed to a wider impact for their research through their
contributions to the news media. They have utilised radio news nationally and internationally to
communicate research (Birnie, Cassidy, Delafield-Butt, Sosu), television news (Cassidy, Delafield-
Butt, Ellis, Klein, Sosu), documentary (Delafield-Butt), podcasts (Birnie, Cassidy), webinars (Kirk,
Wall), online news (Taylor) and print media (Cassidy, Delafield-Butt, Sosu).

Since 2014, academic staff of the School of Education have been members of Editorial Boards for
50 peer-reviewed journals in education and related fields. They have also played key editorial roles
in 25 peer-reviewed journals. In addition, significant contributions to the discipline have also been
made as Editors of Book Series, as follows: Advances in Critical Diversities Series Routledge (10
books, Co-Editor, Taylor), Routledge Studies in Physical Education and Youth Sport Series (34
books, Editor, Kirk), Gender and Education Series, Palgrave (25 books, Editor, Taylor).

Further contributions were made to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship, Leverhulme Fellows
and Fulbright Distinguished Teachers (Taylor, as a mentor), and to the UKRI: ESRC Strategic
Advisory Panel, the ESRC's Grant Assessment Panel, Core Panel for the UKRI Future Leader
Fellowship scheme, and ESRC's mid-term review of the Doctoral Training Partnerships (Rivers, as
a member).

We are involved in a range of activities that reflect the international excellence of our research and
the recognition this has achieved from leading universities and research organisations around the
world, including our work as reviewers for major funding councils, foundations and charities,
invitations to act as external examiners of higher degrees, hosting and organization of national and
international conferences, the award of honorary chairs and visiting scholarships, the award of
academic prizes, and the appointment to fellowships of major learned societies. These activities not
only recognise the excellence of individual staff, but also increasingly the University of Strathclyde
as an institution that supports world-leading educational research.

Academic staff have acted as reviewers for a number of funding bodies in the UK and internationally,
including the Austrian Science Fund (Samier), Australian Research Council (Kirk), British Academy
(Delafield-Butt, Taylor), Carnegie Trust (Delafield-Butt, Taylor), Deutscher Akademischer
Austauschdienst (Delafield-Butt), ESRC (Kirk, Marwick, Rivers, Sosu, Taylor, Wall), Irish Research
Council (Kirk), Leverhulme (Marwick), Marsden Foundation (Marwick), Medical Research Council
(Delafield-Butt), Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research (Ellis), Royal Society
(Delafield-Butt), Social Science and Humanities Research Council (Kirk), Social Science and
Humanities Research Council of Canada (Sosu) and the Wellcome Trust (Delafield-Butt). In addition,
all academics are engaged in peer-reviews of an extensive range of journals, book proposals and
conference presentations.


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff have acted as external examiners of doctoral and higher doctoral theses in universities in
Australia (Arnott, Breeze, Rivers, Wall), Brazil (Kirk), Canada (Rivers), France (Kirk), Ireland
(Cassidy, Sosu, Taylor, Wall), Germany (Kenklies), Pakistan (Kirk), South Africa (Rivers), New
Zealand (Kirk), and the UK (Adams, Arnott, Breeze, Cassidy, Klein, Lewin, Mowat, Rivers, Samier,
Sosu, Wall).

Staff have been active in the organisation and hosting of national and international conferences in
the areas of: Advanced research methods in visual methodology (Wall), early years (Arnott),
childhood (Cassidy/Hunter), sociolinguistics and minority languages (Birnie), early career
development (Taylor), sociology of religion (Cassidy/Lewin/Taylor), practitioner inquiry (Wall),
chemistry education (Essex), East Asian and human science pedagogies (Kenklies), graduate
research summer institute (Kirk), philosophy of education (Lewin), autism research (Marwick/
Robinson), multilingualism (McPake), global engineering education (Nikou), psychology of
sexualities (Rivers), gendering Autism (Robinson/Taylor), higher education, (Sosu/Taylor), the
attainment gap (Sosu), family estrangement (Taylor), feminist and women’s studies (Taylor), and
educational futures and fractures (Taylor).

During the review period, staff have held visiting or Honorary Chairs at the Australian National
University (Taylor) and the University of Queensland (Kirk) respectively. Staff have also been visiting
researchers to universities in Argentina, Colombia and Ecuador (Banegas), Queensland, Australia
(Klein), universities in the UK (Rivers), India (Salehjee), Thailand, USA and Malawi (Sosu), New
York and Sydney (Taylor). Other markers of esteem and influence have been the award of annual
prizes for Outstanding Reviewer, Review of Educational Research (Delafield-Butt), and best paper
awards from Wiley Research in Literacy Education (Ellis/Smith), the American Educational Research
Association (Kirk), the National Association of School Psychologists (Rivers), the Philip Abram’s
Memorial Prize, and British Sociological Association (Breeze). Further prizes include The Herald
Global Game Changers Award (Essex) and an outstanding research award from the British
Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (Robinson).

Fellowships are held with the Academy of Social Sciences (Kirk, Rivers, Taylor), The British
Psychological Society (Rivers), the National Academy of Kinesiology, USA (Kirk) and The American
Psychological Association (Rivers).




                                                                                              Page 19
