Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 13 - Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 Our submission presents the multi-disciplinary research done within the School of Built
 Environment and Architecture (SBEA) between 2014 and 2020. SBEA was established in 2014
 as part of a structural transformation which saw the university’s four faculties restructured into
 seven schools. This transformation created a strategic opportunity to bring together all research
 and subject areas concerning the design, development, and operation of the built environment
 under a new school. Interdisciplinary research is currently prioritised under four main themes:
      Architecture and digital fabrication
      Civil, building services engineering and acoustics
      Construction management, economics and integrated delivery
      Sustainability and resilient infrastructure and communities

 Bringing together teams under these themes to foster an interdisciplinary approach to the built
 environment reflects our belief that global challenges necessitate multifaceted solutions.

 SBEA research strategy was anchored around six pillars to enhance the research environment:
 Quality and Integrity; People and Focus; Impact and Performance; Resources;
 Partnership and Engagements; and Communication and Improved Reputation

 SBEA’s mission has been to create a vibrant research culture which produces world-leading,
 unique and impactful interdisciplinary research, contributing to socio-economic development and
 improvement in the quality of life in the UK and overseas. This is achieved whilst furthering our
 research under Unit of Assessment 13, delivered through its two research centres (and two
 research groups).

 This is the first time LSBU has submitted a group in the area of research covered by UoA-13 to
 the REF, returning 32.2 FTE staff. This achievement in term of staff strength reflects our
 commitment to our key research themes and is supported by our on-going efforts to the grow the
 school’s research environment through funding, new appointments, training, and other initiatives.

 1.2 Structure
 SBEA’s research has been strategically organised under two research centres:
      Centre for Civil and Building Services Engineering (CCIBSE)
      Centre for Integrated Delivery of the Built Environment (IDoBE)

 Two research groups were also created in 2018 with the ambition to grow into centres:
     Acoustic Research Group (ARG).
     Digital Architecture Laboratory (DARLAB)

 This structure was developed to deliver on the research strengths, creating a critical mass for
 the Centres and a unified research environment for the School. These centres and groups
 enable the school’s research mission to be attained. A strategic roadmap directs the progression
 of research in-line with this mission.

 1.2.1 CCiBSE
 CCiBSE has world leading expertise in Civil and Building services engineering (including past
 presidents of professional bodies) and is dedicated to developing and undertaking research that
 contributes to minimising the environmental impact and carbon emissions associated with
 development and operation of the built environment. This aligns with the UK Government’s
 commitment to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050 and supports the LSBU Group’s

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic commitments to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UKRI’s Clean Growth
 Grand Challenge.

 The centre has also been at the forefront of developing industry skills and knowledge transfer
 using the school’s CEREB facility. CEREB is a unique teaching, research and demonstration
 facility for the built environment which hosts research-based renewable and low carbon energy
 solutions.

 During this REF period the strength of CCiBSE was enhanced through strategic appointments
 and investment in facilities, in Energy and System Modelling, Structural Engineering,
 Geotechnics and Interaction of Fluid with Structures (flood engineering in the coastal built
 environment).

 CCiBSE currently comprises 20.2 FTE staff who work with over 20 partners.
 CCiBSE’s collaborations and flagship projects are described in sections 1.6, 4.2, 4.5 and 4.7.

 1.2.2 IDoBE
 IDoBE is committed to innovation in construction through enhanced business processes, and
 practices, project management and appropriate resources choice and allocation. IDoBE
 addresses the UK government’s various strategies for the Construction Sector Deal, and works
 to obtain improvements in construction, focusing on Building Information Modelling (BIM) to
 improve the delivery of construction projects. The Centre’s key research themes include: low
 productivity and construction waste, using knowledge, innovation, and digital transformation to
 improve cost certainty and predictability of construction projects. IDOBE also aims to address
 leadership challenges and the skills gap in the industry. The Centre’s approach is to leverage
 knowledge from many disciplines to develop sustainable solutions to the challenges facing the
 built environment. IDOBE comprises of 12.0 FTE staff and works with several partners.

 1.2.3 ARG
 ARG focuses on the effects of noise on health, room acoustics, materials, metamaterials, and
 speech intelligibility. Aligning with LSBU/SBEA’s real-world research impact strategy, ARG has
 worked with the following partners: Institute of Acoustics, CIBSE, Foster and Partners,
 Wandsworth Council, Henry Wood Hall, BBC, St Paul’s Cathedral, Royal Academy of Music,
 Royal Opera House, Audio3, Anne Kyyro Quinn, Aeropowder, and Imtech.

 1.2.4 DARLAB
 DARLAB aims to revolutionise architecture through the combination of digital technologies and
 physical building processes; and to develop criteria for a new system of structural logic which
 can be applied to architecture and is intrinsic to digital fabrication. It is underpinned by a digital
 robotic fabrication laboratory housed within SBEA. Its research focuses on additive digital
 fabrication techniques used for building non-standardised architectural components. By
 positioning material precisely where it is required, it can use digital, additive fabrication to
 interweave functional and aesthetic qualities into a structure. Aligning with the LSBU/SBEA
 strategy of enterprise with industry, partners include: Volkswagen Berlin, Titan Reality, Sound
 Display, European Space Agency and HAL Robotics.

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy
 Real world impact is at the heart of our research strategy. This strategy was designed to:
 1) develop vibrant research environment and ethos;
 2) deliver research which informed policy and aided decision makers through the creation of
 guidance and standards; and
 3) work with local organisations to deliver Industry Focused Impact.

 This strategy was implemented through the setting of objectives to generate targeted,




                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 measurable, impact. The research leads held one-to-one meetings with members of staff to
 understand their research development and delivery needs and to prioritise evidenced impact.
 Through our research output, internationally distributed newsletters, regular events,
 and our Industrial Advisory Board meetings we highlight our expertise and achievements and
 continuously provide opportunities for academics and stakeholders (industry, professional
 bodies and policy groups) to engage in our research.

 1.3.1 Vibrant Research Culture and Ethos
 An important commitment in the school’s research strategy is to adopt an inclusive
 approach of building research into the activity and expectations of staff. This also aligned with
 the SBEA Strategy-Quality and Integrity Pillar. To achieve this:
  We developed the SBEA guide to research and included research in the staff workload
     model. Each year, staff members in SBEA are requested to complete the “Research and
     Enterprise Workload Form” to enable the leadership to include information on the research
     and enterprise components in their overall workload. The form collects information on the
     academic staff member’s current research and enterprise activities, and plans for the coming
     academic year, including research output, postgraduate supervision, research & enterprise
     bidding and grants, and indicators of national and international esteem/Impact.
  We set up the school's research hub through which we run bi-monthly training workshops for
     researchers on topics ranging from how to identify funding opportunities to writing bids,
     conducting rigorous and original research, collaborative research, and dissemination of
     research (see section 1.6). This has resulted in increasing the number of research active
     Teaching and Research staff from 50% in 2013/14 to 75% in 2019/2020.
  Introduced an annual school research support fund and scholarships (see section 2.4).
  Provided structured mentoring for Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
  Increased research administrative support and dissemination platforms - we have centre
     newsletters, blogs and twitter.

 1.3.2 Policy Impact and Influencing Practice
 An important commitment of SBEA’s research strategy was the Impact and Performance pillar,
 this section gives specific examples of policy impact including: Gillich’s research on the CEREB
 Policy Framework for implementing and incentivising multi-stakeholder, low-carbon solutions
 across existing buildings. This resulted in Gillich being seconded to the UK Department for
 Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy for 12 months in 2017 as Technical Energy Advisor in
 Buildings within the Science and Innovation for Climate and Energy Directorate. His research
 informed a £4.7 million UK Government programme (see Impact Case Study on
 Decarbonisation). Shield’s research work informed Government policy on protecting
 the acoustic quality of schools – Acoustics of Schools: A design guide (see Impact Case Study
 on Schools). Werna’s work has contributed to the UN Habitat World City Report 2020 – The
 Value of Urbanisation. Chaer’s research contributed to the International Institute of Refrigeration
 24th Informatory Note on Refrigeration Technologies "Containment of Refrigerants within
 Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Heat Pump Systems". Ebohon’s research contributed to UN
 Habitat World City Report 2016 and 2020-The Value of Urbanisation. Ofori’s work has
 influenced and contributed to the construction industry in developing countries such as Ethiopia.
 Eccles research work informed the RICS-Code of Practice on Service Charge Management-
 2019.

 1.3.3 Working with Local Organisations and Industry Focused Impact
 Working with local organisations has put SBEA in a strong position to collaborate with centres of
 excellence and leading industry partners and business organisations. The partners include:
 London Underground, Royal Opera House, National Rail as well as SMEs such as ICAX,
 Demand Logic and Sharps Redmore, which have helped inform our REF impact case studies.
 For example: Ford and Dudley’s (UoA12) research with Demand Logic has led to improvement
 of the company’s software platforms, incorporating artificial intelligence into buildings
 management systems resulting in 10-30% cost savings due reduction of energy use and cutting
 CO2 emissions by 37,000t annually.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Over the last 2 years SBEA has supported Eight London-based SMEs to tackle barriers to
 innovation by providing bespoke research and development support through the Sustainable
 Innovation (SI) initiative (SI is made up of two projects, Access to Innovation (A2i), and Low
 Carbon London (LCLDN), which combine offer over £4million of funding from the European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF)). For example: working with Skipping Rock Lab to develop
 their biodegradable water bottles as an alternative to plastic bottles as a means of environmental
 preservation.

 The Impact and Performance Pillar was further strengthened through industry-focused Quality
 Related (QR) funded research (£120k annually). This has resulted in a total of 15 funded PhD
 scholarships. For example: work with Brilliant Eye produced research which directly informed the
 new IEC standard on speech (IEC 60268-16:2020); and research with the Royal Academy of
 Music informed British Association for Performance Arts Medicine (BAPAM) Hearing
 Conservation for Performance-Best Practice Guidance 2020. Collaboration with the Bond Group
 supported by (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) DEFRA, Innovate UK and the
 Technology Strategy Board (TSB) raised awareness of the challenges and opportunities of
 adopting circular processes within the retail sector and helped change the business model and
 solutions offered to their clients such as M&S, Morrison’s, Sainsbury's, Waitrose and Asda. The
 behaviour change model produced has resulted in a significant reduction in embodied carbon and
 created 30 new jobs.

 Chaer, Paurine and Maidment’s REAL Skills and REAL Alternative research produced in
 collaboration with Institute of Refrigeration created better awareness of refrigerant leakage and
 emissions from cooling and refrigeration technologies, specifically, four e-learning modules on:
 environmental, cost and legal aspects of refrigerant leakage; management, maintenance, and
 good practice in minimising leakage. These pan-European training materials were made available
 in seven languages/countries (UK, Germany, Estonia, France, Netherland, Poland, and Greece).
 This created an Impact Case Study for UoA12 - Reducing refrigerant emissions, demonstrating
 our interdisciplinarity.

 1.4 Research Strategy Successes
 By following the SBEA research roadmap, the following have been achieved:

       Research Leadership: Our researchers have led four major projects worth £3.5m to
        LSBU and have been collaborators on further projects worth £3.6m.
       Research Infrastructure: Over £1.8m has been invested into the unit’s research
        infrastructure. This included the creation of the Digital Architecture Robotic Laboratory
        (DARLAB), the Building Information Modelling (BIM) Hub and the Highways Laboratory.
        This aligns with the Resources pillar of the Strategy.
       Research Esteem: Egbu was the Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) Vice-President
        (2017-19) and President (2019/20). He was also the coordinator of two CIB Working
        Commissions (W102 – Knowledge Management and Information in Construction) and
        W117 (Performance Measurement in Construction). Shield was the first female
        President of the Institute of Acoustics (2012-14); Dance acted as Chair of the Ministry of
        Housing, Community and Local Government for the Building Regulations Review for
        Resistance to the Passage of Sound (2017-20); Ebohon was Chair for the Advisory
        Board for Green Hub Africa (2016-20); Werna was Chair for Innovation and Knowledge
        for United Nations-Habitat (2019-20) ); Ofori is Joint Co-ordinator (with Egbu) of CIB
        Task Group 95 on Professionalism and Ethics in Construction (2018 to date).
       Awards: Researchers and collaborations under the unit have won 15 awards and prizes,
        see sections 2.5 and 4.5 for detail.
       Research Degrees: 21 doctoral degrees have been awarded with a 33% increase in
        successful completions over this REF period of submission (August 2013 – July 2020).
        PhD registrations in the same period have tripled to 57 in 2019/20.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Examples of Research Centre/Group Achievements
 The examples in this section illustrate how the goals and aspirations in these areas have been
 met or surpassed in the REF period, and provide a solid foundation for future goals and strategy:

 CCIBSE Key Achievements:
     98 indexed peer-reviewed scientific papers with multiple internationally leading joint
      authors.
     15 PhD completions.
     £2.9m in research-related income to the unit.
     Won The Engineer: Collaborate to Innovate Award 2018 for the Balanced Energy Network
      (BEN).
     Awarded the Collaboration of the Year' award at the 2016 H&V News Awards for research
      work carried out by the School and Transport for London.
     Led the Climate Emergency Debate series 2019/20 and hosted the UK-Passivhaus Trust
      annual meetings.
     Received International Patent: Fire safety innovation for ventilated cladding panels.

 IDOBE Key Achievements:
     77 indexed peer-reviewed scientific journal publications.
     Knowledge Transfer Partnership for Machine-based Learning for Analysis of
      Construction Data with RCIS £220k.
     Organised and Hosted: International Conference on Professionalism and Ethics in
      Construction in 2018, under the auspices of Task Group 95 of the CIB after the Hackett
      Review of the incidence of the Grenfell Tower fire. Attendees: 102 from five countries.
     Developed a massive on-line educational course (MOOC) on sustainable construction,
      hosted by CIOB with over 30,000 active course participants from more than 100
      countries.
     Won two international link research grants including the Newton Advanced Fellowship:
      Harmonization of Construction Health and Safety Practices in the Southern African
      Development Community £55K, which had real world impact in practice, and built
      research capacity and capability in many developing countries.

 Acoustic Research Group Key Achievements:
     22 indexed peer-reviewed scientific papers with internationally leading joint authors.
     Industrial PhD Sponsorship for four jointly funded research projects, £169K; and five PhD
       completions.
     National and international recognition including: A Higher Education Academy National
       Teaching Fellowship for Research Informed Teaching; Institute of Acoustics Tyndall
       Medal in 2014; and Institute of Acoustics Peter Barnet Award in October 2013; and
       Fellowship of the Acoustical Society of America in 2014.
     Design testing for the new Apple Headquarters in Cupertino, USA for Foster + Partners.
     Outreach activities to engage the public on acoustics with a Youtube video with 13M+
       views, Callux entitled, “The Quietest Room in the World”.

 DARLAB Key Achievements:
    Signed Memorandum of Understanding with Ministry of Sound, SCMGroup and Autodesk
    Secured funding for a KEEP+ Grant (£65K) jointly with the ARG to manufacture
      optimised acoustic panels with Titan Industries.
    Pilot project “Planetary Habitat Moon 2024” secured with the European Space Agency.

 1.6 Support for Strategic Delivery
      SBEA’s collaborative research potential was reinforced during the REF period by a
        strategic initiative of an agreement signed with the Building Services Research and
        Information Association, (BSRIA) to establish the BSRIA-LSBU Innovation Centre. The
        aim of the centre is to address future issues for the building services engineering and

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        allied industries, providing thought leadership and delivering safe, affordable, and
        sustainable living to communities. (BSRIA is an international building physics testing
        organisation comprising over 800 member companies.
       Activities to foster the research culture were held, including: research hubs; away-days;
        sessions on research during scholarship weeks; focused meetings for early exchange of
        information on research themes; and support for 25 research internships during the REF
        period.
       A strategy to offer annual ‘kick-start’ funding (£40k available annually as part of the
        school’s Internal Challenge Fund, please see section 2.4 for more detail). An example of
        the six projects funded in 2018/19 demonstrated the synergies that arise by bringing civil
        engineers and acousticians together to work on a sustainable material based on recycled
        glass beads that has excellent structural and acoustical properties (McCann and
        Aygun).
       To encourage inter-disciplinarity (40% of our research outputs were produced with
        collaborators from other disciplines, predominantly with members of UoA12), the strategy
        was to pursue funding from a broad range of sources, many of which are committed to
        the decarbonisation of the built environment. Examples include three BEIS funded
        projects (total funds over £ 4.2 million): Low Carbon Energy Innovation funding call
        creating the Balance Energy Network consortium; Low Carbon Heating Technology
        Innovation Fund for a project titled- Endothermic Heating Technology Development; and
        Energy Entrepreneurs Fund for the Home Energy for Tomorrow (HE4T), see section
        3.1.1 for income detail.
       Another example of success in fostering interdisciplinarity is the £1.5 million award from
        National Institute of Health Research to develop a Public Health Intervention Responsive
        Studies (PHIRST London) project. The team is drawn from five of the university’s
        research centres (in three schools). Going forward, our strategy will be to model the
        example of PHIRST London and develop collaborative projects on health issues across
        the university.

 1.7 Future Strategic Goals
 Looking forward, the key concerns in research in the built environment are the speed at which
 change occurs and how we influence policy and cultural value.

 As a new UoA 13 we plan to build on our early successes and lessons. We will further align and
 integrate our work under the three broad themes of:
 1) Energy and Architecture;
 2) Health and Wellbeing; and
 3) Delivery of Projects in the Built Environment to meet the needs of future generations.

 This will entail building new and innovative strategic partnerships, particularly at the international
 level, such as with UN agencies and other development cooperation actors (Werna, Ebohon).
 We will continue to exploit our strong relationships with industry and professional institutions and
 will enhance our international collaborations. In the UK, we will influence policy and research
 agendas such as our work with BEIS (Gillich) and MHCLG (Dance).

 We will continue to provide linkages between fundamental research, applied research,
 knowledge transfer and enterprise through our CEREB hub; and work with BSRIA and its
 members to develop high-impact research relating to net-zero carbon buildings and the built
 environment in general. This approach will deliver income, which we will invest back into
 research, and impact, which we will measure and continue to build upon.

 Specifically, we will:
     Continue to provide resources to existing areas of impact such as investment in
         advanced facilities for Skills for Climate Change and Modern Methods of Manufacturing.
     Maintain and increase research outputs of international/ leading quality.



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Actively pursue and develop collaborations with world leading UK and international
        organisations, such as Foster and Partners and the Royal Opera House.
       Grow at least one of the Research Groups into a Research Centre through academic
        appointments, internal promotions, and investment in facilities and infrastructure.
       Support Government’s policy formulation by providing relevant research on architecture
        and the built environment, for example around relevant aspects of COVID-19 and its
        aftermath.
       Attract collaborative/interdisciplinary funding to a value of £7m in 2020-27, a target of
        100% increase in the current figure.
       Increase the number of PhD completions by 100% in 2020-27, to at least six per year.
       Further extend the reach of our research to include more developing countries.
       Strengthen the link between our research and our teaching demonstrated through the
        award of Higher Education Academy National Teaching Fellowships.
       Continue to support diverse start-ups and SMEs by undertake research into emerging
        services, processes and technologies to enhance the Built Environment.

 2. People

 As mentioned in section 1 People and Focus is one of SBEA research strategy pillars.
 This section gives evidence of how quality and diversity are being promoted within the unit.

 2.1 People and Focus
 The People and Focus pillar has five strands, to:
  Increase the number of research-active staff in national importance areas of the Built
     Environment (performance, processes, and sustainability).
  Enhance succession planning by developing staff capacity, recruiting and nurturing staff
     members who are talented and experienced in conducting and applying research on the Built
     Environment.
  Develop our Research Environment and widen participation (such as increasing PGR
     numbers, and completions).
  Maintain research engagement, by providing structured training and mentoring, particularly for
     those at early stages of their research careers.
  Reduce the teaching workload for ECRs in their early years to give them time to develop
     their research area, as well as aligning their research with the SBEA strategy.

 SBEA is committed to the University Research Concordat and uses it to support the career
 development of researchers. Information and training events are provided, overseen by a central
 Researcher Development Group. Currently Kaluarachchi is the main point of contact for the
 concordat and Chaer is a member of the university research committee.

 The University is committed to equality for all, and values diversity and inclusivity. LSBU’s Code
 of Practice for selection for REF2021 reflects the University’s inclusivity, equality and diversity
 policy. It was circulated to all academic staff and has been fully implemented in this submission;
 this is exemplified by 61% of the submitted staff having a BAME background.

 2.2 Staff Recruitment
 Since 2014, in-line with the ambition of the SBEA Strategic Framework, we have increased
 research capacity by recruiting 24 academics (including 10 ECRs, four professors and four
 associate professors) in key strategic areas of the built environment. These appointments reflect
 international expertise thus supporting the School’s Internationalisation Strategy developed in
 conjunction with the LSBU International Office. The new school management developed
 recruitment guidelines that consider understanding of contemporary research issues nationally
 and internationally, research record of accomplishment, research fit and research potential, and
 the potential to win funding and to establish or lead specific research areas.
  Ofori, Ebohon, Udeaja and Ge were recruited to professorial posts to grow and support
     research in Construction Industry Development, International Construction; Productivity in

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Construction; and Professionalism and Ethics in Construction; Sustainability and
     Environmental Law, and Energy and Development in the built and natural environment,
    Adamu was recruited as an Associate Professor as part of the school’s commitment to
     excellence in education and research relating to BIM.
    Jin and Kangwa were recruited to Associate Professor positions to strengthen the breadth
     of research on the built environment in the school. These Associate Professors providing a
     potential pathway to leadership as part of succession planning thus ensuring sustainability of
     the school.
    Werna was recruited as an Associate Professor from the International Labour Office (United
     Nations) to lead on strategies for innovative sustainable urban development solutions.

 2.3 Staff Promotion
 Promotion is available to all staff members in-line with the LSBU Academic Framework (see
 Institutional Statement). The process is centrally managed and runs every October. Staff attend
 workshops that help them to identify their strengths and potential training needs. Sixteen internal
 promotions were successful within this unit during this REF submission period, including:
  Dance, Chaer, and Mavroulidou were promoted to Professor.
  Fong and Gillich were promoted to Associate Professor, a part of SBEA’s succession
     planning strategy.
  Saber, Gomez-Agustina, Ye, McGovern, Shamas, Lopez, and Yebiyo were promoted to
     Senior Lecturer.
 Retiring staff with research profiles have been appointed to Emeritus positions and continue to
 work with our staff and doctoral students to develop relevant research, for example Shield and
 Gunn are supporting the research agendas of Acoustics and Geotechnics, respectively.

 2.4 Staff Mentoring and Development
 We have a structured mentoring system in keeping with the school’s Strategic Framework. This
 drew upon the national Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Researchers develop a five-
 year publication plan and provide planned targets annually at their appraisals with their division
 heads and meetings the Director of Research and Enterprise.

 Under the SBEA Internal Challenge Fund: Research and university-level Investment Pot funding,
 the school offers an annual competition for “kick-start” research funding to stimulate
 collaborative work in new areas. This fund provides support for: (a) small items of research
 equipment (£100k in 2014); (b) pilot research and enterprise grants (£40k in 2016); (c)
 collaborative research and enterprise bids (£15k in 2017); (d) enterprise internships (£6k in
 2018/19); (e) strategic research on global challenges (£23k in 2019); and (f) projects under the
 internal challenge fund (£40k in 2020). This funding has benefited many of the submitted staff
 members, particularly ECRs, by enabling them to increase research output. This is in addition to
 annual funding for conference attendance for REF related outputs.

 The University provides a systematic programme of research seminars and complementary
 skills training available to all staff and students. The school supports and promotes training
 workshops which are offered by the university for new supervisors.

 The School offers Research Hub sessions. For example, in the academic year 2019/20 the
 school ran four workshops on bidding, grant opportunities, collaborations, and dissemination of
 research. The School also runs regular seminars during school away days and monthly
 workshops to encourage networking, foster interdisciplinary research and engender cross-
 fertilisation of ideas amongst researchers. These have helped to build a new research ethos.
 The school has championed pan-university and pan-sector brainstorming sessions to develop
 interdisciplinary research.

 The school has benefited from the university sabbatical scheme which enables successful
 applicants to buy out time to cover teaching and administrative duties, thus providing them with
 time for research, preparation of output and bid writing. In 2018-19, Gillich, was awarded a

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research sabbatical which enabled his secondment to BEIS where he helped to influence policy
 change at Science and Innovation for Climate Change. In 2019-20, two sabbaticals were
 awarded, to Dance and Yebiyo. Dance will chair the Building Regulations review for the
 Resistance to the Passage of Sound with the support of the Ministry of Housing,
 Communities and Local Government. The sabbatical enabled Yebiyo, an ECR, to spend time
 in Sweden and collaborate with researchers at KTH University.

 We have also enabled researchers to gain knowledge on opportunities for collaboration and
 funding at national and international levels. Aguda was supported to participate in training as
 part of a ECRs delegation to Brussels to develop his EU funding skills and build networks.

 2.5 Postgraduate Researchers
 A key pillar of the SBEA Strategic Framework is to build a supportive, vital and sustainable
 research environment for its cohort of PGRs, and thereby, to improve the size, quality and
 diversity of its PGR population. Since 2014, with the strategic appointment of a PGR Lead
 (currently held by Kaluarachchi), the number of postgraduate researchers has increased from
 18 to 57 during the review period. The UoA works with LSBU’s International and Recruitment
 Offices to reach potential PGRs globally. Our PGR population is diverse; one-third are female,
 and 58% of all PhD completions have BAME backgrounds. Some 50% of PhD students are from
 overseas, and particularly, Middle Eastern and African countries, aligning with SBEA’s
 internationalisation strategy and its commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusivity. The UoA
 has built strategic partnerships with several overseas institutions* including those in developing
 countries, such as The British University in Egypt, with which there is joint supervision of four
 PGRs. In 2020, the UoA introduced a new round of competitive PhD scholarships funded by the
 school. This created opportunity for more focused research and international access in line with
 the school’s strategy. The best four proposals across the UoA’s research centres and groups
 being selected.

 The UoA provides PhD students with support that goes beyond the normal University provision
 to actively nurture them in a collegiate environment, building up a positive research culture from
 which they will develop a positive orientation and commitment to research integrity and
 professionalism. The Graduate Researcher Development Programme, which is managed
 through the dedicated Haplo online system, supports the delivery of training using Blackboard
 Collaborator for both our attending and distance learning PhD students. Haplo includes a
 subject-specific in-house training programme, and information on surgery time with the PGR
 Lead, and assigned personal tutors (who look after their welfare). The SBEA approach to PhD
 training and mentoring has been adopted by LSBU’ London Doctoral Academy. This surpasses
 the formal supervision provided by each student’s Director of Studies, and other supervisors.

 In line with the research strategy of producing real-world impact, PGRs are encouraged to
 participate in applied research topics. This resulted in supporting nine match funded PhDs from
 the QR funds to the value of £120k during this REF period. Industry partners on this programme
 included: The Royal Opera House, The Royal Academy of Music, London Underground,
 Hydromyx, Exergyn, Baykam, Brilliant Eye and The Bond Group. These partnerships have
 strengthened SBEA’s ties with industry and helped PGRs to produce impactful applied research.
 For example, the Royal Academy of Music demonstrated its commitment to research by
 providing funding for PhD students to investigate new architectural acoustics solutions. The
 partnerships have helped to develop SBEA’s environment of research excellence as evidenced
 by two PhD students receiving the Acoustical Society of America Newman award 2016/17 and
 2017/18; one student winning the Audio Engineering Society Bronze Award 2014; and the
 Institute of Refrigeration Ted Perry Award for research 2017/18. A former PhD student and
 research fellow, Dr Ina Colombo has become one of the leading female BAME engineering
 professionals; she was appointed as deputy director of the International Institute of Refrigeration.

 Each student can benefit from the School’s research funds to attend conferences (£500 per full-
 time PGR student annually, up to a total of £1,500; and half for part-time PGR student). Students
 are also provided with small items of equipment and consumables, including printing allowance.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This support has resulted in all successful PhD students producing at least one research output
 during their studies.

 The LSBU CIB Students Chapter (361 members including PhD and other postgraduate
 students) was set up in 2015 to provide SBEA’s postgraduate students with a forum for
 disseminating and sharing their research and findings, and to facilitate wider sharing of research
 among different CIB Chapters in the UK and overseas. This initiative is supported by the school
 through an annual budget of £5k plus organisational support for organising events and seminars.
 There are regular forums for students to present their research, liaise with industry and engage
 across disciplines. They can also participate in a range of student competitions and other
 activities organised jointly with The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), CIBSE Young
 Engineers Network and CIOB.

 The school has a long history of fully funded post-doctoral research fellowships. Five of these
 were provided in 2013-2016 awarded to Gomez-Agustina, Gillich, Yebiyo, Paurine, Ali. These
 post-doctoral fellows were developed to the point where they were able to take up permanent
 full-time academic appointments at LSBU. This demonstrates the sustainability of the school’s
 research culture.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the review period, the UoA has invested £1.8m to improve research capacity, with new
 laboratories and state-of-the-art equipment procured, enabling the unit to deliver outputs of an
 international standard. The unit has also expanded its portfolio of funded research, commercial
 contracts and resulting intellectual property. The diversity of the sources reflects our close links
 with industry and practice partners and professional bodies.

 3.1 Income
 Over the review period the UoA has been successful in directly winning research grants and
 commercial contracts with a total value of £3.5m and collaborating as co-investigators on
 projects with a total value of £6.9m. In securing these funds, our UoA has fostered partnerships
 with both leading sustainable innovation SMEs and world-leading organisations, and industry
 institutions such as Foster and Partners, ICAX, National Rail, Royal Opera House, Tata
 Steel and European Space Agency. This demonstrates our international reputation for applied
 research and development excellence, and our capacity to deliver timely high-quality solutions
 for the sector. Our portfolio of successful grants and contracts reflects our world-leading
 capabilities in architecture, building services engineering, civil and structural engineering, and
 construction management.

 3.1.1 CCiBSE Research Income
 CCiBSE academics have secured research grants and contracts totalling over £2.9m to the
 school. The range of successful projects and landmark achievements include:

    £2.9m (£600k to SBEA) Innovate UK-funded Balance Energy Network (Project- Funding-
     Number 102624) consortium comprising LSBU and many low carbon specialist entities,
     which designed and installed the award-winning, world’s first 5th Generation network on
     LSBU’s Southwark campus. This has recently informed the decision of Lambeth Council
     approach to implement Heat Networks.
    £210k (£20k to SBEA) EPSRC funded Energy Management and Analysis Exploiting Existing
     Building Management Systems Infrastructure and Data (EP/M506734/1).
    Recently won £1m EPSRC-funded H-2 Heat collaboration (EP/T022760/1) with Brunel
     University, HiETA, Ricardo Group and Tata Steel on thermal energy transport using hydrogen
     technologies
    £181k (£27k to SBEA). EPSRC-funded project (EP/R000298/2) on Bio-CO2: Power
     Generation and Heat Recovery with Brunel, Entropea Labs and SWEP International.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    £559k (£147k to SBEA) HE4T collaboration with ICAX, Thames Water and Anglian Water to
     use heat exchangers to create high value energy from low carbon sources.
    £760k (£50k to SBEA) Endothermic Heating Technology Development with Minus 7 and
     ICAX to research hybrid solar thermal/PV/heat pump energy storage system.
    £38k funding and support from London Underground to research ground source heat
     pumps and their interactions with underground railway tunnels in an urban environment. This
     successful project has now blossomed into a much larger collaboration between LSBU,
     London Underground and energy providers, again demonstrating real-world impact.
    £185k (£100k to SBEA) MSCA-IF HORIZON2020 grant won with collaborators including
     Network Rail and Middlesex University on: The use of Biocementation as a Nature-based
     Ground Improvement Technique.
    £25k EU-funded REAL Alternatives 4 LIFE project investigating the potential of low emission
     refrigerants.
    More focused collaborations include: Hydromx to study heating systems using a nano-
     based heat transfer medium (£38k); Exergyn on heat pumps using shape memory alloys
     (£38k); Basalt Fiber Tech on sustainable basalt reinforcing bars in construction (£10k from
     SI); and TopHat Industries on off-site manufacturing and testing of modular timber for
     housing units (£27k).

 These high-profile projects demonstrate the centre’s ability to secure funding and contracts from
 research councils and industry organisations; the results also show our commitment to
 developing innovative solutions for a sustainable built environment.

 Members of CCiBSE have also been active in developing intellectual property, demonstrating
 our strategic commitment to innovation, commercial awareness, and real-world impact:
  Following the Grenfell Tower Incident, a multi-disciplinary team was supported by the school
     to undertake research of a novel concept for fire control. This led to a new patent application
     (Patent No.1806000.4) for a fire safety innovation for ventilated cladding panels. The
     technology has attracted the attention of key fire protection manufacturers and funding from
     TENMAT who have provided materials for proof-of-concept testing alongside the SBUEL
     Proof-of-Concept fund (£13k). The patent has been extended to Australia and the
     Philippines, reflecting its potential in the international retrofitting market.


 3.1.2 IDoBE Research Income
 Over the review period, IDoBE has secured £293k in grants and contracts focusing on
 enhancing skillsets, managing waste and improving health and safety in the construction
 industry, thus promoting both social and environmental sustainability, and supporting the
 attainment of the UN Strategic Development Goals. Notable achievements include:

 Machine-based Learning for Analysis of Construction Data, funded by a Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RCIS), and in collaboration with
 the School of Engineering (£220k). This provided a web-based tool to address the skills
 shortage in the measurement and cost planning of mechanical and electrical (M&E) installations
 in buildings which was leading to the outsourcing of such services to Asian countries. This was
 in alignment with the UKRI’s AI and Big Data Grand Challenge.

 Collaborating with CCiBSE researchers and the Institute of Technology-Bandung Indonesia,
 IDoBE researchers secured and successfully delivered two Industry Academia Partnership
 Programmes from the Royal Academy of Engineering to address plastic waste in Coastal
 Indonesia (IAPP1617\38, total funding £41.4k and IAPP1\100054 total funding £49.6k).




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Collaborating with Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) in South Africa, IDoBE
 researchers secured British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship funding (NAFR1180168
 total funding £55k)- Harmonisation of Construction Health and Safety Practices and compliance
 in the Southern African Development Community.

 3.1.3 ARG Research Income
 ARG has focused on jointly funded industry research. It has secured a total of £265k during the
 review period. The research has focused on architectural and environmental acoustics,
 especially on acoustics for the benefit of musicians. The breadth and profile of the group’s
 research demonstrates the group’s expertise and provides an example of the recognition and
 reputation for excellence of the UoA. The work has had impact in protecting musicians’ hearing
 and teachers’ voices. The group has researched novel materials to improve room acoustics and
 produced invaluable datasets for the wider acoustics research community. Some notable
 projects include:
  The Royal Academy of Music (RAM) provided £76k which was used to undertake
    audiometry to determine musicians’ hearing, and develop novel dosimeters for use on stage,
    resulting in a new commercially successful product, SoundBadge. RAM supported the
    development and testing of new acoustic treatments including the sound absorbing mirror as
    well as inflatables as sound absorbers (recently installed in Henry Wood Hall to rebalance the
    acoustics). New methods developed were used to assess the sound exposure of the
    Choristers of St. Paul’s Cathedral where it was determined that a new additional choir was
    needed; this was implemented in formation of the All-Girls’ Choir (see Impact Case Study on
    Acoustics for the Benefit of Musicians). The research also informed the new British
    Association of Performance Arts Medicine – Guidance for Hearing Conservation for
    Musicians.
  The Royal Opera House provided £48k for research to develop metamaterials to improve
    the acoustics in orchestra pits. This research resulted in the design and prototyping of the
    world’s first metadiffuser (see Impact Case Study on Acoustics for the Benefit of Musicians).
  The Quiet Project was a collaboration with KSG Acoustics, supported by an EPSRC grant
    UKAN (EP/R00500/1). This was a rapid response to measure and observe the effect of the
    first COVID Lockdown on the nation. It resulted in an exhibit on the National History Museum
    website entitled, “Nature: Liberated by Lockdown”, and secondly, it has produced the largest
    environmental noise and soundscape survey (£35k).
  Medical measurement technology employed to study the relationship between vocal stress
    and acoustics; this initiative was funded by Sharps Redmore (£24k) and Baykam (£30k).
    The results were used to improve the classroom environment for secondary school teachers,
    informed Building Bulletin 93; and were reapplied in the design of practice rooms for opera
    singers.
  Brilliant Eye provided £15k for research to measure speech more accurately for reproduced
    sound systems; this informed the new IEC 60268-16:2020 standard for the objective rating of
    speech intelligibility by speech transmission index.
  Imtech provided £8k to characterise the acoustics of plastic ducting – now commonly used in
    industry; this research led to CIBSE forming a working group to study the characterisation of
    plastic ducts.
  Foster and Partners collaborated with ARG on the Listening to London Future Cities
    Catapult to create a wide area low-cost noise monitoring system utilising IoT technology,
    £12k.
  Wandsworth Council funded a £24k study on the effect of noise from the London Heliport on
    residents; this research was widely reported in the media owing to the community interest,
    enhancing the reputation of the UoA.
  Siemens Mobility UK funded a £4k project to review a voice/alarm system for the new
    Riyadh Metro in Saudi Arabia.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1.4 DARLAB Research Income
 DARLAB is the newest research group, and it has engaged with multiple industry partners. It has
 secured £69k of research funding during the review period and over £150k of enterprise funding.
 Two of the research projects secured are listed below:
  KEEP+ Innovation Grant (£65k) was awarded to manufacture optimised acoustic panels with
     Titan Reality.
  A pilot project, “Planetary Habitat Moon 2024” secured with the European Space Agency
     (£3.5k)

 3.2 Infrastructure
 Supporting the Strategic Research Framework, the UoA has invested both personnel time and
 financial resources into developing a thriving research culture and effective approach to
 commercialisation of our research capabilities. In addition to securing income from grants and
 contracts, SBEA has implemented strategies that support our researchers to compete at an
 international level.

 SBEA leverages the support, both financial and in-kind, of various units throughout the
 University, including QR budgets for the Research Centres, Technical Services budgets and
 technical staff, and funding and project management support for enterprise and innovation
 activities from the REI unit. All enterprise activities are assigned a business development officer
 to manage the financial and commercial aspects of industrial collaborations, with active
 professional project management.

 The School’s Research Committee oversees the direction and focus of research and enterprise
 of the UoA. The committee is formed of the Director of Research and Enterprise, the Dean, the
 Professoriate, the Head of Divisions, and the Heads of Centres/Groups. The committee meets
 monthly and offers flexible and responsive support for both research centre / group initiatives.

 3.3 Facilities
 SBEA has extensive specialist research facilities in which there has been substantial investment
 over the review period through various sources including the LSBU Research Capital Investment
 Fund (RCIF) scheme (over £1.5m) and Unit support (over £300k). In keeping with our
 commitment to produce research of outstanding/international-level quality, the UoA has created
 the BIM Hub, DARLAB and the Highways Laboratory. In addition, the UoA has procured fire
 testing apparatus, advanced digital image correlation systems, upgraded mechanical loading
 jacks, and advanced finite element analysis software packages. These investments not only
 enhance the outputs of our individual researchers, but also allow the UoA to outperform
 competitor institutions.

 CiCBSE received £900k to improve a range of facilities. A new highways laboratory (with an
 additional investment of £20k) was built, and a concrete making laboratory upgraded (£180k).
 Investment in instrumentation for capital equipment included: surveying equipment (£230k),
 concrete and structures equipment (£60k, with about £5.7k from TopHat Industries
 consultancy), state-of-the-art advanced soil testing equipment for the soils laboratory (£75k from
 RCIF, £18k from the School, £28k from Network Rail, and £47k from APEX). An investment in
 fire testing equipment (£9k from SBUEL, £4k from the School) has upgraded the rig to British
 Standards. Industry-leading Abaqus analysis software has been purchased (£2.5k per annum)
 along with an investment in a Digital Image Correlation System (£43k), an upgraded large-
 displacement 50-ton loading jack (£37k) and a 30-ton universal testing machine (£86k). CEREB
 has been refurbished with upgraded IT and Building Management System (£25k).
 ARG has the only acoustic laboratory in London and the South-East and has benefited from a
 total investment of £85k. The laboratory has had the reverberation and anechoic chambers
 refurbished (£25k). New cutting-edge instrumentation was purchased including impedance-
 based measurement equipment, audiometry instruments, vocal load monitors, and a laser
 vibrometer (£48k). Academic licenses for specialist research software have been purchased
 (£12k).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 DARLAB was founded with a total investment of £250k from RCIF. These funds, together with
 an equivalent in-kind investment from industry, provided the opportunity to create an entirely
 new type of robotic laboratory to enable digital manufacturing in architectural research. The main
 setup consists of a multi-function robotic platform able to process different material with custom
 equipment and tools. DARLAB has received industrial sponsorship from HITECO (£10k) and
 additional school funds (£8k) to undertake experiments in subtractive and additive
 manufacturing.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 SBEA’s research strategy is to build multi-disciplinary collaborations to address bigger
 programmes of work with focus on issues of major international importance by establishing
 enabling structures:

    Drawing across the disciplines of the university as a partner such as the PHIRST London
     Centre;
    Creating a network of visiting fellows, to enhance multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary
     collaboration;
    Concluding agreements and undertaking joint research projects with international
     universities such as the BUE; and
    Becoming members of leading research networks such as the Association of Research in
     Construction Management (ARCOM), UK Acoustics Network, and the CIB.

 4.1 International Collaborations
 SBEA is a long-standing member of CIB. It has also joined Habitat-UNI, a network of universities
 promoted by UN-Habitat; and Alliance for Building and Construction (Global ABC) which is
 hosted by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), fostering collaborations on
 environmental issues. It is also a member of Habitat International Coalition (HIC), an
 international coalition of not-for-profit organisations working on the social production of habitat.

 The BUE collaboration encourages research across Civil Engineering, Building Services
 Engineering and Construction to create interdisciplinarity impact and knowledge sharing.
 Through the link with SBEA, staff members of BUE undertake doctoral studies at LSBU.
 Institutional links for knowledge exchange and academic collaboration were established with
 Blumenau University, Brazil. This has resulted in the book, “Social Ecological Resilience to
 Disasters: British and Brazilian Perspectives 2018”.

 At the individual level, Chaer has been collaborating for over 10 years with Prof. Goshashi from
 Azad University, Mashhad, Iran in research on desalination and nano-fluids. Ford and Chaer
 collaborated with industry and researchers from ITB, Indonesia on a project funded by the Royal
 Academy of Engineering (see section 3.1.2), which brought together architects, engineer,
 planners, policy makers, government organisations and local non-government organisations to
 develop an Integrated Engineering Model for Exemplary Waste Management and to address
 plastic waste in Coastal Indonesia. Hong runs hydrological modelling for water quality working
 with Choong-Puk National University Department of Environmental Engineering, Korea.
 Kaluarachchi is collaborating with researchers at University of Moratuwa in Sri Lanka to study
 the impact of COVID-19 on people with disabilities. Kangwa and Ebohon have established a
 collaboration with Mangosuthu University of Technology in Durban South Africa on the project
 on the Harmonisation of Construction Health and Safety Practices across the 16 member
 countries of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). Mavroulidou coordinated
 the MSCA-ITN EU research network involving 26 partners from academia, industry and
 regulatory organisations from eight countries. Udeaja is currently working with a multi-
 disciplinary team of researchers through an AHRC grant with the Jordan Centre of Excellence
 for IT and Heritage Promotion, Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT)
 Surat in India and the India Institute of Technology to explore how digital technologies can be


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 used to create awareness in the heritage field to improve conservation practices in both
 countries. Ebohon led the development of the MOOC on Sustainability in the Built Environment
 for Construction Professionals, which has attracted over 30,000 professionals from 100
 countries. Dance participated in an EU Cost Action (DeNorms) which funded an exhibition of
 acoustic metamaterials in Coimbra, Portugal and with the support of UKAN put on the
 Symposium on Acoustic Metamaterials, Ischia, Italy 2019.

 This range of collaborations has resulted in 20% of all research outputs submitted to this REF
 being a product of joint international research with diverse researchers from developing and
 developed countries including: Bahrain, Brazil, China, Egypt, France, Hong Kong, India,
 Indonesia, Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Morocco, Korea, Nigeria, Singapore, Spain, South Africa, and
 USA.

 4.2 National Academic Collaborations
 The success of our collaborations is evidenced by 50% of our outputs having joint authorship
 with researchers from other UK Higher Education Institutions. Staff are actively engaged in
 national research networks working with academic and industry partners. For example, Dance is
 the Special Interest Lead for Room Acoustics in the UK Acoustics Network (UKAN) which was
 setup to enhance interdisciplinary study. Shield has collaborated with University of Salford and
 University College London on acoustic design of schools by combining expertise in psychology
 (UCL) with acoustic surveys (Salford) and objective measurements (LSBU). This has resulted in
 the publication of the Acoustics of Schools: a design guide, published by the Institute of
 Acoustics 2015 (see, Impact Case Study on Schools). The BEN project is based on a pilot
 project on Cold Water Heat Networks undertaken with the SME, ICAX. It involved collaborating
 with Cranfield University on a Calcium Carbonate battery store, and with seven SMEs to build a
 campus-wide network using natural aquifers as heat stores (Ford, Gillich), see Impact Case
 Study: Decarbonisation. Ford is a founding member and ambassador of the Green Building
 Council University Forum and a member of the Knowledge Transfer Network Steering
 Committee for the Built Environment. Ford through CEREB has hosted the annual Passivhaus
 Trust meetings to further develop low carbon housing. Dance collaborated with the Dyson
 School of Engineering at Imperial College and Aeropowder through an A2i funded project, an
 innovative building material constructed from chicken feathers was tested at LSBU.

 4.3 Visiting Appointments
 Ofori, Werna, Hong and Ge have held visiting appointments during this REF period at
 prestigious national and international institutions. Ofori has been a Visiting Professor at
 Tsinghua University (the top Chinese university in science and engineering); and University of
 Science Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia; and is currently a Visiting Professor at University Tun
 Hussein Onn, Malaysia. Werna holds a Visiting Fellowship at Oxford Brooks University and at
 the University of Westminster. Hong is a Visiting Fellow at the Korean Institute Choong-Puk
 National University. Ge is a Visiting Professor at Guangdong Ocean University.

 4.4 Professional and Civic Engagements
 In keeping with the focus on applied research and engagement of LSBU, many of
 the staff submitted here have leading roles in advisory bodies and provide expertise to guide the
 development of policy or practice. For example: Shield was President of the Institute of
 Acoustics (2012-14). Dance is the chair for the Building Regulations Review- Resistance to the
 Passage of Sound for Approved Document E (2017-2020) for the Ministry of Housing,
 Communities and Local Government. He is also chair for the Institute of Acoustic Research
 Coordination Committee (2020). Egbu was Vice President of CIOB (2017-19) and President
 (2019/20). Gillich worked in UK Government's Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial
 Strategy (BEIS) Technical Energy Analysis division as well as sitting on the Energy and
 Industrial Strategy Scientific Committee (2017-18); Ofori and Egbu are Joint Co-ordinators of
 the CIB Task Group 95 on Professionalism and Ethics in Construction; Ofori is Deputy Chair of
 the International Board of the Infrastructure Transparency Initiative (CoST); Ofori is also a
 member of the Board of Trustees of Engineers Against Poverty, the UK charity; Ebohon is Chair

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Advisory Board for Green Hub Africa. He also sits on the International Advisory Board of
 the UN-Habitat (2014-2020) which produced the World City Reports 2016 and 2020. Ge is Vice
 President of Commission-E1-Airconditioning for the International Institute of Refrigeration.
 Werna chairs the Innovation and Knowledge panel for UN-Habitat. Udeaja is the workshop
 convenor for ARCOM. Adamu sits on BIMAfrica.

 4.5 Measures of Esteem and Leadership
 Seven awards and two prizes have been won by scholars in this UoA during this REF period,
 these include the "Engineer: Collaborate to Innovate Award” in 2018 for the Balanced Energy
 Network; The Institute of Acoustics Tyndall Medal Award in 2014 (Dance); The Institute of
 Acoustics’ Peter Barnett Memorial Award in October 2013 (Gomez-Agustina); Honorary
 Doctorate from Heriot Watt University (Ford); Royal Charter, International Research Award of
 the Worshipful Company of Constructors-2018 (Adamu); and CONVR 2020 best paper award
 (Jin). For the prizes, Jin received a prize for the most cited paper in the Journal of Resources,
 Conservation and Recycling; and a prize for the most outstanding reviewer in 2019 for ASCE’s
 Journal of Civil Engineering Education. In 2020, Estebsari won the Manby Prize from the
 Institute of Civil Engineers.

 The school has many scholars who are Fellows of professional institutions or learned societies.
 Most of these scholars play significant roles in shaping the research and development agendas
 within these organisations. The organisations include the: Acoustical Society of America
 (Shield); Chartered Association of Building Engineers (Adamu); Chartered Institute of Building
 (Ige, Jin, Ofori, Udeaja); Chartered Institute of Highways and Transportation (Ali); Institute of
 Acoustics (Shield, Dance, Gomez-Agustina); Institute of Refrigeration (Chaer, Ge); Institution
 of Civil Engineering (Ali); Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (Ofori); Royal Society of Arts
 and Manufacturing (Ebohon, Rossi); and Society of Project Managers, Singapore (Ofori).

 The UoA also has 22 scholars who are highly qualified fellows of the Higher Education Academy
 (Adamu, Ali, Aygun, Chaer, Fong, Ge, Gillich, Gomez-Agustina, Hong, Ige, Jin, Kangwa,
 Lopez, Mavroulidou, McCann, Paurine, Saber, Shamas, Udeaja, Ye, Yebiyo). Dance holds a
 National Teaching Award Fellowship, 2018 for research informed teaching.

 Paurine has spoken at the UK All Party Parliamentary Group on the future of energy and natural
 resources in the developing world (2017) whilst Dance and Chaer were invited to attend
 meetings of Parliamentary select committees.

 4.6 Contribution to the Academic Field
 One-third of staff members are journal editors, special issue editors or members of editorial
 boards. SBEA has:
  Editors for the International Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa (Ebohon); and
     Journal of Sustainability (Ebohon).
  Ofori is on the editorial boards of many journals including: Construction Management and
     Economics; Engineering, Construction and Architecture Management; and Journal of
     Construction in Developing Countries. Other journals which include member from this unit on
     the editorial board include: 'Seminare - Scientific Investigations' (Eccles); International
     Journal of Disaster Prevention and Management and for the Construction Annual Review
     (Kaluarachchi); Journal of Environmental Engineering (Hong); Journal of Sustainable
     Building (Ge); International Journal Management, Procurement and Law (Jin); Journal of
     Construction Research and International Journal of Construction Supply Chain Management
     (Udeaja); and Applied Acoustics (Aygun).

 Editors for Special Journal Editions for; Frontiers of Engineering Management: City Infrastructure
 Engineering and Management (Ofori); and Nature Applied, Science Editor (Ofori); Journal of
 Modelling Simulation in Engineering: Modelling and Simulation of Building Performance (Ge);
 and Journal of Energies: Alternative and emerging cooling and heating technologies (Chaer).


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff contributed to widely adopted books: The Book of Acoustics 2020 (Gomez-Agustina);
 Future Campus- Briefing and Design for Sustainability 2016 (Ford); Corporate Real Estate Asset
 Management Strategy and Implementation 2017 (Eccles); Reusing knowledge and leveraging
 technology to reduce design and construction costs 2015 (Udeaja); Construction Industry in
 Singapore-Improving the Performance of Construction Industries for Developing Countries-
 Programmes, Initiatives, Achievements and Challenges 2020 (Ofori); Rossi “Fibre Wonder”
 documents research work in digital and robotic architecture. For grant applications, one
 quarter of the staff are actively engaged as national and/or international reviewers: Dance acts
 as an international reviewer for MITACS (Canada) and as an EPSRC reviewer; Chaer, Shamas
 and Aygun are reviewers for EPSRC and UKRI; Ebohon and Ofori review bids for the National
 Research Foundation (South Africa); Ofori undertakes reviews of grant applications for the
 Australian University Grants Council and the Hong Kong University Grants Council; Jin is a
 reviewer for the Newton Fund Institutional Links programme and a reviewer of applications for
 grants for the American University of Sharjah (UAE). . McGovern is a peer reviewer for the
 Chilean government’s National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development.

 4.7 Research Media Exposure
 The research produced by the staff members has been covered by the media. Rossi regularly
 produces novel structures which are exhibited around the world, for example Germany-Berlin (3
 months 10,000 visitors), Austria-Linz (2 weeks, 5,000 visitors, China-Shanghai/ Beijing (2
 months each, 50,000 visitors), Kazakhstan-Expo 2017 Astana-Future of Energy (4 months, 4m
 visitors) with media coverage in the areas of innovation, arts, and the built environment.
 McGovern’s research has contributed to greater awareness of the risks of tsunamis; he has
 been interviews on the BBC. Adamu’s COVID related work on aerosol spread indoors and
 ventilation strategy has gained media attention on the BBC and Soundcloud. Dance and
 Gomez-Agustina's work on noise emission from London Heliport received attention from the
 BBC. Ye and Chaer’s work on airborne wind energy was referenced in the Sunday Times.
 Ford’s research on energy was highlighted in Oman printed media and on Omen TV. Wide
 coverage in the print media in Nigeria of Ebohon’s GreenHub Africa- the first environmental
 platform for dissemination of news and events on climate change in Africa.

 4.8 Contribution to Society
 CCiBSE research has focused on one of the Grand Challenges, decarbonisation of the built
 environment, and the ARG on another Grand Challenge, healthy ageing. The creation of more
 energy efficient buildings has emerged from the work with Demand Logic by data mining
 Building Management Systems to locate faults in buildings (Ford). The BEN research has
 resulted in greater awareness of the potential to save energy by utilising underground aquifers
 and wastewater to connect buildings. This has also has advanced the frontiers of technology
 integration. The research concept and technologies are now being considered by Lambeth and
 Southwark Councils in London, and Bridgend Council in Wales (Phase 1 research on affordable
 heat networks for Bridgend Council was completed in 2020 and Phase 2 is currently being
 researcher).

 CCiBSE and IDoBE research work with ITB-Indonesia (Chaer, Ford) has led to multiple
 impacts, including: a project to assess the requirements and academic impact of introducing
 collaborative multi-disciplinary working within higher education; local government in Bandung
 linking with manufacturers in China to develop a pilot plant with non-government organisations in
 Bali; and students and local communities in Indonesian have developed social enterprises
 resulting in local jobs.

 IDoBE has led a British Council-funded project on the Harmonisation of Construction Health and
 Safety Practice (Ebohon and Kangwu). This has led to enhanced safety awareness and
 adoption of good practice contributing to the enhancement of the performance of the
 construction industries in 17 countries in Southern Africa and improvement of the wellbeing of
 the workforce. In addition, the publications, and findings from the ANDROID Network
 (Kaluarachchi) now act as a major knowledge base for disaster management strategies in

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Europe and are incorporated into international mitigation strategies, demonstrating the breadth
 of our international reach.

 For the Healthy Ageing Grand Challenge, research by ARG has shown that subjective pure tone
 audiometric tests could potentially be replaced with an objective Otoacoustic Emission Test
 based on our Royal Academy of Music study (Dance). The research of Dance and Gomez-
 Agustina on vocal alarm evacuation systems has been incorporated into the design of the new
 Riyadh Metro System through their work with Siemens Mobility UK.




                                                                                           Page 18
