Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Leeds
 Unit of Assessment:
 34 Communication, cultural and media studies, library and information studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Communication, cultural and media studies (CCMS) research at Leeds takes place in the School
 of Media and Communication. While CCMS at Leeds is highly interdisciplinary, its concentration
 within one School has allowed particularly strong cross-fertilisation of research and ideas. One
 of the largest UK departments specialising in CCMS, the School has grown and flourished
 during the REF period, retaining and strengthening its cohesiveness.

 Before 2014 the unit was the Institute of Communications Studies (established 1989). Since
 2016, Media and Communication is one of nine Schools in the newly constituted Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Cultures. Research in the School has been organised into six themes during the
 REF period.

       Media industries and cultural production (Research Theme 1)
       Political communication (RT2)
       Visual media and communication (including film and television) (RT3)
       Global communication (RT4)
       Journalism (RT5)
       Digital cultures (RT6)

 In 2019, the School added a seventh Research Theme, Gender and media (RT7), building on
 considerable strength in feminist research.

 These themes constitute a comprehensive coverage of core international CCMS research
 issues, concepts and methodologies, combining social science and humanities approaches, and
 bringing together economic, political, historical, cultural and technological perspectives.

 Each Research Theme is convened by one or two members of staff. All staff participate in at
 least one Theme, many participating in more. Research is overseen by a Research Committee
 which meets ten times per year to steer research strategy and to oversee applications for
 research leave and funding, both external and internal. The Committee is composed of Director
 and Deputy Director of Research and Innovation (chaired by the former); Head of Innovation and
 Impact; Head of School; Postgraduate Research Tutor; the School’s Research, Impact and
 Management Support Officer; and a further representative of academic staff. A 100% FTE
 administrator supports the work of the Research Committee and of the Research Themes within
 the School. These research support roles, some newly-created, some enhanced, have allowed
 us to be extremely active in contributing to research at the highest level internationally.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 The major aim of the School’s research and impact strategy during the 2014-2020 period, as
 indicated in REF2014 and developed in response to a changing research environment during
 the REF period, has been to enhance Leeds as a leading international centre for CCMS
 research. Core to this strategy has been the establishment, monitoring and delivery of five
 research objectives:
     1. To develop significant research strength within and across the School’s Research
         Themes, in a way that is responsive to changes and continuities in the media and their
         social, economic, political and cultural contexts
     2. To appoint new and additional staff at all levels of seniority and to expand and support
         our cohort of PGRs in a way that enhances our profile, further developing a collegial
         research culture of collaboration and mentorship while embedding a commitment to
         developing greater diversity and international engagement



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To increase research grant income in order to enhance research capacity, to strengthen
       existing and foster new collaborative research endeavours, and to amplify the
       international reach of our research
    4. To maintain and enhance a research culture where knowledge and ideas are exchanged
       within and across research groups and interests, benefitting from Faculty structures and
       University-level themes, and working through extensive networks of international and
       national research collaboration
    5. To develop the public impact of our research in an organic way, by building impact and
       evidence collection into research plans, consolidating existing and developing new
       partnerships, and engaging with a wide range of stakeholders on a broad array of public
       impacts

 The School/unit has been successful in meeting these research objectives (ROs):

 RO1: Quantitative indicators demonstrate an increase in research strength expressed in terms of
 output. A total of 598 peer-reviewed publications were produced by staff employed by the School
 during the REF2021 period, compared with 458 during the period covered by REF2014, an
 increase from 14.31 to 16.6 outputs per member of staff, covering all seven of the Research
 Themes identified above. This included 29 authored and edited books. The development of our
 Research Themes demonstrates responsiveness to changes in the field and to our growing staff
 base.

 RO2: The School employs 36 FTE staff with research responsibilities, compared with 32 FTE
 staff at the time of the previous submission. 33 of these staff are currently on permanent
 contracts. Five are Professors, thirteen Associate Professors/Senior Lecturers and fifteen
 Lecturers. We have enhanced research excellence by recruiting staff who are leaders in their
 areas, and sustainability by recruiting, supporting and mentoring a significant number of
 academics early in their careers. Two appointments have been made via the University’s
 University Academic Fellow scheme, which provides funding and support to Schools to attract
 future international research leaders via a structured five-year development programme leading
 to an Associate Professorship. Almost half of research-contracted staff are originally of non-UK
 nationality, evidence of the internationalism of our research culture. Postgraduate research
 activity – a vital component of the research culture – has also increased, with 39.5 PhD awards
 between 2014 and 2019, compared with 26 PhD awards during the REF2014 period; this also
 represents a marked increase in PhD awards per research-contracted member of staff, from 0.8
 in REF 2014 to 1.1 in the REF2021 period.

 RO 3: Over £2.8 million of research grants have been awarded in the REF period, a 101%
 increase on the £1.4 million reported in REF2014. A marked feature of research funding and
 activity has been its increasing interdisciplinarity, increasing collaboration with other research
 units within the university, and the scope of national and international collaborations and
 partnerships (see 4.1). School researchers have secured funding from four UK funding councils
 (AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, NERC), the European Union, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust,
 as well as bodies including the Research England Development Fund, Ministry of Defence and
 Intellectual Property Office. School staff have worked with a variety of cultural and third sector
 organisations (see 4.2). In addition, our research has benefitted from internal funding from the
 University and Faculty. For example, the School has played a pivotal role in, and benefitted
 significantly from, the cross-disciplinary Sadler Seminar Series, run by the Leeds Arts and
 Humanities Research Institute (LAHRI), which in 2018-19 ran two series based on research
 within the School, ‘The Performance of Political Feeling’ (convened by Johnson), and ‘The War
 Veteran in Culture and Society’ (convened by Parry), and in 2019-20, ‘Migration and the City:
 Imagining and Making Urban Lives’ (convened by Kim and Aiello).

 RO4: Benefitting from administrative and financial support in the School, Faculty and University,
 Leeds has hosted a very large number of conferences, symposia and seminars, bringing
 together academic staff, external stakeholders and postgraduate research students (see 4.3.1).
 We host 12-15 external speakers annually as part of our School research seminar series and the

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 many other seminars hosted by research groups. Our research seminar typically achieves
 audiences of 30 or more, and these events are advertised to the public and across campus,
 meaning attendance has regularly reached over 75 attendees. This is in addition to the many
 cross- and inter-disciplinary events that the School has participated in with other Schools and
 units within the University and beyond. Staff have collaborated with colleagues in 11 Schools
 across the Humanities, Social and Natural Sciences, working through and with LAHRI, Leeds
 Social Sciences Institute, Sustainability Research Institute, Interdisciplinary Applied Ethics
 Centre, and the Centre for Immersive Technologies. Conference attendance is supported
 strategically through School funds to foster the presentation of our research nationally and
 internationally, and to enable the development and deepening of research collaborations within
 and beyond the UK. These funds, as we show below, are generous in the disciplinary context. In
 addition, continued significant investments in the physical infrastructure of the School of Media
 and Communication (see 3.3) and relevant University facilities have enhanced our ability to work
 effectively and collaboratively. We have, for example, hosted 24 visiting fellows in the REF
 period.

 RO5: External and internal funding and support has enabled us to pursue a large number of
 public-facing projects, involving work with more than 80 external organisations in the REF period
 (see 1.3 & 4.2). These projects span the School’s Research Themes, engaging with media and
 cultural institutions, charities, foundations and policy-makers.

 Our future research and impact strategy builds on achievements in the REF period:

       developing further our international strength in the fields constituted by our seven
        Research Themes, carefully monitoring their vitality and progress
       building on our internationalism to increase the diversity of scholars in the School at all
        levels
       intensifying our push for research funding, both large and smaller scale, to build capacity,
        strengthen existing collaborations and foster new relationships and areas of enquiry
       supporting interdisciplinary research initiatives, aligning these with external funding
        frameworks where appropriate (e.g. international-development focused work and GCRF),
        and furthering dialogue between excellent communication and media research and other
        fields
       supporting partnerships, and placing impact at the centre of our research culture
       further enhancing mentoring and support for academic staff, developing targeted support
        for all career stages

 1.3: Systems in place to stimulate and facilitate exchange between academic researchers
 and non-academic groups and users
 The School has clearly and collectively articulated the value of impact for media and
 communication research, explicitly valuing and fostering work with non-academic partners. Our
 strategy to make impact an organic part of the research culture (RO5 above) has been facilitated
 in the following ways:

       Creation of two academic positions supporting impact: Director and Deputy Director of
        Impact, the former sitting on the School’s Research and Impact Committee
       The appointment by the Faculty (see 1.1) of a dedicated Impact Officer and by the
        School of a Research, Impact and Management Support Officer on a permanent
        contract, enabling the School to embed impact into research more thoroughly
       A dedication to open access research facilitated at School level by the Research, Impact
        and Management Support Officer, working collaboratively with both School staff and
        University Library colleagues to ensure open access compliance by REF standards
        (currently at 100%) through White Rose Research Online, an open access repository
        across Leeds, Sheffield and York
       The University Library’s Open Research Advisor has organised cross-Faculty public
        Wikithons, advocated for the publication of data sets, software and code, while the

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Library funds open access publication for academic staff (where this is a requirement of
        UKRI funding), as well as funding open access publication charges for staff and PhD
        researchers who publish in SAGE, Springer or Wiley journals
       Close collaboration with the University’s Cultural Institute, dedicated to enhancing
        participation and engagement with creative sector partners, including via its competitive
        IGNITE scheme for supporting engagement activities
       Close collaboration with LAHRI, which brings together arts and humanities research from
        across the University, including the Sadler Seminar Series, aimed at fostering
        collaboration across disciplines
       The provision of a dedicated impact fund within the School to the sum of £20,000 per
        year, administered via the School’s Research Committee, to support impact
        development, such as holding impact-related activities and collecting evidence of impact
       Collaboration with our excellent libraries, including use of a number of important special
        collections (see 3.3, 4.1, 4.2)


 2. People
 2.1: Staffing strategy and staff development
 School staffing strategy and our approach to staff development have been guided by ROs 1 & 2
 above. Specifically, we have sought to:
      Build further strength in existing areas of research, appointing new staff to enhance
        existing research and introduce new areas of expertise/provide new forms of research
      Replace retiring or departing Professors, focusing growth on the appointment, mentoring
        and promotion of early career and mid-career academics
      Provide a rigorous system of support and mentoring for new and established colleagues
      Make equality, diversity and internationalism central to our research culture

 The success of this strategy is evident in the appointment of twenty new research-contracted
 staff during the period (seven to replace retiring or departing research-contracted staff, the rest
 being new, additional posts, or replacements of retiring or departing teaching-only staff). Ten of
 these appointments have been women, the rest men. Six of these appointments were made
 from positions or doctorates in overseas universities. The School has high rates of retention,
 with only four departures for other universities during the REF period.

 Two of the recent research-contracted appointments were at Professor level, intended to
 enhance existing strengths in RT5 Journalism (Chris Anderson), and in RT3 Visual media and
 communication (Yvonne Tasker). These appointments also significantly enhance our capacity in
 RT6 Digital cultures (Anderson) and in our newly-formed RT7 Gender and media (Tasker). The
 School appointed two University Academic Fellows (Heather Ford, Todd Graham), significantly
 boosting our research on Digital cultures (RT6), Political communication (RT2) and Journalism
 (RT5). Four further appointments were at Associate Professor level, building on strengths in
 Media industries (RT1), Visual media (RT3) and Global communication (RT4), namely Melanie
 Bell, Kris Erickson, Beth Johnson and Jairo Lugo-Ocando. There has also been significant
 investment in early and mid-career researchers, across the research themes (Chris Birchall,
 Nour Halabi, Helen Kim, Tracey Mollet, Alison Peirse, Matthias Revers, Tom Tyler, and Yuan
 Zeng).

 The School benefits from invaluable long-term contributions to the research culture of the School
 by four major international figures in media and communication research, Emeritus Professor
 Jay Blumler (RT2) and longstanding Visiting Professors John Corner (since 2008, RTs 2 and 3)
 and Sylvia Harvey (since 2010, RTs 1 and 3), with William Dutton (RTs 2 and 5) from 2018 and


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Christine Gledhill (RTs 3 and 7) from 2019. All have office space; regularly attend research
 events and give international keynotes; provide mentoring and advice to colleagues and
 students; and publish research.

 Given the significant investment in new staff, and the marked international character of the
 School and its research, it is especially vital that Early Career Researchers are provided with
 robust means of support and mentoring, though much of the support outlined here is also
 available for newly appointed, more experienced staff. Our overall approach is in line with the
 Researcher Development Concordat and the inclusive, supportive culture it seeks to foster.
 New members of staff are provided with a thorough process of induction, co-ordinated by the PA
 to the Head of School and the Management and Administration Support Service team within the
 School.

 The system of support for staff and their research includes mentoring for all research-contracted
 staff, whereby each member of staff has access to a known and trusted individual who has
 greater (or different) research experience and is prepared to discuss issues, listen, ask
 questions, and share experience and contacts. These local support mechanisms are carefully
 co-ordinated with Faculty level support systems such as LAHRI’s grant-writing workshops, and
 University support systems, such as the Organisational Development and Professional Learning
 team, who provide courses on practical skills (e.g. Excel and research software), and teaching
 and research workshops. The Library also provides research support and training, with particular
 focus on Open Access and digital research skills. The LOGIK Centre, a hub designed to provide
 training, learning, and wellbeing initiatives for staff at the University also runs frequent support
 and careers advice. A probation system is operated by the University, and School probationers
 act as general mentors to new staff. All academic staff below grade 10 have a research mentor.
 The policy was designed to be consistent with, and exceed, the University’s guidelines on ‘Good
 practice in mentoring’.

 At School level, in line with our commitment to equality and diversity, a workload system is used
 to allocate teaching, research and administrative work as fairly as possible across all members
 of academic staff, ensuring research-contracted staff have 40% of their time for research,
 scholarship and research-related duties (such as peer review and examining of doctoral
 dissertations). All researchers including PGRs are encouraged to participate in the School’s
 Research Themes (many participate in more than one). The meetings of these Research
 Themes, including reading groups, seminars and workshops, provide vital opportunities for
 discussion of work in progress, of classic and new research contributions, and the identification
 of emerging research issues and methodologies.

 Alongside numerous reading groups and seminars hosted by Research Themes, a regular
 School research seminar brings leading researchers to the School, and allows Leeds colleagues
 to present work in progress. These events, and the regular conferences and symposia organised
 by the School, have allowed the School to build and extend formidable national and international
 research networks.

 Recognising the importance of networks, all research-contracted members of staff are currently
 allocated £1750 per year for research conference funding and travel, subject to the acceptance
 of paper proposals. A brief case is made to the Research Committee for amounts over £500.
 This allocation allows all research-contracted staff, including those on fixed-term research-and-
 teaching contracts, to participate in conferences, and to build up networks in their areas of
 research specialism. In the context of COVID-19 and consequent limitations on travel, the
 School has instituted a well-attended virtual research seminar programme and invited staff to
 explore alternatives to travel.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 While the School allocates research resources in ways that support all staff, internal funding
 allows monitoring of outcomes. To allow researchers to devote time to advancing and
 completing major projects, including the writing of bids, the School runs a research leave
 scheme, which entitles all research-active staff on continuing contracts to leave every seventh
 semester, subject to approval by the Research Committee, which also considers post-leave
 progress reports. Coupled with research mentoring, our monitoring processes allow us to identify
 opportunities for individual researchers. We offer a competitive research support fund, offering
 grants of up to £1500 to engage a research assistant or invite colleagues from outside the
 university to work collaboratively on a major research project. The School also supports
 researchers who are applying for other internal research funding schemes, such as those run by
 LAHRI, and colleagues are enabled to attend other training or development opportunities
 available within and beyond the University.

 Research-active staff provide an annual analysis of their research achievements, aspirations
 and needs, feeding into discussions with the Research Director and other colleagues to assist in
 the co-ordination of support for research, including grant bids. In addition to Faculty-level
 sessions operated by LAHRI, the School runs grant-writing workshops, and the Deputy Director
 of Research provides targeted advice on applications and upcoming deadlines specific to the
 School’s research. Since 2018 the School has also been able to compete for funds from the
 Faculty Research Leave Scheme, which provides further research leave time on top of the
 School research leave mentioned above. Bell, Julie Firmstone, Leslie Meier and Peirse have
 been awarded funding from this scheme. The Faculty Research Office provides a full support
 service for making grant applications and maintaining awarded grants. All grant applications are
 internally peer reviewed within the Faculty, in order to provide guidance for improvement, and to
 ensure that only high-quality applications are submitted.

 2.2: Postgraduate research students
 Our PGR strategy is shaped by ROs 1 & 2, including our commitment to developing a collegial
 research culture and responding to emerging research priorities. We have sought to attract the
 best possible students by offering competitive scholarships, and to provide all PGR students with
 a rigorous system of support, training and mentorship. A total of 15 School scholarships,
 matched to RCUK funding, have been provided during the REF period. This support has been
 enhanced by the regular awards of further scholarships provided by the Faculty, and the
 successful gaining of 12 UK Research Council awards. One of the hallmarks of this student body
 is its international nature. There are currently 45.48 registered PGR students (versus 30.5 in
 2013). Research topics cover the very wide range of core international media, communication
 and cultural studies issues indicated by the School’s Research Themes, and beyond.

 Our thriving PGR community is fully integrated into the School research culture. PGRs are
 treated as much as possible as academic colleagues, acting as co-convenors of Research
 Groups, attending and contributing to job presentations, and sharing kitchen/social space with
 academic staff. They have their own dedicated study area, appropriately equipped with
 computers, digital satellite television and free printing and copying facilities, in an attractive
 space in the very centre of the School’s building. They have access to generous conference
 travel funds to the value of £1,500 over the course of their studies. The School’s Research
 Committee makes decisions about the use of this allowance, considering support for research
 students and staff together. PGR students have secured funding to present their work at 92
 conferences since 2014, including 68 overseas conferences: Leeds PGR students have
 consistently presented at all the conferences held by the main scholarly associations in the field
 (ICA, IAMCR, and ECREA) during this REF period.

 Our impressive completion rates are ensured by a rigorous system of support, centred on a
 supervisory team, composed of at least two members of academic staff, usually one relatively
 senior and one relatively early-career colleague, which also allows for research supervision
 mentoring. A minimum of ten supervisory meetings are held each year. The University’s system,
 GRAD (Graduate Record of Achievement and Development), is used to record supervisions,

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with space for students and supervisors to reflect on progress. PGR students then discuss this
 carefully curated feedback with their supervisors and mentors.

 Further PGR student training is provided by both the School and the University. The School
 organises weekly seminars during semesters addressing the full range of social science and
 historical research methods. These are delivered by School academic staff, allowing PGRs to
 become familiar with the approaches of a range of academics beyond their supervisory team,
 and across the School’s Research Themes. This is compulsory for first year research students,
 but all PGRs are welcome to attend. Philosophical and epistemological questions regarding the
 nature of research are embedded within such methods training, and there is strong emphasis on
 the need to integrate theory and empirical work. Other issues addressed include
 interdisciplinarity, the responsibilities of researchers towards their subjects, questions of
 objectivity and subjectivity, and the social shaping of research. Seminars are held regularly,
 which allows all academic staff to hear presentations by research students, and to provide
 constructive feedback. PGR students participate fully in research group meetings, presenting
 their work, suggesting readings, engaging in debate and discussion, and in some cases acting
 as co-convenors. An extensive suite of seminars is provided by the University on all aspects of
 postgraduate research, including the PhD process; managing research projects; presenting,
 writing and publishing; and academic integrity.

 School doctoral training is recognised by the AHRC via the White Rose College of the Arts and
 Humanities (WRoCAH), which brings together students at the Universities of York, Leeds and
 Sheffield. Since January 2014, seven awards have been made through this scheme to students
 based in the School. Two students have benefited from alumni funding. The School is also part
 of the ESRC White Rose Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) (jointly run by
 a consortium of the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield, Hull, Bradford, York, Manchester
 Metropolitan and Sheffield Hallam), established 2011. WRDTP promotes interdisciplinary
 supervision and knowledge exchange with academic and non-academic partners, as well as key
 policy makers within the social sciences. It also provides further training, along with important
 opportunities for networking and collaboration with academic and PGR colleagues from other
 universities. Since January 2014, five researchers have been funded through this scheme.

 PGRs organise an annual academic conference, with support and mentoring from academics.
 This allows research students to learn organisational and networking skills, and for those taking
 part to develop presentation and communication skills. The Research Committee includes the
 PGR Tutor, ensuring integration of doctoral students into the research infrastructure. A
 Postgraduate Research Committee meets four times a year, and includes two PGR
 representatives. To ensure high completion rates, PhD students must pass a rigorous transfer
 process at the end of their first year before they can proceed to full doctoral registration. Support
 provided to our students is evidenced by their success in going on to take full-time positions at
 leading universities across the world, including Stanford, East China Normal, Melbourne, De La
 Salle University, Universiti Sains Islam Malaysia, and Bologna.

 2.3: Equality and diversity

 The School promotes equality and diversity in its research culture through a number of means,
 overseen by the School’s designated Equality and Inclusion lead (currently Deputy Head of
 School, Firmstone). These include several recruitment policies pursued by the University (see
 REF5a), intended to address barriers to appointment and to try to ensure diversity at all levels.
 The School has invested significantly in making diversity and equality major focus areas of
 research, for example by prioritising staff appointments in research areas including gender,
 migration, ethnicity and class, encompassing the consideration of working conditions in the
 media, both contemporary and historical.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    We work to ensure that principles of equality and diversity underpin our approach to research,
    with the aim of fostering a culture that prioritises the well-being of staff and research students.
    Key examples of this approach are:

           Research expectations for individuals are developed in consultation and supported
            through mentoring.
           All research-active staff are eligible to take leave from their normal teaching and
            administrative duties in every seventh semester. Periods of leave for maternity, illness or
            externally funded research are counted as normal semesters for these purposes.
           Our objective of increasing research income is not linked to targets for individuals but
            speaks rather to a shared commitment to enhance capacity and foster collaborative
            research of the highest quality.
           We support staff returning from periods of extended leave (maternity or illness leave or
            significant leadership roles) via phased return to work, specific needs being identified
            through discussion with the Head of School.
           In line with University Policy (see REF5a), the School acknowledges the need to facilitate
            flexible working arrangements to enable all researchers to fulfil their potential and
            balance their research work and other commitments.1 Staff have the ability to specify
            patterns of work that fit around their responsibilities: nine research contracted members
            of staff have such a plan in place as of 2020.
           In line with University Policy, the School offers opportunities for staff to take career
            breaks of up to three years. One member of staff (Taylor) is currently on career break.
           We aim to minimise the number of staff on fixed-term contracts but, where we have one
            or two-year positions, these lectureships offer significant time for research (40%) as well
            as mentoring/grant development support, to enable early-career colleagues to establish
            themselves as researchers.
           All staff are encouraged to attend relevant conferences. While the award of travel grants
            for conferences is typically conditional on delivery of a paper or other contribution, the
            School acknowledges that staff returning from periods of leave, or those whose capacity
            for research has been curtailed for other reasons (such as significant administrative
            responsibilities), may be unable to present a paper. In such cases staff are encouraged
            to apply for funding, stating how conference attendance would benefit the School.
           In recognition of the barriers faced by PGR applicants from countries in the global south,
            the School has, since 2015, invested in up to two fully-funded international scholarships
            per year with 8 international students able to take up such scholarships since 2015.

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    3.1: Income
    In line with RO3 and with a goal of facilitating the production of excellent research, the School
    has designed its structures and systems to support staff in developing and securing funding for
    individual and collaborative projects. With external funding more than doubling over REF2014
    performance, our strategy has been demonstrably successful. Steps taken include the creation
    of an academic role, with 20% workload allocation, for tracking large grant opportunities, and
    providing support and advice (now part of the Deputy Director of Research role). Systems of
    staff mentoring have been developed to emphasise support for staff in mounting their first bids.
    Developing a tailored, hands-on approach to internal peer review has been beneficial, drawing
    on School, Faculty and University knowledge of specific funding schemes.

    The REF period has seen an increasing use of internal funding from the School, Faculty and
    University. The School has received £17,684 from LAHRI for collaborative projects across the
    Faculty/University, and £8,939 from the University’s IGNITE scheme to seed larger research and
    impact projects. For example, IGNITE funding enabled Parry to fund initial cataloguing and

1
    http://hr.leeds.ac.uk/info/39/work-life_balance_and_flexible_working/27/flexible_working

                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organise two public engagement workshops at the Imperial War Museum; this fed into securing
 AHRC funding for ‘The Tim Hetherington collection and conflict imagery network’ bid, with the
 IWM as partner (2020-22).

 This set of structures and the institutional context for research bidding outlined here has helped
 lead to the submission of 155 applications for external funding during the REF period, and the
 granting of 52 awards, a good success rate of 34% within an extremely competitive research
 environment. This generated research income of £2.8 million during the REF period from a
 variety of sources, including four of the UK’s research councils, the European Commission, the
 British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, as well as industry partners such as ITV and local
 authorities, such as Leeds City Council. We discuss below the ways in which this funding has
 helped to support and generate significant research outputs and impact.

 3.2: Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 As explained in 1.1, our research environment is structured around seven core Research
 Themes. These themes enable individuals and groups to pursue their growing collaborations
 locally, nationally and internationally. Each theme is pursued through a research group,
 supplemented by cross-theme reading groups, events and activities.

 A unified research culture across these themes is facilitated by an emphasis on discussion and
 collaboration, including at Away Days devoted to research, and regular cross-theme seminars
 and events. All this is overseen by the Research Committee (see 1.1), and supported by our
 dedicated 1.0 FTE Management Support Officer (Research). In addition, the School’s Research,
 Impact and Management Support Officer supports impact development and tracking as part of
 their 0.6FTE role. The Research, Impact and Management Support Officer also sits on the
 School’s Research Committee, which means they are able to provide strategic and subject-
 specific research support as part of the School’s overall research strategy. Both the
 Management Support Officer (Research) and the Research, Impact and Management Support
 Officer help coordinate and organise School research events (see 4). Their work is overseen by
 the School Manager.

 We now briefly discuss how each of the research themes has built upon existing strengths, and
 created new ones, including reference to the research income that has been generated to
 support research, and the impact activities that have been conducted.

 Leeds has become renowned as a centre for research on media industries and cultural
 production (RT1), including the role of cultural and creative industries in public policy. David
 Hesmondhalgh’s international reputation in this area is apparent in his taking up of two
 significant fellowships during the REF period, one at the Annenberg School for Communication,
 University of Pennsylvania (2016), the other at Microsoft Research New England (2019). Oakley
 is one of the leading global figures in research on cultural policy in relation to the cultural and
 creative industries, and in research on questions of cultural labour. Among her projects at Leeds
 were the ESRC-funded Centre for Sustainable Prosperity, ‘Improving Cultural Work’ and ‘Data,
 Diversity and Inequality in the Creative Industries’ (AHRC, 2014-16). Hesmondhalgh is co-
 investigator in an ESRC Research Centre, Digital Futures at Work, jointly run from Leeds and
 Sussex Universities (ESRC, 2019-24), and leads the strand in that project on work in the cultural
 and creative industries. Drawing on earlier ESRC-funded research, Bethany Klein, Giles Moss
 and Lee Edwards wrote and published a major monograph on copyright during the REF period,
 supported by School research leave, and Moss and Edwards have gained further funding
 (ESRC follow-on project ‘Living with(in) copyright’, 2018-20) to investigate the way in which
 people understand and respond to copyright law and practice in everyday life. This strength in
 copyright research was significantly enhanced by the appointment of Erickson in 2017 (see
 4.3). In 2019, Johnson won funds as part of the RCUK-funded SIGN project, led by researchers
 at York, to undertake work on diversity, equality and inclusion in screen industries in Yorkshire
 and the Humber from early 2020 onwards. Her collaboratively produced film Industry Voices has
 been designated by AHRC as an example of best practice and will be used by the Social


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mobility Commission. Johnson manages a budget of £500k to organise bursaries and
 placements. Lee also won funds to investigate related equality and inclusion challenges.

 Leeds has been recognised as a major locus for political communication (RT2) research since
 the 1960s, focusing upon studies of media and democracy. Scholarship at Leeds expands the
 traditional contours of this approach by undertaking critical research on the boundaries of public
 action, technologies of collective interaction, and the affective dimensions of hitherto hyper-
 rationally conceived political events and performances. Notable strands of research include
 Coleman and Moss’s research on elections and voting, including research funded by the ESRC
 on ‘Visualising the UK General Election Television Debates 2015’, and an independent
 evaluation of the televised election debate in the same year, funded by ITV; Parry’s research on
 the visuality of protest and activism; Graham’s research on the use of digital media in
 representative democracies, and the intersections between formal politics and popular culture;
 Revers’ work on political polarisation in contemporary democracies; and Voltmer’s work on
 democratisation (see below). Meanwhile, Blumler and Corner continue to make important
 contributions to this area as Emeritus and Visiting Professors

 Leeds has been at the forefront of global communication research since the 1990s (initially led
 by Professor Philip Taylor, who died in 2010). Since 2014, this research area has been led by
 Paterson, who, with colleagues and PGR students, pursued research on media in the ‘global
 south’ (especially Africa) and the Middle East, supported by grants, including a GCRF award in
 collaboration with Lugo-Ocando. Also of major importance was the project ‘Media, Conflict and
 Democratisation’ (MeCoDEM), led by Voltmer from 2014-2017; the project was funded from the
 EU’s Seventh Framework programme, and involved eight partner universities and a significant
 dimension of public engagement. Investment in international communication research, including
 in migration, diaspora and media, has led to the recent appointments of Halabi, Kim and Zeng.

 The School has made significant investment in visual media and communication (RT3)
 through the appointment during the REF census period of a number of leading film and
 television scholars (Bell, Johnson, Mollet, Peirse and Tasker). This theme builds on a rich vein
 of research on photography and other visual media (Aiello, Jim Brogden, Parry and Simon
 Popple), on archives (Bell, Popple) and on documentary (Lee, Kate Nash, Anna Zoellner, plus
 Visiting Professor Corner). In 2019, Aiello and Anderson secured, along with Helen Kennedy
 (now at Sheffield), a major AHRC award to investigate ‘Generic Visuals in the News’, building on
 previous funded research projects conducted by Aiello and by Kennedy at Leeds.

 Major investment has been made in journalism (RT5) research, with the appointment of
 Anderson, and of Erickson, Graham, Revers and Zeng, building on the continuing research of
 Firmstone, co-investigator on an AHRC-funded project, ‘Defining Freedom of the Press’, led
 from Sheffield. Aiello and Anderson’s 2019 ‘Generic Visuals’ AHRC grant reflects the success
 of this commitment to journalism (as well as to visual communication and digital cultures).
 Paterson has also provided global contexts for journalism research in the School, as part of his
 GCRF pilot study in rural Kenya, and his AHRC network, ‘Development Assistance and
 independent journalism in Africa and Latin America’.

 Research on digital cultures (RT6) at Leeds has blossomed during this REF period, following
 the hosting of the EPSRC’s Digital Economy Communities and Culture Network Plus, led by
 Thornham (2011-16), and building on Kennedy’s earlier important contributions in the School,
 including in this REF period Kennedy’s funded research on ‘Understanding Social Media
 Monitoring’. Investment here is reflected in the appointments of Birchall, Erickson, Jackson
 and Tyler, who bring practical and research expertise in this area. Also notable was the
 appointment of Ford as University Research Fellow (2015-18), in which time she undertook
 major collaborative research within the School and internationally, and the appointment of
 Anderson, a world-leading authority on data journalism. Popple has led or been co-investigator
 on a number of funded projects on digital archives, heritage projects, and related community
 issues, including ‘Pararchive’ from the AHRC (2013-15) and ’Digital Community Workspaces’

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2017-18). Jackson is the Academic Lead in Cultural Engagement for the University’s Centre for
 Immersive Technologies and is co-investigator on ‘Virtual Holocaust Memoryscapes’
 (AHRC/EPSRC), run jointly with Leeds’ School of English.

 A strategic decision was made in 2019 to develop a research group in gender and media
 studies (RT7), catalysed by the hiring of leading feminist scholar Tasker in 2018, and building
 on existing strengths and interests in identity and culture, such as the work of Aiello, Bell,
 Johnson, Peirse, Thornham and Thumim. Bell, appointed in 2016, has conducted research
 into the neglected role played by women in media production from the 1930s to the 1980s,
 supported by a major AHRC grant (2014-18, with the grant held at Leeds from 2016-18). Tasker
 is CI on the AHRC project ‘Jill Craigie: Film Pioneer’ (2018-21), further developing the historical
 dimensions of feminist scholarship in the School. In 2020, Thornham and Joanne Armitage
 were awarded AHRC funding for ‘susNET Sustainable Making for Feminist Action’, spanning
 both the Gender and media and Digital cultures RTs.

 3.3: Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 During the REF period the School has invested substantially (£762k) in physical infrastructure.
 Since 2010, we have been housed in a superbly-renovated building at the heart of the campus.
 Facilities used for research activities include two seminar rooms, a lecture theatre suitable for
 visiting lectures, and a meeting room, along with offices, dedicated research student facilities, a
 TV studio and a cinema, equipped with full DCP projection and Dolby Sound, photography
 studios, and edit suites. Such facilities have ensured that the School has been able to host a
 number of important research events (see 4). Renovation of the Mezzanine level of the School’s
 building has allowed the creation of two new offices and four work-station areas for postdoctoral
 researchers and the School’s many visiting scholars. The School’s two media technicians
 facilitate access to video recording facilities, and the archiving of video materials and sound
 recordings to aid research.

 Across the themes discussed in 3.2, School research has involved working with archives,
 museums and oral histories (individual and institutional), highlighting the multiple ways in which
 legacies of the past shape the present as well as framing the future. As indicated in REF5a,
 Leeds has outstanding library provision: three of the four libraries (Brotherton, Edward Boyle,
 Health Sciences, and, from 2015, Laidlaw) have extensive media and communication holdings.
 Leeds has one of the most developed library and archives collections in the UK. Among those
 most directly relevant to our research are the Louis le Prince archive, the South Bank Show
 archives, and the archives of journalist Arthur Ransome, TV producer Andy Lipman, and
 photographer Godfrey Bingley.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 RO4 (see 1.2) captures the School’s commitment to maintain and enhance a research culture
 where knowledge and ideas are exchanged both within and across research groups and
 interests, through extensive networks of international and national research collaboration. This
 objective has been supported via our systems and structures, which also support non-academic
 engagement:

       Provision of generous research funding (including for conference travel, network building
        and piloting of research projects)
       Provision of sabbatical time
       Employment of a full-time Management Support Officer (Research)
       Employment of a 0.6 FTE Research, Impact and Management Support Officer

 Faculty and University structures – notably LAHRI and IGNITE – have further enabled staff in
 the School to develop new collaborations and approaches to impact.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1: Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 As a result of the extensive support provided by School, Faculty and University, and our success
 in gaining external grants (RO3), there has been a step change in the number and quality of
 research collaborations, networks and partnerships achieved by Leeds media and
 communication researchers.

 A marked feature has been very notable international collaboration with other leading
 researchers, universities and organisations worldwide. Leeds researchers collaborate effectively
 with leading international research universities and other bodies. During the REF period staff
 have had affiliations and fellowships at the Universities of Antwerp, Austin (Texas), Karlstad,
 New School (New York), Pennsylvania, Yale, as well as Mexico’s CONACYT and the Peace
 Research Institute in Oslo. Staff in the school have collaborated with colleagues in institutions
 across Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, North and South America. Some striking examples are:

       ‘Media, Conflict and Democratisation’ (MeCoDEM) (EU, 2014-2017), led by Voltmer,
        involving Leeds colleagues Aiello and Parry and two PGRs, was a partnership between
        Leeds and the following universities: American University in Cairo (Egypt), Belgrade
        (Serbia), Cape Town (South Africa), Oxford (UK), Hamburg (Germany), Ruhr-University
        Bochum (Germany) and Stockholm (Sweden). The team also cooperated with the Rift
        Valley Institute (Kenya), a range of civil society actors and European media assistance
        organisations.
       Firmstone (2015-17) led an interdisciplinary cross-national study of the changing nature
        of political communication in television news, collaborating with colleagues from Sweden,
        Greece, France, Italy and the UK.
       Hesmondhalgh collaborated with colleagues from Microsoft Research in 2019,
        investigating the way in which music industry workers use and interpret metrics provided
        by music streaming platforms, resulting in a journal article.
       Paterson led a study of the flow of information about climate in rural Kenya, jointly with
        UK and University of Nairobi colleagues, completed in summer of 2019, in conjunction
        with a larger project led by Leeds (Priestley Centre) climate researchers.
       Aeillo was external expert for ‘Visualizing “Diversity” in Higher Education’, funded by the
        Walter Benjamin Kolleg at the University of Bern (2018-19). This project brought together
        scholars from Gender Studies and Language and Communication, in collaboration with
        Bern’s Office for Gender Equality.

 Staff have also undertaken extensive collaboration with UK Universities, including funded
 research, public facing activities, co-editing and co-authoring across our Research Themes.
 Working with colleagues at institutions including Aberdeen, Cambridge, Durham, East Anglia,
 Glasgow, Leicester, LSE, Manchester, Open, Oxford, Oxford Brookes, Royal Holloway,
 Sheffield, Sussex, Ulster and York, Leeds staff have sought to foster excellent collaborative
 research in our disciplines.

 Besides its internationalism, a marked feature of Leeds’ success in forging high-quality networks
 and partnerships is the high levels of creativity and innovation involved in collaborations with
 practitioners, software designers, artists etc. In addition to the collaborations evidenced in
 detail through the impact case studies, significant examples include:

       Coleman and Moss’s work with Anna De Liddo (Knowledge Media Institute, Open
        University) and other software designers from the Open University in research on
        televised election debates. The EPSRC-funded ‘Visualising the UK General Election
        2015 TV Debates’ developed software tools to help citizens understand and evaluate
        leaders’ performances. They have further developed one of these tools, a web-based
        app for capturing the real-time responses of audiences to political performances,
        subsequently used as part of ITV’s coverage of the December 2019 General Election
        debate.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Hesmondhalgh’s role as co-investigator and convenor of the Creative Industries strand
        in the ESRC Digital Futures at Work Research Centre involves collaborations with
        various industry bodies, organisations and unions.
       The University’s Centre for Immersive Technologies (launched 2019) works with
        partners from the public and private sectors to drive innovation in digital technologies.
        Jackson’s research highlighting the uses of 360º photography within Holocaust memorial
        sites forms part of the Centre’s Cultural Engagement strand.
       Peirse’s HERBARIUM, a collaborative, creative practice exhibition project (funded by
        IGNITE) in conjunction with the botanical design studio The Plant Room, Leeds Libraries,
        Leeds Museums and Galleries, and University of Leeds Special Collections, culminated
        in a month-long exhibition, HERBARIUM, in 2019.
       As part of the MeCoDEM project, Voltmer, Parry and Aiello worked with political
        communication scholars on the role of images and expressive practices in both protest
        and activism and strategic communication, collaboratively producing four short films,
        using images from Creative Commons sources to visually narrate key democratisation
        struggles and demands across the project’s four countries.

 4.2: Engagement and collaboration with users, and contribution to economy and society

 Having detailed our strategies to achieve impact, here we provide evidence of how Leeds
 researchers engaged with users, beneficiaries and audiences, and how this has resulted in
 contributions to economy and society, beyond the details included in the impact case studies,
 which feature impact that has derived from research conducted by Bell, Jason Cabañes and
 Popple. As the case studies and examples in 4.1 suggest, Leeds researchers have effectively
 worked with external partners to develop research, disseminate outcomes and foster excellent
 public engagement activities. The following examples, spanning the School’s Research Themes,
 further highlight how staff in the School have used funding, whether secured competitively from
 external or University schemes, to develop and deliver research which engages with and
 benefits a range of users.

 Two projects involving Erickson represent engagement with policy stakeholders on issues of
 digital copyright. Erickson was recipient of a grant from the Wikimedia Free Knowledge initiative
 to measure the economic value represented by the overall Wikimedia project to European
 society. The beneficiaries were open collaboration communities who can now better
 communicate the value of their activities to EU policymakers and present evidence in debates
 about innovation and intellectual property policy. Erickson was also PI on a European Joint
 Programming Initiative project 2015- 2018, ‘Enhancing Access to 20th Century Cultural Heritage
 through Distributed Orphan Works Clearance’ (EnDOW), with collaborators in Italy (Bocconi),
 the Netherlands (Amsterdam), and the UK (Bournemouth). EnDOW developed a crowdsourcing
 platform to assist museums and archives across Europe to digitise and share content from their
 collections. Beneficiaries included museums, archives, libraries and IP policymakers.

 Moss, in collaboration with Edwards (at Leeds to 2017, now LSE), conducts research on the
 role of public deliberation in media policymaking, focusing on copyright in particular. In 2017,
 they received AHRC funding to run a large-scale deliberative event on copyright policy with
 members of the public. In 2019, they were awarded further AHRC funding to complete a follow-
 on study that will develop the impact of this research. Working with the Intellectual Property
 Office, Ofcom, and other stakeholders, the follow-on study has examined how consultations on
 copyright policy can be improved and has developed a new deliberative model that can be used
 in future consultation processes. Designed to benefit the work of policymakers and regulatory
 authorities, the project will enable increased public access and better input into future media
 policymaking, resulting in better informed and more legitimate policy outcomes.

 As part of her AHRC-funded ‘Women in Film and Television History’ project, Bell partnered with
 the Broadcasting, Entertainment, Communications and Theatre Union (BECTU). The project
 provided evidence of women’s historic economic and creative contribution to Britain’s film and
 television, connecting evidence with present-day media practitioners and, through partnership

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the union, generating pressure for change regarding gender roles and representation. Bell
 also organised a Wikipedia ‘edit-a-thon’ in conjunction with the University Library’s Open
 Research Team and Dr Richard Nevell, Programme Coordinator at Wikimedia UK, enabling the
 building/expansion of Wikipedia entries for often overlooked women in media.

 Popple has been involved in a number of AHRC-funded projects, each breaking down barriers
 between community groups and scholars. He was PI on ‘Digital Community Workspaces:
 Delivering Impact through Public Library and Archive networks’ (2017-19), working with local
 libraries, community groups and the Science Museum Group. He was also a co-investigator on
 ‘Seismic Cities’, working with partners at the Catholic University in Santiago, Chile and local
 institutions. Popple has been instrumental in the design and maintenance of the YARN project,
 an online archive engagement platform that allows local history and archive groups to share
 stories and link to controlled institutional collections. They are able to share their own cultural
 heritage materials with other community groups, libraries, archives and members of the public.

 As part of the AHRC/EPSRC funded project ‘Virtual Holocaust Memoryscapes’, Jackson
 developed three multisensory virtual archives of locations within Germany’s Neuengamme and
 Bergen-Belsen memorial sites. The project, and the virtual archives Jackson developed,
 investigated the potential for immersive technologies to enhance multisensory understanding of
 historic buildings and sites, in this case those aimed at Holocaust memorialisation. The virtual
 archives were developed in collaboration with memorial site staff who carefully selected archival
 materials to enhance visitor understanding. The research provided a new method of exhibition
 and curation for museum and memorialisation industry professionals. While the benefits of
 Jackson’s research preceded the COVID-19 pandemic, they were particularly apparent during it.

 A notable example of engagement with local media organisations was the Leeds News Ecology
 project, led by Coleman and bringing together a team including Thumim, Birchall, Firmstone,
 Moss, Parry, and distinguished Emeritus Professor Blumler. The project was funded by a seed
 grant from eminent journalist John Lloyd, supplemented by funding from the University. The
 project set out to explore how a city comes to imagine itself, how it tells itself stories, circulates
 news, creates events, stores its memories and tries to come to terms with difference and
 diversity. Among the organisations engaged with were senior managers and broadcasters at
 BBC Yorkshire (Look North and Radio Leeds), ITV Yorkshire, and Leeds City Council.

 4.3: Contribution to research base

 During the REF period, enabled by the research strategy discussed in this document,
 researchers at Leeds have made enormous contributions to the international and national
 research base of the discipline. Elements of this contribution can be summarised quantitatively
 as follows:
      16 conferences and symposia organised by/held at Leeds
      61 invited international keynotes and public talks in 43 different global locations, hosted
         by 37 universities or professional organisations
      46 external PhD examinations by staff employed at the census date, 29 UK and 17
         overseas
      Significant contributions to 6 major scholarly associations
      7 full or deputy journal editorships and membership of the editorial board of 30 plus
         journals

 We now detail of some of the most significant of these contributions, showing how our research
 strategy has allowed us to further internationalise research agendas, within and across our
 research themes.

 4.3.1. The systems of administrative support and facilities outlined above have led to a further
 increase in the conferences and symposia held at Leeds during the current REF period.
 Some significant examples are:


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Capitalism, Culture and the Media (2015) convened by Hesmondhalgh, was attended
        by 160 people from 15 countries. Organised in association with the Political Economy
        Section of IAMCR, the Media Industries Scholarly Interest Group of the Society for
        Cinema and Media Studies (SCMS), and the Media Industries and Cultural Production
        Working Group of ECREA, its attention to the concept of capitalism, in the light of recent
        developments in social theory, has made the conference a major reference point.
       Leeds hosted the annual Political Studies Association Media and Politics
        Group conference in December 2019, convened by Parry, and attended by 80 people.
       The annual conference of MeCCSA (Media, Communication and Cultural Studies
        Association, the main scholarly association for the field in the UK) was hosted at Leeds in
        2017, attended by 250 people. The high-profile keynotes - Shakuntala Banaji (LSE), Paul
        Gilroy (KCL), Andrew Ross (NYU) and Barbie Zelizer (University of Pennsylvania) - and
        papers reflected and advanced the contribution of cultural studies to media and
        communication studies.

 The School has been involved in organising numerous other events at Leeds that have played
 an important role in facilitating the exchange of research, ideas and perspectives, and have
 often been attended by members of the public as well as academics.

       The Political Communication and Journalism Research Theme has hosted a series of
        public events on the major democratic issues of the last few years in the UK: a
        symposium on News, Debates and Citizens in the 2015 UK General Election; a similar
        event after the 2017 UK general election, A Misjudged Election; and So What Was That
        All About? The UK News Media, the EU and Brexit, attended by around 100 people,
        including journalists, civil servants, and local government representatives.
       In 2016-2017 Paterson co-convened with Adrian Favell (Sociology, Leeds) a LAHRI
        seminar series on the representation of migration, in collaboration with the University of
        Leeds Migration Research Network.
       Since 2006, the School has hosted an Annual Jay Blumler Lecture, in honour of our
        distinguished Emeritus Professor. Recent lecturers include Ruth Wodak (University of
        Vienna, 2019), Silvio Waisbord (George Washington University, 2018) and Liesbet van
        Zoonen (Erasmus University Rotterdam, 2017).
       The Journalism Studies Research Theme organised in 2016 a series of public events
        featuring journalists, including New York Times correspondent Alan Cowell; founder of
        the new press regulator, Impress, Jonathan Heawood; and senior BBC reporter and data
        journalist David Rhodes.
       Anderson organised the collaborative Leeds-Columbia University journalism research
        methods summer school (ongoing since 2017), facilitating knowledge exchange on best
        practice.
       The Visual Media and Communication Research Theme has organised a series of
        events highlighting social semiotic approaches, including a university-wide public lecture
        and doctoral workshop with Theo Van Leeuwen and Gunther Kress (co-organised by
        Aiello and Elisabetta Adami from the School of Languages, Cultures and Societies), and
        a public event on the editorial project Difference and Globalization, originating from
        Aiello’s EU-funded research.
       Paterson has been highly active in organising events on international communication,
        including a series of AHRC-funded events such as an international symposium at Leeds
        on the role of development aid in shaping journalism in Africa and Latin America, and a
        roundtable discussion in 2018, funded by GCRF, the Leeds University Centre for African
        Studies, and the British Academy, on Media and Foreign Powers in Africa, bringing
        together Africanist scholars and media professionals to discuss the global media
        representation of foreign involvements in Africa.

 4.3.2. Leeds academics have reviewed for research councils and international funding
 bodies, demonstrating a commitment to systems that support and sustain research excellence

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the UK and internationally. These include AHRC (Bell, Coleman, Hesmondhalgh, Parry,
 Tasker, Thornham, Tyler); Austrian Science Foundation (Paterson); Baltic Sea Foundation,
 Sweden (Voltmer); Belgian National Research Programme (Coleman); ERC (Aiello, Coleman,
 Hesmondhalgh, Tasker, Voltmer); Canada Research Chairs Program (Klein); Carnegie Trust
 (Bell); EPSRC (Birchall, Thornham); ESRC (Aiello, Birchall, Coleman, Hesmondhalgh,
 Johnson, Paterson, Popple, Thornham, Voltmer); Flanders Research Foundation (Lee,
 Paterson, Zoellner); German Science Foundation (Voltmer); Israeli Science Foundation
 (Anderson, Coleman, Parry); National Research Council, South Africa (Paterson, Voltmer);
 National Science Centre Poland (Tyler); National Science Foundation (Anderson); Norwegian
 Research Council (Hesmondhalgh); Paris Region Fellowship Programme (Aiello); Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Hesmondhalgh, Meier, Paterson,
 Tasker); Swedish Research Council (Coleman); Swiss National Foundation (Aiello); US-Israel
 Binational Science Foundation (Parry). Tasker is a member of the UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowships Panel and serves as a REF2021 sub-panel member.

 4.3.3. Leeds staff have supported the work of major scholarly associations during the REF
 period. In 2018, Paterson was elected to lead one of the largest divisions (Global
 Communication and Social Change) of the International Communication Association (ICA).
 Aiello led the Visual Communication Studies Division 2013-17 and Hesmondhalgh was elected
 an ICA Fellow in 2016. From 2012 to 2015 Paterson was one of fifteen elected members (the
 sole UK elected member) of the governing International Council of the International
 Association for Media and Communication Research (IAMCR) while Zoellner was elected
 Co-Chair of the Media Production Working Group in 2019. Hesmondhalgh was Founding Chair
 of the European Communication Research and Education Association (ECREA) Working
 Group/Section on Media Industries and Cultural Production, 2010 to 2018, overseeing the
 Group’s transition to a full Section in 2015, and leading the selection and organisation of the
 Section’s panels at the 2016 and 2018 ECREA conferences. From 2016, Aiello served as an
 advisory Group Member of the ECREA Working Group, Media and the City, making a
 substantial contribution to the group’s success in achieving full Section status in 2019. In 2019
 Bell became a Council Member for the International Association for Media and History
 (IAMHIST), taking a lead in the organisation’s scheme offering pump priming funds to ECRs.

 Staff in the School have also been active in UK subject associations. Lax served on the
 Executive Board of MeCCSA 2010-18. Since 2019 Johnson has Chaired MeCCSA’s Women’s
 Media Studies division. Johnson also served on the Executive Committee of British Association
 for Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) 2012-16. Halabi is Vice-Chair of MeCCSA’s
 Race and Postcolonial network.

 4.3.4: School researchers contribute to journals in the field as editors, advisory board
 members and peer reviewers. Editorships and Deputy editorships in the REF period include
 Communications (Voltmer), Journal of Applied Journalism & Media Studies (Lugo-Ocando),
 International Journal of Press/Politics (Anderson), Media, War and Conflict (Parry), Early
 Popular Visual Culture (Popple), European Journal of Communication Research (Voltmer) and
 Studies in Documentary Film (Nash).

 In disciplinary terms, our contribution as peer reviewers is extensive, encompassing Animal
 Studies, Area Studies, Celebrity Studies, Cultural Studies, Digital Humanities, Digital Media,
 Ethnic and Racial Studies, Film/Television Studies, Discourse Studies, Feminist Theory, Game
 Studies, Gender Studies, Journalism, Performance Studies, Poetics, Political Communication,
 Political Science, Popular Music, Public Opinion Research, Sociology, Urban Studies, Visual
 Studies, Work/Employment Studies and Youth/Childhood Studies.

 Underlining the School’s international reputation and commitment to interdisciplinarity, staff sit
 on the editorial advisory boards of multiple journals across these disciplines including: African
 Journalism Studies, Animal Studies Journal, Journal of Applied Journalism and Media Studies,
 Central European Journal of Communication, Communication Theory, Communication and
 Critical/Cultural Studies, Cultural Sociology, Digital Journalism, Ethnic and Racial Studies


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal, Etnografia e Ricerca Qualitativa, European Journal of Communication, Feminist Media
 Studies, Global Diaspora and Media, Information Polity, International Journal of Cultural Studies,
 International Journal of Media and Cultural Politics, International Journal of Press/Politics,
 Journal of African Media Studies, Journal of British Cinema and Television, Journal of
 Broadcasting and Electronic Media, Journal of War and Culture Studies, New Media & Society,
 Popular Communication, Rock Music Studies, Social Media and Society, Social Semiotics,
 Sociologica, Television and New Media, TRACE, Visual Communication, Visual Communication
 Quarterly.




                                                                                           Page 17
