Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 34

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 Research at the University of Salford in Culture, Communication and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management (CCMLIM) dates back to 2001 and has an established record of taking
 place within and across several organisational units. Building on our REF2014 return of 17 staff,
 we submit 20 (19.2 FTE) to REF2021 (Bagnall, Brettle, Choi, Coen, Crawford, Frade, Gosling,
 Hancock, Hewett, Kreps, Light, McMurtry, Miah, O’Reilly, Randall, Simpson, Smith A, Smith
 G, Taylor, Vasilica). In 2014, 29% of staff returned were female, a figure that has risen to 50% in
 REF2021. We have more than doubled the number of PhD awards from the previous census
 period from 24 to 55.

 CCMLIM research makes a major contribution to the University’s research strategy through
 addressing one of its three core foci: Digital (REF5a). We renewed our commitment to digital
 research articulated in REF2014 and set in train research within the two key areas of this
 submission: digital culture and heritage and media industries and media systems. These
 areas reflect the growth of digital media whilst underpinning a multi- and interdisciplinary research
 environment to generate an understanding of the creation, production and consumption of
 communication media in cultural, economic, political and societal contexts, both past and present.
 Our research allows us to understand the values and practices of the world of communications
 media across the digital revolution continuum and contributes to the University’s goal of
 developing strong industry collaboration.

 The Arts, Media and Communication Research Centre (AMCRC) and the Centre for Social and
 Health Research (CSHR) are the organisational focal points of this submission, based respectively
 in the Schools of Arts, Media and Creative Technology (SoAMCT) and the School of Health and
 Society (SoHS). The Culture, Communication and Media Research Group (CCMRG), part of
 AMCRC, undertakes research in the conceptual, applied and practice-based aspects of cultural
 and media studies and traditional and new digital media. The Connected Lives, Diverse Realities
 Research Group (CLDRRG) in CSHR addresses pressing social issues by exploring shared
 methodological and theoretical approaches from the cultural turns in sociology and studies of
 digital society. Our group membership is diverse, comprising staff from SoAMCT and SoHS
 predominantly, as well as Salford Business School (SBS) and the School of Science Engineering
 and Environment (SEE).

 Each research group shares the following objectives:

    1. Produce internationally excellent and world-leading research outputs
    2. Deliver and sustain postgraduate research degree completions
    3. Organise academic research conferences and seminars that attract leading media
       scholars and support the submission and presentation of CCMLIM research at leading
       research conferences
    4. Foster a culture conducive to obtaining funding to undertake high-quality research
    5. Broaden the impact of CCMLIM research at Salford for its civil society, commercial and
       governmental users
    6. Provide high-quality peer support and development for all CCMLIM researchers in an
       environment of ethical and inclusive research culture, behaviour and practice.

 In responding to these objectives, our work has developed in two broad areas:

 1. Digital culture and heritage
 Our research has investigated the many aspects of daily life influenced by the digital and the
 historic cultures that predate these, with particular concern for the spheres of health and leisure.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Work on health has created innovative platforms, spaces and methods to explore the use of a
 range of digital media to provide health information. By encouraging peer support, the work has
 also facilitated self-management and improved health outcomes (Brettle, Light, Miah, Taylor,
 Vasilica). Research on leisure and digital media includes work on cosplay and video gaming
 (Crawford, Hancock), online dating and ‘hooking up’ and internet humour (Light), e-sports and
 drones (Miah), video game production practices (Smith, A), audience engagement in museums
 and in relation to classical music cultures through digital media (Bagnall, Crawford, Gosling,
 Light, Randall); and the historical significance of public leisure spaces (O’Reilly).

 2. Media industries and media systems
 This area has five key elements and has produced some notable highlights. Coen’s work on the
 historical and contemporary importance of journalism led her to take part in a key international
 collaborative project on journalism and media consumption. For O’Reilly, it resulted in her winning
 a 2020 Curran Fellowship. The research of McMurtry on the history of radio drama and Hewett
 on television acting produced two monographs. Research on developments in trans- and
 converging media and their economic, political and regulatory consequences (Light, Simpson,
 Smith A.) was presented at leading international conferences and published widely in scholarly
 literature. The evolution and consequences of information and communications media as socio-
 technical systems of production, service delivery and consumption (Brettle, Choi, Kreps, Light,
 Simpson, Smith G., Vasilica) and the impact of health libraries and librarians (Brettle) was
 underpinned by external funding and led to key book and journal publications.

 Our research is inter- and multidisciplinary with staff expertise in the diverse fields of culture,
 media, communications, politics, information systems, psychology, sociology and librarianship.
 Researchers are drawn from a variety of disciplines creating a rich intellectual research
 environment, for example: Arts Practice (Bagnall, Crawford, Randall); Nursing and Midwifery
 (Brettle, Light, Vasilica) and Journalism (Coen).

 Strategy to support impact
 The development and articulation of impact from our research has been a strategic priority in the
 census period, delivered through:

    •   Provision of internal funding by research centres in tandem with institutional investment
    •   Appointment of School-level Impact Coordinators who receive workload in their role to
        support impact action plans and provide training and advice
    •   Work with University industry collaboration colleagues (in Research & Knowledge
        Exchange, RKE) in the areas of Health, Wellbeing and Society, and Creative and Digital,
        to develop new partnerships and embed impact into existing projects.

 We return to REF3 our two strongest examples of impact during this period. The first demonstrates
 impact generated from a 2012 AHRC-funded project, in which Crawford, Bagnall, Gosling and
 Light worked collaboratively with the London Symphony Orchestra and software
 developer Kodime Ltd. to develop a new audience engagement platform (Student Pulse), which
 is now used by nine of the UK’s leading classical music orchestras, successfully engaging a
 younger, more ethnically diverse audience. Our second submission describes research involving
 Brettle, Light and Vasilica, which led to the development of two digital interventions: Facemums
 (social media platform supporting pregnant women); and the Kidney Information Network (digital
 platform helping chronic kidney disease patients to manage their condition). The platforms have
 facilitated greater self-management and enhanced health and wellbeing outcomes among users,
 with NHS Trusts adapting the models to increase provision during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 However, impact generated in the Unit transcends our two REF3 case studies. Simpson’s work
 on media governance had influence in political (the European Parliament), regulatory (the Body
 of European Regulators in Electronic Communication), technical (the Institute of Electrical and
 Electronics Engineers) and civil society (the Voice of the Listener and Viewer) circles. Brettle's
 work for Knowledge for Healthcare has enabled NHS libraries to demonstrate the value of their
 services at organisational and national levels. Taylor’s research on the effects of social media

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and screen time on children’s physical and mental wellbeing contributed to the British Psychology
 Society (BPS) guidelines on Children, Adolescents, and Screen Use, presented at the House of
 Commons to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Psychology. Miah’s work on esports has
 informed the United Nations AI for Good research programme and the work of the Global Esports
 Federation, to which he was appointed in 2019.

 Research vision and strategy
 Over the next five years, we will sustain and develop the multi- and interdisciplinary work that lies
 at the heart of CCMLIM research through the following overarching goal:

 To provide enriched understandings of the roles and significance of digital culture, heritage, media
 industries and systems in diverse 21st Century human existence and to establish Salford as a
 leading international voice in this field.

 Our goal is realistic since it is underpinned by the pursuit of developmental continuity and is in line
 with our institution’s strategic priorities. It builds upon our long-established expertise in digital
 research in this and previous census periods. Our world is increasingly reliant on digital
 technologies and services – understanding their opportunities and affordances, as well as their
 barriers and limitations, will be a crucial intellectual, economic, social and policy endeavour over
 the next decade. We intend to maintain our themes and groups and deliver our contribution
 through the following aims:

    •   Increasing the diversity and number of staff with expertise in digital research, by
        developing new and early career researchers through the three-year research plan
        process and making appropriate strategic appointments.

    •   Increasing the number of postgraduate researcher (PGR) enrolments and
        completions in CCMLIM digital subjects through growth in domestic and international
        recruitment. This will allow us to boost our knowledge base, enrich our scholarly
        community, build our global partnerships and collaborations and grow the next generation
        of scholars.

    •   Increasing the value and duration of external research funding to allow for greater
        stability and depth in our activity. This will be achieved through the three-year research
        planning process and increased collaborative research grant applications and will increase
        links between our researchers, extend our research capacity, enhance our reach and
        reputation internationally and strengthen our international networks.

    •   Broadening and deepening the impact of CCMLIM research for a diversity of non-
        academic users through continued staff development in this area, particularly with a focus
        upon the deployment of digital methods, service delivery and engagement with policy
        related to digital life. Sectors with whom we will expand our engagement are: galleries,
        libraries, heritage, events and festivals, health and social care organisations and civil
        society.

    •   Continuing to invest in digital infrastructure across our campus by opening a Digital
        Humanities Lab based at MediaCityUK and opening a virtual related visioning facility within
        the Salford Innovation District as part of the Campus Masterplan. We will also infuse digital
        technologies and maximise use of the University’s new Microsoft Azure cloud-based
        computing facilities to engage in digital methods research. We aim to retain improvements
        in organisational practices driven by COVID-19 and intensify these affordances within
        research.

 Open access and open research
 In line with our institutional strategy of creating a culture of open research to promote industry
 collaboration and real-world learning, CCMLIM is committed to promoting and delivering an open
 research culture within and beyond the University. Via the University’s Library Open Research

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Team, staff have received and implemented training on open access and its benefits, research
 data management best practice, routes to publication and how to publish outputs as open access
 resources. Consequently, all CCMLIM staff submitted to REF2021 are registered with an ORCID
 identifier and have a ResearchGate or Academia.edu profile. Staff have deposited 182 open
 access items into USIR (the University’s open access repository) in the assessment period which
 have been downloaded 35,681 times. Externally, CCMLIM staff have given keynotes at Altmetric
 conferences (Miah) and provided board membership of international open access journals in
 library and information practice (Brettle).

 Research governance and integrity
 The three-year research plan process ensures that individual researchers wishing to pursue
 research can do so within the values of the University, their School and Group. Each Research
 Group is led by a senior researcher who reports to the School Associate Dean for Research and
 Innovation (ADRI). Each School has a Director of PGR Studies who is responsible for monitoring
 all aspects of the PGR student journey and a Research Ethics Committee to which staff and PGR
 student projects must be submitted for double peer review. The School Research and Enterprise
 Committee (SREC) within each School has the assurance of research integrity as one of its core
 goals. The conduct and performance of research is scrutinised in a once-per-trimester meeting at
 which the ADRI, Research Group Leads, the Director of PGR Studies and PGR student
 representatives are present.

 2. People

 Our strategy to increase the size of CCMLIM has involved a combination of consolidating and
 developing core research strengths through retention and internal promotion, coupled with the
 development of capacity through external recruitment of staff at both senior and early career
 researcher levels. We have embedded strong research leadership and effective researcher
 development processes within the Unit, ensuring its future sustainability.

 Staffing strategy
 CCMLIM has sought to recruit staff with excellent track records who align to the group’s focus on
 digital. Three external professorial appointments were made in the census period: Choi (media
 systems - SoAMCT), Light (digital society – SoHS) and Miah (science communication - SEE),
 complementing existing expertise and ensuring that all our professors (Brettle, Choi, Crawford,
 Light, Miah, Simpson) are engaged in digital research. This has meant that 100% of the £1.28m
 research income generated by our researchers is digitally focused work.

 Six Lecturers (Hancock, Hewett, McMurtry, Smith, Taylor, Vasilica) were appointed in the
 digital research area in this cycle. In SoAMCT, three lecturer appointments were McMurtry (mass
 media culture), Hewett (television history and production) and Smith A (media industries and
 production). These staff developed quickly with each producing a monograph during the census
 period. McMurtry is Postgraduate Research lead in SoAMCT; Hewett (with O’Reilly) established
 the CCM Work in Progress Reading Group in 2019. In SoHS, two new scholar appointments were
 Vasilica (digital health and society), a key contributor to a REF3 submission through work
 supporting people with chronic kidney disease online; and Taylor (psychology and digital society)
 whose research on children’s screen use was funded by the ESRC. CCMRG is led by a professor
 (Simpson) and includes seven staff from SoAMCT (Choi, Hancock, Hewett, McMurtry, O’Reilly,
 Randall, Smith A.), and one each from SBS (Kreps), SEE (Miah) and SoHS (Coen). CLDRRG
 is led by a professor (Smith, G.) and includes Light (also ADRI in SoHS), Brettle (also Director
 of the Centre for Social and Health Research, CHSR) and six other staff (Bagnall, Crawford,
 Frade, Gosling, Taylor, Vasilica).

 Our team comprises staff at different stages of their academic careers (7 Professors, 5 Senior
 Lecturers/Readers and 8 Lecturers) and includes 10 female and 10 male staff, demonstrating that
 we have a sustainable group with strong leadership which is developing a pool of early career
 talent. Internal support for progression and development saw Brettle appointed to Professor in
 2016 and Kreps (information systems, SBS), author of two monographs in the census period,

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoted to Reader in 2017. Brettle was also previously a Director of Postgraduate Research
 Studies.

 Support and development mechanisms
 The development of research-active staff is a key University strategic priority and this goal is
 delivered through multiple activities within Schools as part of their core business. Internal funding
 of £30.5k has been awarded to CCMLIM staff from central schemes, with School match-funding,
 to enable staff to participate in international conferences, build professional networks, share
 research findings and undertake effective impact activities. School-level training and development
 opportunities complement the University’s researcher development programme (SECRET) and
 support staff to produce high-quality research outputs and plan impact activity. Nurturing a
 supportive environment in which to conduct research is a priority and opportunities are provided
 for staff to interact at research group and School levels.

 Formal career development processes
 All staff have annual Career Conversations with their line managers, allowing for feedback and
 advice on colleagues’ research trajectory, setting of research objectives and measurement of
 achievement. Staff three-year research plans now feed into these discussions so that objectives
 are set for specific activities and staff receive the necessary support from their line manager, group
 lead and ADRI. QR is used to provide research workload for staff based on the outcome of their
 three-year plan assessment, with a minimum of 20 workload units for staff with ‘significant
 responsibility for research’ in accordance with our REF2021 Code of Practice. Three-year
 research plans provide the context for individual, group and School-wide reflection on the research
 process and attendant priorities. In SoHS, from 2019, this led to provision of an individually tailored
 research training menu based on identified requirements, which complements SoHS’ annual staff
 development programme of bi-monthly grant labs, writing retreats, internal and external research
 seminar programmes, open access tutorials and impact workshops.

 Study leave
 Three staff have benefitted from a competitive sabbatical scheme that provides a 5-6 month period
 to complete a research project, funding bid, output or impact work. Smith’s sabbatical allowed
 him to complete his monograph Storytelling Industries: Narrative Productive in the 21st Century
 (Palgrave Macmillan, 2018) and two journal articles on comedy podcasting (in Comedy Studies)
 and the US network drama Mr. Robot (in Television & New Media). Hewett’s sabbatical enabled
 him to undertake initial research for a forthcoming monograph on British TV fictions and to
 complete journal articles on character agency in early Doctor Who (in SERIES: International
 Journal of Serial TV Narrative) and Harold Pinter as performer (in The Historical Journal of Film,
 Radio and Television) and a book chapter on sound and vision innovations in the TV series Morse.
 Coen’s sabbatical period allowed her to conduct a study in collaboration with University of Milano-
 Bicocca, Italy, on young adults’ use of smartphones.

 Funding for conference attendance
 Annual funding to support conference and workshop attendance is available from central and
 School sources. CCMLIM researchers have benefitted from £10k to support attendance at
 conferences, such as Frade at the European Sociological Association, 2015 (Czech Republic),
 Smith G at The Times They Are a-Changing conference, 2014 (Denmark), Simpson at
 International Communication Association conferences 2014, (Seattle) and 2015, (Puerto Rico)
 and Brettle at Evidence Based Library and Information Practice, 2015 (Australia).

 Supporting the production of high-quality research outputs and impact
 Internal Peer Review Panels were established in each School in 2016 to provide feedback on
 research outputs using the criteria of ‘originality, significance and rigour’ and all CCMLIM members
 have been involved in and benefitted from this process. This complements School staff
 development workshops focused on improving the quality of publications, where staff can receive
 guidance on selecting appropriate publication outlets and learn about open access dissemination
 mechanisms.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Developing research impact is a strategic priority and supported in multiple ways, with internal
 impact funding assisting key activities for Light, Randall and Simpson. Annual impact action
 plans were introduced in 2018/2019 to support researchers to develop their impact strategically to
 maximise the benefits of research for wider society and School Impact Coordinators meet regularly
 with plan holders to monitor objectives and discuss future activity.

 Development of a supportive research community
 SoHS and SoAMCT foster a vibrant research community through providing opportunities for staff
 to come together from across research disciplines for productive intellectual exchanges and peer
 support. In SoAMCT, staff congresses take place once per trimester, inter alia providing a briefing
 on core research issues. A Staff Development Week, held at the start of each academic year,
 features events devoted to research and research strategy, where researchers share their
 experiences. Chaired by the ADRI, Research Group Lead’s meetings and School Professoriate
 meetings occur monthly with standing agendas on the review and development of research in the
 School. In SoHS, the Professoriate (comprising Readers and Professors) meets monthly to
 discuss research strategy and is a mechanism to feed research issues into the School Senior
 Management Team via Light, the ADRI. In addition to the University mentoring system,
 mentorship schemes exist within both Schools that match experienced researchers with more
 junior colleagues.

 Support specifically for ECRs is available via several initiatives to ensure they can transition into
 a research career, develop and progress through effective mentoring and learn skills necessary
 to peer-support others:

    •   An early career researcher (ECR) group is represented on School research committees in
        SoHS and runs quarterly meetings and training events.

    •   Internal research centre funds are used to support ECR projects and provide match funding
        for more established researchers’ investment and impact projects.

    •   The PhD by Published Works route used across the University originated in SoHS and
        contains a staff development programme to support completion of academic publications
        in a timeframe accommodating the needs of individual colleagues.

    •   In 2019 a new APEL (Accreditation of Prior Experiential Learning) route to the Professional
        Doctorate was introduced in SoHS. The current cohort comprises 89% women, providing
        them with a supportive networking environment, a rapid route to progression at work and
        in their doctoral studies and a flexible approach to research where support and study
        sessions are available at different times in online and face-to-face mode.

 Equality and diversity
 CCMLIM researchers embed inclusion into their research culture in accordance with the
 University’s policy of delivering diversity through an action-based Inclusion and Diversity Strategy.
 We seek to create an environment where all people are respected and treated fairly; to maintain
 a culture where diversity is celebrated and discrimination is not accepted; to take positive action
 to promote equality, diversity and fair access; and to embed equality and diversity in the ongoing
 execution of our research strategy. In line with our Code of Practice we analysed our REF2
 attributions and 43% of outputs have been attributed to female staff, compared to a female
 submitted staff proportion of 48%, and 2% of outputs have been attributed to staff from a BAME
 background, compared with 5% BAME submitted staff. We recognise that this reflects our lower
 proportion of female and BAME staff at higher grades and are committed to addressing this in the
 next cycle.

 Examples of support within the census period include:

    •   Implementing our three-year plan process has involved individual discussions with staff to
        allow them to report any experience of difficulties due to health, caring and/or equality of

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        opportunity related to protected characteristics. This exchange has been used to make
        reasonable adjustments for staff, e.g. an additional 10% research workload following
        maternity leave.

    •   Anonymised insights from the three-year plans have fed into discussions across the Unit
        on research strategy and implementation plans. This has created ways of surfacing and
        addressing the challenges different groups face, particularly where protected
        characteristics intersect and also with long-term health conditions and diverse caring
        responsibilities.

    •   All internal funding opportunities are made available openly whether at School or research
        centre level. Decisions on funding allocations are made by panels that represent the
        diversity of Schools.

    •   The formation of the Women in Research Group in SoAMCT, which has met to hear the
        work of fellow researchers and share experiences of the challenges of undertaking
        research.

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience
 To accommodate a range of professional backgrounds and students joining from practice settings,
 routes to PhD include an APEL Professional Doctorate programme and a PhD by Published Works
 alongside traditional PhDs. A new, innovative split-site delivery model has recently been
 established with Aga Khan University, based in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, that enables
 academics from another institution to remain in their home country for a significant part of their
 candidature in SoHS; 3 CCMLIM students are benefitting from this mode of study.

 Funded pathways have been available to support students. Between 2015 and 2018, an internal
 Pathways to Excellence scheme utilised QR monies to provide bursaries to students with
 significant potential and a topic in a strategic priority area. Salford is also a member of the AHRC
 North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWC DTP) on whose Academic
 Management Committee Simpson sits as Institutional Representative.

 To ensure quality and build capacity, those new to supervising act as a co-supervisor alongside
 an experienced supervisor. Supervisory meetings occur at least monthly, ensuring clear and open
 lines of communication. Students and supervisors complete an annual progress report.
 Supervision records and assessment reports are regularly monitored by School PGR Directors,
 ensuring any concerns can quickly be addressed. PGR Directors, the ADRI and the SREC have
 overall responsibility for compliance with processes. This system has helped to deliver 55 doctoral
 graduates (47% UK/EU, 53% international). Of these, 38% are female and 47% from a BAME
 background.

 CCMLIM PGRs participate in the Salford Postgraduate Research Training (SPoRT) programme
 (REF5a) and are encouraged to join relevant Master’s-level modules. To provide flexibility for part-
 time and distance students, masterclasses and intense training sessions (initially aimed at APEL
 Professional Doctorate students) take place on Saturdays and can be accessed remotely (also
 recorded for asynchronous accessibility). PGRs are encouraged to contribute to research
 seminars and present at conferences at local, national and international levels. CSHR PGRs have
 benefitted from an individual annual stipend towards their development which can be used towards
 relevant conference attendance. This can be supplemented from an institutional PGR conference
 fund and supervisory discretionary funds. PGRs benefit from involvement in the Salford
 Postgraduate Annual Research Conference (SPARC), as well as biannual Celebrating PGR
 Research Days and methods seminars. Salford has run research training events for Consortium
 students as part of its AHRC NWC DTP membership and, in 2018, hosted the annual DTP
 research conference whose theme was Digital Humanities: Human Technologies.

 CCMRG and CSHR organise research seminar programmes allowing research students to hear
 the work of University staff and many high-quality external speakers. The CLDRRG research

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminar programme has attracted internationally recognised speakers, such as Mark Carrigan
 (Cambridge, UK), Susanna Paasonen (University of Turku, Finland), and Jenny Sunden
 (University of Södertörn, Sweden). PGRs are asked to suggest external speakers for the research
 seminar programme and have been supported to organise research events of their own: three
 students co-organised the Saudi media research student forum in November 2013 and another
 two co-organised the 2015 PGR CCM Research on Nigerian Journalism Colloquium in 2016.

 Feedback from PGR students is requested formally as part of their annual Self-Evaluation Report.
 This is reviewed by the PGR Director and reported to the SREC. Student representatives attend
 SREC meetings once per trimester to provide a student voice in research decision-making.
 CCMLIM students expressed a high level of satisfaction with their experience in the census period,
 with students from two cohorts (2016-19, 2018-21) strongly praising supervisor support. The
 support received has helped CCMLIM students achieve noteworthy accomplishments in their
 research journeys, for example:

    •   Francis Gbadgao won best PGR student paper at the 2019 UK Media, Communication and
        Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA) conference and an Emerging Scholar Award for
        the 2019 International Conference on Communication and Media Studies, Bonn
    •   Aljawhara Almutarie presented a paper at the 2018 International Communication
        Association conference, Prague
    •   Ade Apejoye presented papers at the 2018 and 2019 International Association of Media
        and Communication Research (IAMCR) conferences
    •   Cristina Vasilica’s PhD work was recognised through the Innovation Champion Award for
        best use of social media in 2015 and BigChip Awards - Best Tech for Good, 2018.

 Research students in CCM-LIM at Salford have gone on, or returned, to notable academic and
 other careers after graduation. Some examples are: Ade Apejoye, Godfrey Danaan, Andrew
 Dewan, Harvey Igben, Taye Obateru (all returned to academic posts in Nigerian Universities); Ali
 Almania, Aljawhara Almutarie and Abdullah Maqbul (returned to academic posts in Saudi Arabia);
 Yap Pao Sium (Lecturer at TAR College, Malaysia); Alex Connock (media industries entrepreneur
 and Lecturer, University of Oxford); Ufuk Onen (Sound-Designer-in-Residence at Bilkent
 University in Turkey and Vice President of the Audio Engineering Society (2017-2019)); and
 Sandra Carolina Patino (Senior Lecturer and Director at Documentary Colombia).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Acquiring external research funding has addressed objective four of the CCMLIM research
 strategy, proved a vital enabler of many of the research achievements made by Unit members
 and contributed to the strategic goal of industry collaboration. Income relates to 36 projects
 addressing local, regional, national and international priorities with a focus on a range of concerns
 related to the digital world. Within our total project income of nearly £1.3m, £620k (48%) has come
 from UK government/industry sources and £596k (46%) from Research Councils. Reflecting our
 focus on digital health, our main government funders include Health Education England (and
 Health Education North West), the NHS and Greater Manchester Health and Social Care
 Partnership, supporting activities that delivered significant benefits to our city-region. We report
 income from five of the Research Councils, predominantly AHRC (£640k awarded; £246k to
 Salford) and ESRC (£281k awarded; £195k to Salford) but also NERC, EPSRC and STFC (the
 latter two for STEM public engagement activities). We have received income from UK charities
 (£68k). This demonstrates success with a range of funder types and remits, ensuring our income
 levels will be sustainable going forward.

 Digital Culture and Heritage
 In ‘Culture Label - Monetising Experiences Research’ (2013-14, NESTA; £8.4k), Bagnall and
 Crawford led a consortium of researchers from Salford and Cambridge universities with Fusion
 Research & Analytics, to explore the opportunities and challenges of the experience economy.
 Researchers worked in partnership with the online retailer CultureLabel, the Royal Academy of

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arts, Dulwich Picture Gallery and Whitechapel Gallery to provide evidence of how cultural
 organisations can work together to deliver a clearer range of offers and experiences to consumers,
 ideally in one location.

 Bagnall’s work on the Moneyline Industrial project (2015-2019, £102k, EPSRC) helped develop
 and implement a cost-effective and reliable social impact tool to measure the wider impact of
 borrowing affordably from Moneyline UK. The project involved reviewing global social impact
 measures and conceptualising the consumption of small credit by borrowers. Fieldwork was
 undertaken with Moneyline customers to capture behaviour with regard to credit access and
 consumption. These data were analysed to develop social impact indicators, for example with
 regard to social capital.

 Miah’s Digital Health Generation Project, funded by the Wellcome Trust (2017-2019, £26.6k),
 provided insights into young people’s experiences of digital health technologies focusing on
 ‘healthy lifestyles’. The project mapped out a digital health ecology system including technologies
 being used by young people and their engagement with health data. It identified a network of
 related health professionals/clinicians, policy makers, academics and digital designers and hosted
 a national workshop at Westminster and symposia to bring together key expertise and disseminate
 findings.

 Miah’s Project Daedalus (2014, £115k), funded by NESTA, ACE and AHRC and co-produced
 with the Abandon Normal Devices Festival and creative technology collective Marshmallow Laser
 Feast, established a creative toolkit for drone artists, which included delivering drone schools at
 festivals across the country, including exhibitions in London and Manchester.

 In the Facemums project (2014-2017, Health Education North West, £250k) Brettle established
 two midwife-moderated Facebook groups in two NHS Trusts within the North West supporting
 pregnant women across the perinatal journey. The groups utilised principles of social media
 engagement and midwives were trained by Vasilica, transferring lessons and approaches from
 her PhD research on the use of social media with renal patients. The finding that the groups were
 a means of providing relational continuity led to additional funding to roll out the project to other
 NHS Trusts. The project produced two articles in the journal Midwifery. A larger project focusing
 upon implementation and research at scale (2018-2020, Health Education England, £600k)
 followed when Light joined the team to support big data and digital methods analysis (using the
 Big Content Machine developed by Light and Vasilica) and to bring gender theory to the project
 in relation to maternity care (REF3).

 As a result of expertise in systematic reviews and evidence-based practice, as well as research
 evaluating the effectiveness and impact of health libraries, Brettle was commissioned by the
 Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals to conduct a scoping review on the
 value of trained and professionally registered Library, Information and Knowledge workers (2015,
 £5k). The review located and highlighted research evidence of the value of information
 professionals in school, health, public and academic sectors and has been used to underpin
 advocacy work and begin development of the evidence base for the professional body.

 Media Industries and Media Systems
 Kreps’s Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) (2014-2016, Technology Strategy Board, £122k)
 project with Sigma provided new understandings of the philosophical stances of digital practice,
 as well as appreciation of how new ideas around complex adaptive systems generated a different
 philosophical view. The project also led to his monograph on Bergson and Complexity Theory.
 Kreps was awarded a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (2018-2019, £106k) to explore
 human experience of the digital, using the diary study methodology developed during his Sigma
 KTP. From this he published the monograph Against Nature: The Metaphysics of Information
 Systems which outlined how the process philosophy of Bergson and Alfred North Whitehead
 impacted upon the philosophical approach of most information systems practice and how this is
 culpable in human-driven climate change. Kreps was awarded the International Federation for
 Information Processing (IFIP) Silver Core Award at the IFIP General Assembly, Kiev, in 2019.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Taylor was awarded an ESRC New Investigator Grant (2018-2021, £238k, with £155k income
 reported up to 2020) to research the educational potential of touchscreen apps for children’s early
 vocabulary acquisition. The project produced an article in the Journal of Children and Media setting
 out the development of a questionnaire for academics, caregivers, early years educators and app
 developers to assess whether an app for children has educational potential.

 Simpson’s research on civil society participation in Internet governance (ESRC, 2015-2018,
 £42.6k), part of a broader project with the Universities of Exeter and Warwick, illuminated how civil
 society actors could use strategic alignment in trying to realise their preferences in debates on
 international spectrum policy. It also highlighted how forging digital technical standards-making
 displayed strong interconnected techno-cultural and policy dimensions which made securing
 agreement on fairness challenging to achieve. The work led to international conference
 presentations in the USA, Norway, Switzerland, Belgium, Italy and the UK, two journal articles
 (Journal of Civil Society and Information, Communication and Society) and two monographs.

 Ongoing research projects
 A number of projects continue into the next REF period. For example, Light and Vasilica are
 investigators for the Greater Manchester Health and Social Care Partnership teaching care home
 (TCH) programme (2019-2021, £49k). Their work focuses on improving engagement with new
 technologies in care homes and using digital technologies and services to provide support
 networks and access to resources for care home staff, residents, family and friends. Brettle, Light
 and Vasilica have been funded by Salford Clinical Commissioning group’s Innovation Fund (2019-
 2021, £60k and £175k including partner funding) to build a digital technology system to support
 people living with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). It will enable people to self-manage and will assist MS
 nurses and consultants in using time with patients more effectively. The system is being co-created
 with patient and carer groups, Salford Royal NHS Trust, the MS Trust and Rescon Technologies.

 Infrastructure to support CCMLIM research
 Our MediaCityUK campus contains an industry standard ICT network, journalism, TV and radio
 broadcast and web design infrastructure. This has assisted Hewett and McMurtry in developing
 their understandings of televisual and radio broadcast processes and assisted Choi’s work in
 digital asset creation, storage and curation.

 MediaCityUK has also provided the venue for important CCMLIM public engagement activity,
 including hosting the Children’s BBC summer social event, 2017 (Light, 300 attendees),
 Manchester Science Festival 2017 and 2018 (Miah), an ‘NHS is going digital’ event in
 collaboration with Salford Clinical Commissioning Group, 2019 (Vasilica, 150 attendees) and a
 Greater Manchester Teaching Care Homes programme digital transformation event, 2019 (Light,
 Vasilica, 120 attendees). It has hosted the Nations and Regions Media conferences, the ECREA
 Communication Law and Policy conference (October 2013), the Challenging Media Landscape
 conferences (2014, 2015, 2016), the 6th European Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction
 conference (EU-SSSI) (2015), the 2015 Twin Peaks conference, the 2016 IFIP Human Choice
 and Computers conference, the 2017 Purple Reign conference and the 2017 inaugural conference
 of The British Digital Games Research Association.

 Taylor’s research on the effects of social media and screen time on children’s physical and mental
 wellbeing has utilised dedicated lab space and state-of-the-art eye-trackers. Staff also have
 access to digital methods infrastructure in the form of cloud-based data capture from Twitter and
 the Big Content Machine, a piece of software created by Salford staff (including Light and
 Vasilica) which allows for the analysis of social media conversation data.

 CCMLIM will benefit from the next phase of campus development in the Salford Crescent
 Masterplan (REF5a). The home of 9 CCMLIM researchers on the Allerton campus will be
 redeveloped to include a village with focus upon health and technology as well as an adjoining
 Innovation Zone. Approximately £25m is expected to be invested in the new digitised Allerton


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 campus which will add elements of digital automation to our research agenda, including socio-
 cultural approaches to artificial intelligence, robotics, smart living and wearables.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Evidence of effective collaboration with a diverse portfolio of organisations
 In line with a core University goal, research in CCMLIM is informed by, and directly responds to,
 the needs of stakeholders at regional, national and international level leading to economic, social
 and cultural benefits. Through our funded projects we have used our expertise to work with a
 range of non-academic organisations to generate research insights that further the disciplinary
 knowledge base and address contemporary social and health issues. Our digital health projects
 have focused on patients and healthcare practitioners (Brettle, Vasilica) and young people (Miah)
 to ensure we design solutions that meet their needs. Our research with Moneyline (Bagnall) has
 studied the needs of credit borrowers; we have engaged with professional bodies to improve
 methodologies and regulation around information practices (Brettle); contributed to policy change
 around media governance at EU level (Simpson); worked with businesses to help improve the
 process of digital transformation (Kreps), leading to economic benefits; and partnered with culture
 and arts venues to improve their provision (Bagnall, Crawford).

 Contributions to the research base
 In line with our objectives, CCMLIM has supported the organisation and delivery of the work of
 professional organisations and learned journals and our expertise and involvement has been
 frequently sought by our peers.

 International conferences hosted at Salford
 Salford has played host to eight international academic conferences at MediaCityUK in the
 CCMLIM field. In 2013, Simpson organised the European Communication Research and
 Education Association Communication Law and Policy Section two-day conference, which led to
 the edited collection European Media Policy for the Twenty First Century (Routledge). Smith, G.
 was the organiser of the 6th European Society for the Study of Symbolic Interaction conference
 (EU-SSSI), ‘Working the Interactionist Tradition: Contributions, Legacies and Prospects’ (2015).
 Kreps organised the 2016 Human Choice and Computers conference and in 2017, Crawford
 organised the inaugural British Digital Games Research Association conference. Frade co-
 organised the ‘Reclaiming the 'social' in digital society’ workshop in 2019. In addition, CCMRG
 researchers ran the Challenging Media Landscapes trilogy of conferences (2014, 2015 and 2016),
 which featured keynote speakers from Syracuse University, the University of Vienna and MIT.

 International conference organisation outside Salford
 Six international research conferences and workshops have been organised in collaboration with
 other academics. Miah organised the 2014 Sport and Social Media workshop (European College
 of Sport Science, Amsterdam). In 2016, Smith A. co-organised Mad Men: the Conference in
 Murfreesboro, Tennessee, with Middle Tennessee State University which produced the edited
 collection, The Legacy of Mad Men: Cultural History, Intermediality and American Television
 (Palgrave, 2019). Choi was a member of Program Committee for the 14th European Conference
 on Artificial Life (2017). Kreps Chaired the 2018 Human Choice and Computers conference in
 Poznan, Poland. In 2019, Bagnall was co-organiser of the European Sociological Association
 conference. In 2019, Brettle was International Programme Committee Chair of the 10th
 International Evidence-Based Library and Information Practice international conference
 (University of Strathclyde).

 Longer-term contributions to event organisation have been made through Simpson’s co-
 organisation of the International Communication Association Communication Law and Policy
 division’s contribution to the annual ICA conference on three occasions: Seattle (2014), Puerto
 Rico (2015) and Japan (2016), and Bagnall and Crawford’s organisation of the Culture, Media,
 Sport and Food stream of the annual British Sociological Association Conference (2014-2018).



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Keynote addresses and invited talks
 CCMLIM researchers have given 114 keynote addresses and been invited to give 85 talks,
 nationally and internationally. Selected international invitations for keynotes have been to Bagnall
 at ‘Understanding Museums - Methods: An International Conference’ Universität Tübingen,
 Germany (2015), to Brettle at the 9th International Evidence-Based Library and Information
 Practice Conference, Philadelphia, USA (2017) and Light at the Affective Politics of Social Media
 conference, University of Turku, Finland (2017). In 2020, Miah gave invited talks at UKRI, the
 International Telecommunication Union and the Dutch Research Council.

 Within the UK, in 2014, Crawford gave a keynote at the Leisure Studies Association conference,
 University West of Scotland, Brettle was invited to give a keynote at the European Association of
 Health Libraries Conference, Edinburgh (2015), Hewett gave a keynote address on changing
 acting style in British television to the Sherlock Holmes Society of London (2016) and Light gave
 a keynote at the IFIP Conference on e-Business, e-Services and e-Society, University of Swansea
 (2016 and 2017). Simpson provided the keynote address at the re-launch of the Centre for
 Cultural and Media Policy Studies at the University of Warwick (2017) and in 2018 Miah gave a
 keynote at the Media, Communications, and Cultural Studies Association annual conference,
 London South Bank University.

 Journal Editorial roles
 CCMLIM researchers have served in 21 editorial positions in international standard academic
 journals. Bagnall was Managing Editor of Museum and Society (2014-2018); Brettle was Editor-
 in-Chief of the Evidence-Based Library and Information Practice Journal (2013-2016); Coen is on
 the Editorial boards of Journalism and Media and Psychology of Popular Media Culture; Crawford
 is Reviews Editor of Cultural Sociology; Hewett is Assistant Editor of the book reviews section of
 Critical Studies in Television; Kreps is Senior Editor of Information Technology and People; Light
 is Associate Editor of New Media and Society; Miah is Deputy Editor of the International Journal
 of Esports and Editorial Board Member of the Journal of Future Robot Life, Nanoethics, and
 Performance Enhancement & Health; Simpson is a Founding Editor of the Oxford Research
 Encyclopedia of Communication (ORE) (Oxford University Press) and was a Senior Editor at ORE
 between 2015 and 2019; Smith G. is Associate Editor of Symbolic Interaction.

 CCMLIM researchers have (co-) edited special issues in the assessment period in journals as
 diverse as British Digital Games Research, the International Journal of Media and Cultural
 Politics, the International Review of Qualitative Research, Information Technology and People
 and Information, Communication and Society.

 Leadership within professional organisations
 CCMLIM researchers have provided an important service to professional associations in the field.
 Crawford is British Sociological Association (BSA) publications director, was a BSA trustee (2008-
 2016) and BSA director of student engagement (2013-2016). Simpson served as Vice-Chair and
 Chair of the International Communication Association Communication Law and Policy Division
 (2012-16) and was a member of the International Communication Association Board of Directors
 (2014-16). Bagnall was BSA Museum and Society Study Group Convenor (2013-2016). Kreps
 was Chair of the IFIP TC9 Working Group 9.5, Virtuality and Society (2013-2018) and Chair of the
 IFIP Technical Committee 9 (TC9) ICT and Society (2018-2020). Miah was Board Member of the
 British Interactive Group (2015-2018). Light was the Association of Internet Researchers
 conference Doctoral Colloquium Chair in 2016 (Berlin, Germany) and 2017 (Tartu, Estonia) and
 is on the International Institute for Popular Culture Advisory Board, Turku, Finland. Smith A co-
 founded the North by Northwest Television Studies Group.

 Service to funding bodies
 CCMLIM researchers have undertaken 37 reviews for research funding bodies. Examples include
 The Research Foundation - Flanders (FWO), Brussels University Association (Bagnall); the Grant
 Committee of the 25th European Association of Health Libraries Anniversary Research Award
 (Brettle); the Canadian Government (Coen); the Irish Research Council for the Humanities and
 Social Sciences (Crawford); the British Academy (Kreps); the US National Science Foundation

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Light); the International Olympic Committee (Advanced Research Scholarship) (Miah); the
 Norwegian Research Council (Simpson). They are - or have been - members of a number of
 UKRI peer review colleges, such as those of the AHRC (Light 2012-present, Miah 2012-2015);
 the EPSRC (Light 2007-present) and the ESRC (Simpson - throughout the census period).

 Review work for publishers
 CCMLIM scholars have undertaken 33 book manuscript reviews for the world’s leading academic
 publishers. Examples include: Sage (Bagnall); Oxford University Press (Coen); University of
 Indiana Press (Crawford); Bloomsbury (Hewett); Ashgate (Kreps); Routledge (O’Reilly); MIT
 Press (Simpson); Palgrave (Smith, A.); and Polity (Smith G.).

 Review contributions for Journals and Conferences
 CCMLIM scholars have made an important contribution to the scholarly peer review process
 across the Unit’s subject fields in the census period, having undertaken 105 peer reviews in
 publications as diverse as New Media and Society, Sound Studies, the Journal of Victorian
 Culture; Regulation and Governance; Adaptation; Health Information and Libraries Journal;
 Sociology, Cyborg Studies and Game Studies. In addition, scholars have acted as reviewers for
 major international research conferences, such as the Joint Journalism and Communication
 History conference at New York University; the British Sociological Association Conference; the
 International Evidence-Based Library and Information Practice Conferences; and the Association
 of Internet Researchers.

 Service to the PGR community
 CCMLIM scholars have made a sustained contribution to the assessment of postgraduate
 research students, having externally examined 43 doctoral theses in this cycle.

 Contribution to society through media and community engagement
 Salford, as the long-standing home of the Nations and Regions Media conference, provides a
 debating forum for delegates from the media industries and media policy with keynotes from
 leading figures in the media industries (Paul Greengrass, Director, Screenwriter and producer),
 regulation (Sharon White, Chief Executive, Ofcom) and policy (Karen Bradley MP, Secretary of
 State for Culture, Media and Sport).

 Media appearances
 CCMLIM expertise is sought regularly and researchers have engaged with the media 139 times
 this REF period. Five staff have been interviewed on - or contributed to - broadcast media
 programming: Kreps (BBC Breakfast), O’Reilly (BBC 2 Great Railway Journeys as the on-screen
 historian), Miah (BBC, NBC and Sky News to discuss research into esports, drones, the Olympics,
 and immersive technologies), Smith G (contributor to the Thinking Allowed programme, BBC
 Radio 4), and Taylor, whose work featured on ITV and BBC radio.

 In online news media, McMurtry was interviewed about her research in the British Library Sound
 and Moving Image archives by The Observer. Crawford has been interviewed by
 GamesIndustryBiz and Wired concerning harassment in gaming and online aggression and
 Light’s 2019 book, NSFW: Sex, Humor and Risk in Social Media (MIT Press), featured in The
 Advocate as one of ‘22 LGBTQ Books About Sex, Feminism, and Intersectional Desires’.

 Public and community engagement
 CCMLIM researchers have undertaken roles within a range of organisations contributing to
 society. Coen’s and Miah’s expertise has informed government committees: Coen was a panellist
 at the House of Commons concerning social media, politics and abuse in public life; Miah gave
 evidence to the Commons Select Committee for Science and Technology inquiry into Science
 Communication (2016) and was a member of the Scottish Government’s Ministerial Advisory
 Group for Digital Participation (2013-2015).

 Within cultural organisations, Bagnall was a member of the Imperial War Museum’s academic
 network (2014-2016) and both Bagnall and Randall undertook public engagement workshops

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigating the impact of exhibitions at Geevor Tin Mine World Heritage Museum, Cornwall in
 2016-17. Miah champions public engagement activities through his role on the Advisory Board to
 the Manchester Science and Industry Museum, which produces the Manchester Science Festival
 and, in 2017, co-edited ‘The Science of Superheroes’, a volume of essays from leading science
 communicators stemming from his involvement in the Festival. Choi’s interactive cloud media
 installation ‘Touch Crescent Moons’ was part of an exhibition curated by the European
 Cultural Center (ECC), entitled ‘Personal Structures – Identities’, presented during Venice's 2019
 cultural Biennale.

 Within professional bodies, Brettle is Chair of the Chartered Institute of Library and Information
 Professionals (CILIP), Library and Information Research Committee and, within charities, Light
 was a member of the communications committee of the Albert Kennedy Trust which supports
 disadvantaged LGBTQ+ young people aged 16-25 in the UK.

 Vasilica has translated her digital health research into practice for the European Distance
 Learning Networks and the Innovation Agency North West Coast. Her work has been incorporated
 into the National Institute for Health Research’s Guidance on the use of social media to involve
 people in research. She won the Technology for Good category Big Chip Award in 2018 for her
 work on using social media to support people living with chronic kidney disease. Vasilica has also
 translated her digital research into the CodeUp Salford initiative, supporting the local community
 to acquire software coding skills for free in a learner-friendly environment.




                                                                                           Page 14
