Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of Assessment: 27
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 During the assessment period, UOA27 at DMU has sustained and broadened its established
 areas of research strength in textual scholarship, digital humanities and the study of literary
 adaptation, while also developing in new directions, most notably through substantial
 enhancement of its capacity and resources in creative writing. In line with the University’s
 mission to develop a research culture that addresses ‘real-world problems and issues’, our
 researchers have established local, national and international partnerships to ensure that their
 work influences the future development of their respective subject areas, serving as broad and
 diverse a range of potential beneficiaries as possible. Following the University’s research
 strategy, equality, diversity and inclusivity considerations have underpinned the appointment of
 new staff and the development of early career researchers has been prioritised.
 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Research in English at DMU is overseen by the Institute of English, established in 2018 as part
 of the University’s reorganisation of research activity to provide strategic focus for established
 research areas in English Literature, English Language and Creative Writing; it is part of the
 School of Humanities and Performing Arts in the Faculty of Arts, Design and Humanities, and
 includes 17.5 FTE staff (see Section 2), up from 14 FTE in REF 2014. The Institute is overseen
 by the Associate Dean, Research and Innovation (Siobhan Keenan) and has a Director (Gabriel
 Egan), Deputy Director (Deborah Cartmell) and an Institute Head of Research Students (Anna
 Blackwell) and contains three research centres, each having specialist research clusters:
 •   The Centre for Textual Studies (CTS, Director Egan)
 •   The Centre for Adaptations (CfA, Director Cartmell)
 •   The Leicester Centre for Creative Writing (LCCW, Director Simon Perril)
 The LCCW is newly created since REF 2014 as a hub for our growing research strength and
 ambitions in the field of Creative Writing. Within and across these centres are research clusters
 in Shakespeare studies, Romanticism, textual editing, Digital Humanities, film and television,
 screenwriting, language acquisition and use, and creative technologies. The Institute has its own
 budget from which members may draw for teaching relief, research visits, conference
 attendance and other research costs.
 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 During the census period, the Institute of English has succeeded in meeting the aims set out in
 REF 2014, increasing investment and capacity in the areas of research identified as
 internationally excellent or world-leading and developing strategic partnerships with external
 organisations to increase the impact of our research. Since 2014, investment in staff research
 capacity has enabled members of the Institute of English to secure multiple grants (see
 Section 3.1) and to produce 11 monographs, 12 scholarly editions, 15 books of creative writing,
 41 journal articles and 22 chapters in edited collections. They have also guest-edited 8 special
 issues of journals, 5 book-form collections of essays and served as permanent editors of 3
 international scholarly journals.
 Since REF 2014, English has extended its range, partnerships and impact through its three
 interdisciplinary centres. Textual scholarship and digital humanities is overseen and
 supported by the CTS; it has seen significant activity and investment over the past seven years
 (see Section 3.2), characterised by extensive and productive collaboration both within and
 across disciplines. For example, Egan’s New Oxford Shakespeare Complete Works, an
 international collaboration with colleagues from Florida State University and the University of
 Birmingham, was made in TEI-XML and published online (within the Oxford Scholarly Editions
 Online platform), while his use of computational methods for authorship attribution arose from a
 pioneering interdisciplinary collaboration with three scientists from the University of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Pennsylvania’s Moore School of Electrical Engineering. Tim Fulford’s work on the
 correspondence of key figures from the Romantic period who illustrate the profound
 interdependence of literary and scientific thought resulted in the four-volume Collected Letters of
 Sir Humphry Davy, and will continue with his forthcoming edition of the letters of Thomas
 Beddoes.
 The study of literary adaptation has also seen substantial investment in staff (see Section 2)
 and resources. Being concerned with television, dramatic and cinematic works, the Centre for
 Adaptations has an interdisciplinary remit, including members based in the Faculty of Arts,
 Design and Humanities and colleagues in the Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Media.
 The CfA, home of the registered charity, the international Association of Adaptation Studies,
 acquired the Andrew Davies archive in 2015, enabling scholars and students to examine the
 process of literary adaptation in its interaction with commercial, institutional and artistic
 imperatives. The University invested in full digitisation of the archive and employed two former
 PhD students as archivists to develop a catalogue as a resource for our own researchers and
 researchers visiting the Centre. One of these archivists has become a permanent DMU archivist;
 the other, a member of academic staff in English.
 Since REF 2014, investment in Creative Writing and the establishment of the Leicester Centre
 for Creative Writing has enhanced our expertise in the creation of literary texts, and expanded
 the visibility of DMU English through promoting the academic relevance of the field and widening
 our public engagement activities. Creative writing colleagues contribute to the expansion of
 English, to include writing for film and video games. Similarly, new appointments in English
 Language have facilitated new developments in English language teaching and in
 understanding the uses of English in an expanding range of contexts.
 The Institute’s research strategy for the next five years has the following aims:
 1      to strengthen existing areas of excellence through investment in people (including
        research students, see Section 2.2), infrastructure and impact activity;
 2      to identify and nurture new and emerging areas of excellence and research clusters, and
        specifically to develop and broaden the activity of the LCCW;
 3      to develop strategic partnerships with external organisations to increase the impact of our
        research (see Section 1.3); and
 4      to work with the Research Services Directorate to improve research capacity among
        existing staff and the quality and success rate of external grant funding applications (see
        Section 3).
 Progress in these areas is identified below:
 1      All colleagues are working on publications post-2020, including Volume 5 of Joseph
        Phelan’s edition of The Poems of Robert Browning (co-edited with John Woolford and
        Daniel Karlin), Keenan’s biography of Shakespearean actor, Richard Burbage (Arden),
        Rod Maude’s Leicester story ‘All the secret postcards’ for Historic England’s High Street
        Tales project, Perril’s new poetry collection, A Soft Book (Shearsman) and his
        monograph, Contemporary British Poetry and Late Modernist Innovation, and two new
        novels by Nicola Valentine.
 2      Building on the considerable expansion of its resources, especially in terms of staff (see
        Section 2), LCCW will use the next five years to develop insights into practice-based
        research, multimodality and digital practice. New staff member Josie Barnard brings
        cutting-edge research into multimodality to the Centre in ways that promise to galvanise
        existing innovative Centre digital practices and forge new directions. Areas of focus in
        practice research will include work on the applicability and impact of Creative Writing
        methodologies beyond the subject area, as the challenge of articulating creativity as a
        transferable skillset is becoming more urgent in the context of the digital exclusion
        exacerbated by Covid-19. LCCW will also pursue research into the potential creative
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        writing offers to areas as diverse as the gaming industry (through practice research into
        non-linear storytelling) and cross-disciplinary notions of scenario-based learning.
        The Institute will also aim to develop a research cluster in the pedagogy of English
        language learning. Jie Liu has recently won a British Council award of £25,055 to
        undertake research on how candidates prepare for the International English Language
        Test (IELT) used by all universities to assess the readiness of English learners to
        undertake university courses in the UK; her work on this project will also be supported by
        funds from the Institute.
 3      Plans for a series of online seminars and events will help our emerging researchers
        develop international networks. Arrangements are in place for regular open discussions
        (2021–) with colleagues working in areas relevant to DMU English research including
        leading academics at the University of Delaware, George Washington University and
        Arizona State University.
 4      Fulford has received external funding from the Modern Humanities Research
        Association (MHRA) for his edition of The Letters of Thomas Beddoes. Egan’s
        investigations into the use of computational methods for literary scholarship will continue
        with a large, multi-institutional bid to the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
        currently in preparation, including Bodleian Libraries and Oxford University Press. Early
        career researcher (ECR) Blackwell is co-investigator on an application submitted to the
        AHRC for funding to build on DMU’s investment in the digitisation of the Andrew Davies
        archive by creating a ‘test-bed’ genetic edition showing the evolution of one of his
        adaptations as it travels from source text through multiple draft screenplays to a final
        broadcast text. A new Peer Review College (REF 5a) is providing mentoring for all grant
        applicants.
 1.3 IMPACT STRATEGY
 The focus of English’s Impact strategy at the start of the current census period was on
 preserving cultural heritage materials via the application of existing digitisation techniques and
 the development of new ones, and on extending public access to the results of research through
 a commitment to Open Access publication. These aims are apparent in our Impact Case Study
 on the Text Encoding Initiative standard developed at DMU and subsequently adopted as an
 international standard for the digitisation of manuscript material. Fulford’s digital edition of the
 letters of Robert Southey was made in TEI-compliant XML and published online by the Romantic
 Circles project. The digitisation of the Andrew Davies archive has led to its use by visiting
 scholars and journalists. We have also made a significant contribution to the public bodies
 working towards a sustainable open research environment thanks to Egan’s role as Chair of the
 Advisory Board for Jisc’s Historical Texts database (see Section 4).
 Building on the Unit’s expertise in digital humanities, members of the LCCW have undertaken
 research into the ways in which creative practice can help tackle digital exclusion. The Centre
 was thus unusually well-placed to respond effectively with initiatives during the Covid-19
 lockdown, including a highly successful online National Writing Day event (June 2020)
 showcasing staff and PhD student practice research to an international audience, and a pilot
 project on digital upskilling (Barnard) (see Section 4).
 Emerging impact during the period has also been generated by LCCW’s engagement with local
 writing and publishing communities. Through its annual States of Independence event, a
 showcase of independent presses, LCCW has established a network of, and provided a focal
 point for independent publishers, regional creative organisations and writing groups. The festival
 continues to raise public awareness of the role independent publishing has played historically,
 and continues to play, in the development of literature and in its provision of a voice for the
 culturally under-represented or politically oppressed. The University’s commitment to SDG 16
 (REF 5a) is reflected in the Centre’s co-editing and contribution to a crowd-funded poetry
 anthology raising awareness of, and funds for, the refugee crisis, with resulting poems being
 translated into Italian, German, Shona, Spanish, Bengali, British Sign Language, Farsi, Finnish,
 French, Turkish and Welsh (Maude, Hila Shachar, Maria Taylor, Siobhan Logan, Perril).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 LCCW authors have reached wide audiences and achieved impact through their individual
 publications as well, writing books with cumulative sales figures of over 70,000 during the
 census period, supporting the publishing industry commercially and generating more than 7,000
 reviews and ratings.
 Impact has also been achieved through our members’ extensive connections with public-facing
 organisations and the media. Shachar’s expertise in the Brontës has led, for example, to
 collaboration with the Brontë Parsonage Museum and the delivery of a keynote lecture at a one-
 day conference on Interpreting Anne Lister & the Brontës (2019) at Bankfield Museum, Halifax,
 in partnership with the Parsonage and Calderdale Museums. Other examples of successful use
 of DMU’s media expertise include Egan’s front-page article in The Guardian (23 October 2016)
 concerning Christopher Marlowe’s co-authorship of Shakespeare’s history plays (and Egan’s
 subsequent appearances on UK, Canadian and Australian national radio). Keenan’s research
 into the world of Shakespeare’s travelling players led directly to her involvement with the BBC
 ‘Shakespeare on Tour’ project and her appearance with Dame Judi Dench on the BBC
 Countryfile programme (24 April 2016); these activities form part of one of our Impact Case
 Studies. The BBC4 documentary Andrew Davies: Rewriting the Classics (transmitted 30
 December 2018 and available on BBC iPlayer, February 2019 and December 2020) made
 extensive, on-camera use of Cartmell’s expertise on this topic. (Cartmell’s work on literary
 adaptations is inherently interdisciplinary, spanning the intersection between Literary and Screen
 Studies – REF Unit 33 to which her publications have been submitted – and English Language
 and Literature.)
 Our Impact Strategy for the next five-year period has three key aims:
 1      Enhancing DMU’s cultural and economic impact (evidenced in the Institutional
        Environment Statement REF 5a) by:
        •   raising the profile and broadening the scope of LCCW’s States of
            Independence festival of independent publishing by developing existing contacts and
            partnerships with local cultural organisations and with our own Stephen Lawrence
            Research Centre; as part of Black History Month, LCCW’s ‘Rise Up!’ group will
            continue to host events to discuss the challenges faced by writers of colour in
            navigating the publishing industry, and to give a voice (and publishing and writing
            expertise) to minority groups in the region; and
        •   developing initiatives around the ‘Social Sciences, Humanities & the Arts for
            People and the Economy (SHAPE)’ agenda to raise awareness of new
            developments in Digital Humanities, building on the success of the weekly interactive
            sessions on ‘Information Theory for 10-Year-Olds’ delivered in the CTS’s Minimal
            Computing Lab to six local schools in under-resourced parts of Leicester each year
            since 2017. We also aim to draw on our regular talks to local schools and colleges by
            extending these globally through online platforms, using the example of our World
            Writing Event which attracted over 600 views.
 2      Building on our expertise in digital humanities and textual scholarship, we will engage
        with industry partners and help develop and promote a sustainable infrastructure for the
        production of digital texts. Egan is already advising Oxford University Press on the
        practicalities of a production workflow enabling it to accept raw XML files from scholarly
        editors embodying their editorial choices in the making of new scholarly editions. We will
        also utilise the newly formed openly accessible DMU Press in postgraduate research
        (PGR) projects and in funding applications.
 3      Promoting the dissemination of our research into English-language pedagogy to inform
        the teaching of the subject elsewhere and the improvement of national testing standards
        such as the IELT. This will be achieved through the targeted use of the Institute’s
        resources, liaison with external partners such as the British Council and external funding
        applications.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 2. People
 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Our staffing strategy aims to sustain and develop our distinctive areas of excellence by
 maintaining an appropriate balance between established scholars and next-generation
 researchers capable of injecting fresh energy and new priorities into the discipline. We identify
 and support emerging talent and provide strong research leadership to enable that talent to
 flourish. This strategy is supported by the University’s development of the VC2020 and Future
 Research Leaders schemes (both outlined in REF 5a). Since 2012, English at DMU has
 benefited from three VC2020 appointments: Blackwell, whose combination of expertise in early
 modern drama and 21st-century consumption, including fan culture and the nature of celebrity in
 the internet age, contributes to and helps to redefine the work of both the CfA and the CTS; Alice
 Wood, who continues the legacy of Julia Briggs in the CTS through her work on the textual
 evolution of Virginia Woolf’s novels; and Alison Hall, who strengthens our linguistics cluster with
 her work on pragmatics and semantics. Our strength in adaptation studies has been enhanced
 by further appointments in this area in the census period including Bethany Layne (as Senior
 Lecturer). Two members of the English Institute have also been accepted onto the Future
 Research Leaders scheme during the period (see REF 5a).
 The LCCW has been identified as vital to our future research and impact strategies, and we
 have augmented the scope, activity and sustainability of the Centre since 2014 with six new
 appointments at various career stages, including one Associate Professor, to strengthen
 leadership in the area (Barnard), and a number of experienced practitioners as lecturers:
 Joanne Dixon, Anthony Joseph, Maude, Logan and Maria Taylor. Joseph’s expertise in
 Caribbean literature and postcolonial approaches, Maude’s successful career as a novelist in
 the areas of steampunk and fantasy writing, and the achievements of both Taylor and Dixon as
 contemporary poets add considerably to the vitality and impact potential of the centre, while
 Barnard’s research on forms and practices in digital creativity creates a bridge between Creative
 Writing and the work of the CTS in digital textual analysis. Dixon and Logan have been identified
 as researchers-in-training (RIT) by the University’s Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA)
 process for identifying and supporting research-active staff (see REF 5a). The public attending
 the LCCW’s events and its research students alike have benefited during the census period from
 the active engagement of Visiting Professor of Creative Writing, Benjamin Zephaniah.
 As well as benefiting from university-wide systems in place to support their development, ECRs
 in the Institute have access to competitive research funds and a research mentor who oversees
 progress towards the research aims agreed in their RIA or RIT application, provides practical
 assistance with applications for internal and external funding, and offers advice on publication,
 dissemination and impact strategies. The University’s commitment to the creation of an inclusive
 and transparent research environment geared towards the career development of ECRs is
 mirrored in the Institute. ECRs are prioritised in the competitive allocation of Institute funding to
 support research activities, and actively encouraged to take on administrative roles such as
 Institute Head of Research Students. (Thus the current Institute Head of Research Students is
 ECR Blackwell.) Senior research staff support ECRs through the RIA process (described in
 REF 5a), contacting them individually to provide guidance and feedback on their applications.
 Staff employed on externally funded projects also benefit from ring-fenced time for post holders
 to advance their own careers and the use of the appraisal process to set and monitor targets for
 independent research and professional development activities.
 Research support needs are assessed in the annual appraisal of all staff, and senior researchers
 from within the subject are appointed to work with individual researchers, where coaching for
 specific abilities is called for, or else are drawn from outside the subject where developmental
 concerns favour a mentoring rather than a coaching approach. The efficacy of this coaching and
 mentoring is measured in the annual appraisal in relation to targets agreed between members of
 staff and the appraiser. These targets bring in consideration of staff members’ career
 progression ambitions and the agreed constraints arising from considerations of work/life
 balance and the right of employees to manage their external commitments in caring for
 dependents. Staff training in research is provided by the University in areas of relevance across
 all disciplines, including the use of databases as sources of research data and as the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 repositories for working data and outcomes of a project, the management of complex legacy
 materials (including print, manuscript and other archival matter), and on topics such as research
 ethics and managing research assistants and postdoctoral researchers. Training on matters
 specific to English research, including the creation of digital resources, palaeography, textual
 criticism, the use of specialist archives (including film and theatre materials) and practice
 research methodology, is provided within the three research centres (Adaptations, Textual
 Studies and Creative Writing), in concert with the University Libraries and Archives team.
 DMU’s criteria for promotion are designed to encourage and reward research excellence, and
 several staff in the Institute have achieved significant promotion during the census period.
 Deborah Mutch was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Reader in recognition of her work in
 rediscovering Socialist periodical fiction of the late nineteenth century, while Keenan and Perril
 were both promoted from Reader to Professor. Members of staff with senior leadership
 responsibility are encouraged to remain research-active members of the Institute: Jackie Labbe
 combines her postgraduate teaching and research for us with the role of Pro Vice-Chancellor
 (Academic), Cartmell continues her research in adaptations while in the role of Associate Pro
 Vice-Chancellor (Research) and Keenan is the Faculty’s Associate Dean (Research and
 Innovation).
 English staff can apply for research leave to undertake research projects, complete outputs or
 develop impact activities, through university, faculty and unit-level schemes. The University’s
 Research Leave Scheme (described in REF 5a), enables staff to spend a term working on a
 research project or engaging in impact-related activities; during the census period Fulford,
 Mutch and Phelan have benefited from it. Additionally, Faculty research leave enabled Hall to
 begin a project on speaker commitment, insincerity and pragmatics, Keenan to finish a
 monograph on the theatrical aspects of King Charles I’s travelling court in the early seventeenth
 century, and Wood to write 30,000 words to complete her monograph Modernism and Modernity
 in British Women’s Magazines (Routledge, 2020), a 6,000-word book chapter on ‘Late Woolf’ for
 the Oxford Handbook of Virginia Woolf (expected 2021) and three conference papers. Egan
 used his Faculty-funded leave to start co-writing with a colleague in Newcastle University in
 Australia a new book on the computational analysis of the early editions of Shakespeare, which
 will be completed in 2022; our planning stretches well into the next REF cycle. Shachar was an
 ECR at the time of her award which helped her to complete her second monograph. In total, over
 the census period, 8 staff in English have had research leave. These awards are supplemented
 by strategic and targeted use of the Institute’s own resources for teaching relief to help staff
 complete outputs, develop impact or plan funding bids. All decisions on research leave are taken
 by committees whose members have undergone mandatory training (provided by Human
 Resources) on Equality and Diversity and Unconscious Bias. English has benefited from DMU’s
 leave policy (see REF 5a); Wood received parental leave in the census period and on return
 was awarded Faculty leave in order to complete a research project.
 Research time for staff is guaranteed through the RIA scheme (see REF 5a), an independent
 process overseen by the PVC Research and Enterprise, in which staff requests are considered
 by a trained panel selected to ensure gender balance and adequate representation of ECRs.
 The total RIA allocation for staff in the Institute is currently 7,040 hours, an average of 402 hours
 per person (equivalent to about 1½ days a week).
 2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 There has been a substantial increase in PhD completions during the census period; 24
 doctorates were awarded in English, up from 8 in REF 2014. This has been achieved by: (1)
 generous funding for studentships (4 full and 2 fees-only) by the University; (2) a well-defined
 and academically supported pathway for internal postgraduate students to make the transition to
 research projects of their own via development of an MA English and an MA Creative Writing; (3)
 enhanced training for academic staff to become excellent research student supervisors, provided
 by the University’s Doctoral College; and (4) close and supportive monitoring of research-student
 progress via monthly, six-monthly and annual reporting with flexible procedures for recovering
 from set-backs. Research student recruitment and development have also been enhanced by
 our membership of the AHRC Midlands 4 Cities (M4C) consortium enabling us to pool
 resources, supervisory expertise and student selection procedures with our consortium partners
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 at the universities of Leicester, Nottingham, Nottingham Trent, Birmingham, Birmingham City,
 Coventry and Warwick. Five students in English have been awarded full fees plus subsistence
 PhD scholarships under this scheme. By efficient resource-pooling and funding for cohort
 development, M4C is a sector-leading programme of training finely tuned to the future needs of
 our discipline. Our M4C Site Directors liaise with their opposites at the other universities in the
 consortium, evaluate applications and ensure the smooth operation of the scheme. Phelan and
 Perril have acted as DMU Site Directors during the census period.
 The University’s Doctoral College manages the enrolment and supervision of research students,
 ensuring that their progression is monitored and that timely evaluations are produced. The
 Doctoral College trains research supervisors with refresher courses to keep them up-to-date
 about regulations and best practices. The Doctoral College gives research students mandatory
 training in research skills, linked to periodic evaluations of their training needs. Funding for
 research students, including DMU’s bursaries, is managed by the Doctoral College, as are
 examination processes.

 All PhD students’ training needs are formally identified in the first six months of enrolment and
 reviewed at the end of each year. Since REF 2014, English has developed a Doctoral Training
 Programme that complements the University’s generic provision. The Training Programme
 equips new researchers with the digital skills that are increasingly important in our field,
 supplementing the sessions taught by Institute staff with visiting lecturer sessions that have
 included specialists from Arizona State University and the universities of Glasgow, Leeds,
 Sussex, Birmingham, Leicester and Strathclyde. Research students are supervised by a team of
 at least two experts in their field with monthly meetings (for those researching full-time) and are
 guided to adhere to deadlines for the production of monthly, bi-annual and annual progress
 reports. Some 90% of the REF-returned staff are currently supervising research students.
 Our training equips PhD students with skills and experience that will help them find work after
 their studies. A graduate conference attendance fund (up to £500 per student) gives research
 students opportunities for professional development and networking, and they are strongly
 encouraged to attend and participate in the Institute’s own research seminar series. There are
 also opportunities for graduate students to gain teaching experience. We support our PhD
 students beyond their enrolment period to help them achieve their career aspirations,
 recognising that these often will lie outside academia. Some 64% of our graduates were found
 by a Destinations Survey, conducted during the census period, to be in academic positions and
 another 18% in related fields of work such as archives, publishing and information technology.
 Those in academic positions include: a University Lecturer, Faculty of English, University of
 Cambridge; an Associate Professor of English in Bosnia and Herzegovina; an Assistant
 Professor of Global Modernisms, University of Central Florida; a Senior Lecturer (Initial Teacher
 Training), University of Northampton; a Lecturer in Georgia, USA; a Dean of the Faculty of
 Languages and Literature in Indonesia; a Lecturer in Film, Television and Adaptation Studies in
 Australia; a Lecturer in English Literature at the University of Evansville Illinois; and a research
 facilitator at Cambridge University. Non-academic destinations include a Senior Technologist at
 an educational supply company and an independent publisher. Four former research students
 have become academic staff members at DMU. Over the census period, PGR students have
 been encouraged to publish their work while completing their PhDs; and they have contributed
 articles and reviews to journals such as The Library, Adaptation, Shakespeare, The Journal of
 Adaptation in Film and Performance, Borrowers and Lenders and Literature/Film Quarterly. PGR
 students’ articles feature in edited collections (published by Palgrave, Routledge and Blackwell)
 and students have published poetry and fiction (including with Tigershark and Red Lane Press);
 they also include a winner of the Magma Judges Prize for poetry, second prize in the Ledbury
 Festival Poetry Competition and second prize in Reflex Fiction, as well as a winner of the
 Adaptation journal essay prize.
 2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 Equality and diversity considerations are deeply embedded in the culture of DMU and reflected
 in everything we do, as marked by multiple achievements including the award of a Race Equality
 Charter; these institution-wide initiatives are set out in REF 5a. During the census period our
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 staffing profile has changed in ways that reflect these institutional priorities. The proportion of
 BAME staff submitted to the REF in this Unit has increased from 7% in REF 2014 to 21% in REF
 2021, and the proportion of female staff has increased from 43% in REF 2014 to 68% in REF
 2021. Submitted outputs are now evenly split between male and female staff, and just over a
 quarter have been produced by staff appointed since 2014.
 Staff returning to work following a career break are offered research mentoring to help them
 resume their research activities, while project staff benefit from our commitment to the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The same principles govern our treatment
 of part-time, temporary and hourly-paid staff. All staff are equally entitled to apply for funding for
 conference attendance and research activity through the Institute. We are also helping the next
 generation of researchers to ensure that equality and diversity help to shape the research
 agenda; for example, Creative Writing PhD students are in consultation with the University’s
 Steven Lawrence Research Centre to develop a project exploring mixed ethnicity.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 INCOME
 Grant income in the current assessment period is £466,993. This is lower than the income
 reported in REF 2014, potentially due to a research strategy that has focused on appointing new
 rather than established researchers in this census period. A new iteration of peer reviewing is in
 place (2019) that utilises experienced reviewers to mentor ECRs throughout the entire process
 of applying for funding.
 Selective external awards
 • £249,609 from the AHRC for Egan to develop computational methods for analysing and
    comparing the early editions of Shakespeare as part of his General Editorship of the New
    Oxford Shakespeare, and £23,000 from the MHRA to develop a new XML-based workflow
    with Oxford University Press for that edition.
 • Senior Research Fellowships from the British Academy (£38,000), and Leverhulme Trust
    (£42,300) for Fulford to complete his edition of the letters of Humphry Davy, and £25,000
    from MHRA for a postdoctoral research assistant for his edition of the letters of Thomas
    Beddoes.
 • British Academy Small Research Grants awarded to Mutch (£1,173) to complete an edition
    of John Law’s (Margaret Harkness’s) novel A City Girl, to Keenan (£715) for a Malone
    Society edition of The Twice-Chang’d Friar and to Phelan (£3,496) to visit archives in
    connection with volume 5 of the Longman Poems of Robert Browning.
 • Phelan was awarded Visiting Fellowships at the Beinecke Library, Yale and the Armstrong
    Browning Library, Baylor in connection with the same project.
 • Keenan received a Scouloudi Historical Award to complete her monograph on the royal
    progresses of Charles I and recently received the Society for Theatre Research’s Antony
    Denning grant for work on her next project: a biography of the first actor of Shakespeare’s
    major roles, Richard Burbage.

     In addition to such research grants, colleagues have enjoyed success in attracting funding
     for their research from bodies such as the British Council.

 •   Liu received a British Council award of £25,055 to undertake research on how candidates
     prepare for the International English Language Test, and has just been awarded £7,611 by
     the British Council for an international project on the incorporation of critical thinking into pre-
     service teacher education in China.

 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 The activities of the Institute are supported by DMU in several ways: the RIA process (see
 Section 2) identifies and supports individual staff research activity; funds are devolved to the
 Institute Director; and a central Research Services Directorate provides support for research
 training and Continuing Professional Development in such areas as external grant capture and
 management and research student supervision. Specialist faculty liaison officers in the Research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Services Directorate assist with scheme selection and budget planning for external funding
 applications, organise internal peer reviews, monitor grant spending and ensure that reports are
 submitted to funding bodies in a timely manner. Within the Faculty a dedicated Research and
 Innovation Office provides administrative support to Research Institutes. In allocating devolved
 funds, due regard is always given to the requirements of equality and diversity; the panel
 assessing applications is always balanced in terms of gender, and a portion of the budget is ring-
 fenced for applications from ECRs and emerging research areas and specialisms.
 Other forms of investment in research come from internal funding competitions. Early Career
 Fellows and VC2020 lecturers are able to apply to the VC2020 fund, which provides additional
 funding for conference attendance and research visits. Participants in the Future Research
 Leaders scheme (see REF 5a) are given access to a budget of £1,500 for development
 activities. The Revolving Investment Fund provided seed-funding for networking activities and
 research bids.
 In line with the sector-leading approach to identifying and promoting the impact and public
 benefit of its research outlined in REF 5a, DMU has devoted considerable resources to the
 development of infrastructure to promote impact during the census period, and the Institute has
 benefited from these. The Research Services Directorate employs REF Impact Officers who
 liaise directly with faculties and advise on impact strategy and priorities. The cataloguing and
 analysis of evidence of impact has been enhanced by the use of Vertigo Ventures (VV) Impact
 Tracker software. DMU’s acquisition of the Figshare online open access repository software
 enables English to manage its large datasets and evidence files relating to impact. Members of
 the Institute attempting to develop Impact Case Studies can apply to a central fund for
 assistance in gathering evidence, and training sessions are provided for the use of impact-
 tracking software. Within the Faculty, a bespoke Research and Enterprise fund was established
 with surpluses from commercial research activities to help provide support for impact-related
 activities: both Egan and Fulford secured awards from this fund during the census period.
 In addition to the centrally funded research facilities described in REF 5a, each of the three
 English research centres has access to dedicated spaces and resources in the Clephan building
 amounting to 116 square metres in total. Specialist equipment worth £23,155 has been
 purchased via a series of internal funding schemes for capital investment in research facilities.
 The Minimal Computing Lab, hosted by the CTS, introduces Humanities research students to
 the essentials of Information Theory by means of specialist historical equipment. Research
 students create digital texts in tangible material forms – for example as punched paper tape and
 cards – learning thereby the principles of the fundamental logical operations that underlie the
 procedures for transforming manuscript and printed writings into digital text. Research training in
 the Lab is delivered as part of our Doctoral Training Programme. Part of Egan’s AHRC award
 was used to help build a national research infrastructure in the area of digital methods for textual
 analysis by taking a Travelling Roadshow around the country to give talks about these
 techniques and provide practical demonstrations of them. Events took place at the universities of
 Oxford, Liverpool, Leeds, Strathclyde and Bath Spa between February and May 2018. In
 preparation for these events, residential training at DMU in the methods in question was given to
 representatives from each of these institutions, culminating in a week of all-day training in the
 Minimal Computing Lab and a 48-hour ‘hackathon’ to put the skills acquired into practice.
 The University Library has invested £402,000 in English studies during the census period. Over
 £26,000 per annum has been allocated to the provision of print and online resources for English,
 and our share of the DMU-wide overheads in providing Library services is £31,500. Researchers
 in English have on- and off-campus access to all the major print and online resources in their
 field – reference databases, online books and journals, and so on – supplemented by dedicated
 funding for trips to research libraries. The Library also maintains two special collections
 belonging to English: the Andrew Davies Archive (CfA) and the Briggs-Blake-Zurbrugg memorial
 collection. The Andrew Davies archive consists of 18.5 linear metres (19 boxes) of screenplays,
 annotated scripts, correspondence and working agreements with the BBC and other film
 companies. Journalists, DMU doctoral students and visiting scholars, including a co-supervised
 PhD student from the University of Lisbon, have used this archive, which has been catalogued
 and digitised. The Briggs-Blake-Zurbrugg collection consists of donations from the libraries of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 three of the most distinguished former members of the DMU English department: Julia Briggs,
 Norman Blake and Nicholas Zurbrugg. Reflecting their varied interests, it consists of specialist
 materials in medieval literature, Virginia Woolf studies and Modernism, and the 20th-century
 avant-garde. The collection has attracted Visiting Fellows from Brazil, Spain, Portugal, Poland,
 Turkey and China to make use of its holdings. In addition, Perril has organised Concrete Poetry
 public-facing events using elements of the collection in collaboration with the Chief Print
 Technician in DMU’s Faculty of Arts, Design and Humanities and the University’s Art Collections
 Officer.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Institute’s Research Centres have played a leading role in creating research collaborations
 and disseminating knowledge during the census period. This contribution has taken place
 through traditional forms of dissemination, such as conferences, and also through innovative,
 practice-based and collaborative activities designed to maximise the reach and impact of our
 research both nationally and internationally.
 4.1 EXAMPLE RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS
 • DMU’s Centre for Adaptations is the international hub of the Association of Adaptation
     Studies which has membership across the world and trustees from the University of
     Amsterdam, the University of Delaware, University of Lancaster, TU Braunschweig,
     University of Baltimore and Le Moyne College, Syracuse.
 • Egan’s collaboration with three researchers from the Moore School of Electrical Engineering
     of the University of Pennsylvania culminated in the invention of an entirely new
     computational method of authorship attribution using Word Adjacency Networks, the first
     application of which confirmed Christopher Marlowe’s hand in all three of Shakespeare’s
     Henry VI plays.
 • Fulford’s digital edition of the letters of Robert Southey was made in collaboration with Dr
     Carol Bolton at Loughborough University, Prof. Lynda Pratt at University of Nottingham, and
     Dr Ian Packer at University of Lincoln, and his edition of the collected writings of Robert
     Bloomfield was made in collaboration with Prof. John Goodridge at Nottingham Trent
     University. Both editions were made in TEI-compliant XML and published online by the
     Romantic Circles project led by the Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities (now
     relocated to the University of Colorado Boulder).
 • Phelan worked with colleagues at the universities of Bristol and Sheffield on his edition of
     Browning’s Poetry, and with the Armstrong Browning Library of Baylor University, Texas, on
     the Brownings’ Correspondence project. He collaborated with colleagues at the Fondazione
     Michel de Montaigne in Italy on projects related to Anglo-Italian literary and cultural
     interactions during the 19th century.

 4.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
 Conferences and research events
 • The Centre for Adaptations staged ten international conferences and events at DMU and
     other institutions since 2014, including ‘Returns: Association of Adaptation Studies’ (DMU,
     September 2017), ‘Adaptation and History’ (St Anne’s College, Oxford, September 2016),
     ‘Adapting Medieval and Early Modern Cultures’ (DMU, February 2016), and ‘Biopic
     Adaptations’ (DMU, February 2015). In all, these conferences brought to DMU around 600
     scholars from across the world, including the USA, Europe, China, Australia and Africa.
 • The Centre for Textual Studies ran five international conferences during the census period,
     including ‘Computational Methods for Literary-Historical Textual Scholarship’ (DMU, July
     2018), ‘Users of Scholarly Editions: Editorial Anticipations of Reading, Studying and
     Consulting’ as the annual meeting of the European Society for Textual Scholarship (DMU,
     November 2015) and ‘Richard III: Transformations, Histories, Afterlives’ (DMU, March 2015).
     These brought 375 delegates from around the world – including the USA, Canada, Australia,
     Germany, Holland, Finland, Spain, Lithuania, Portugal, Belgium, Italy, Switzerland and
     Ireland – with the international scholars Elaine Treharne (Stanford), David L. Hoover (New
     York), and Gary Taylor (Florida State) among those making keynote addresses.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •  The Leicester Centre for Creative Writing’s annual States of Independence publishing
    festival, organised in collaboration with industry partners Five Leaves Press and Dahlia
    Publishing, saw around 30 publishers take part each year, and around 350–450 members of
    the public attending discussions, readings, workshops, talks and interviews.
 Awards
 • Cartmell was awarded the Jim Welsh Prize of Adaptation Studies (2016).
 • Fulford won the Robert Penn Warren-Cleanth Brooks Award for literary Scholarship and
    criticism (2019).
 • Joseph obtained the Jerwood Compton Poetry Fellowship (2019) and a Paul Hamlyn
    Foundation Composers Award (2020).
 • Logan won second prize in the ‘Leicester Writes’ Short Story competition (2017), and was
    shortlisted and commended in the Prole Poetry Pamphlet Competition (December 2020).
 • Maude won the Norman King Novel Award twice (2014, 2019) and was shortlisted for the
    Philip K. Dick Award (2014).
 • Taylor was commended by the Forward Poetry Prize (December 2020), and a work from her
    latest collection featured as ‘poem of the week’ in The Guardian (December 2020).
 • Valentine was shortlisted for the UEA/Little Brown Crime Writing Prize (October 2018) and
    the Reading Desk Book of the Month (September 2019).
 Contributions to national research infrastructure
 • Service to the AHRC: Advisory Board (Labbe), Peer Review College (Cartmell, Egan,
    Mutch, Phelan), Strategic Reviewers (Cartmell, Egan, Phelan), International Reviewer
    (Cartmell), Technical Assessor (Egan). In 2020, Cartmell, Egan and Phelan were
    commended to the VC by the AHRC for their service.
 • Service to Jisc: Egan is Chair of the Jisc Historical Text (JHT) Advisory Board and served on
    its E-Books Working Group and Open Access Publishing in European Networks steering
    group. Under Egan’s leadership, Jisc has invested £10,400,000 in developing JHT that
    provides the Early English Books Online (EEBO) and Eighteenth Century Collections Online
    (ECCO) images and transcriptions to UK universities at a fraction of the cost of subscribing
    to the same services from ProQuest and Gale Cengage. Egan’s coordination of
    improvements to JHT, especially in its provision of advanced searching and data-mining
    services, has led to its adoption by 92% of UK HEIs, generating an annual six-figure revenue
    stream that Jisc reinvests in improvements to the service.
 Trusteeships and professional association service
 • Association of Adaptation Studies: Cartmell (Founder, Trustee, former Chair) and Blackwell
    (Trustee and Treasurer).
 • British Shakespeare Association: Cartmell (founding member) and Egan (Trustee).
 • English Association: Phelan, Cartmell and Egan (Fellows).
 • Friends of Coleridge: Fulford (Board Member and Director of its biennial conference).
 • Malone Society: Keenan (Council Member).
 • University English: Phelan (Treasurer and Executive Committee member).
 External PhD examining
 • Colleagues in UOA27 have examined over 20 PhDs nationally and internationally at the
    universities of Aberystwyth, Birkbeck, Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Christ Church,
    Canterbury, East Anglia, King’s College London, Open University, Oxford, Portsmouth,
    Reading, Salford, Sheffield, Surrey, Warwick and York, and at the universities of Colorado,
    George Washington, Lausanne and Utrecht.
 Journal editing
 • The Association for Adaptation Studies and its journal Adaptation were founded at DMU by
    Cartmell. Visits to the online version of Adaptation have increased yearly, most prominently
    since 2014 from 20,000 to over 40,000 downloads in 2018, and there are significant
    readerships in China, Indonesia and India, as well as in Europe and the Anglophone world.
 • The journal Shakespeare (the organ of the British Shakespeare Association) is founded and
    edited by Cartmell and Egan, with just over half its readership from outside of Europe.
    Article downloads have increased from 16,044 (2014) to 33,333 (2020).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •  Theatre Notebook is the journal of the Society for Theatre Research and co-edited by Egan;
    three-quarters of the readership is outside the UK.
 Editorial boards
 • Cartmell: Literature Compass.
 • Fulford: Romanticism, European Romantic Review, The Wordsworth Circle, Romanticism on
    the Net and Essays in Romanticism.
 • Labbe: Women’s Writing.
 • Mutch: Key Words: A Journal of Cultural Materialism.
 • Keenan: Shakespeare.
 • Wood: Woolf Studies Annual.
 Book editorships
 • Cartmell is series editor for Bloomsbury’s Adaptations Histories.
 • Egan is a general editor of The New Oxford Shakespeare and Digital Advisor to its newly
    contracted Oxford Marlowe: Collected Works edition.
 • Fulford is series editor for Liverpool University Press’s Romantic Reconfigurations series.
 Peer review
 • English researchers have read and advised on proposed book manuscripts for publishers
    including Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, The Arden Shakespeare,
    University of Chicago Press, Manchester University Press, Routledge, Iter Academic Press,
    the Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Palgrave Macmillan, University of
    Virginia Press, Edinburgh University Press and Bloomsbury.
 • English researchers have read and advised on journal submissions for Review of English
    Studies, Shakespeare Quarterly, The Library, Renaissance Quarterly, Digital Scholarship in
    the Humanities, Notes and Queries, Memoires du livre / Studies in Book Culture, Modern
    Language Review, Participations: International Journal of Audience Research, Early Modern
    Literary Studies, Shakespeare Bulletin, Mind & Language, Inquiry, Synthese, Erkenntnis, The
    Australasian Journal of Philosophy, Glossa, Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry,
    Shakespeare, Adaptation and Topoi.
 Keynotes
 • Of the 138 lectures in the UK and abroad given by members of the Institute during the
    census period, 33 have been invited keynote addresses. Blackwell gave a plenary address
    at the British Graduate Shakespeare Conference (2020) and has spoken as a keynote at the
    University of Rome (2020); Cartmell has spoken at the universities of São Paulo and
    Cyprus, at the National Library of the Netherlands, at Jagiellonian University Poland, at
    Aristotle University Greece, and at several Indian universities, including Adamas University,
    Bankura Christian College and University of Gour Banga; Egan has spoken at Johannes
    Gutenberg-Universität, Mainz; Fulford has given plenary addresses at Eötvös Loránd
    University Budapest and at the Centre for the Study of Romantic Literature, Kolkata, India;
    Hall at the University of Warsaw; Keenan has spoken at the Alexandra Ioan Cuza University
    of Iasi, Romania; Labbe at the University of Bologna; and Shachar at the British Film
    Institute, Southbank, London.

 4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY, THE ECONOMY AND PUBLIC-FACING
 ENGAGEMENTS
 • Barnard has provided digital upskilling to five members of staff at charities and NGOs that
     work with diverse digitally excluded citizens (benefiting those citizens directly during the
     Spring 2020 Covid lockdown); and gained via interviews and evaluation sheets empirical
     data on how barriers to digital upskilling were exacerbated and added to during the
     lockdown. As well as benefiting participants directly by providing digital upskilling, this work
     provided evidence to the House of Lords Covid-19 Committee (co-authored with Prof. Leela
     Damodaran) and will form the basis of future research. The charities/NGOs represented,
     which are based in Bristol, London and Leeds, work with a range of digitally excluded
     citizens including NEET (Not in Education, Employment, or Training) young people, older
     people, unemployed citizens and citizens with English as a second language.
 • In 2017, Logan and Maude set up ‘The Writer’s Shed’ as a writer development organisation,
     providing workshops, masterclasses and free online resources. Members have collaborated
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     with the National Association of Writers in Education (NAWE), hosted workshops at the
     British Library, run residencies for Writing East Midlands (Logan), given talks on publishing
     for BBC Radio Leicester, and collaborated with the European Space Agency and Leicester
     Astronomical Society (Logan).
 •   LCCW members have also run a ‘Summer Book Launch’ public reading series showcasing
     the work of six authors in June 2018, organised a public-facing research seminar series in
     2019, and offered an annual National Poetry Day event. The Centre’s members organise
     events for Leicester’s annual Everybody’s Reading festivals, collaborating with Leicester
     Central Library and Writers’ Showcase. They also organise public-facing events for DMU’s
     annual Cultural eXchanges arts festival. During the first lockdown in 2020, LCCW hosted an
     online event for National Writing Day that reached an international audience (as mentioned in
     Section 1.3).
 •   Layne’s expertise in adaptations and Henry James led to an invitation to contribute an essay
     to The Conversation (12 October 2020) exploring why Henry James’s eerie tale The
     Haunting of Bly Manor still inspires so many adaptations. This was later republished by the
     Metro and the print edition of the I newspaper. It was also shared by 10 regional newspapers
     online in the Reach PLC group, achieving a potential audience of 23,690,289 readers.
 •   Shachar gave an invited public talk and pre-show Q&A session on ‘Jane Eyre on Stage and
     Screen’ at the National Theatre, London (2015) and has been a keynote speaker at public-
     facing events such as the Brontë Society’s Bicentenary Conference (York, 2018) and a one-
     day conference on Anne Lister and the Brontës hosted by Bankfield Museum, Halifax (2019).
 The research collaborations and contributions detailed here are the product of an institutional
 research environment which encourages the challenging of traditional disciplinary boundaries
 and the widest possible dissemination of research findings. The Institute’s research centres are
 inherently interdisciplinary and public facing in nature, enabling us to develop new areas of study
 and find new ways of addressing scholarly questions.
