Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Overview

Essex Art History includes nine full-time academics, with research expertise spanning from the late
Medieval period to the present. While no single methodology or set of theoretical concerns defines
our research, our shared commitment to expanding art history enquiry beyond the fine arts has
allowed us to work as a single research group rather than in distinct sub-groups. A sense of
cohesion further comes from our collective interest in interrogating the political implications of art
and visual culture, which underpins nearly all the research we produce.

Our particular strength in curation, as a field of practice, theory and historical study, is supported by
the Centre for Curatorial Studies, a research and research-led teaching centre housed within
Essex Art History. Our research in modern and contemporary art is also supported by the Essex
Collection of Art from Latin America [ESCALA], one of Europe’s most significant collections of
Latin American art; Art Exchange, our on-campus gallery; and the University’s Art Collection,
which now encompasses the Priseman Seabrook collection, a newly finalised long-term loan of
100 works by British modern and contemporary artists.

A distinct feature of our approach to studying art and visual culture is our emphasis on
interdisciplinarity. This emphasis is embedded into the very structure of Essex Art History, which
belongs to the School of Philosophy and Art History [SPAH], home to the Interdisciplinary
Studies Centre. As a result of this structure, our staff members come into regular contact with the
ideas and approaches of disciplines beyond art history: for instance, through our School’s weekly
lecture series, which alternates between philosophy and art history talks; through collaborative
research projects; and through more informal reading and working groups that explore overlapping
areas of interest.

b. Strategic areas of research focus

Essex Art History conducted an internal review early in the current REF cycle to reassess our core
research interests following several personnel changes. Through this exercise, we identified three
fundamental and often overlapping areas of research focus:

1) The politics of art and visual culture

   Based on the assumption that all forms of visual culture emerge from and contribute to the
   mediation of social-political forces, much of our work explores the role of art, architecture and
   other types of visual culture in the assertion, negotiation and contestation of power. To this
   end, our research pays particular attention to issues of autonomy, agency and dissent in the
   public realm.

2) Curating and other forms of practice-based research

   Curation constitutes an increasingly important form of practice-based research for Essex Art
   History, with exhibitions functioning as a platform not only for disseminating research but also
   for developing innovative, practice-based approaches for the study of art and visual culture.
   While exhibitions remain the single most significant form of practice-based research for Essex
   Art History, our long-term goal is to become a world leader in practice-based art historical
   research, which reflects our belief that a close, iterative dialogue between practice and
   research will stimulate new ways of thinking about the visual world. Consistent with this goal,
   we are now strategically expanding into new forms of practice-based research beyond
   exhibitions, such as documentary filmmaking and ecologically informed collaborations with

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   artist-activists.

3) Interdisciplinary approaches for studying the visual world

   We place considerable emphasis on interdisciplinary approaches to studying art and visual
   culture, which stems from our conviction that interdisciplinary enquiry allows us to better
   understand complex issues that have shaped the world at different historical moments. While
   much of our research lies at the intersection of social history and art history, it also frequently
   involves bringing art history into close dialogue with fields such as anthropology, computer
   science, medical science, philosophy and sociology.

The areas of research described above closely overlap with those outlined in our REF2014
environment statement, which were visual culture; architecture and theory; images and ideas; and
contemporary art (including Latin American art). Indeed, several new hires during the period 2014–
16 directly advanced these four, previously identified areas of strategic focus. For instance, visual
culture and images/ideas have been supported through the appointments of Grindon and
Presciutti, who have specialisms respectively in activist art and the visual culture of social
problems in Renaissance Italy. Additionally, architecture and theory have been bolstered through
the hiring of Blackmore, Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco and Tymkiw, all of whom study different
aspects of the built environment. Finally, our coverage of contemporary art has expanded through
the appointment of Blackmore and Grindon, both of whom have expertise in visual culture from the
1960s to the present, with Blackmore in particular concentrating on the art and visual culture of
Latin America. That all said, the three areas of research summarised at the start of this section
offer the most accurate reflection of our current strategic focus, since the REF2014 environment
statement was submitted in late 2013, before the 2014 retirement of four colleagues and the
subsequent hiring of five new academics (a change in our staff’s composition that we elaborate in
section 2a). At the same time, these three areas of focus demonstrate a strong line of continuity
with the core strengths that have consistently defined Essex Art History since its inception in the
1960s: namely, politically engaged approaches to art history, innovative approaches to exhibition-
making, and interdisciplinary enquiry.

c. Research Centres and Research-Led Teaching Centres

Research centres and research-led teaching centres are a vital part of our research environment.
Key among them is the Centre for Curatorial Studies [CCS], which is presently directed by
Grindon and, from 2015–18, by Grindon and Tymkiw. CCS concentrates on scholarship and
research-led curatorial approaches that help to advance the practice, theory and history of
curating. To this end, several staff members (Lodder, Blackmore, Grindon, Shukaitis) have
organised major, research-led exhibitions. These shows have involved collaborating with external
partners, such as the V&A (London), the National Maritime Museum (Falmouth) and Firstsite
(Colchester), as well as partnering with several on-campus organisations, such as Art Exchange;
Special Collections, which contains over 70 archives of primary source materials housed at the
University’s Albert Sloman Library; and ESCALA, a research space and museum accredited
through Arts Council England. CCS also supports research-led exhibitions that are curated by
students, primarily doctoral students, but also taught postgraduate and undergraduate students.
Such student-organised exhibitions have taken place at institutions including Art Exchange, the
Albert Sloman Library, Firstsite and Goldsmiths, London (the site of an exhibition by one of our
PhDs students). As part of our commitment to curatorial research, in 2017 we launched a practice-
based PhD in Curating, which culminates in the curation of a research-based exhibition plus the
writing of a related thesis of 40,000 words. Further activities spearheaded by the CCS include the
organisation of talks by international curators, museum directors and conservators to offer our
postgraduate students (taught and research) insight on different aspects of managing exhibitions
and permanent collections. CCS also initiated a project in 2018 to digitise records from Liberate
Tate, a collective that has played a pivotal role in contemporary museum activism. Upon
completion, CCS plans to make these digitised records available to researchers outside the
University, pending funding.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Besides their involvement in CCS, staff members from Essex Art History have contributed to the
Interdisciplinary Studies Centre [ISC], which has been overseen by art historians Pearson
(2014–18) and Presciutti (2018–19). ISC is home to several areas of research-led teaching at the
BA level, including courses in Liberal Arts, Global Studies and Social Change. It is also home to a
new, research-led PGT teaching provision conceived during the current REF period for a start date
of academic year [AY] 2021–22. This provision will draw heavily on the interdisciplinary research of
several staff members from Essex Art History (e.g., Blackmore, Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco,
Ruiz-Gómez). Our staff are also involved in interdisciplinary research activities beyond those
directly associated with ISC. For instance, the Centre for Latin American and Caribbean
Studies, which is part of our School and led by Blackmore, has hosted three international visiting
fellows in the current REF period (one artist, one artist-scholar and one filmmaker-scholar) and
regularly sponsors research events such as talks, conferences and symposia, particularly around
ecology-related themes. As another example, Tymkiw launched the University-wide Digital
Cultural and Creative Research Network [DCCRN] in 2018 with support from Di Giuseppantonio
Di Franco. This interdisciplinary network, which brings together scholars from across the
University’s faculties, holds its own research events, such as lectures about digital visual culture
from prominent international scholars; sandpit sessions that gather art historians and colleagues
from other disciplines to collaborate on research projects; and ‘Challenge Labs’ that invite scholars
to use their research expertise to solve challenges facing cultural institutions and companies.

d. Future Strategic Aims

Looking ahead, we recognise that Essex Art History has a relatively small number of staff
members, which makes it difficult to offer comprehensive coverage of all periods and geographies.
Nevertheless, our size has allowed us to develop a laser focus on what we care deeply about:
becoming a hub for innovative approaches to art historical research and research-led teaching that
respond to urgent world challenges. To realise this goal, we have four strategic aims:

1) Remain at the forefront of curatorial studies through ambitious, research-led exhibitions
   and new methodologies for the study of curation

   As noted in section 1b, exhibitions have emerged as one of the most significant means by
   which our staff develop and share research; so, too, have written outputs focused on the
   historical, theoretical and practical aspects of exhibition-making. We seek to build on this
   expertise by making CCS one of the School’s main strategic priorities for the next 5 years,
   which will involve investing both in technologies that facilitate research and in ambitious, early-
   stage research projects with the potential to transform the field.

2) Become a leader in practice-based research

   While writing has traditionally been the main medium for producing art historical research,
   Essex Art History understands exhibitions, films, activist projects, apps and even certain forms
   of commerce as alternative ways to ‘write’ art history: that is, as platforms not just for
   disseminating art historical research but also for developing paradigm-changing ways to do
   such research. As such, we will vigorously support colleagues (financially, technologically and
   administratively) in the development of practice-based research projects, especially those that
   directly respond to urgent world challenges, such as climate emergency and growing income
   inequalities.

3) Develop links with outside organisations

   To ensure that our research has a transformative impact on lives beyond academia, partnering
   with outside organisations is crucial. To this end, we will focus on cultivating collaborations with
   museums, galleries, alternative art spaces, sites of cultural heritage and for-profit companies in
   the cultural and creative sectors. Given our interest in politically engaged approaches to art
   history, we are especially interested in collaborations that make art and visual culture more
   inclusive for a wider, more diverse set of publics. Forging links with outside organisations will

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   also be key as we expand ISC’s research and research-led teaching remit from AY 2021–22
   onwards to encompass a new postgraduate programme about politically engaged Heritage
   Studies. This programme will draw on the expertise of Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco (a trained
   archaeologist), Grindon’s longstanding work concerning activism and the University’s influential
   Human Rights Centre.

4) Grow research income to enhance our long-term sustainability

   We seek to grow income for research that advances our commitment to socio-political
   progress. To achieve this goal, we will pursue a multi-pronged approach, which includes: a)
   using various internal incentives to support colleagues in writing grant applications (e.g.,
   strategic teaching buyouts, workload credit); b) working closely with museums, activist
   organisations and other institutions to secure funding for practice-based research developed by
   our academics; c) pursuing knowledge-exchange partnerships with enterprises that will benefit
   from and enhance our research; and d) increasing networking opportunities with academics
   from other disciplines and external partners to lay the groundwork for large-scale, cross-
   institutional projects with major impact potential. Such networking will be facilitated, for
   example, through the Eastern Academic Research Consortium [Eastern Arc], which involves
   the University of Essex, University of East Anglia and University of Kent.

2. People

a. Staffing Strategy and Development

Our longstanding staffing strategy is twofold: first, to recruit and hire Early Career Researchers
(ECR) on full ASER contracts who demonstrate high potential for delivering world-leading research
and research-led teaching; and second, to support, retain and encourage promotion of all of our
researchers over the course of their academic careers.

In 2014, we remained faithful to this strategy when four professors retired after several decades of
service to the University (Dawn Ades, Valerie Fraser, Margaret Iversen and Jules Lubbock, all of
whom are now Emeritus). Following their retirement, Essex Art History made five appointments
between 2014 and 2016 of research-active staff at the ECR-level, including one new post (a
lectureship-track research fellow in digital heritage). On the one hand, this ‘changing of the guard’
meant a significant change in the overall seniority of our staff, which from late 2014 onwards has
skewed towards emerging scholars. On the other hand, these new colleagues have allowed us to
gain or expand research expertise in several burgeoning areas of scholarly interest for the field at
large, including the gender politics of Renaissance visual culture (Presciutti); curation (Grindon and
Tymkiw); digital approaches for the study of visual culture (Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco and
Tymkiw); and art’s relationship to ecological activism (Blackmore and Grindon). Our new
colleagues also have shifted our centre of gravity more heavily towards forms of practice-based
research: above all research-based exhibitions (Grindon), but also documentary films (Blackmore,
Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco), activist collaborations with artists (Blackmore and Grindon) and
experimental uses of digital technology (Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco and Tymkiw). Since starting
their posts between 2014 and 2016, all of our new appointments have achieved permanency,
including two who received early permanency. Four of the five new hires also have been promoted
to Senior Lecturer (Blackmore, Grindon, Presciutti, Tymkiw), alongside two colleagues who joined
our group earlier (Lodder and Pearson).

As suggested by the rapid advancement of our recent appointments, we have a comprehensive set
of mechanisms in place to support the career development of ECRs, who will remain at the core of
our staffing strategy. Key among such mechanisms is our mentoring programme, which pairs a
new, full-time member of staff with a designated mentor among the senior staff. As mentors, senior
staff members provide feedback on grant applications and draft publications, as well as advice on
how to navigate several university milestones in the pathway towards permanency and promotion.
These milestones include a) the CADENZA training programme, which occurs midway through the
3-year probation period and results in an application for HEA [Higher Education Academy]

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
fellowship; b) the application process for permanency, which requires candidates to demonstrate
excellence in research and other areas (e.g., education and leadership); and c) an annual research
plan, which is required of all research-active staff. To make sure that mentors have the necessary
time to support ECRs, we include mentoring as an activity in our School’s Work Allocation Model
and as a criterion for promotion and salary increase applications. In 2016, we extended our
mentoring programme to all part-time lecturers and visiting research fellows, so that they similarly
benefit from career guidance and feedback on teaching, work-in-progress and/or research
applications.

In addition to the support provided through our mentoring programme, ECRs meet with the
Humanities lead from the University’s Research and Enterprise Office (REO) to learn the University
procedures and resources to support grant writing. Through our Work Allocation Model, we also
operate a School-wide policy that protects the research time of junior staff members by reducing
their administrative load during their three-year probationary period. Additionally, we provide a
framework of essential training courses that enable them to cultivate the skills needed for
supervising research students and for conducting research in an ethical manner.

Besides the support mechanisms specifically designed for ECRs, we have a range of mechanisms
in place to help all research-active staff. For example, to complement the University-wide research-
leave policy, which allows one term of leave for every six served, the School operates a budget
that staff may access to pay for image rights; to purchase special equipment required for research;
and to defray the costs of research and conference travel in excess of the standard £600 annual
research allowance per FTE. To supplement our University’s updated work-life policy, which,
among other benefits, allows colleagues to take a career break after two or more years of service,
we have recently introduced a School-level procedure whereby each staff member designates a
‘protected’ research day per week that is used by the administrative team to schedule deadlines
and to minimise email interruptions.

To provide staff members with peer feedback on their research and to enrich awareness of work-
in-progress, we have various platforms in place, including our School’s annual Research Away
Day, during which colleagues present nascent projects for constructive criticism; our lecture series,
which include talks not only from external speakers but also from colleagues who present
research-in-progress after returning from study leave. We also offer continuous support for drafting
proposals for external research funding. This support is provided by the School’s Research
Director and the University-wide REO, the latter assisting with all practical aspects of preparing
research proposals.

While the staffing strategies and staff development programmes outlined above focus on
colleagues currently on ASER contracts, we are fortunate to have a highly engaged group of
Emeritus staff, all of whom regularly supervise PhD students and frequently contribute to on-
campus events or other activities organised by current staff members, such as symposia,
exhibitions, lectures and conversations with visiting scholars and artists during art exhibitions. Our
Emeritus staff has also provided feedback to current academic staff on their research projects, be it
by offering written comments on article drafts and book manuscripts or by leading staff-wide
workshops about research-based writing.

b. Research Students

Essex’s Art History has a close-knit and vibrant community of postgraduate research student.
Since 2014/15, we have awarded 33 PhDs to our students, many supported by major external
scholarships (e.g., Academia Sinica, CHASE, Fundación Jumex).

To assist students in the advancement of their research and the timely completion of their degrees,
we have a series of major milestones that aid progression. As one example, before being
confirmed as PhD candidates and continuing to their second year of study, students must write a
Project Outline, Literature Review and chapter draft towards the end of their first year, which
members of the Supervisory Board must formally approve. To help students better meet such

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
deadlines, in 2017 we introduced a detailed schedule of all key milestones and the relevant
deliverables in the student handbook; this schedule is republished every year and updated as
needed in response to reflection and feedback. We also have mechanisms in place to assist
students with improving the quality of their work. For instance, to help students hone their
overarching arguments and the methods used for carrying out their research projects, we host an
annual event in which every second-year PGR presents a c. 30-minute précis of their project
followed by a c. 20-minute Q&A session, in which current staff members, Emeritus Professors and
fellow students of all years provide oral feedback. To prepare students for the viva, in 2018 we
introduced the option of mock vivas and oral presentations as part of final-year Supervisory
Boards. Finally, to help students make the transition to life after their PhD, our School’s Placement
Officer and the University’s Career Services Team offer PGR students support when making
academic job applications, including CV and cover-letter writing and mock job interviews. These
support mechanisms - together with those at the University-wide level, such as procedures for
monitoring degree progression and the £2,000 Proficio account that every PGR student receives to
support travel, training or other research-related activities - have contributed to our PGR students’
success in obtaining postdoctoral research fellowships, lectureships with research in their contracts
or research-driven posts at museums or publishing organisations. In the current REF period, for
example, nearly half of our PhD students have assumed such research-intensive positions after
graduation.

While the University and School have a range of policies and procedures to nurture the research of
our postgraduate students, we equally ensure that students can provide feedback to us so that we
may iteratively improve how we support their research activities. For example, all postgraduate
research students are consulted during the Annual Review of Courses for postgraduate research
provision. As part of this process, students submit feedback that is then relayed to the Director of
Graduate Studies and the School Education Committee for consideration. Action plans from the
Annual Review of Courses for PGR provision are also regularly reviewed and shared with
students, who are invited to provide comments either to the Director of Graduate Studies or to
student reps, who attend the School Education Committee. Additionally, we have a termly open-
forum meeting in which postgraduate students (PGR and PGT) can make suggestions for
improvement. Attended by students and staff, this forum produces a list of actions for departmental
consideration, after which the School reports back to postgraduate students on all changes
undertaken.

Beyond the mechanisms in place to support our students’ research degrees, we provide PGR
students with a range of opportunities to participate in collaborative, research-based activities that
advance their professional and intellectual development. For example, our online, refereed
graduate journal re•bus is co-edited and produced entirely by our PGR students, whom staff
members support by offering operational guidance, giving advice on the peer review process or
serving as peer reviewers. Our School also offers financial support for an annual conference
organised by our PGR students (roughly £1k per year). Furthermore, we provide PGR students
with the chance to cultivate their own teaching skills within a research-based teaching environment
- either through standalone modules or through discussion sections. (During the REF2021 period,
for example, we provided PGR students with the opportunity to teach over 15 standalone modules
and discussion sections.) Prior to any teaching, all PGR students must complete training on topics
including pedagogy, reflective professional practice and dealing with difficult situations. PGR
students also are encouraged to complete a free professional development programme that
consists of two, 30-credit modules focused on self-reflective pedagogy for research-led teaching.
This programme results not only in HEA accreditation but also in a Postgraduate Certificate in
Higher Education Practice [PG CHEP].

c. Equality and Diversity

To complement University-wide efforts to improve equality and diversity, such as its involvement in
the Disability Confident (formerly ‘Two Ticks’) Employer scheme, our School introduced a formal
internal policy on equality in 2016. This policy acknowledges that women and minorities have
historically been disadvantaged in many aspects of university and academic life through conscious

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and unconscious assumptions, biases and prejudices and through unfavourable practical
arrangements. Key issues addressed in the School’s equality policy include: a) the need for greater
gender parity in the composition of staff, both as a whole and at the Professorial level; b) the
inclusion of female and minority speakers when research-active staff set up conferences at the
University or elsewhere; c) the inclusion of female and minority authors when editing collections of
articles or other research outputs; and d) a heightened awareness of implicit bias when refereeing/
assessing non-anonymised work (a risk we have significantly mitigated in this REF cycle by
anonymising nearly all coursework and by requiring colleagues to take an implicit-bias training
course introduced by the University in 2018).

The School has already taken a variety of steps to implement the policy outlined above. These
have included the appointment of a Women’s Officer (a role filled by an academic staff member);
the appointment of more female colleagues to School leadership roles that historically have been
largely held by male colleagues (e.g., Head of School, Director of Graduate Studies); an extensive
series of interviews and surveys with both academics and students to identify specific actions for
improving gender equality; the creation of a working group tasked with improving learning and
research conditions for BAME students; the appointment of a BAME staff member both to the
leadership role of Education Director and to the oversight of our BAME initiatives; the introduction
of a reading group for staff and research students on Race and Gender, which discusses a wide
range of humanities research on race and gender; and an updated School webpage that makes it
easier for students and staff to navigate the University’s system for reporting harassment,
discrimination and assault (https://www.essex.ac.uk/departments/philosophy-and-art-
history/equality-and-inclusion/counteracting-harassment-and-implicit-bias). Alongside such
initiatives, during the current REF period we have increased representation of female and BAME
speakers in our lecture series and have brought forward the times of our bi-weekly lecture series
(previously 4–5:30 pm, now 3–4:30 pm) to accommodate academic colleagues with childcare or
other care responsibilities.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

In AY 2015–16, we developed a new, two-part income-generation strategy in response to the
changing composition of our academic staff described in section 2a. First, to better nurture the
early-stage research projects of our ECRs, we now place stronger emphasis on seed-corn funding,
with the rationale being that such projects create a foundation for larger, externally funded
research in the future. Second, we focus greater attention on funding sources for practice-based
research, such as knowledge-exchange partnerships or grants that offer financial support to
organisations that produce or host the practice-based research outputs that our staff have
developed, led or collaborated on (e.g., cultural institutions, activist groups). In some cases, such
funding flows directly to these organisations rather than to the University; nonetheless, we have
made a principled decision to support partner organisations in securing such funding, since doing
so ultimately makes our own research possible.

Given the preponderance of ECRs at the start of the REF period, we made a strategic choice:
rather than trying to attract major external funding over the immediate term, we focused on laying
the groundwork for large and ambitious projects in the future, which we deemed the best way to
ensure our sustainability. This decision gave colleagues the necessary time and intellectual space
to develop early-stage projects with the greatest likelihood of attracting significant income over the
long run. However, it also meant that we only captured a modest amount of external funding in the
current cycle (£283k), which comprises the £67k in traditional grants and fellowships captured in
our REF4b form; c. £150k that flowed directly to museums hosting research-led exhibitions
organised by staff; £62k in funding from external sources that are technically classified as internal
University support, such as the Research England Global Challenges Research Fund [GCRF] and
‘Enabling Innovation: Research to Application’ [EIRA], which is supported by Research England’s
Connecting Capabilities Fund; and £4k in consultancy fees paid directly to an individual member of
staff, with the University’s prior approval.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

While only implemented within the last five years, our new income-generation strategy is bearing
fruit. For example, our early-stage research has received support from several seed-funding
sources, including the Humanities Faculty Seed-corn Fund, the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research)
Strategic Fund, GCRF and EIRA. A number of staff members have also benefited from seed-corn
funding. Blackmore, for instance, received £30k from GCRF for a project that brings together
artists, curators and scholars around three river basins in Peru, Colombia and Mexico to explore
common sustainability challenges and to generate new, collaborative research into ecologically-
informed arts practices concerning bodies of water. (Blackmore received a further £30k in follow-on
funding for this project shortly after the REF2021 period ended.) This project has provided a
springboard for a large National Environment Research Council bid recently submitted, with
Blackmore as Co-Investigator, which brings together an interdisciplinary group of academics and
two artists to curate two bespoke artworks in response to sustainability challenges in the marine
environment. Other recipients of seed-corn funding include Shukaitis (for a data analytics project
with Firstsite, £9K); Grindon (for research on the interrelationship between aesthetics and activism,
£8.5k); Tymkiw (for eye-tracking experiments at museums, £8k); Lodder (for a project about the
intersection of law and visuality in Operation Spanner, for £6k); and Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco
(for research about heritage education and sustainable development in Lebanon, £4k).

As evidence of our early successes in generating funding for practice-based research, Lodder’s
exhibition British Tattoo Art Revealed received a total of £150k from the Garfield Weston
Foundation, the Sir John Fisher Foundation, Arts Council England and the Heritage Lottery Fund.
(Because this funding went directly to the exhibiting institutions, it does not appear on our REF4b.)
Other successes from knowledge-exchange partnerships with industry include Shukaitis’s
involvement, as a named researcher, in the 2018–2020 programme entitled South East Creative,
Cultural and Digital Support [SECCADS], which received £2.6m from the European Regional
Development Fund to offer grants to small businesses in South East England’s creative, cultural
and digital sectors. A further example of practice-based, industry-facing research to receive
funding is a project that analyses the role of sound in virtual exhibits, for which Di Giuseppantonio
Di Franco and Tymkiw serve as Co-Investigators. In AY 2019–20, this project received £40k in
funding, which is administered by the University’s Enterprise Project Fund and based on money
from Research England’s Higher Education Innovation Fund. (Since this funding largely covers a
postdoc research assistant based in our School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering,
the income appears in that area’s income figures.). Findings from this project have provided the
basis for an application currently in preparation for a £400k Leverhulme Project Grant that, if
successful, would support a project concerning the use of individualised, dynamically changing
soundscapes to enhance audience engagement in virtual exhibits.

Alongside the new streams of funding that we pursued as part of our new income-generation
strategy, we also have had success securing fellowships to support monographs, a more
traditional form of research output to which we remain firmly committed. These successes include
Presciutti’s one-year Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Villa I Tatti, The Harvard University Center for
Italian Renaissance Studies ($50k), which she used to work on her book The Saint as Social
Worker: Visual Hagiography and Social Problems in Renaissance Italy (currently under review);
Ruiz-Gómez’s one-term Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (£21k), which supported her book
The Scientific Artworks of Doctor Jean-Martin Charcot and the Salpetriere School (also under
review); Pearson’s Paul Mellon Rome Fellowship (£10k), which he used to work on an upcoming
monograph about Leon Battista Alberti; and Lodder’s Paul Mellon Centre Publication Grant (£7k),
to support research for his book-in-progress Tattoo: An Art History.

Scholarly infrastructure

ESCALA is a major art resource on campus that features one of the largest collections of Latin
American art in Europe (800 artworks plus substantial archival materials). All the artworks are fully
digitised and searchable online, and the collection is widely used for research by professional
academics (both from the University and beyond), curators and postgraduate students. Besides
organising and hosting symposia, object-based learning sessions and other research-related

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
events, ESCALA frequently enlists staff and doctoral students to curate exhibitions and to write for
catalogues and other interpretative materials.

Another valuable on-campus resource is the University of Essex Art Collection. Founded in
1964 thanks to a generous donation from Jim Ede of Kettle’s Yard fame, the Art Collection
contains works by modern British artists, such as Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, Alfred Wallis and
Christopher Wood. A major addition to the Art Collection during the current REF period came from
the Priseman Seabrook collection, a long-term loan finalised in 2019 that encompasses 100
prints, drawings and watercolours by key figures of British modern and contemporary art, such as
Francis Bacon, Peter Blake, Simon Carter, Alan Davie, Tracey Emin, Lucian Freud, Elisabeth
Frink, Eric Gill, David Hockney, Ben Johnson, Paul Nash, John Piper, Eric Ravilious, Colin Self and
Graham Sutherland. In addition to providing an excellent teaching resource, this collection offers a
unique opportunity to both students and staff to carry out research-led exhibitions and other
research projects about Collection artworks.

A further major research resource is the Albert Sloman Library [ASL]. In 2017, we transferred
roughly 4,000 volumes from a separate Art History Library to the ASL in order to centralise our
resources, make bibliographic information fully searchable online and allow staff and students
access to these volumes 24/7 during term time. The ASL currently has 1.1m books and pamphlets,
41k journals and over 100 databases, with total Art History-related holdings comprising roughly 32k
books and printed items as well as several thousand journals. Among its holdings, ASL’s Special
Collections are of considerable benefit to our research community. Although not exclusively
focused on art, Special Collections include 34,200 volumes and 547m of archives, including
political posters (e.g., from US elections, the British suffragette movement), major first edition
books, papers from figures involved in historically important events (e.g., the censorship of
‘obscene’ books in libraries), as well as significant materials on William Blake, Sigmund Freud and
Henri Gaudier-Brzeska. Since the last REF period, the ASL has undertaken a large initiative to
catalogue the materials in Special Collections so that researchers from both this University and
others may search the materials online in order to facilitate their research.

The collection-based research opportunities just described have been supplemented through the
exhibitions and programming of our on-campus gallery, Art Exchange. While Art Exchange does
not have a permanent collection, it hosts a range of research-based exhibitions. These exhibitions
have often been curated by staff members with the close involvement of students. For instance,
Lodder organised the 2018 exhibition Skin Digging based on his research about the history of
tattooing, and Blackmore curated three exhibitions that built on her work about ecology (Gone to
Ground, 2019; Alejandro Jaime: Aggregate Flows, 2019; and Carolina Caycedo: When Walls
Become Rivers, 2020). A further platform for research-based dialogue has come from the various
artist residencies that Art Exchange has organised and hosted, with financial support from
organisations that include the Arts Council, Big Lottery and the Elephant Trust. Consistent with our
wider interest in practice-based research, these residencies have enabled staff to directly
collaborate with artists on research-based art projects (e.g., Blackmore on Jaime’s Aggregate
Flows). Additionally, the artist residencies have become a nodal point for interdisciplinary
conversations across the University’s different Departments and Schools, as evidenced by the
involvement of academic staff from the School of Life Sciences and Departments of Economics
and Sociology as advisers to such projects.

Organisational infrastructure

Core to Essex Art History’s research environment is our lecture series that features presentations
of research-in-progress - largely from visiting speakers, but also from staff members. Since
Philosophy and Art History’s merger in the previous REF cycle, we alternate disciplines weekly
between Philosophy and Art History, as noted earlier. The interdisciplinary nature of our lecture
series provides an opportunity for colleagues to learn about work that straddles the two fields: for
example, in lectures from this REF cycle given by Susanna Berger, Juliane Rebentisch, and Oliver
O’Donnell. On an informal level, such lectures have prompted lively intellectual discussions, both
during and after question-and-answer sessions. Perhaps just as importantly, however, the lecture

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
series has also spurred researchers from the two disciplines (both within and without the University
of Essex) to form smaller working groups to discuss collaborations around topics of mutual interest:
for instance, the phenomenology of aesthetic experience, the relationship between politics and
aesthetics, and the epistemology and aesthetics of self-representation. Additionally, starting in
2015, we followed the lead of our Philosophy colleagues by introducing an annual ‘mini-course’, a
series of lectures and discussions conducted over 2–3 days with a world-renowned scholar, such
as Whitney Davis (2015), Boris Groys (2017) and Anthony Vidler (2019). This mini-course is
attended primarily by staff members and PhD students and operates alongside a similar course
hosted by Philosophy; however, in each course we specifically select speakers and topics relevant
to scholars working in both disciplines, encouraging networking and the exchange of ideas.

Facilities

All research-active staff members have their own office spaces equipped with regularly updated
PCs/laptops. Given that several of our colleagues heavily use digital technologies in their research,
we have also invested in the technologies they require: for instance, a c. £50k hand-held LASER
scanner for collecting data to create 3D replicas of artworks and sites of cultural heritage; and an
Igloo projection dome for 360-degree immersive VR projection, which is housed in the University’s
newly inaugurated £12m Innovation Centre [IC], where staff members can access this and other
digital technologies to pursue their research and/or collaborate on research projects with digital,
cultural and creative firms located in the building. (As but one example of our close ties with the IC,
Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco has displayed several 3D models from her research in the Igloo
projection dome, and Tymkiw has organised brainstorming events that bring together research-
active staff and members of the IC’s start-up group.) To facilitate on-campus research activities by
our PGR community, the School has a suite of offices equipped with roughly 20 desks, which
students may reserve on a termly or annual basis. PGR students may further access a range of
facilities for conducting, presenting and sharing research, including meeting rooms, seminar
facilities and the School common room for more informal discussions.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our researchers actively contribute to collaborations, networks and partnerships within and beyond
the academic world. Their involvement with museums and galleries is particularly robust, as
demonstrated by the various exhibitions that colleagues have curated and that draw on their
research expertise. One key example is Disobedient Objects, a 2014–16 touring exhibition co-
curated by Grindon that examined how political activism has fuelled a wealth of design ingenuity in
movements for social change from the late 1970s until today. During its initial stop at the V&A,
Disobedient Objects counted among the museum’s best attended shows since 1946, with 417,000
visitors; a further 40,000 visitors attended the exhibition when it travelled to the Powerhouse
Museum in Sydney, Australia. Another major example of our work with museums includes Lodder’s
British Tattoo Art Revealed, a 2017–21 touring exhibition that reached over 100,000 visitors in its
first year alone. This exhibition, which provided the first major historical survey of art and artefacts
documenting the history of tattooing in Britain, began at the National Maritime Museum Falmouth
and is travelling to seven other venues until 2021. It has also managed to reach new audiences
during the pandemic thanks to a virtual exhibition tour on the BBC’s iplayer, which went live in early
June 2020 and has been viewed over 17,000 times.

Further examples of exhibition collaborations are the ‘Museum of Cruel Designs’ that Grindon
curated at Banksy’s 2015 Dismaland exhibition in Weston-super-Mare, which drew 150,000
visitors; the ‘Museum of the Occupation’ (2017–), also curated by Grindon, which is part of another
Banksy project entitled The Walled-Off Hotel in Bethlehem that raises critical awareness of the
West Bank barrier; and Shukaitis’s 2016–17 exhibition Gee Vaucher: Introspective, the UK’s first
major institutional show of Vaucher’s work, which took place at Firstsite and reached over 31,000
visitors. A number of these curatorial activities have contributed to stimulating local economies, as
evidenced by the estimated £20m in additional revenue that Dismaland brought to the economy of
Weston-super-Mare. Grindon and Lodder have also made significant non-financial contributions to
society through their curatorial efforts: for example, by heightening awareness of NGO

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
organisations working in Palestine (in Grindon’s case), or by raising public awareness of British
tattoo traditions in the work of contemporary tattoo artists (in Lodder’s case). To participate in wider
public conversations about the political stakes of curation in relation to the above-mentioned
exhibitions and other contemporary shows, Grindon, Lodder, Tymkiw and other staff members
have authored articles or have given interviews for a range of high-quality publications that reach
general audiences, including the BBC, The Conversation, The Economist, Le Monde, The New
York Times and The Washington Post.

Staff members have also collaborated with museums, galleries and sites of cultural heritage in
other ways. Ruiz-Gómez, for instance, served as a consultant to the Wellcome Collection’s 2016–
17 exhibition Bedlam: The Asylum and Beyond and contributed an essay to a catalogue for an
upcoming Rodin exhibition at the Tate, while Shukaitis is currently serving as a consultant for the
Museo Reina Sofia’s 2022 exhibition Machinations, about the political imagination. A further
engagement with museums is demonstrated by Lodder’s role as host of the art history television
series The Art of Museums (2018–), which is produced by Arte/ZDF/ORF and has so far been
distributed in countries including Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Portugal and
Taiwan. Through this award-winning series, Lodder has brought art historical rigour to a series that
sheds light on masterpieces from eight leading museums from around the world: the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Museum (US), Musée d’Orsay (France), Uffizi Gallery (Italy), Museo del Prado
(Spain), Rijksmuseum (Netherlands), Nationalgalerie (Germany), Kunsthistorisches Museum
(Austria) and Munch Museum (Norway).

Additional collaborations with museums and sites of cultural heritage have involved the use of
digital technologies to create and share research. Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco, for instance, has
an on-going collaboration with the University of Cambridge and the Virtual Experience Company
that uses a VR heritage platform (http://ksarsaid.net/) to foster critical thinking about history and
heritage in conflict-affected countries. Originally focused on cultural heritage in Tunis, this project
has now expanded to Lebanon, in collaboration with the British Council and the Lebanese
American University. Another project that involved digital tools was a series of eye-tracking
experiments that Tymkiw and a psychology colleague (Tom Foulsham) conducted at the V&A,
ESCALA and Firstsite to study how the display of artworks and artefacts shape the viewing and
circulation patterns of spectators with different levels of mobility (e.g., wheelchair and non-
wheelchair users). The results of these eye-tracking experiments, a synopsis of which appeared in
a 2020 Leonardo article, have provided the basis for a more sustained investigation into the
relationship between ableism and normative spectatorship.

Beyond our work with museums and galleries, colleagues have forged collaborations, networks
and partnerships in ways that have supported growth in the digital, cultural and creative [DCC]
sectors. For example, in his 0.2 FTE role as academic lead for the University’s digital, cultural and
creative initiatives, Tymkiw serves on the steering group of the South East Creative, Cultural and
Digital Support programme and is an advisory board member for Creative Colchester Partnership,
a group that includes Colchester-area creative businesses, arts organisations and the University
and develops initiatives to grow the city’s creative, cultural and digital economy. Tymkiw and Di
Giuseppantonio Di Franco have also extended our DCC-related efforts through their respective
roles as academic lead and research fellow for the Digital Humanities strand of Eastern Arc, which
has resulted in numerous research-focused workshops, training sessions and talks about the
history of visual culture.

Our staff members have equally made contributions to the wider Art History research environment.
For instance, during this REF cycle, we have given more than 100 keynotes and invited lectures,
both in the UK and abroad (e.g., Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia). A few of the host
institutions for such keynotes and invited talks have included the Dutch Art Institute (Netherlands);
Hamburger Bahnhof—Museum für Gegenwart—Berlin (Germany); Kansai University (Japan);
Kunsthal Aarhus (Denmark); Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (US); M+ Museum (Hong Kong);
Museum of Modern Art in Warsaw (Poland); Princeton University (US); Queens Museum (US);
Sookmyung Women’s University (South Korea); Universidade Anhembi Morumbi (Brazil);
University of Cologne (Germany): and University of Leuven (Belgium). We have also organised

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
more than 120 conferences, conference sessions and symposia in the UK and overseas at
venues that include the Association for Art History (4 sessions; UK); the Latin American Studies
Association (4 sessions; Spain, Peru, US); the Singapore Institute of Technology; and the V&A
(UK).

We have also been extremely active in providing peer reviews for colleagues at other institutions.
For instance, we have reviewed journal manuscripts for 19 academic journals, including: Art
History, Asia Pacific Review, Body & Society, Cambridge Archaeological Journal, Current
Anthropology, Eighteenth-Century Studies, Fascism: Journal of Contemporary Fascist Studies,
History of Photography, Human Relations, Journal of Archaeological Science Reports, Journal on
Computing and Cultural Heritage, Journal of Curatorial Studies, Journal of Design History, Journal
of Latin American Cultural Studies, Journal of Romance Studies, Journal of Urban History, Journal
of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes, Leonardo and Sculpture Journal; book manuscripts for
academic presses including: Bloomsbury, Brill, Cambridge UP, Manchester UP, Pluto Press and
Routledge; and grant applications for funding bodies such as the AHRC, the European Science
Foundation, the Leverhulme Trust, the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research and the
Villa I Tatti Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies. Additional contributions to
the research base include serving as external supervisors or external examiners for PhDs at
other institutions (e.g., at Birkbeck, Goldsmiths, Konstfack, Sheffield Hallam, University of Bath,
University of Brighton, University of Copenhagen, University of Kent, University of Loughborough,
University of Leicester, University of Plymouth, University of Sydney). We have made further
contributions by serving as editors or co-editors for anthologies. Examples of our edited
volumes from the current REF period include Revival: Memories, Identities, Utopias (2015, Lodder
et al.), Space, Place and Motion: Locating Confraternities in the Late Medieval and Early Modern
City (2017, Presciutti), Downward Spiral: El Heliocoide’s Descent from Mall to Prison (2018,
Blackmore et al.); Authenticity and Cultural Heritage in the Age of 3D Digital Reproductions (2018,
Di Giuseppantonio Di Franco et al.) and Natura: Environmental Aesthetics after Landscape (2018,
Blackmore et al.). Staff also serve as editors of book series, including Blackmore, who is co-
editor of Peter Lang’s new Latin American Environment Humanities book series, and Shukaitis,
who is editor of Minor Compositions for Autonomedia, an open publication series with 18 titles
since 2015 and an average of 8,000 downloads per project.

Taken as a whole, the non-exhaustive list of activities described in this section reflects our
commitment to undertaking professional activities that advance not only our own research
environment but also the scholarly field(s) and non-academic communities in which we work.




                                                                                            Page 12
