Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bolton
 Unit of Assessment (UoA):17 Business and Management Studies

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The IoM Context

 Business and Management studies are situated in The Institute of Management (IoM) at
 the University of Bolton (UoB). The IoM has a regional focus, located centrally within Bolton,
 North West and an international focus provided by the UoB ‘off campus’ division.

 Established within the submitting REF period, the IoM consists of the research and
 teachings from Business and Management. The IoM is also inclusive of Law and the Centre
 of Islamic Finance (CIF) specialisms. Due to the institute’s infancy, this is the IoMs first
 submission to the REF; having not previously been established in order to submit to the
 REF 2014.

 The IoM provides contemporary theory in business, management and accounting with
 research. The strategic aim of the unit is to build on combined critical strengths, to develop
 distinctive projects as individuals and work collectively to maximise their impact. In support
 of these aims the IoM has a dedicated Business Advisory Board, chaired by regionally
 based, senior industry executives. The board contributes to the structure of both the
 teaching and research programmes offered by the IoM. The programmes combine theory
 and practice with high quality teaching, informed by contemporary business and
 management research.

 The unit research themes and activities are situated within the overarching UoB strategy
 characterised as Teaching Intensive Research Informed (TIRI). The TIRI strategy provides
 a clear focus for research on the practical application of applied research methodologies in
 business and management disciplines that positively impact on teaching within the IoM and
 the wider business community. The UoB strategic plan (2015-2020) highlights clear
 guidance and objectives to inform all research activity undertaken by the IoM these being:

       Improve the quality of research and enterprise activities which support teaching.
       Ensure research centres map research onto teaching.
       Make all teaching informed by high quality, current and innovative research and
        professional practice.
       Identify, deliver and evaluate innovative and effective ways of teaching.
       Engage with business, industry and the community in knowledge transfer through
        consultancies, knowledge transfer partnerships and applied research linked to
        teaching.

 To achieve these objectives the submitting unit aims to employ staff who are equipped with
 both industry and academic experience combined to offer differing perspectives when
 engaging in teaching and research. In support of the departmental objectives, smaller
 teaching groups are maintained to encourage academic staff to actively engage in applied
 research. The submitting unit actively promote the inclusion of current industry
 professionals in research projects, by collaborating with professional practitioners to provide
 a series of expert lectures and regular practical workshops relevant to their proficiency.
 Collaborative partners, whether individual or businesses attend internal university
 conferences and events, such as the TIRI employability conference, subsequently helping
 to facilitate internships for students. Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP), a UK wide
 programme which encourages the improvement of businesses via collaboration and
 research are engaged with within the submitting unit. The IoM have sought to facilitate the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 achievement of impact arising from research by ensuring that departmental plans support
 a thriving and inclusive research culture that remains relevant to the modern world. This
 strategy is two-fold, engaging both the national and international research communities and
 wider society. This approach is exemplified by the two submitting impact case studies, Case
 Study 1: Business Modelling and Management of Asset based development for the Digital
 Games Industry and Case Study 2: Procuring work through partnering, collaboration and
 trust to better leverage successful outcomes on large construction projects; a 14-point tool
 kit. Both projects are critical to the “outward-facing” identity of the research unit and
 capitalise on the IoM’s individual and collective strengths.

 An integral part of the unit’s research strategy is to maximise links with other disciplines
 where possible, fostering interdisciplinary research collaborations. An example of this is the
 work undertaken in the Realising an Applied Gaming Ecosystem (RAGE) ; (This research
 underpins Case Study 1) project working internally, with the UoB School of Arts and
 Creative Technologies and Education and with external partners including European
 Universities and commercial digital games development companies located in France,
 Germany, United Kingdom and Holland.

 Within the context of the University’s TIRI strategy, to engage with the community in
 knowledge transfer, the unit is progressing towards an open and inclusive research
 environment in which research is more transparent and collaborative. In this context, the
 effective sharing of research data takes a number of forms, and a range of mechanisms are
 utilised to share research. Dissemination of the IoM research takes place through academic
 conferences, scholarly publications and via the annual University TIRI conference. IoM
 academics provide Keynote presentations at a range of related national and international
 events. Research outputs are open and where possible made freely available through the
 University institutional repository. The unit supports a culture of research integrity, and
 ensures that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards.

 The submitting unit has been successful in securing International Research Grants from the
 European Horizon 2020 programme in addition to its active participation regionally in
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP)

 The Unit Organisational Structure

 Institute of Management

 The IoM is led by Dean Dr Gill Waugh supported by operational leads Dr Carl Bridge and
 Lisa Rees. Research undertaken by the IoM is managed by research coordinator Dr Denis
 Hyams-Ssekasi and is supported by two IoM Professors, Professor Bob Wood and
 Professor Paul Hollins, who both lead research themes. Business and management studies
 covered in this UoA submission are also within the Centre for Islamic Finance and the UoB
 Off campus division. There are staff located at the IoM, covering business and
 management, in the school of Law, located in the Centre for Islamic Finance and located
 in the off-Campus division, though not all staff are research active.

 Each staff member has a Personal Development Plan reviewed annually by Dr Carl Bridge
 and Lisa Rees, in which research requirements and contributions are discussed. In line with
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, researchers are
 provided with the opportunities and structured support to engage in professional
 development pro rata per year. As research coordinator for the School, Dr. Denis Hyams-
 Ssekasi oversees staff development sessions for both the IoM in general and for those who
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 are new to research. It is his role to ensure appropriate mentoring is in place for all
 researchers. He monitors the provision of support for research students in liaison with the
 University’s central support facilities and sits on the Board of Studies for Research Degrees
 and oversees Research Ethics for the School.

 Centre for Islamic Finance

 Led by the Centre’s Director Professor Abdel-Haq

 The Centre    supports the universities specialist programmes in Islamic finance.
 Programmes include an executive MBA, MBA and the centre has an extremely successful
 programme of doctoral research and PhD studies.

 https://www.bolton.ac.uk/IslamicFinance/Home.aspx#gsc.tab=0

 Off Campus Division Led by Dr. Julian Coleman (Hoff Campus) Dr Zahra Salimi,
 Associate Professor and Researcher

 The off-Campus division provides support for research activities undertaken by our
 collaborative partners both in the UK and international campuses.

 Current Research Themes and Activities

 Unit staff are involved in applied research across general business and management
 domains. Research activities are grouped into general interdisciplinary themes in which all
 staff are actively encouraged to participate in. These themes are coordinated by IoM
 research coordinator Dr Denis Hyams-Ssekasi and supported administratively by the IoM
 research group. The IoM research group meets regularly and reports directly to the IoM
 management Board under the direction of Dr Gill Waugh. Research, from a practical
 perspective, is managed within these themes, each led by senior academics with specific
 attention provided to support the development of research and researchers, many of whom
 are early career.

 There are currently four active research themes within the IoM (1) Business Transformation
 and Organisational change, (2) Accounting and Finance, (3) The Digital Creative Industries
 and (4) Supply Chain, Logistics and Procurement.

 1.Business Transformation and Organisational change:

 The Business Transformation and Organisational change themes is led by Professor Bob
 Wood and Dr Fred Agboma.

 Context

 Organisations of all kinds, both in the private and the public sector, large and small, profit
 making and social enterprises, are facing a series of unprecedented challenges to their
 continued success, viability and even their very existence. Even before the rise of the
 Covid-19 pandemic these challenges were threatening established business models,
 changing the nature of the marketplace, overturning established managerial and
 operational structures, as well as altering the very nature of the workplace and ideas of
 work itself. Experiences of the pandemic have brought into sharp focus issues of material
 and social inequality, the intrinsic inter-connectedness of business processes, both at a
 national and an international level, the role of education and training of the future workforce
 and the nature of leadership and decision making under complex conditions. One of the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 most significant factors underpinning the changes that have taken place in the business
 environment has been the new information and communication technologies that have been
 developed over the last twenty-five years. Most notably, the rise of the Internet and the
 World Wide Web together with their associated applications and tools such as Social Media,
 the Internet of Things (IOT), Cloud Computing, Data Analytics and Knowledge
 Management, for example.

 Activities

 The IoM have brought together a group of academics to study the effects that such new
 technologies are having, and will have, on various organisations at both a micro and a
 macro level. Accordingly, the IoM has carried out a number of research studies, alongside
 PhD students, in areas including:

       Transformational leadership styles in high-tech companies
       The role of knowledge sharing in international partnerships
       National transformational strategies in the Middle East
       The introduction of e-Government practices in the UAE
       M&A (Mergers & Acquisitions) strategies in South America
       The role of innovative technologies in Higher Education institutions

 The overall aim is to use the research findings to offer guidance and support to local and
 regional organisations as they attempt to deal with the future uncertainty that will inevitably
 arise over the next few years as society seeks to recover from the effects of economic,
 environmental, social and cultural change.

 2.Accounting and Finance:

 The accounting and Finance theme are led by Dr. Carl Bridge and Dr Sabri Mohammed.

 Context

 The context for IoM research is provided within the newly established collaborative group
 Accounting and Finance Research for Sustainability www.afrs.org.uk.This collaborative
 research group was established with colleagues from the University of Central Lancashire
 (UCLAN) and the University of Chester to facilitate research in accounting and
 sustainability. The group aims to provide a platform for collaborative discussion and
 research relating to accounting and sustainability for both academia and the accounting
 professions.

 Activities

 This current research themes are:

                 Environmental issues: climate change and global warming, renewable
                  energy
                 Performance Management and sustainability of UK Universities.
                 Digitisation, Digitalisation and Big data with machine learning technology.
                 Changes and challenges within various organisational contexts and
                  environments.
                 Social capital and equality.
                 Extraordinary issues: global pandemic - COVID 19, UK specific austerity
                  measures, Brexit, etc.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The aims are to undertake research, publish joint members’ journal paper submissions and
 promote conferences, events, workshops, etc., while opening the debate for emerging
 themes particularly in accounting, finance and sustainability.

 The unit has developed an interdisciplinary and collaborative approach to its research in
 the Accounting and Finance theme, internally with the school of Engineering and the
 Centre for Islamic Finance (CIF). Research active staff in the theme includes Dr Carl
 Bridge, Dr Stuart Marsh, Dr Sabri Mohammed and Dr Mo Sadiq, who has recently (2020)
 completed a PhD. Examples of the scholarly activity in the domain include the Bridge,
 Higham and Farrell publication; Project Finance for construction. The book feeds into the
 curriculum across undergraduate, post graduate and professional studies in both the
 Construction and Accounting departments at the UOB thus supporting the University’s
 TIRI agenda and provides a contribution to Case Study 2.Other activities include the
 Edghiem, Bridge, McAreavy and Guo (2020) paper addressing the North West
 Universities responses to the Covid pandemic and the Bridge, Kelsall, Marsh, Hossain
 and Nagirikandalage (2020) paper Evaluating the Immediate and Prolonged Impact of the
 COVID-19 Pandemic on Accounting Education in UK Higher Education Institutions.

 3.The Digital Creative Industries:

 The Digital Creative Industries research theme is led by Professor Paul Hollins.

 Context
 Within the submitting unit, digital creative industries are an emergent domain of study. The
 primary focus of research undertaken in this is three-fold; firstly, research into the business
 processes (including business models, enterprise architectures and frameworks), secondly
 innovation management and thirdly, creative digital creative industries and technology
 deployment.

 Activity

 The principal research activity of the group has been participation in the EU funded
 international research project Realising an Applied Gaming Ecosystem (RAGE). The
 underpinning collaborative research is situated within this research theme. Contributions
 have been provided by IoM Professor Paul Hollins, Dr Denis Hyams-Ssekasi, Paul Cowley,
 Martin Mcereavy and the research has been undertaken in collaboration with Professor Dai
 Griffiths, UoB located in the Education department and Dr Li Yuan in the UoB Office for
 Students. This research has formed the basis for the associated Case Study 1: Business
 Modelling and Management of Asset based development for the Digital Games
 Industry.

 4.Supply Chain, Logistics and Procurement:

 The Supply Chain and Logistics and Procurement research theme is led by Dr Peter Farrell.

 Context

 The IoM has adopted an interdisciplinary approach to its research around the Supply Chain,
 Logistics and Procurement theme.

 The unit team have collaborated with researchers in the School of Engineering to develop
 its application to construction and civil engineering. Research has examined best practice
 initiatives, such that objectives of all members in supply chains are met. These objectives
 include not only cost, time and quality, but also meeting goals around environmental
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 sustainability, health and safety, social value, and repeat work. Projects should also be
 delivered in a ‘hassle free’ manner, such that work is enjoyable, with many potential benefits
 that arise from that.

 The research team has investigated the benefits of collaborative working and negotiation
 with supply chains, as opposed to placing orders or agreeing contracts after competitive
 bidding processes. Examples are cited where collaboration leads to better measures of
 project success; it also leads to fewer disagreements in an industry which otherwise finds
 itself in adversarial situations, and involved in costly and lengthy disputes resolution
 processes, including cases in the courts. The two leaders in this work have been Dr Peter
 Farrell from Engineering and Dr Carl Bridge in the IoM. They have brought together
 colleagues from their Schools such as; also, colleagues from other Universities such as
 Higham, McDermott, and Sherratt; and practitioners Challender, Kahlifa and Emam. They
 have jointly published two books; ‘Project Finance for Construction’ has one bespoke
 chapter on procurement and several chapters on meeting cost targets. ‘How to Improve
 Construction Procurement through Collaborative Trust Strategies’ is a summary of eight
 other publications in this field since 2014. We are particularly pleased that these books
 feed directly back into under and post-graduate curriculum, thus supporting the University
 TIRI strategy.

 Practitioners involved in the research are able to apply findings in operational and strategic
 aspects of their work. Research is on-going to roll the work out into other areas of the
 economy such as manufacturing, and a range of professions in the service sector. There
 are over twenty PhD students currently enrolled at the University to support this work.

 The underpinning collaborative research is situated and was undertaken in support of the
 associated Case Study 2: Procuring work through partnering, collaboration and trust
 to better leverage successful outcomes on large construction projects; a 14-point tool
 kit led by Dr Peter Farrell and Dr Carl Bridge


 4. Islamic Finance (Located in the Centre for Islamic Finance)

 The Centre for Islamic Finance (CIF) is led by Director of the Centre Professor Abdel-Haq
 and research is managed by coordinator Dr Sabri Mohammad.

 Research Impact

 The two associated case studies with this submission provide evidence of the research
 activities undertaken and international impact achieved:
 The research undertaken by IoM staff include conference proceedings, submission to peer-
 reviewed journals and book chapters. Appropriate measures have been adopted, to ensure
 the recording, promotion and monitoring of individuals research activity this is managed
 through the professional development planning process.
 Applied Research in the IoM is undertaken within the context of TIRI and situated within
 established research themes mapped to teaching curricula.

 Strategic Aims and Future Research Strategy

 As previously highlighted the strategic direction of the research within the IoM is guided by
 two major influences; the overall TIRI agenda and the role that can be played by the IoM,
 both within the business community of the North West of England and within a wider
 international perspective. The IoM is situated in the heart of the town of Bolton and aspires
 to contribute to both the economic and the social growth and well-being of the region and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 therefore has identified research areas that reflect the important concerns of the local and
 regional community.

 These areas include, at the present time, the economic regeneration of the town centre, the
 development of entrepreneurship and innovation within SMEs, financial advice and support
 for small and micro-businesses, regional growth and regeneration through emerging
 creative and knowledge-based organisations, etc all sit well within the current active
 research themes as detailed in this submission being (1) Business transfer and
 organisational change, (2) Accounting and Finance, (3) The Digital Creative Industries and
 ( 4) Supply Chain, Logistics and Procurement.

 Given these influences and consistent with the UoB strategy, research undertaken within
 the unit strives to underpin teaching within the IoM at both undergraduate and postgraduate
 levels and to contribute to the regional and wider economy.

 In this way it is sought to enhance the future employability of students by exposing them to
 leading research in areas such as digital marketing, entrepreneurship, supply chain and
 logistics, financial management, etc.


 Section 2: People

 The research team for the IoM comprises Dr Denis Hyams-Ssekasi, Professor Bob Wood,
 Professor Paul Hollins. Collectively, the research team oversee the development of the
 research culture in the IoM. Each staff member has a Personal Development Plan reviewed
 annually by Dr Gill Waugh, in which research requirements and contributions are discussed.
 In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, researchers
 are provided with the opportunities and structured support to engage in professional
 development activities pro rata per year.

 As research coordinator for the IoM Dr Denis Hyams-Ssekasi oversees staff development
 sessions for both the department in general and for those new to research. It is his role to
 ensure appropriate mentoring is in place for all researchers. In addition, he monitors the
 provision of support for research students in liaison with the university’s central support
 facilities. Dennis also sits on the Board of Studies for Research Degrees and oversees
 Research Ethics for the IoM. The unit’s staffing and recruitment policy is geared towards
 supporting and sustaining a vibrant and thriving research culture, building on existing
 strengths in both theoretical and critical perspectives.

 Individuals at the beginning of their research careers are well supported and integrated into
 the research culture of the IoM. Staff members are required to make a compelling case for
 research leave on the basis of a clearly defined project and research. For example,
 Professor Paul Hollins was able to engage fully over a four-year period in the Realising an
 Applied Gaming Ecosystem (RAGE) project which is highlighted in Case Study I of this
 submission. The more typical route to securing research leave is through the University
 Jenkinson Award scheme. Staff must be able to demonstrate that their research work is in
 line with TIRI, that it has demonstrable high-level outputs and that it is achievable within the
 stated time frame. The scheme is open to all members of staff at all stages of their careers.
 The IoM team has an employability agenda underwritten by TIRI and seek to facilitate
 appropriate research exchanges between academia and industry.

 Staff members who carry out research and who achieve impact are recognised and
 rewarded at the Jenkinson Awards annual ceremony. Jenkinson Award winners are
 members of staff who have successfully bid for funding and who are able to demonstrate
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 how their research supports the TIRI agenda, contributes to knowledge of the discipline and
 has impact beyond the wider academic community. Some examples of the most current
 awards are; Nurun Nuhar winning an Early career researcher of the year award and
 Professor Paul Hollins winning a Jenkonson award for the Realising an Applied Gaming
 Ecosystem (RAGE) project.

 Staff Training and Development

 A number of staff in the School are currently enrolled on a PhD programme. As such they
 are eligible to engage fully in the University's Post-Graduate Research Student Training
 Scheme. We also strive to apply the terms of the Concordat (commonly known as
 the Researcher Development Concordat) to support the career development of
 researchers, especially Early Career Researchers (ECRs). The University follows the
 Concordat principles of environment and culture, employment and professional
 development, and career development. As an example of this, the Research and Graduate
 School work closely with Staff and ECRs in Academic Schools across the University to
 deliver a Master’s level module that prepares ECRs for taking on the role of a PhD
 Supervisor. Entitled, ‘Research Degree Supervision’ this twenty-credit module provides the
 opportunity for ECRs to gain invaluable experience in providing feedback to PhD students
 at all levels, including the initial Postgraduate Skills Record, the R1 and R2 assessments
 and preparing for the Viva. Feedback from those ECRs that have taken this module states
 that they are better prepared to take on the role of a Supervisor having completed this
 module, that is of great benefit to their career progression and research goals.

 Staff are actively encouraged to engage in external scholarly activities examples of this are
 provided below :
 Professor Bob Wood holds external PhD examinerships at the University of Manchester
 and Brunel University, plus DBA supervision at the Alliance Manchester Business School.
 Professor Paul Hollins has held external examinerships Sheffield Hallam University,
 Coventry University and is currently an academic advisor to the Glasgow School of Art
 (GSA) and Director of the Leeds Conservatoire. Dr Carl Bridge holds external
 examinerships at Plymouth University and University of Central Lancashire (UCLAN). Dr
 Denis Hyams-Ssekasi: holds external examinerships at Liverpool John Moore University
 (LJMU), Leeds Beckett University and is currently a member of the Editorial Board Cogent
 Social Science and the Editorial Board, Reviewer for Routledge Studies on Global Student
 Mobility He has been a Guest speaker at IUNC Eurasia Conference and is Guest Editor for
 special Issues for International Journal of Business and Globalisation. Paul Cowley holds
 external Examinerships at Cardiff Metropolitan University on their MSc International
 Business. He is an Advisory Board Member of the International Academy of Technology,
 Education and Development and a reviewer of the Journal of International Students.

 Supervision of Post Graduate students

 All new and existing academic IoM staff attend the Research Degree Supervision Module
 (EDM7065) before becoming the Director of Studies. This is a standalone module that runs
 as part of the Masters in Education program and is taken as Continued Professional
 Development (CPD). The purpose of this accredited module is to prepare candidates to
 undertake the role of a supervisor for a research degree student. The aim of this module is
 to enhance, 1) the growth and provision of postgraduate doctoral students at the University
 of Bolton across all disciplines and, 2) staff skills and expertise in research degree student
 supervision.


 Recruitment and Retention of Staff
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Consistent with UoB policy the Institute is strongly committed to equality and diversity
 across its staff and student community. The University is one of the most ethnically diverse
 in the UK and this diversity is reflected in both the student and staff population.

 Staff Research Support

 Each staff member located in the IoM has a Personal Development Plan (PDP) and this is
 reviewed annually as part of the UOB staff appraisal process. At the annual review
 individual research objectives and contributions are agreed and aligned with IoM the
 strategic objectives for research and incorporated into work planning.

 Dedicated time for individual scholarly and research activities is embedded within the
 Universities Research Workload Allocation Model (WAM) to ensure alignment with the UOB
 overarching Strategic Plan goals. The TIRI context is explicit within the application of the
 model.

 The IoM promotes a research mentoring scheme, drawing on best practice and partnering
 less experienced early career researchers with more experienced academics.

 Post Graduate Research Activities and Support

 Research students are supervised by a research team comprising 2-3 staff: A Director of
 Studies, the regular point of contact, and up to 2 others with appropriate expertise.
 Research students are allowed to attend any other classes/modules that they feel would
 benefit their studies. Students are encouraged to present at the annual University TIRI
 Conference and at the annual Postgraduate Research Day Conference, organised by the
 students themselves. Both of these provide the chance for students to learn how to present
 their research in a supportive environment. These engagements are also excellent for
 promoting interaction and networking not only amongst the students, but with the staff, too.
 Finally, research students are encouraged to attend and present at external venues (e.g.
 research conferences, readings) wherever possible.

 The University of Bolton is committed to the highest level of researcher development at a
 personal and professional level to allow home and international researchers to reach their
 full potential. Working closely with the Academic School, the Research & Graduate School
 offers a comprehensive Research Degree Student Development Programme that includes:
 An induction programme to life at the university and as a research degree student; Weekly
 webinars and workshops to enhance a student’s research skills delivered by research staff
 from in the Academic School and from across the university; Research methods webinars
 and workshops; Online resources available through the virtual learning environment for all
 webinars, workshops and training programmes; Progress monitoring and development
 review; An annual research degree student conference hosted by the Postgraduate
 Students Society; and, an Annual Research Summer School. All IoM research degree
 students are encouraged to engage with the Researcher webinars and workshops. Also, to
 participate in the research degree student conference for an opportunity to present their
 research project and to receive feedback from their peers and staff across the University.
 The IoM works closely with external speakers such as the publishers, Elsevier and IEEE
 Xplore to ensure Researchers at all levels have the opportunity to fully understand the
 publication process and to seek support to publish their work. As a member of VITAE, the
 submitting unit encourage all researchers to make use of the VITAE Researcher
 Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher Development Framework so that
 research degree students benefit from the VITAE researcher development insight and
 expertise.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The submitting unit strives to apply the terms of the Concordat (commonly known as
 the Researcher Development Concordat) to support the career development of
 researchers, especially Early Career Researchers (ECRs). The university follows the
 Concordat principles of environment and culture, employment and professional
 development, and career development. As an example of this, the Research and Graduate
 School work closely with Staff and ECRs in Academic Schools across the University to
 deliver a Master’s level module that prepares ECRs for taking on the role of a PhD
 Supervisor. Entitled, ‘Research Degree Supervision’ this twenty-credit module provides the
 opportunity for ECRs to gain invaluable experience in providing feedback to PhD students
 at all levels, including the initial Postgraduate Skills Record, the R1 and R2 assessments
 and preparing for the Viva. Feedback from those ECRs that have taken this module states
 that they are better prepared to take on the role of a supervisor having completed this
 module, that is of great benefit to their career progression and research goals.

 Research degree students are encouraged to get involved with teaching and mentoring
 activities in our Academic School by providing the ‘Planning for Teaching’ module. Run by
 the School of Education, this module provides the initial training and skills required to take
 on the role of a lecturer for those research degree students with designated teaching hours.
 This also serves as a worthwhile qualification to help those researchers who wish to pursue
 an academic career in a HE institution.

 The IoM provides supplemental Business and Management domain specific support to post
 graduate research students and has instigated a series of summer schools where both staff
 and students are encouraged to attend. Since 2018 the schools have been delivered by the
 IoM supported by invited specialist academics and have covered a variety of topics
 including:

       The Effective Researcher and Successful Research Projects.
       What Makes an Effective and Successful Researcher?
       Defining Original Contribution to Knowledge.
       From Interesting Ideas to Research Questions: Generating Researchable
        Questions.
       Pitching, Innovation, Research, and Collaboration.

 IoM Doctoral Workshops have included:

 The IoM provides additional support and workshops for its large cohort of research students.
 Focus group Revisited:
     Putting Theory into Practice.
     Research Methods: data Collection Methods and data Analysis method and its
        Application. Limitations of research Methods.
     Preparing for Viva.
     Mock Viva Workshops: Typical Questions Posed at Viva Voce Examination.

 Equality and diversity

 All members of staff are required to undertake mandatory online training in Equality and
 Diversity Awareness; The Bribery Act; PREVENT duty; GDPR. In addition, research
 coordinators and those in management roles must complete the module “Challenging
 Unconscious Bias”. The University is committed to the advancement of equality of
 opportunity and the fostering of good relations between persons who share a relevant
 protected characteristic and persons who do not share it. With respect to the research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 students with disabilities, reasonable adjustments were made at each stage of their doctoral
 studies

 Doctoral Programmes

 The IoM has an extremely dynamic, diverse and expanding doctoral programme. Currently
 UoB has 231 students registered on its doctoral programmes studying a variety of Business
 and Management related topics. The IoM provides support through its supervisory capacity.
 Training and support of doctoral supervisors is provided through the Office for Students,
 this includes an obligatory training programme for new supervisors without experience.

 At the time of writing there are 47 PhD students enrolled at the IoM studying a range of
 business and management related subjects. There are 123 students enrolled in business
 and finance related subjects at the Centre for Islamic Finance (CIF) and 61 students
 enrolled in the UoB ‘Off Campus’ division again on Business related subjects.
 These consist of various subjects including Enterprise/Entrepreneurship, Marketing,
 Human Resource Management, Supply Chain, Information Systems and Management
 within the programme reflecting the International nature and international impact of IOM
 research current indicative exemplars are:

       Impact of Supply Chain Innovation, Risk Management, Strategy, Agility and
        Robustness on Performance. (Research Theme - Supply Chain, Logistics and
        Procurement)
       The role financial reporting plays in the corporate governance of small and medium
        sized enterprises (SME’s). (Research Theme - Accounting and Finance)
       Business Ethics Behaviour of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) The Case
        Study of IT Companies in UK. (Research Theme -The Digital Creative Industries)
       To critically review the audit impact that the adoption of International Financial
        Reporting Standards (IFRS) has had on listed companies and their auditors in India
        since inception in 2015) (Research Theme - Accounting and Finance)
       Examining the role of customer intelligence in developing new markets: a case study
        of the IT services of the business to business in the emerging markets of the Middle
        East and Africa (Research Theme- The Digital Creative Industries)
       Supply Chain Collaboration: The Impact on Ghana’s Mining Industry (Research
        Theme - Supply Chain, Logistics and Procurement)
       E-Government in the MENA and its impact on Citizens (Research Theme - Business
        Transformation and Organisational change)
       A Study Exploring the Impact of Globalisation on GCC Countries: Qatar as a Case
        Study (Research Theme - Business Transformation and Organisational change)

 PhD Completions 2015-2020

 Evidence of the dynamic research culture in the UoA is evidenced by the doctoral
 programme and number of successfully completed PhD’s chronologically listed below
 during the period of assessment. The location of the PhD supervision is as indicated;
 Institute of Management (IoM), Off Campus Division (OCD) and Centre for Islamic Finance
 (CIF).

 2014 Completions
 Aldridge, Alison (2014) A critical review of compliance and call quality monitoring in
 Phonetic’s insurance tele-marketing campaigns. (IoM)
 Kaonde, Phillip Dalitso Frank (2014) Improving strategy formulation and implementation in
 Higher Education institutions in Malawi: an empirical study. (IoM)
 2015 Completions
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Ang, Pei Yin (2015) An exploratory study on the management of services procurement
 process for different services. (IoM)
 Howard, Joanne (2015) How can the company improve its marketing to attract potential
 customers and retain current clients? (IoM)
 Maykels, Paul (2015) Does further education mean business?: An investigation into the
 impact leaders of colleges of further education in England believe their organisations
 contribute towards business competitiveness. (IoM)
 Ungwe, Asumani N.A. (2015) Sustainability management of the recommended quality and
 quantity of drinking water in Malawi: developing a framework. (IoM)
 Ward, Manus (2015) An internet hotel accomodation business strategy based on online
 consumers' behaviour, thoughts and emotions. (IoM)
 Wood, Lee Alexander (2015) Tools or traits: the path to successful continuous improvement
 implementation in a logistics environment. (IoM)
 2016 Completions
 Alkhan, Ahmed M. (2016) A critical analysis of special purpose vehicles in the Islamic
 banking industry : The Kingdom of Bahrain as a case study.(CIF)
 Karadima, Athanasia-Ioanna (2016) The use and effect of comic book reading on the
 reading attitudes and reading habits of Greek (typically developed and dyslexic) EFL
 learners in a mixed ability EFL classroom.(OC)
 Kubwalo-Chaika, Margaret (2016) Realising increased value from using knowledge
 management to improve customer relationship management in a retail banking environment
 : the case of Standard Bank in Malawi.(OC)
 Kumar, Ronald Ravinesh (2016) Economic growth in development : examining the effects
 of contemporary sources of economic growth in selected countries across continents.(OC)
 Vasireddy, Pavan (2016) Customer Knowledge Management in organisations: developing
 a practice framework to achieve 360 degree view of customer. (IoM)
 2017 Completions
 Al-edenat, Malek (2017) The role of transformational leadership in reinforcing product and
 service innovation: the direct and indirect impact. A case of Jordanian telecommunication
 sector. (IoM)
 Kacelenga, Evans (2017) Towards an optimal product portfolio of liquid fuels for the Malawi
 energy market: development of a strategic framework for enhancing pathways of ethanol
 production and use. (OC)
 Kaphweleza Banda (2017) Developing Human Resource Strategies to effectively
 management and increase the retention of expatriate staff in international schools: A
 Malawian case study. (OC)
 Maganga, Dick Lucius (2017) Performance improvement in complex organizations: the
 case of smallholder agricultural cooperatives in Malawi.(OC)
 Matipwiri, Peter Andy (2017) Development of a Consumer Satisfaction Based Model for the
 Provision of Sustainable Rural Water Supply in Malawi.(OC)
 Tsiftzis, Zafeiris (2017) Private military and security companies: options for regulation under
 human rights law. (IoM)
 2018 Completions
 Abdul Hadi, Noradilah (2018) Examining customer selection criteria, satisfaction and loyalty
 in the Islamic banking industry : a comparative study between Malaysian ethnic
 groups.(CIF)
 Ahammed, Istiak (2018) Building an emotional capital to enhance engagement in low paid
 jobs: A case study of the UK’s food and beverage retail sector. (IoM)
 Alkhateeb, Abdullah (2018) Ethical performance of Islamic banks in the GCC
 countries.(CIF)
 Al-Suwaidi, Jassim Sultan (2018) Towards a strategy to build administrative capacity in light
 of human development for Qatar National Vision 2030. (IoM)
 Bougia, Anna (2018) Cultivating autonomy in writing through 21st Century literacy: "The
 digital noises model" in Higher Education. (OC)
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Camdzic, Emir (2018) An exploratory study on corporate reputation practices and
 challenges in the UK banks : a comparative study between Islamic and conventional
 banks.(CIF)
 Hanan, Al Madani (2018) The compliance of Sukuk with Maqasid Al Sharia’a :A case study
 of the Medium Term Note Sukuk programme of the Islamic Development Bank.(CIF)
 Ikiriko, Elizabeth Oruene (2018) A study investigating the advancement of female solicitors
 in England: exploring the promotion to partner level process, challenges and opportunities.
 (IoM)
 Khan, Mohammad Rashed (2018) The effects of culture and leadership behaviour on
 ethical practices in managing labour within the UK and Bangladesh- readymade garment
 industry. (IoM)
 Mohammed, Abdul-hussein Jasim (2018) Measuring the determinants of capital adequacy
 and its impact on efficiency in the banking industry : a comparative analysis of Islamic and
 conventional banks.(CIF)
 Mureithi Ngatia, Peter (2018) Unveiling the challenges of curbing wildlife crime in Kenya:
 evaluating the 3Cs solution. (IoM)
 Nyasulu, Dokiso Changayizga (2018) An evaluation of alignment of strategic procurement
 function in city councils and its impact on compliance levels with public procurement
 procedures in Malawi : cases of Blantyre, Lilongwe and Mzuzu city councils.(OC)
 Kleponis, W. Gregory (2018) Bridging the strategic gap: new strategies in post conflict
 management. A within-case and across-case study of security sector reform and rule of law
 institution building in post conflict states. (IoM)
 Schroff, Alexander (2018) Investigation of crowdfunding in terms of innovative SME
 financing in a German context.(OC)
 Tama, Cornelius Gyungon (2018) Gender and job (in)security in commercial banks:
 challenges and opportunities in Nigeria. (IoM)
 Uhumuavbi, Ikpenmosa (2018) The legal conceptualisation of investment securities in the
 Nigerian Capital Market: challenges and opportunities. (IoM)
 2019 Completions
 Al Awadhi, Meleihah Abdulla (2019) The effect of TQM practices on organisational
 performance in the UAE public service organisations: the moderating role of organisational
 culture. (IoM)
 Albarghouthi, Mohammed (2019) Development of an enterprise resource planning systems
 (ERP) adoption model in Higher Education Institutions. (IoM)
 Barrak, Jasim Idan (2019) Intangible assets disclosure and its impact on fair value in the
 banking sector : a comparative analysis between conventional and Islamic banks.(CIF)
 Ghani, Nur Amalina Abdul (2019) A mixed method approach on policy, legal and regulations
 of non-Shariah compliant income in the Islamic banking Industry: the case study of
 Malaysia.(CIF)
 Hossain, MD Kabir (2019) Assessing the performance of Islamic banks compared to
 conventional banks in Bangladesh.(CIF)
 Ineizeh, Nehad Ibrahim (2019) Corporate social responsibility disclosure and Shari'ah
 supervisory board : a case study of Islamic banks in GCC region.(CIF)
 Ishraat Saira Wahid (2019) “ High Performance System (HPWS) and employee
 performance: Evidence from the Multinational subsidiaries in Bangladeshm.(IoM)
 Jet Mboga (2019) “Millennials’ Perspectives of Ethics and Morality in Business: Critical
 Analysis of Ethics Using Comparative Case Examination and Eliciting Millennials
 Perspectives.” (IoM)
 Mathkur, Naif Masour M (2019) Assessing the business ethics of Saudi Arabian Islamic
 banking sector: an analysis of banks’ employees and customers perspectives.(CIF)
 Moskovicz, Abraham (2019) The Bidfood M&A method in emerging markets. (IoM)
 Toritseju Rita Pessu (2019) Impact of Trade Policies on SMEs’ Business Relationships in
 the Nigerian Textile Industry: A Shared Value Approach” (IoM)
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Kamalavelu Velayutham (2019) Development of a conceptual Framework for the UK Higher
 Education to Implement Enterprise Resource Planning Systems. (IoM)
 Parginos, Ilias P. (2019) Factors affecting the utilization of specific Turnaround Strategies
 by SMEs, during an Economic Depression.
 Sayecki Vanguard, Arthur (2019) Theory of free trading markets for non-scarce goods and
 services and its application in electronic commerce of digital products. (IoM)
 Shamroukh, Sameh Subhi (2019) The impact of IT project management tools and
 leadership self-efficacy on project success. (OC)
 Simon, Shahril (2019) Developing a new stock scoring model for Shariah-compliant
 investment.
 Teemil, Zahir (2019) An investigation of how healthcare organisations use Social Media as
 marketing tools in the UK-the case of private and social care Organisations. (CIF)
 Williamson, Lisa Ann (2019) Aligning factors that impact direct and online corporate
 communication to external premium stakeholders, to influence brands' value and reputation
 during change. (IoM)
 2020 Completions
 Buerger, Stefan Karl (2020) Risk and opportunity reports of German banks in accordance
 with German accounting standards: an empirical analysis of adoption, development, and
 determinants of extent. (OC)
 Roshan N. Panditharathna (2020) “Innovation in Relationship Marketing in Sri Lankan
 Banks” (Sri Lanka). (IoM)

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Internal IoM Funding to Support Research Activities

 A pump-priming scheme, the Jenkinson award, is in place in UOB to support initial research
 work which promotes the TIRI Model and enables support for embryonic research in some
 Schools and areas of the University.

 The unit has received the support of Jenkinson funding for the Creative Industry Research
 theme and IoM staff member Dr Nurun Nuhar was the successful recipient of a Jenkinson
 Early Career Researcher award in 2019 and 2020 a Ryley Research award in 2019 .
 Professor Paul Hollins was the recipient of a 2020 Jenkinson award further develop and
 disseminate the outcomes of Case Study 1. The award provided additional funding for IoM
 academics Dr Denis-Hyams Ssekasi, Paul Cowley and Professor Hollins to develop and
 contribute papers to international academic conferences in Morocco, Ireland and Spain
 .
 The IoM has also received the Reach Outdoor Awards for Increasing the student retention
 in IoM- Denis Hyams-Ssekasi and Supporting the integration of IoM Post Graduates - Fred
 Agboma.

 External IOM Research Income

 External Research income for IoM (Business, Logistics and Information) £65,155
        - 2014-2015 = £12151
        - 2015-2016 = £18744
        - 2016-2017 = £16800
        - 2017-2018 = £17460

 EU funded Rage Research project income a total of £476,729.00

 Total Research Income in UoA 17 £541,844
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The IoM is physically located in a new purpose-built facility adjacent to excellent
 communication links via the Bolton Transport hub, Bolton itself is very conveniently located
 in the North West, north of Manchester, boasting excellent commercial and cultural links.
 The IoM maintains a virtual presence through the UOB web site.

 The IoM has excellent facilities dedicated to supporting scholarly activities including
 research, learning and teaching. These include dedicated office space for post graduate
 students and staff research activities and the newly opened (2019) Sony suite.

 All research active staff are provided with dedicated workstation space, library facilities and
 a virtual research space within the Universities Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Moodle.
 A variety of software is available to support research activities and access to relevant e-
 journals and e -books via the Athens system. The University provides a dedicated bespoke
 research output repository and provides support to staff using the Open Researcher
 Contributor Identity (ORCID) system of identification.

 With respect to research governance, all research projects are scrutinised for ethical issues
 at the proposal stage, and, if necessary, considered at local level by the IoM Research
 Committee and university wide level through the Post Graduate School. Any member of
 research staff suspected of any research misconduct (e.g. plagiarism, abuse of
 confidentiality, misappropriation of resources, falsification/fabrication of data) is dealt with
 by a disciplinary process that judges people according to the University's Code of Policy
 and Procedures for Investigating and Resolving Allegations of Misconduct in Research
 (based on the 7 principles identified by The Nolan Committee on Standards in Public Life
 as having relevance to best practice in the conduct of research: selflessness, integrity,
 objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership).


 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 The Institute has collaborated with the economy and society at international, national and
 regional levels. Case Study 1 provides corroborated evidence and detail of collaboration
 with individual international creative businesses in Germany, France and Holland together
 with industry clusters, with trade bodies in Holland, Portugal and Scandinavia and with
 national industry groups including TIGA https://tiga.org/ and the UKIE https://ukie.org.uk/
 and individual creative businesses.
 Case Study 2 provides evidence of collaboration of both PhD student and staff. It also
 shows how the student research findings have been implemented in large organization in
 the Northwest.

 In the context of TIRI, several local and regional businesses have worked closely with the
 IoM contributing to Research and Teaching activities. Collaborative research partnerships
 with regional organisations included The National Health Service (NHS) Bolton Trust,
 Lancaster Teaching Hospital Trust, Market Place Outreach, Local Market Retail, Tyrenet,
 Eddie Stobbart and Debenhams Retail group.

 Relationships and collaborations with professional bodies include Association of Chartered
 Certified Accountants (ACCA), Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA),
 Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), Institute of Chartered
 Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), Chartered Management Institute (CMI), Royal Institute of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Chartered Surveyors, The Chartered institute of Building, The Chartered Association of
 Building Engineers and Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA).

 In recent years, research evidence has highlighted a growing need for access to affordable
 legal advice. To address this need, in 2019, the IoM launched a free Legal Advice Centre,
 operated by current law students and overseen by Ian Bowden, Lecturer in Law and
 qualified Solicitor Advocate and fellow Lecturer in Law, Zaman Kala.

 The centre provides free legal advice to members of the public, allows law students to gain
 hands on, crucial experience and works in partnership with legal professionals via the
 Bolton Law Society, charities and specialist advice services.
