Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU)

 Unit of assessment: 28 – History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The return by BGU to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 28 reflects a major development of the
 History department’s research culture, activity and output since 2014. Compared to REF
 2014, this submission is approximately double in size – the equivalent of 17 outputs from
 6.6 members of staff (FTE) are submitted, an increase upon the 10 outputs from three staff
 from 2014. The History department has expanded its membership and applications for
 promotion of existing staff to a Chair and Readership within the REF cycle have since been
 approved. The appointments that have been made reflect chronological breadth – from
 medieval to modern – and the interdisciplinary richness of the work of the department as
 well as its wider character and level of progress.

 History has been the lead component of an integrated ‘historical studies’ portfolio at the
 University, closely and mutually inter-related and engaged with subsidiary subject fields of
 Archaeology and Heritage. This is represented in research and impact projects, as well as
 in taught delivery. The department benefits from economies of scale, which facilitate
 cohesion, interaction and strong senses of collegiality and collective identity. There is a shared
 commitment to producing high quality academic output, expanding public impact through
 projects developed with local communities, as well as nationally and internationally, and
 cultivating student engagement in the co-production of knowledge. Students benefit, therefore,
 from the team’s chronological range, interdisciplinary ethos, as well as engagement with a
 wide range of applied research activities.

 1.1 Context and structure

 1.1.1 Departmental context

 At BGU, the History department contributes to the Arts and Humanities portfolio area within a
 single Faculty structure. Until 2018 History was part of a School of Humanities (SoH) that
 facilitated cross-disciplinary research and knowledge exchange projects, particularly with
 English and Theology. Between these subjects, there have developed various joint-
 honours taught-programmes, and research and knowledge exchange collaborations over
 the REF cycle. This is especially the case for History with Archaeology and Heritage. The
 humanities group of subjects are particularly research active at BGU, containing three of
 the institution’s five submissions for REF 2021 also making returns to UoA 39 (English
 Language and Literature) and to UoA 31 (Theology and Religious Studies).

 1.1.2 Subject structure

 History as a taught subject is delivered at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It is
 wide ranging and interdisciplinary in its character, academic and applied in its culture,
 organisation and orientation, and with a staff team and set of programmes spanning
 Archaeology and Heritage, as well as History. The department’s programmes are currently
 led by three Programme Leaders for undergraduate History, postgraduate History, and
 undergraduate and postgraduate Archaeology and Heritage.

 History became fully established at BGU when it progressed from existing only in joint
 honours mode to launching its first single honours programme in 2014-15. Archaeology
 joined the subject portfolio as joint honours only with History from 2015-16. The expanded
 History and Archaeology offer incorporated some of the applied elements of a former
 undergraduate degree in Heritage Studies, available until 2014-15. This heritage provision
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 had placed particular emphasis on external placement work, public history engagement,
 and practical and professional skills. Correspondingly, new staff have been recruited with
 knowledge exchange as well as research backgrounds. A significant new direction of
 growth for BGU was the introduction of an undergraduate programme in Military History in
 2019. History is also available in joint honours combinations with English, Education
 Studies, and Theology.

 Taught postgraduate provision existed with MA programmes in Community Archaeology
 and Heritage Education until 2015-16 when they were replaced with new taught
 postgraduate provision in Social and Cultural History. A strong element across
 undergraduate as well as postgraduate teaching is the promotion and embedding of
 opportunities to develop student engagement with research and co-production (see
 Section 1.2).

 History, Archaeology and Heritage student numbers have grown since 2014. In 2019-20,
 there were a total of 111.5 students (FTE). This comprised 86.5 undergraduate students
 (29 single hons and 57.5 joint), 23 taught postgraduate, and two doctoral candidates. Since
 2018-19, the History department has been involved in the supervision of its first doctoral
 students (see also Section 2.2).

 Table 1: History student numbers (FTE)

                   UG          PGT        PGR         Total
   2013-14         66.5         11         -           77.5
   2019-20         86.5         23         2          111.5

 The size and research-seniority of the staffing team (see Section 2.1) have been enhanced
 as the student base has expanded, with its composition kept diverse. This is both to order
 to sustain the interdisciplinary and academic/applied nature of its teaching, research and
 knowledge exchange (RKE) activities, and to support doctoral level supervision.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 1.2.1 Research strategy and culture

 The History department’s submission to REF 2014 was its first. The research and impact
 strategy for REF 2021 has been informed by institutional and department-specific drivers,
 motivations, and aspirations. The department has set out to achieve a stronger submission
 as part of its general ambition for growth and enhancement. The 2021 submission for
 History, like 2014, reflects a holistic, inclusive and integrating approach incorporating
 Archaeology and Heritage.

 The History department’s research and impact strategy for the 2014-21 cycle, therefore,
 has comprised:
 • Increasing the number of staff submitted to REF 2021
 • Achieving a progressive improvement in the quality of its REF-related output,
    particularly at 3* and 4*
 • Extending impact through public engagement activity
 • Growing research income
 • Enhancing research and public impact activity to support a growing and diverse
    UG/PGT-student base
 • Supporting the establishment of a new postgraduate-research student community.




                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The scale of the department’s staffing is beneficial to the development of the productivity,
 culture and identity of the team, and has facilitated the achievement of strategic direction
 through collaboration, collective activity, communication, and mutual support (see Section 2.1).
 Research on the concept of place and places provides a unifying theme for the work of all
 colleagues, for example, on: ‘Landscapes of intelligence’ (Hubbard-Hall), twentieth-century
 Lincolnshire (Jackson), Chatsworth House private library (Rhoden), early modern London
 (Spence), co-operation in Lincoln (Kent), rural settlements (Wright), and allegiance to regional
 fatherlands (von Friedeburg).

 1.2.2 Output

 The department aimed to increase the number of staff to be submitted to REF 2021, to improve
 output volume, and progressively to enhance its output quality as the leading component of its
 submission by increasing the proportion of ‘internationally excellent’ (3*) and ‘world leading’ (4*)
 work. This reflects the goals of BGU and the History department to build on the submission
 made to REF 2014.

 The return to REF 2021 will comprise around twice as many members of staff and outputs as
 REF 2014. The strategy was to increase the research productive staffing base to at least 5 FTE
 to allow for the publication of the full set of quality profiles. The results of REF 2014 identified
 some outputs at 3* and 4*, but also a relatively large proportion of 1* and unclassified. The
 production and selection of History outputs for REF 2021 was intended to increase the
 proportion of potential 3* and 4* outputs, to eliminate outputs that did not meet a minimum 2*
 threshold.

 A further feature of the ‘maturing’ of the department was a major shift of emphasis towards the
 production of potential ‘double-counted’ research monographs, based on several years of
 project work. Only journal articles and book chapters were returned for REF 2014, but the
 submission for 2021 includes three monographs.

 1.2.3 Impact and public history

 The institution’s strategic objectives of extending its impact and research partnerships are
 expressed very strongly in the work of the History department. At the same time, the
 department has risen to the challenge and rewards of impact as a reflection a national
 disciplinary agenda emerging around the expansion of public history. This is represented in the
 two Impact Case Studies that are submitted:
 • ‘Public histories of the ‘long’ First World War: culture and society, Lincolnshire and England,
     1910-20’ (Jackson)
 • ‘Historic medieval settlement landscapes: community history and archaeology, and cultural
     heritage preservation’ (Wright).

 In addition, the department’s strategic and thematic focus is reflected in the following
 dimensions that characterise its impact and public-history activities 2014-21:

 •   First World War centenary

     The centenary years of the First World War offered a powerful focus and sense of mission
     for History department, students and partners. Notable projects and initiatives included:
     events associated with the centenaries of the RAF and RAF Cranwell, and the support of
     the Armed Forces Covenant (Hubbard-Hall); home-front poetry (Jackson); and supervision
     of a PhD project from 2018 on the training of cadets at Cranwell (von Friedeburg).

 •   Local and regional history



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     The significance of local and regional history in public history nationally is a well-
     established strand of the department’s activity. Community engagement work that was an
     important element of the submission for REF 2014 was sustained into the present cycle.
     Projects involving local and regional reach included, for example: Celebrating Women’s
     Football and A Lincolnshire View of Women’s Suffrage public exhibition projects (Jackson);
     and the marking of the 800th anniversary of the Charter of the Forest (von Friedeburg). The
     latter example is an illustration of the combination of local and regional history with
     constitutional and legal history that has been beneficial to presenting the department’s
     research to sixth form students across Greater Lincolnshire.

 •   Covid-19

     Research on the impact of Covid-19 opened up some new public-history research
     opportunities for Jackson’s well-established work on the provincial press, and the
     comparative insights offered through study of the impact of the 1918-19 ‘Spanish Flu’
     pandemic.

 •   BGU archive

     The BGU archive dates back to the time when the institution was the Lincoln Diocesan
     Training College for Women. It has been a particular focus to research activity, including,
     for example: the Missionaries from the Lincoln Diocesan Training College, 1862-1918’
     project (Rhoden) on the digitisation of BGU archival records on its teachers.

 •   Community archaeology

     Community archaeology, together with the public history of the Roman and Medieval
     periods locally and regionally, is a strand of research and engagement activity that predates
     the previous History submission to REF 2014 and has continued throughout the current
     cycle. Projects have included annual archaeology field school excavations along ‘Ermine
     Street’ (Spence), and two at the medieval parkland site at Harpswell, Lincolnshire (Wright).

 •   Military history

     The establishment of military history as a core element of the department’s research,
     knowledge exchange and teaching activity builds on several public-history projects
     developed through the 2014-21 cycle. These include Hubbard-Hall’s contribution to the
     establishment of the Bomber Command Memorial Centre.

 •   Public events

     The Annual Public Lecture for History is an important showcase for the department and
     BGU. The event is a long-established partnership occasion that began during the 2008-14
     REF cycle, and involving the Lincoln Record Society, BGU’s Old Students’ Association, and
     other alumni groups. The speaker is external, but the choice of theme for this well-attended
     event links to research areas associated with staff activities, for example, Professor Richard
     Overy on the foundation of the RAF (2018), and Professor John Morrill on the Regicide in
     1649 (2019). In 2018 the department also established an Annual Public Archaeology
     Lecture, with Professor Susan Oosthuizen on continuities of agricultural organisation, from
     2018.

     The Public Humanities Seminar Series was established in 2015 and was directed primarily
     by the History department. The event has been an opportunity for staff and doctoral-student
     researchers to present their work, as well as featuring external speakers (see Section 2.1).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     The department established the City of Lincoln Branch of the Historical Association in 2014.
     Seminars and other events enabled public engagement and schools’ outreach activities –
     especially those hosted at BGU associated with the 1914-18 FWW centenary years.

     Humanities departments at BGU, including History, have become regular contributors to the
     Being Human Festival. The History department has been involved for a number of years in
     relation to the Festival’s chosen theme, with public events hosted at BGU, for example:
     Watching through time (Hubbard-Hall, 2016), Prisoners of conscience (Kent, 2017),
     Pioneering women (Kent, 2018 – with English) and A Lincolnshire view of women’s suffrage
     (Jackson, 2019 – with the English department).

 •   Student research engagement and co-production of knowledge

     Student involvement in the research process up to co-production is a typical feature of the
     department’s activities. Projects include Lincoln in 1914 in the Lincolnshire Echo (Jackson).
     A number have also been supported by internal funding by BGU’s Centre for Enhancement
     in Learning and Teaching (CELT), through the Learning and Teaching Investment Fund
     (LTIF) and Student Engagement Innovation Fund (SEIF): Lincoln Civil Defence Committee,
     1938-45 (Hubbard-Hall) and Making their way in the world: Missionaries from the Lincoln
     Diocesan Training College, 1862-1918 (Rhoden). Student engagement is also facilitated
     through seminar series, and History Film Club and Wargaming evenings.

     Engagement with schools is promoted through the involvement with the Historical
     Association as well as through individual contacts, such as the establishment of a best
     history prize in a school named after a member of staff (von Friedeburg).

 1.2.3 Interdisciplinary research

 The department has been building the scope of its interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
 activity. In part, this reflects the institutional aims to build research capability and capacity.
 However, it has also been accelerated by the development of collaboration bringing together
 history, heritage and archaeology, and other humanities departments.

 Under a previous organisational structure, the SoH had an interdisciplinary research cluster,
 ‘Identity, Culture and Communication’ (ICC). Established in 2016 with History a lead
 contributor, it drew upon the expertise and experience of staff across BGU’s History and
 English departments in particular, and underpinned major local research and impact projects,
 such as: Celebrating Women’s Football and A Lincolnshire View of Women’s Suffrage
 (Jackson).

 The introduction at institutional level of Research and Knowledge Exchange Units (RKEUs) in
 2019 saw the replacement of the earlier cluster and provided further historical foci and a
 platform for related interdisciplinary activities. Two new RKEUs were established: Unlocking the
 Archives (primarily History) with an emphasis on original research on primary archival sources,
 and novel approaches including the digital; and Voicing the Past (English with History and
 Archaeology) – see also section 2.1.

 1.2.4 Income

 As part of a wider institutional imperative, the department has aimed to increase its grant
 capture primarily through securing its first Research Council funding and through other grants
 to support its growing public history activities and related projects. The range of externally
 funded projects range considerably. Pump-priming, student-research engagement, and
 collective Cluster/RKEU projects have also been supported by internal funding from either the
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre (RKEC) or CELT (see Sections 3 and 4).


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.5 Doctoral research

 The establishment of a postgraduate researcher community is an element of BGU’s key
 strategic priority to achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers. It also realises a departmental
 ambition to establish a progression pathway from its MA programmes to doctoral study. History
 was identified as one of four subject fields to receive full institutional research degree
 studentships from 2016. The number of supervisors and supervisions have grown through the
 current REF cycle (see Section 2)
 .
 1.2.6 Strategy for post-REF 2021

 The History department’s strategy through the next cycle will in part reflect the current
 institutional strategic plan through to 2025, with the department committed to further:
 • Enhance outputs
 • Extend impact
 • Grow income
 • Increase doctoral student numbers.

 More specifically, the department identify the following:

 •   Output

     Staff will increase the level of research and raise the quality profile through an emphasis on
     the production of a greater number of monographs as a proportion of total outputs
     available.

 •   Place, public history, and local and regional history

     Activities will continue to develop inspired by the central research themes that underpin and
     cohere the department, typically around the exploration of place, public history, and
     localities and regions. Projects for the next REF cycle include, for example: exploring the
     centenary significance and public-history relevance of Britain in the 1920s (Jackson); the
     inter-war activities of activist Fenner Brockway (Kent); further development of the use of the
     BGU archive (Rhoden); and disseminating the most recent insights into the nature of early
     modern monarchy among 6th form students of history around the county (von Friedeburg).

 •   Military history

     The new military history/archaeology/heritage strand within the department will expand and
     develop through the next REF cycle, with various ongoing projects, including on the
     Gestapo (Hubbard-Hall), and civilian Internees and prisoners of war in India (Malpass).

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 The approach of the History department at BGU to staffing has been to increase the number of
 its research-active members through both recruitment and the development and support of its
 staff. More specifically, the recruitment of a Reader (Von Friedeburg) from 2015 was part of a
 wider institutional initiative and investment to establish a new and broader doctoral-supervisor
 base. Recruitment has also been targeted to support the teaching and learning of an increased
 student population and evolving programme structure, including the introduction of the joint
 honours provision in Archaeology and the single honours award in Military History.

 The department is now highly research active and has generated a large output pool. At the
 close of the REF 2021 cycle, it was supported by a larger number of established academic staff
                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 members, in terms of both those submitted and in total. The department has also maintained
 the impact case study threshold requirement of two (based on the work of Jackson and Wright).
 The department also engaged an external peer reviewer to support the open process of output
 quality evaluation and to provide mentoring support in the final stage of the assessment period.


 Table 2: History department permanent staff establishment (FTE)

                   FTE       Submitted    Reader        Senior       Lecturer     Doctoral
                                                       Lecturer                  Supervisors
   REF 2014         4.0          3            0           4              0           0
   REF 2021         6.6          6*           1+          4+             1           4

 * The output of a 7th, former member of staff will also be submitted.
 + See the following on promotions to Professor and Reader.

 The work of the members of the team through the current cycle has been recognised in a
 promotion round to take effect from the commencement of the 2021 period:
 • Professor of Modern History (von Friedeburg)
 • Reader in Public and Local and Regional History (Jackson).

 In the 2014-20 cycle, one member of staff (Hubbard-Hall) was awarded a sabbatical under the
 competitive internal scheme to support and accelerate the growth and development of research
 project activity. This related to expansion and extension of investigations relating to espionage
 and spy history.

 The department is productive as well as also collaborative and cohesive in its culture and
 identity. This is a benefit derived from the scale of the team, and its establishment in a single
 location with teaching and public spaces, and access to a relocated archaeology lab and other
 specialist facilities, such as digitization equipment. Staff numbers and physical location have
 facilitated team interaction, communication, exchange, peer support, and ethos.

 The former ICC cluster was set up to include History and other humanities disciplines as part of
 a strategic initiative. It has since been superseded by two RKEUs, Unlocking the archives and
 Voicing the Past. Together these features of the research infrastructure have contributed to
 facilitating staff development through cultivating collaboration, interdisciplinary activity, project
 development, event planning, bid writing, and mentoring of early and mid-career researchers.
 Cluster and RKEU seminars present opportunities for colleagues to present their research and
 invite external specialists, while collective projects foster internal and external links and co-
 production of knowledge.

 2.2 Postgraduate research

 The development of doctoral student research provision within the History department became
 established during the current REF cycle, with external approvals by the validating partner, the
 University of Leicester

 Doctoral research projects are typically supervised by disciplinary and interdisciplinary teams
 across the BGU Faculty. Supervisions involving History staff since 2014 are as follows:

 Table 3: Doctoral supervisions (head count)

                            Internal
                                            External
                    First        Second
   2014-20           2               4             2

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  First supervisions within the History department comprise:
 • ‘Robert Grosseteste and Knowledge Acquisition’
 • ‘The Shaping of Cadets at Royal Air Force Cranwell’.



 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Equality and diversity (E&D) are overseen and reported at institutional level, with UoA-specific
 profiling monitored and evaluated as part of centrally directed REF Equality Impact Assessment
 (EIA).

 The E&D data are reported in summary form in the Institutional Environment Statement, the
 EIA final report, and made available for audit as appropriate. Data are not given in detail in
 BGU’s REF5b Environment statements with full protected characteristics profiling, given the
 relatively small numbers of staff comprising the submission to this UoA.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The History department aimed to grow its research income, through greater grant capture from
 Research Council and related bodies, and independent research charities. This has been
 complemented by success in winning competitive internal funding aimed at pump priming or
 student engagement and co-production. The department has been awarded various grants and
 funding to support research and related impact through public engagement.

 Hubbard-Hall organised the Armed Forces Covenant Fund Trust, day conference, Armistice
 1918: Reflections on the First World War Centenary (in 2018); with £500. In addition, Hubbard-
 Hall has been awarded funding to support the following projects:
 • AHRC funding for the project Sanitation, Sand & Shells: The War Diary of Corporal Alfred
     Cockburn (RAMC) September 2016 - August 2017 (AH/L008297/1) £4,790 – with an
     exhibition at the Museum of Military Medicine May - August 2017
     https://museumofmilitarymedicine.org.uk/2017/07/01/sanitation-sand-shells-exhibition/;
 • BGU internal research investment award (2017). Project lead on Lincoln at War: Civilian
     Deaths during the Second World War, 1939-45. £1,643
 • Society of Antiquaries London – Janet Arnold Award for pilot project entitled Dress &
     Deception: SOE Spy Clothing September 2019 – September 2020. £6,975
 • Thomas C Cundy Fellowship awarded by the Institute of Second World War & Human
     Experience, Florida State University, 2019/20. Project entitled Sworn to Secrecy: Veteran
     Recollections of the Secret War. $1,000 (deferred post-pandemic)
 • BGU CELT funding (LTIF)/SEIF) (2019-20) for Lincoln Civil Defence Committee: 1938-45
     project, £2,000.

 Jackson received UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund support for work on Lincoln’s council estates,
 £12k.

 Kent’s research included support of the Lincoln Civil Defence project and for:
  • Lincoln at War: Civilian War Deaths during the Second World War, 1939-45 (supported by
     the RKEC and SoH).

 Rhoden was awarded internal support funding of £5,000 (2017-18) and £1,500 (2019-20) for a
 Lincoln Diocesan Training College digitisation project.

 Von Friedeburg, prior to joining BGU, ran as PI for a Nederlandse Wetenschappelijke
 Organisatie funded research project on Reason of State or Reason of Princes – the New
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Monarchy and its Enemies from 2010 to 2016. Final project outcomes following appointment to
 BGU included a monograph and an edited volume with highly selected and intensely curated
 contributions from several research project symposia, both published by Cambridge University
 Press.

 Wright received Castle Studies Trust funding of £300 in 2019-20.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Library
 The Lincolnshire Collection is a dedicated room within BGU’s main library. It was established in
 the 2008-14 cycle as a study space and resource centre to bring together all county-related
 historical material. Its use has developed since through the acquisition of more stock through
 bequests and donations, such as from the Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology.

 History-related electronic databases have expanded as part of the general expansion of
 resources by the main library, but include collections facilitating PhD research on topics related
 to the 16th-18th centuries.

 3.2.2 Archaeology laboratory
 The archaeology laboratory was relocated and expanded in 2016, with equipment augmented
 and updated. This has facilitated research partnership work with the Lincoln Archaeology Group
 and Lincolnshire County Council’s Portable Antiquities Scheme, as well as external research
 and student engagement through the Annual Archaeology Summer School.

 3.2.3 Digitisation suite
 Established in 2018 with £2.0 million support European Regional Development Fund, BGU’s
 Lincolnshire Open Research and Innovation Centre incorporated the inclusion of a digitisation
 suite to support the capture of large format and cradled historic documents.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society.

 4.1 Collaborative partnerships and networks

 The History department has been involved in collaborative partnerships projects, networks and
 groups with other institutions and organisations, including interdisciplinary and public
 engagement:
  • Hubbard-Hall is a member of the Military Welfare History Network – research cluster on
     Counter/intelligence and special operations with Dr Adrian O’Sullivan (November 2019), and
     of the City of Lincoln Historical Association Branch – Secretary (2014 - 2019). She
     established the City of Lincoln branch at BGU in February 2014 and is a Network member of
     British Academy Rising Star Engagement project (2017) Out of the shadows:
     understanding, researching and teaching covert action (with Dr Luca Trenta – University of
     Swansea). Hubbard-Hall also contributed to the D-Day Memorial Trust. D-Day 75 Story –
     SOE agent Jean Renaud-Dandicolle [Short Film – drawing upon original research]
     https://www.normandymemorialtrust.org/d-day-75-story/d-day-75-stories-captain-jean-
     renaud-dandicolle-mc/ which was shared via social media with over 10K views during first
     week, and is historical consultant on the Heritage Lottery Fund project, Sandford
     Cascade (2019).
 •   Jackson is currently member of the Lincolnshire County Council Arts Heritage and Nature
     for Health and Wellbeing Group, Lincolnshire County Council/Heritage England Extensive
     Urban Survey Steering Group, Heritage Lincolnshire National Heritage Open Days
     Lincolnshire Steering Group, City of Lincoln Historic Environment Advisory Panel, University
     of Lincoln – Lincoln Culture and Arts Partnership Steering Group, and formerly member of
     the Lincolnshire County Council Archives Development Board, and Heritage Lincolnshire
     Heritage Education Strategy Steering Group.
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Rhoden was the principal investigator and project lead on the internally funded research
     project: The world through their eyes: Sixty years of stories from Lincoln Diocesan Training
     College, 1895-1955 (2017-18). He is collaborating with colleagues at University of Sheffield
     on the history of populist regimes in the mid-19th century and with Chatsworth archives and
     library on bringing the historic house’s book history to a wider audience.
 •   Von Friedeburg is a member of the proposed COST network dEMEANOUR.
 •   Wright is a contributor to the AHRC-funded The sacred landscapes of monasteries project
     and was previously a contributor to the AHRC-funded Royal Residence Network. His
     ongoing collaborations include The Little Carlton Project (with the University of Sheffield and
     the Portable Antiquities Scheme), and Unravelling Millfield (Queen’s University, Belfast).

 4.2 Committee membership and leadership of associations and societies

 History staff are encouraged to represent the department and institution on standing committees
 and in lead roles in professional associations and learned societies:
 • Hubbard Hall has held the following: member of the HA Public History Committee (2015–
     19); member of the HA Higher Education Committee (2019-); City of Lincoln Historical
     Association Branch – Secretary (2014–2019). Established the City of Lincoln branch at
     BGU in February 2014; Member of the HA Public History Committee (2015–19); Member of
     the HA Higher Education Committee (2019–date).
 • Jackson is Chair of the History of Lincolnshire Committee (Society for Lincolnshire History
     and Archaeology), and a member of the British Association for Local History Education &
     Outreach Committee, Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology Executive
     Committee, Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology Local History Sub-Committee,
     Lincoln Record Society Council, and Survey of Lincoln Project Committee; and formerly
     member of the Social History Society Executive Committee, Geographical Association
     Lincolnshire Branch Committee, and Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology
     Publications Sub-Committee.
 • Kent is a Steering group committee member, East Midlands Centre for Learning and
     Teaching in History (2016–date) and a Strand convenor, Politics, policy and citizenship
     strand, Social History Society annual conference (2019–date).
 • Rhoden is Treasurer of the Lincoln City Branch of the Historical Association and member of
     the Society of the Study of French History.
 • Von Friedeburg is member of the Board, Johannes Althusius – Society for Constitutional
     History (www.althusius.de/althusius.htm) and was chair of the Jury for the Elsevier/Johan
     de Witt prize for the best M.A. and B.A. thesis on the Dutch Seventeenth Century, 2014-
     2016 (http://www.vriendenvandewitt.nl/home/elsevier-johan-de-witt-scriptieprijs/jury-en-
     initiatiefnemers).
 • Wright sits on the Archaeology Committee of the Society for Lincolnshire History and
     Archaeology – he was previously on the Committee for the Society for Church Archaeology
     (2010–2017).

 4.3 Publication editorial positions and reviewing activities

 Department members hold a range of editorial positions and undertake publication reviewing
 activities:
 • Hubbard-Hall was the first woman to be invited to sit on the editorial board of the Journal of
      Global War Studies (April 2017); and is reviewer for Journal of Intelligence & National
      Security; Journal of Global War Studies; International Journal of Military History &
      Historiography.
 • Jackson is Editor of Studies in the History of Lincolnshire (Society for Lincolnshire History
      and Archaeology); Reviews Editor, Editorial Board member and book reviewer for the
      International Journal of Regional and Local History; editorial board member and book
      reviewer for Family & Community History, Midland History and Rural History; and has
      additionally reviewed books and articles for International Labor and Working Class History,
      Urban History, and Victorian Periodicals Review.
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Rhoden is a regular reviewer for the French History journal.
 •   Von Friedeburg is a member of the Verein für Reformationsgeschichte, a Correspondent of
     the Austrian History Yearbook and a member of the International Board of Il Pensioro
     Politico and has reviewed 2014-2019 widely for the American Historical Review, the English
     Historical Review, Francia, the Historische Zeitschrift, the Journal of Early Modern History,
     Rechtsgeschichte, Sehepunkte, and Zeitschrift für Historische Forschung.
 •   Wright is an external examiner for the Undergraduate Diploma and Advanced Diploma in
     British Archaeology at the University of Oxford (Department of Continuing Education). He
     was previously Reviews Editor (2010-2016) and Editor (2016-2017) of Church Archaeology.
     Wright regularly acts as a reviewer for journals such as Medieval Archaeology, The
     Archaeological Journal, Landscape History, and Church Archaeology.

 4.4 Conference and symposium organisation

 History staff have organised a range of conferences, symposia and public events:
 • Hubbard Hall organised: Armed Forces Covenant Fund Trust; day conference Armistice
      1918: Reflections on the First World War Centenary, 2018. £500 funded ten transparent
      seated military figures. The silhouettes formed part of the national There But Not There
      project which placed a representative figure for every name on local war memorials around
      the UK, providing a powerful act of remembrance marking the end of the First World War;
      100 years on D-Day 75 International Conference, University of Portsmouth, 2019,
      organising committee and chair of plenary panel on Intelligence and D-Day.
 • Rhoden was on the organising committee for the British Association for Victorian Studies
      Annual conference (2017).
 • Von Friedeburg ran as PI an NWO (Nederlandse Wetenschappelijke Organisatie) funded
      research project (€744,000) on Reason of State or Reason of Princes – the New Monarchy
      and its Enemies from 2010 to 2016 that employed three PhD students. As part of that
      project, he organised several conferences, including in 2008, 2011 and 2016. Selected
      contributions appeared with Cambridge University Press in 2017, co-edited Robert von
      Friedeburg and John Morrill.

 4.5 Grant/project external peer refereeing/reviewing

 Staff have engaged in roles relating to the external refereeing of grants/proposals:
 •    Jackson has been a general and knowledge exchange reviewer for the Peer Review
      College since 2016 (AHRC and ESRC grants).
 •    Von Friedeburg served as external grant reviewer and external referee for academic
      promotions. In 2019 he served as external referee for an Application to the European
      Research Council for the FWF (Austrian Science Fund). In 2017 he served as External
      referee for a tenure procedure at the University of Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A. In 2015
      he served as external referee for a promotion to a higher professorial rank at the University
      of California, at Riverside; in 2015 he served as a member for an Evaluation committee to
      evaluate the History Faculty, University of Bochum, Germany. In 2014 he served as
      External referee for a tenure procedure at the University of Minnesota, U.S.A.
 •    Wright has acted as external grant reviewer on behalf of the Czech Science Foundation
      since 2018.

 4.6 Awards, prizes, distinctions and fellowships

 The team have received awards, prizes, distinctions or fellowships relating to their research or
 research-related activities:
 • Jackson was elected Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society (2017) and Fellow of the
     Society of Antiquaries (2018).
 • Von Friedeburg is a member of the Royal Historical Society and was Elected into the
     Academia Europea in 2012. He was elected into the Vereinigung für Verfassungsgeschichte
     (Society for Constitutional History) in 2019.
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Wright was elected Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries (2017).



 4.7 Keynote addresses and public lectures/workshops/performances/media

 History staff have been invited to give a wide range of academic keynotes and papers, and other
 public lectures, workshops, performances and media engagements.
 •    Hubbard-Hall organised the Being Human event at BGU in 2016 on the theme of Watching
      through time: Surveillance, the State & civil liberties. Hubbard-Hall has presented
      conference/academic papers to University of Northampton (2016), University of
      Roehampton (2018), the Social History Society (2016, 2019), Sheffield Hallam University
      (2016), University of Kent (2019), Florida State University and Ohio University (2020),
      University of Lincoln (2020); and given public lectures/talks to the Lincoln City Council
      (Environmental Health Officers) (2018), the Monsters Conference (BGU) (2018). Media
      engagements and consultancy include LBC Breakfast (2015), Nazi Secret Files (2015)
      (AHC, History Channel, Discovery UK, and various European TV channels), and BBC Radio
      Scotland (2019).
 •    Jackson has presented conference papers for: European Labour History Network, Social
      History Society (x4), The National Archives (x2, Dissenting Voices of the FWW and Voices
      of the Home Fronts), The National Archives/Research Libraries UK (Discovering
      Collections/Discovering Commdepartmenties), Raphael Samuel History Centre (Radical
      Histories), University of Edinburgh (Cultures of Communication), University of Huddersfield /
      Middlesbrough Council (Victorian Cities Revisited), University of Lincoln C19 Group, Urban
      History Group, Lincoln Record Society (x3); public lectures/talks for University of
      Nottingham Local History Seminar Series, West Wolds U3A, Louth U3A, Sleaford History
      Group, Nettleham Heritage Group, Billinghay History Group (x2), City of Lincoln Historical
      Association (x2), Lincoln Geographical Association, Torksey History Group (x2), Social
      Science Centre Lincoln, BGU Humanities Seminar Series, Witham U3A, The Survey of
      Lincoln Project (x3), Coningsby and District History Society, and The Lincolnshire Archives
      Seminar Series (x2); workshops for Heritage Lincolnshire Layers of History Project, St
      Georges Academy Ruskington, Ermine St Commdepartmenty Dig, Project Lincoln; and
      performances at The Lincoln Drill Hall Theatre, BGU’s National Poetry Day (2016), and the
      Lincoln16 Festival.
 •    In 2019 von Friedeburg gave key-note lectures at the conference on Monarchy and
      Modernity at Cambridge Law Faculty and at the European Academy of Religion conference
      at the University of Bologna. He was invited to give a lecture at the History of Christianity –
      Seminar at the Faculty of Divinity, University of Cambridge in 2020. He responded to the
      contributions of invited specialists and participants in debate during two symposia organised
      to discuss his recent monograph Luther’s Legacy: The Thirty Years War and the Modern
      Notion of ‘State’ in the Empire, 1530s to 1790s, at the University of Cambridge in 2016, at
      the German Historical Institute, London, in 2017, and at the History Department,
      Georgetown University, Georgetown (Washington DC), U.S.A., in 2017. He gave lectures
      and papers to the following conferences and networks: The Early Modern Sovereignties
      Conference, University of Leuven, 2015; Philepol: Professor Yves Charles Zarka, Universite
      Descartes, Sorbonne, Paris: Jean Bodin et la souverainete, 2015; Making Constitutions,
      Building Parliaments: ICHRPI 66th Annual Conference London in 2015; The Mazarinades:
      Nouvelles Approches. Colloque International organise par la Bibliotheque Mazarine, Paris,
      2015; „Das Bild der Reformation in der Aufklärung“, for the Verein für
      Reformationsgeschichte, at Freiburg/Breisgau in 2015; Changing Narratives of the Rule of
      Law: Historical and Contemporary Perspectives conference, in 2016, Erasmus Law School,
      Rotterdam, Netherlands; Apres un demi-millenaire, Erasme de Rotterdam: La religion et la
      politique face a la guerre – Colloque Scientifique International, at the University of Fribourg,
      Switzerland in 2016; Recht, Obrigkeit und Religion in der frühen Neuzeit, Tagung des Hans
      Liermann Instituts für Kirchenrecht, Universität Erlangen, in collaboration with the Johannes
      Althusius Gesellschaft at Wittenberg, 2016; Annual St. Andrews Book Conference: Conflict
                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     and Controversy, at the University of St. Andrews, School of History, 2016; Protestantism
     and Political Rebellion in Early Modernity-conference at the University of Granada, 2016;
     Research Network EPCOT, LUMEN Centre for the Study of Lutheran Theology, as an
     invited Lecturer, at the University of Aarhus, 2017; The Discourse of British and German
     Colonialism: Convergence and Competition, Queen Mary University London, 2018.
 •   Rhoden has delivered public lectures at the University of Sheffield’s Centre for 19th Century
     Studies (2016), the Historical Association, Lincoln City branch (2017) and Heritage Open
     Day (Lincoln 2018); and has presented academic conference papers at the Society for the
     Study of French History (2016 & 2019) and ‘Monarchy and Modernity' conference at
     University of Cambridge (2019).
 •   Kent organised Heritage Open Days at BGU on the themes of Prisoners of Conscience
     (2017) and Pioneering Women; gave public talks to the Armistice symposium (BGU (2018),
     and for Heritage Open Days (BGU) (2017); and presented a conference paper to ‘Voices of
     the Home Fronts: Reflections and legacies of the First World War’ (The National Archives)
     (2018)
 •   Wright has presented university-based public lectures at Newcastle University (2017),
     Queen’s University Belfast (2019), The University of Leeds (2019), The University of Lincoln
     (2018), The University of Oxford (2011, 2018, and 2019), and The University of Sheffield
     (2019). His invited extramural public appearances include lectures to The Cambridge
     Antiquarian Society (2017), The Collection Museum Lincoln (2016), The Council for British
     Archaeology East Midlands (2018), The Hough-on-the-Hill History Group (2019), The
     Medieval Settlement Research Group (2019), The Nettleham History Group (2016), The
     Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology (2017, 2018, and 2019), and The Spirit of
     Sutterby Group (2017, 2018, and 2019). Wright has presented conference papers to the
     Landscape Archaeology Conference (2016 and 2018), and the Leeds International
     Medieval Congress (2014 and 2017).




                                                                                           Page 13
