Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University

 Unit of assessment: 3 - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 Health research sits in the Faculty of Health, Education and Life Sciences (HELS), formed in
 2014 to create a new community of practitioner educators. HELS, which occupies Birmingham
 City University’s (BCU) City South campus, has invested over £41million in campus
 development since 2014 towards a mission to be an outstanding provider of practitioner
 education for Birmingham and the region. Building a research engaged community of health
 and social care practitioners (staff and students) is at the heart of the Faculty’s mission and
 health and social care research has played a central role in transforming the culture and values
 of the Faculty and its work in challenging and reducing health inequalities and securing safe,
 high quality health and social care for the region. The Faculty provides strategic oversight for
 research through the Associate Dean for Research (ADR) and has invested in a ‘grow our
 own’ research strategy. Over £5million of investment in research priorities since 2014 has
 resulted in significant overall gains for the Faculty with a 66% increase in researcher
 capacity, 77% increase in research income and 230% growth in doctoral awards. New
 teaching and research facilities have supported strategic expansion of the disciplinary make-up
 of the Faculty with a new suite of programmes in Life Sciences and Sport and Exercise
 Science being added to the existing health and education portfolio in 2016. This has created a
 rich inter-disciplinary environment for Health researchers providing first-rate biomedical,
 physiological, and nutrition science laboratory facilities as well as a new, dedicated technical
 support team

 Organisation of research in UoA 3

 BCU made a first-time submission to UoA3 in 2014 returning 12.10 FTE Category A staff.
 Since 2014 our ‘grow our own’ strategy for Health research (circa £900,000 in salaries) has
 resulted in a 36% expansion of staff with Significant Research Responsibility (SRR) in
 UOA 3 in 2020 (16.5 FTE Category A). This is particularly notable given a substantial number
 of retirements over the REF period with only 1.65 FTE of the 2014 group retained. This
 submission evidences the successes of our mission to build a new, inter-disciplinary
 community of health researchers through investment in people, post-graduate researchers
 (PGRs) and partnerships whilst simultaneously ensuring sustainability through increasing
 external income and securing the regional national and international reach of our work.
 HELS comprises three schools and two research centres that feed into UoA3:
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Health research is led by the Centre for Social Care, Health and Related Research
 (CSCHaRR), launched in 2009 and led by Brooke since 2019 after the retirement of the
 previous director. The core CSCHARR team comprises three professors, (Cowdell, McAcree,
 Brooke) appointed since 2014 to build a new senior group to support capacity building and
 development, a Reader (Dyson appointed October 2020), two Senior Research Fellows
 (Weckesser, Cook), one Research Fellow (Williams), and four Research Assistants
 (Hughes, Aston, Bradbury, Biernat).

 The significant evolution of our health research community since 2014 has necessitated re-
 alignment of CSCHaRR’s research clusters and the development of a complementary ‘sister’
 centre in 2019, the Centre for Life and Exercise Sciences (CLaSS) which has grown out of
 CSCHaRR’s ‘Science for Health’ cluster. CLaSS is led by Tsaprouni, supported by a newly
 created permanent research assistant post (Lewis). The two centres have six constituent
 research clusters that drive income generation and research and researcher development as
 well as providing specialist support for our Postgraduate Research (PGR) students and an
 intellectual underpinning for our taught programmes. Each cluster is led by an internationally
 recognised senior researcher supported by post-doctoral researchers, research assistants and
 PGRs and brings together researchers with SRR alongside Emergent Researchers (ERs – see
 section 2 for definition) from across the Faculty’s academic staff.

 CSCHaRR-Family, Gender and Health Cluster
 This cluster is led by Williams and Weckesser, and includes 4 Emergent Researchers and 9
 doctoral students. The cluster’s research objectives are understanding the needs of families and
 role of family in illness prevention and health promotion. Current research projects are related to
 period poverty (Williams), use of period tracking apps and chronic health conditions (Williams),
 STI testing kit use (Weckesser, Williams, and Hughes), delivery of sexual health services
 (Weckesser, Hughes, and Aston), maternity services evaluation (Weckesser & Hughes), and
 endometriosis (Weckesser). Doctoral projects are concerned with teenagers’ experiences of
 endometriosis (Randhawa), sexual assault support services (Shiboleth), and sexting
 (Anastassiou). This cluster works closely with the Elizabeth Bryan Multiple Births Centre which
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 focuses on the impact of multiple births on families. (McGrath-Scott) and parenting during the
 first five years (Maguire, Turville).



 CSCHaRR-Knowledge to Care Cluster
 This cluster is led by Cowdell and supports 2 doctoral students. This cluster is particularly
 focussed on building capacity amongst our practitioner educator groups and draws 15 Emergent
 Researchers from our wider academic staff. The cluster’s research objectives are to develop
 theory and practice of evidence-informed healthcare using strategic integration of co-creation,
 knowledge mobilisation, patient and public involvement and engagement, implementation
 science and impact. Current research projects are related to atopic eczema knowledge
 mobilisation (Cowdell) and Social Prescribing (Dyson).

 CSCHaRR-Person-Centred Aging Cluster
 This emerging cluster is led by Professor Brooke and has four SRR and Emergent Researcher
 members and a doctoral student (Gerritsen). The cluster’s research aims are to conduct
 translational research that supports and improves care for older people, particularly the
 importance of dignity and respect and supporting service users’ personal perspectives, values,
 beliefs and preferences. Current research projects are related to technological innovations and
 older people’s dignity (Cowdell), pressure ulcers (Cowdell and Dyson), frailty interventions
 (Cowdell), post-discharge care for older people (Dyson), and dementia care in prison settings
 (Brooke).

 CLaSS-Life Sciences for Health and Disease
 This cluster is led by Vraudenhill, has 15 SRR and Emergent Researcher members, and
 supports two doctoral students (Afonja and Mason-Smith) and one MRes student (Rageh).
 The cluster’s research objectives are to understand the mechanisms behind major global
 diseases and health challenges. The current research projects are related to respiratory
 infections in people with Cystic Fibrosis (Barnett), Disease prognosis in Chronic Obstructive
 Pulmonary Disease (Tsaprouni and Afonja), antimicrobial potential of liquorice root
 (Goldberg), genomic analysis of multi-drug resistance (Haq), the role of calcium signalling in
 autophagy (Isola), transcriptional regulation in adrenergic neuroblastoma (Jahangiri),
 protective function of Angiopoietin-1 (Tahir).

 CLaSS-Interdisciplinary Life and Sport Science
 This cluster, led by Jahangiri, focuses on improving health through collaborative research in
 the fields of Life, Sport, and Exercise sciences. The cluster has eight SRR and Emergent
 Researchers and two PGRs (Abdullah and McAuley) and one MRes student (Cavanagh)
 currently undertaking research projects. Research includes investigating the pathogenesis of
 neuroblastoma (Jahangiri and Hurst), ‘The Football Gene Project’ (McAuley, Hughes, Kelly,
 and Tsaprouni), and 'The establishment of temporal transcriptional signatures and induction
 of autophagy during neuroblastoma differentiation induction by epigenetic regulators" (Ishola,
 Cavanagh and Jahangiri).

 CLaSS-Sport Sciences for Health and Disease
 This cluster led by Gough has 4 core members with SRR, supports 15 Emergent Researchers
 and 7 PGRs, 5 of whom are funded by partnerships with sports club partners including
 Worcester Warriers RFC, Warwickshire Cricket Club, Wolverhampton Wanderers Football
 Club and Birmingham Swimming. Project activity focuses on Athlete development and Youth
 Sport (Kelly), nutrition and supplementation (Gough, Cole) Injury and Rehabilitation (Herbert)
 and the role of genetics in bone mineral density in athletes (Herbert). This new grouping was
 granted a ‘small unit exemption’ from submission to UoA24 for REF 2021.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research objectives 2014-2021
    1. Increase funding, to support growth and sustainability
 External income has increased by over 76% since REF2014 with total income awarded over
 the period £1,895,000. The value of the current health research portfolio is £807,000. This
 growth has been matched by diversification of funding streams to include the NIHR, NHS trust
 partners, charities such as the Health Foundation, and industrial collaborations through
 Innovate UK. This has been achieved by both expanding our expert base through strategic
 investment in new appointments and developing the skills of all our staff (e.g. Cook was fully
 funded to undertake an MSc in Medical Statistics) to extend capability in key areas. The award
 of two Health Foundation grants that make use of our new capability with advanced statistical
 techniques illustrate the success of this approach. Our strategy has been complemented and
 underpinned by a more systematic approach to opportunity and horizon scanning undertaken
 by a dedicated central team of Research Development Support Officers (RDSOs) from a
 central Research and Innovation Gateway (see 5a and Section 2).
    2. Responsiveness to national and international health care challenges
 The significant development and realignment of our research structures described above
 underscores our recognition that research groupings should not be static but alert to the
 changing needs of the health and social care communities we serve. Our rapid response to the
 challenge of COVID-19 with the launch of projects exploring the effects of social isolation older
 people (Brook), the experiences of care home staff and health care professionals (Brooke)
 and the impact of the pandemic on Period Poverty (Williams, funded by the ESRC rapid
 response fund) exemplify this dynamic relationship.

 International reach and the responsiveness of our work to global health care challenges,
 particularly in low and middle income countries, has been a particular strength over the REF
 period. This has been achieved through targeted investment in the development of key
 partnerships sustained through funding and patronage from governments and national health
 services to support highly focussed activity that addresses local development goals. Good
 examples of this are: Vietnam (development of nursing workforce), Ukraine (older adult care),
 Zambia (critical care nursing), and continued collaborations with Slovenia (Faculty of Health
 Care Jesenice), Philippines (University of Silliman), New Zealand (University of Auckland)
 exploring both evidence to practice and student nurses’ cultural perceptions of dementia.
 Development of an international cadre of leaders for older person’s care across Europe is
 funded by the European INNOVATEDIGNITY-ITN project.

    3. Maximising the impact of our work

 The capacity of our work to deliver benefit to the communities we serve was recognised as a
 key strength in REF 2014 and a commitment to research that ‘makes a difference’ continues to
 inform both our approach and investment decision-making.

 Our research in Health continues to be purposefully ‘close to practice’ and most often
 undertaken collaboratively with practice partners in the health and social care and third sectors
 e.g. Craftspace (McAree), Endometriosis UK (Weckesser), Plan International UK
 (Weckesser, Williams and Hewett), and HMP Dartmoor (Brooke). As such pathways to
 impact and sevice-user benefit are integral and priority dimensions of research design. This
 focus is strengthened by co-ordinated support for Patient and Public Involvement and
 Engagement (PPIE). All researchers work in collaboration with the Faculty’s Forum for
 Accessing Community Experience, which provides expertise and networking opportunities with
 service users and Experts by Experience. CSCHaRR’s ‘impact fund’ supports researchers to
 resource PPIE at all stages of their research (£250 per project) and for dissemination and
 promotion of research outcomes outside academia (£500 per project).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In 2016 we invested £162,000 in creating four permanent research assistant posts (Hughes,
 Aston, Bradbury and Williams) to build additional capacity for supporting systematic
 approaches to impact. Our research assistants work alongside a newly appointed team of
 University Impact Officers (see REF 5A) to support partnership development, design pathways
 to impact, lead on the development and coordination of impact work and support development
 of impact case studies. A programme of workshops supported ongoing development of this
 work between 2017 and 2019, with external experts providing additional guidance and support.
 For example, in March 2019, Dr Djerasimovic, an impact case study researcher from the
 University of Exeter, led a workshop for all researchers, research coordinators, Faculty REF
 impact case study leads and Faculty research media officers.
 CSChaRR hosts an annual Health Conference to facilitate knowledge exchange between
 academics, students, external partners and organisations, which also provides opportunities
 for networking within and across research clusters and developing impact in practice-focused
 settings. The 14th Annual Health Conference was held on the 2nd July 2019 at STEAMhouse, a
 BCU centre, which facilitates collaboration between researchers in the arts, science,
 technology, engineering, and maths.

 The success of our impact strategy is evidenced by our impact case studies. For example, the
 work of colleagues from the Family, Gender, and Health cluster led to prominent changes in
 practice. Research outputs were cited in NICE Guidelines [NG72] and Birmingham’s Women’s
 Hospital reported adjusting their practice in managing medication for pregnant women with
 epilepsy as a direct result of our research findings. This research has been supported by the
 development of the Elizabeth Bryan Multiple Births Centre which was established at BCU in
 2018 in collaboration with the Multiple Births Foundation. The Centre, a national leader in a
 niche field also provides research-informed education and supports the development of
 national standards for the care of multiple births and their families.

    4. Fund, nurture and expand doctoral and post-doctoral research

 Increasing growth in PGR enrolments to secure the research pipeline has been a key strategic
 priority. This has been enabled by building new supervisory capacity through recruitment of
 experienced senior academic staff and substantial Faculty investment in PGR studentships.
 Total investment in funding UoA3 PGRs has increased by 505%, from £96,253 in 2014 to
 £582,606 in 2020. In addition, HELS has pioneered a Graduate Research Teaching Assistant
 (GRTA) role (see section 2), which provides a fully funded PhD alongside a 0.2 Assistant
 Lecturer contract. Two GRTAS are recruited to the health research field each year. As a
 consequence our postgraduate community has both grown and flourished with PGR
 enrolments increasing from 33 in 2014 to 57 in 2020 and 23 students completing
 doctorates in Health compared with 10 in 2014.

 UoA3 research objectives and strategic aims 2020 to 2025

 Our ambition for the next 5 years is to continue to strengthen CSCHaRR’s position as an
 international centre of excellence for ‘close to practice’ research that shapes regional, national
 and international healthcare policy, guidelines and practice. We will achieve this by:

    1. Continuing to grow researcher capacity and capability

 We will continue to grow practitioner-researcher capability through development of staff at all
 career stages, from supporting staff to undertake doctoral study to developing Band 1-3
 researchers (see section 2) into the next generation of research leaders. We will increase the
 number of colleagues with significant responsibility for research by at least 100%. We
 will invest in diversification of our community to ensure that representation of BAME
 researchers better reflects the make-up of our Undergraduate and regional communities. We
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 will achieve this through a pipeline review, pro-active approaches to recruitment and strategic
 use of our fully-funded Graduate Research and Teaching Assistant scheme (see section 2).

    2. Diversification of our PGR community

 We will introduce a Professional Doctorate in Health (DHealth) in September 2021 that will
 diversify our PGR offer by providing a part-time practice-orientated route into doctoral study
 that will be attractive to clinicians. This will be responsive to the recommendations of the
 Broken Pipeline report on barriers to access to PhD study for Black applicants (Leading Routes
 2019) recognising a broader range of practical attributes and experiences as entry
 requirements and opening up opportunities for entrants with non-traditional higher education
 profiles. We will grow PGR enrolments (PT and FT) to UoA3 by 85% and increase awards
 by 50%.

    3. Investing in sustainable ‘close to practice’ research with global reach

 We will continue to be responsive to global healthcare challenges and grow our knowledge
 and expertise through ongoing investment in collaboration with our existing networks of
 regional, national and international clinical partners. We will prioritise research that has real-life
 application to clinical practice in both health and social care settings and focus on our
 contribution to healthcare standards and guidelines both in the UK and internationally. We will
 optimise impact by ensuring that our work underpins our undergraduate practitioner education
 offer. We will focus particularly on building new partnerships to support our work in the fields of
 Dementia, Critical Care Nursing and Respiratory Care and in consolidating and extending the
 impact of our work on health and social care workforce and practice development in low and
 middle income countries.

    4. Building multi-disciplinary collaborations

 Global healthcare challenges can only be adequately addressed through inter- and multi-
 disciplinary collaboration to influence both regional, national, and international policy,
 guidelines, and practice. Our aim is to develop inter- and multi-disciplinary research within and
 across BCU Faculties, as well as strategic alliances with regional, national, and international
 partners. Our aim includes the continuation and development of our work with NHS colleagues
 across NHS Trusts, Her Majesty’s Prison Service, care homes, and County Councils, with the
 support of further grants from prestigious institutions, such as the Health Foundation and
 National Institute for Health Research.

 Section 2. People

 Overview

 Recruitment and staff development strategies in UoA3 and the Faculty are focused on creating
 a diverse and inclusive work environment and ‘growing our own’ research community. In
 support of this ambition we have worked hard to create a sustainable workforce through a
 focus on talent retention, internal promotions, and continuing professional development. This
 has involved:

    •   Appointing experienced senior staff to provide leadership and mentoring to support
        capacity and capability building
    •   An intensive focus on providing development opportunities for both existing and newly
        appointed academics;
    •   Supporting registered healthcare professionals to enter academia and develop hybrid
        identities as internationally recognised clinical academic researchers;
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Recruiting a new generation of hybrid practitioner-researchers through our GRTA
        scheme
    •   Ensuring that academics at all stages of an academic research career are encouraged
        to articulate their research aspirations and fully supported to achieve their full potential.
 Recruitment
 Since REF2014, significant investment (approx. £900,000) has been committed to the
 appointment and retention of researchers contributing to UoA3 activity. Since REF2014 ten
 new appointments have been made to UoA3. A Professor of Nursing and Health Research
 (Cowdell), Professor of Midwifery and Maternal Health (McAree) and two Readers in
 Life/Health Sciences (Lee and Tsaprouni) provide leadership and mentoring for research
 capacity and capability building. Junior level strategic appointments within CSCHaRR and
 CLaSS have included permanent roles for three Research Assistants (Hughes, Aston,
 Bradbury), Research Fellow (Williams), Senior Research Fellow (Weckesser) and a Senior
 Research Fellow and specialist statistician (Cook). Transferring junior staff on fixed term
 contracts onto permanent contracts has created stability and predictability, built a stronger
 team ethos and strengthened the research pipeline.
 The faculty has also pioneered a new Graduate Research Teaching Assistant (GRTA)
 scheme, launched in 2014, to recruit and nurture a new generation of academic staff. GRTAs
 are appointed on a 4-year contract comprising a paid 0.25FTE Assistant Lecturer role in a
 relevant school and 0.75FTE PhD study attracting a fee waiver and stipend (at UKRI
 recommended value). GRTAs are fully supported to complete a PG Cert in Teaching and
 Learning and to gain Advance HE Associate Fellow Status. HELS has invested £1,658,424 in
 the scheme and 4 GRTAs are recruited to the health group each academic year. The scheme
 provides a sustainable and supported pathway for staff retention with GRTAs becoming
 permanent members of teaching and research staff for example Maguire took up a full-time
 senior lecturer role in the School of Nursing in 2018 and Biernat joined CSCHaRR as a full-
 time Research Assistant in May 2020.

 Leadership
 CSCHaRR and CLaSS are led by Centre Directors (Brooke and Tsaprouni) working with
 Cluster leads and a network of School Research Directors and Research Co-ordinators
 reaching into each of the faculty’s departments to secure a dynamic, responsive research
 infrastructure. This ensures that centres are able to nurture and support a large group of
 healthcare professionals entering higher education as a ‘second career’ who have a wealth of
 clinical expertise but have limited research experience and may be yet to achieve a doctoral
 level qualification. This conduit between our research and practice teams also ensures that
 research remains responsive to contemporary clinical issues and highly focused on achieving
 improved patient outcomes.
 Promotion
 Annual appraisal and Personal Research Review (see below) are used proactively to support
 and structure career development for researchers. BCU has an annual promotions and
 conferment round for which researchers are mentored by the ADR and Professorial team.
 Since 2014 Harvey was promoted to Professor, Jenkins and Jones to Reader and
 Weckesser to Senior Research Fellow and Williams to Research Fellow. This continuous
 stream of promotions, 100% of whom were women, evidences our commitment to growing and
 supporting the career progression of researchers.

 Support and development for researchers at all stages of careers

 The BCU research career framework recognises two distinctive groups of academic staff
 who are developing their research careers: 1) emerging researchers, those at the early
 stages of establishing a research career who may be undertaking doctoral work or building a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 post-doctoral profile but who do not have significant responsibility for research; 2) established,
 independent researchers who have significant responsibilities in relation to research.
 Researchers in the latter group can apply for three research bands (Bands 1-3) annually.
 HELS provides a comprehensive and tailored support for staff in each phase of the career
 framework.

 Staff in Group 1 are supported to undertake a doctorate through a generous package of fee
 payment and 0.1FTE workload remission. This is additional to 22 days of scholarship time
 allocated to all staff. On completion of their doctorate, the 0.1FTE allocation continues for an
 additional year to secure time for post-doctoral publishing and networking. In any year, the
 faculty supports doctoral fee payment for between 80-100 staff. Since REF 2014 this support
 package has enabled 13 of the Faculty’s health educators to achieve a doctorate with an
 additional 44 working towards completion of a PhD or Professional Doctorate in Education.
 In addition to 0.1 FTE workload remission, staff in the post-doctoral phase are supported by a
 structured network, convened by Devaney and Kendall, that meets monthly to provide
 targeted support on grant capture, writing for publication and profile building to enable
 progression to Band 1 status. These initiatives are complemented by a peer-to-peer mentoring
 scheme supported by senior researchers. To date, 21 researchers are mentors/mentees. 30%
 are PGRs in the middle of their study; 25% are PGRs towards the end of their study; 25% are
 post-doctoral researchers; 10% are Band 1; and 10% are Band 3.

 Staff in Group 2 have significant responsibility for research and allocated research allowances
 of 25%, 35% and 50% of workload according to research band (Bands 1-3). Bandings are
 reviewed annually as part of the Personal Research Review (PRR) exercise, enabling
 academics to build flexible career trajectories. PRR follows BCU’s code of practice and
 involves self-reflection, target-setting and a self-assessment of banding against published
 criteria. Completed PRRs are peer-reviewed by a member of the professorial team who makes
 a recommendation to support or amend self-assessment of bandings. Recommendations are
 moderated by a cross faculty, interdisciplinary panel. The PRR process feeds into annual
 appraisal discussions. This has been important for securing recognition and support for
 researchers who have practice-facing line managers with less experience of research. The
 embedding of the PRR process over the REF period has been supported by annual training
 workshops from the ADR for Heads of Department and their line manager teams. Group 2
 researchers play an active role in the co-ordination and support of clusters and
 mentoring of Group 1 and post-doc researchers.

 An annual pilot project and sabbatical funding call provides opportunities for staff to apply
 for longer periods of research leave or funding to undertake pilot projects as a springboard to
 larger, externally funded projects (seed funding). An annual budget of £25,000 is allocated to
 pilot projects (with up to £5,000 awarded for each project) and £10,000 for sabbaticals.
 Projects must align with research cluster priorities and the application process is a competitive
 one. All staff are invited to apply for both initiatives. Since 2014, over 35 pilot projects and 13
 sabbaticals have been awarded across the Faculty, with a high percentage (80%) of female
 awardees. This has supported awardees to achieve a range of research outcomes, including
 writing up doctoral theses (e.g. Edwards). It has been a requirement for project proposing
 teams to include less experienced researchers and external partners to build confidence,
 experience and research networks. Weckesser, Williams and Vreugdenhill were awarded
 pilot funding in 2019 and Aston and Craddock in 2020, Williams’ pilot project formed the basis
 for a successful submission to ESRC.

 HELS recognises that academic writing is a social practice that requires dedicated, protected
 time. All staff are entitled to attend writing retreats. Since REF2014, three writing retreats have
 been offered every year (Oct/January/July), with an average of 30-35 staff and PGRs attending
 each retreat. The retreats are held off-campus at the Woodbrooke Quaker Centre facilitated by
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 a writing mentor and the ADR. Faculty writing retreats have been complemented by specialist
 retreats to support specific development needs of the new UoA 3 research community. A
 tailored CSCHaRR writing retreat was introduced in 2019. This took place at The Forest of
 Arden Hotel, on 15- 16th August and promoted the importance of writing for impact and
 dissemination. The retreat was attended by 18 members of staff from across the School of
 Nursing and Midwifery, Life Sciences and members of CSCHaRR. This was a collegiate event,
 with lunch and dinner to engage in networking and getting to know new colleagues. Feedback
 from the event was positive:

 “A great opportunity to concentrate and have dedicated time to work my paper up ready for
 submission. I had my doubts that we could all be productive working together in one room, but
 the experience really supported me and I enjoyed the peer support during lunch and over
 dinner.”


 Class and CSHaRR are each allocated an annual budget of £20,000 to support researchers at
 all career stages to share their work at local, national and international conferences,
 Professors and Readers have access to an additional fund of £10,000 each year to support
 development.

 Developing researchers as doctoral supervisors has been a key tenet of the faculty’s ‘grow our
 own’ strategy and the number of doctoral supervisors in HELS has expanded from 48 in
 2013/2014 to 103 in 2020. Staff development and training in doctoral research supervision are
 provided through a combination of externally accredited and unaccredited doctoral supervision
 programmes and support sessions. In 2015 HELS led development of a University-wide
 bespoke SEDA-accredited programme, Communities of Practice around Research Supervision
 qualification for doctoral supervisors. It is the first, and currently only, accredited supervisor
 training programme in the UK and has a specific focus on the pedagogical dimensions of
 supervision. By December 2020, 40 out of 58 of health specialist supervisors had
 completed the programme, with 18 having gone on to gain full accreditation and an
 additional 12 currently enrolled on the programme. In 2020, the programme was successfully
 revalidated by SEDA for a further 5 years. All staff involved in supervising dissertations at level
 7 are also required to undertake SEDA accredited training, which helps to embed a serious,
 systematic culture around research supervision. In addition, the DRC offers a supervisor
 development programme for all doctoral supervisors, organised and delivered by an
 internationally renowned expert, Professor Jerry Wellington. Furthermore, the DRC academic
 team provide an ongoing series of workshops and training on key doctoral topics: research
 degree regulations, supervisor briefings, the doctoral examination (viva), viva chair training and
 supporting the wellbeing and mental health of PGRs. In January 2021 the Faculty’s excellence
 in doctoral supervision was recognised internationally with the award of a £65,000 grant
 from the British Council to develop an international 'Digital Doctoral Training Hub' as
 part of the UK-China-BRI (China/Vietnam/Indonesia) Education partnership Initiative.

 Postgraduate Research Students

 Expanding the size and shape of the PGR community has been fundamental to developing
 and enriching the research culture in health. Our postgraduate community has both grown and
 flourished with PGR enrolments increasing from 33 in 2014 to 57 in 2020 and 23 students
 completing doctorates in Health compared with 10 in 2014 (230% increase). Students
 complete within the timeframe allowed by their award and the team is particularly proud that
 part-time students who are usually juggling study with full time clinical employment taken on
 average just 72 months to progress from enrolment to award. These figures are clear
 testament to the ongoing commitments described above to increasing and enhancing the
 quality of our doctoral supervision along with support for PGRs described below.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Recruitment of PGRs

 Recruitment to PGR programmes in Health is overseen and quality assured by Thomson as
 part of a three strong Doctoral Research College (DRC) academic team of PGR Directors
 representing the faculty’s constituent academic disciplines and supported by two full-time DRC
 officers who are part of a large central University team. The DRC has developed a rigorous
 and comprehensive framework for the recruitment of doctoral students. This starts with
 doctoral open days, the offer of informal meetings with prospective candidates prior to
 application, face to face/online interviews and detailed feedback on all applications. More
 recently, the GRTA scheme has been mobilised proactively to diversify the research
 community in response to recommendations of the ‘Broken Pipeline’ report; this work includes
 the introduction of pre-application workshops and greater emphasis on ‘equivalent’ experience
 and qualifications. The majority of PGRs are funded through the GRTA scheme or employers
 but a growing number of full-time students are funded by external bodies with five funded by
 collaborative partners, 1 by the Heather van der Lely Foundation trust and 1 by the
 Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme.


 PGR Training

 The DRC team work with CSCHaRR and CLaSS to oversee an annual programme of training
 opportunities that complements the formal structures of the PGR life-cycle and is responsive to
 needs identified through annual monitoring and the annual PRES survey, and ensures a
 secure grounding in research governance and integrity.

 All PGRs complete a milestone tracker in their first month of enrolment that maps a pathway to
 completion within the timeframe allowed by their award. The Post-graduate Certificate in
 Research Practice ensures that they are equipped with a sound understanding of
 epistemological and ontological concepts, together with methodological research skills and
 ethical and GDPR responsibilities.

 Skills development and the monitoring of progress are closely supported and
 strategically managed through the DRC and Faculty Research Degrees and Environment
 Committee (FRDEC). The Faculty has adopted the principles of the Vitae research
 development framework to support the maturation of its research community, and this is
 embedded within Annual Progress Reviews (APR). APRs offer a three-stage process for
 PGRs, involving student self-reflection and assessment, supervisor comments and
 independent review by a third party who acts as ‘critical friend’ offering support and guidance
 to the student and supervisory team. A progression recommendation made to FRDEC helps to
 provide an overview of student progress but also highlights any students identified as ‘at risk’
 so that additional support protocols can be put in place if necessary. APRs identify individual
 skills planning and training needs. PGRs are set realistic but ambitious targets for
 dissemination and impact of their work. Like staff, they are encouraged to attend writing
 retreats to ensure dedicated time for this activity. PGRs disseminate their work through internal
 and external research events seminars and the annual CSCHaRR and CLaSS conferences.
 PGRs can apply to a £10,000 development fund to support dissemination externally. By the
 third year of full-time study or sixth of part-time study, PGRs are expected and funded to
 present their work to both national and international audiences. This expectation is discussed
 and tracked through evidence included in the APR. This financial support allowed our students
 to present at important academic conferences including those organised by UKRI Mental
 Health Nursing Networks (Barrios, 2017), International Sociological Association (Sallaway-
 Costello, 2018), British Sociological Association (Klimczak, 2019), and The British
 Psychological Society (Safi, 2019). PGRs affiliated to CLaSS have access to a further £10,000
 annual fund to support purchase of non-standard consumables.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 A complementary programme of support is coordinated through the Faculty’s ‘Doc Skills Hub’.
 This includes weekly/fortnightly methodology seminars and formal scholarship and the less
 formal, subsidised breakfast and lunch club, thesis mentoring sessions and pop-up skills
 sessions. PGRs are also invited to attend the annual cycle of writing retreats (see above).
 Each year the new intake of GRTAs work with the Centre Directors to curate and organise the
 annual conference.

 Promotion of equality and diversity
 BCU’s commitment to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) is reflected in the Core Values
 Framework of Excellence, People Focused, Partnership Working, Fairness and Integrity.
 These values underpin all processes within the University and provide a framework of
 principles that all employees strive to uphold. EDI is promoted and achieved through the
 implementation of robust guidance, policies, and university-wide priorities that ensure dignity
 and equal opportunities for all students and staff. As a result, we attract a diverse staff profile
 and 27% of staff at the Schools of Nursing, Midwifery, and Life Sciences are from Black, Asian,
 and Minority Ethnicities. In addition, the central EDI team and faculty-level champions facilitate
 the implementation of EDI-focused initiatives and provide learning opportunities related to (for
 example) Black History Month and Disability History Month. The commitment to EDI is further
 reflected by the cultivation of student and staff networks such as the LGBTQ+ network which
 provides a safe space to discuss and act on any relevant issues. A support structure is in place
 for staff and students with Specific Learning Difficulties and, in 2013, the faculty of Health was
 the first UK university to receive the Dyslexia Friendly accreditation by the British Dyslexic
 Association.

 BCU remains committed to implementing strategies to eliminate gender bias and develop an
 inclusive culture that values all staff, through these processes the institution received an
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award in May 2017. The School of Nursing and Midwifery gained a
 Bronze Award in April 2020. Female researchers at all stages of career have the opportunity to
 participate in the Programme for Women Achieving Excellence in Research (PoWER)
 developed and launched in the Faculty in October 2017. This programme, now University wide,
 aims to empower women to reach their full potential in academia. PoWER uses established
 behaviour change theory to identify and overcome barriers to progression. Participants attend
 meetings and events over the course of a year, and are offered coaching and ongoing support,
 with the expectation of completing a minimum of two research outputs.

 Evidence of the promotion, leadership visibility (HELS’ ADR and CSCHaRR and CLaSS
 Directors are all women), awards of internal funding and sabbaticals to women researchers
 and an increase in the number of women submitted to REF in UoA, from 7 (46.6%) in
 2014 to 12 (70.6%), testify to the impact of these key initiatives.

 All staff directly involved in REF decision making attended Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 (EDI) training provided by AdvanceHE. The Unit took a collective and collaborative approach to
 building the submission involving all academics with SRR and RAs in the self-assessment and
 moderation of output stages of the process to optimise learning, secure succession planning
 and emphasise our commitment to an open, collegiate and transparent research environment.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 New investment from both the University and Faculty investment has been used effectively to
 build a diverse project portfolio and the team have been successful in increasing research
 income by 76% generating in developing and obtaining numerous prestigious grants which
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 resulted in the generation of £1,896,000 of external funding. The largest proportion of our
 income has been derived from projects sponsored by the UK Government and NHS
 (£668,693) and EU-based charities (£174,666). A substantial proportion of income was
 generated through grants from UK-based charities (£324,952) competitive and non-competitive
 funding. Examples of the most recent awards include:

    -   Family, Gender and Health cluster obtained £260,000 from the Health Foundation in
        2019 to explore the contributory factors underpinning nurse retention in healthcare in
        England and its impact on patient safety (NuRS project, Jones in collaboration with
        Cook). This cluster was also awarded £10,763 from the Umbrella Sexual Health in
        2019 to conduct a qualitative study of home sampling kits for sexually transmitted
        infections (Weckesser);

    -   Knowledge to Care cluster obtained £261,237 from the NIHR in 2016 to investigate
        knowledge mobilisation in eczema. Cowdell was also a co-investigator on a €303,172
        (Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovation Training Networks in 2019) INNOVATEDIGNITY
        project that aims to develop a shared research and training agenda to educate the next
        generation of interdisciplinary health care researchers and care leaders across Europe.

 A full-time Research Development and Support Officer (RDSO) supports the notification of
 funding opportunities, development of bids, tracking of live projects against milestones,
 developing a portfolio of current publications, and supporting event management. The RDSO is
 an integral member of the health research team attending monthly research centre meetings,
 bid pipeline meetings, planning and research strategy development days, FRC meetings as
 well as ongoing project review meetings for all ‘live’ health projects. The quality of bid
 submissions is supported through an internal peer-review process. For less experienced
 researchers, the RDSO and professorial team provide dedicated support from the ‘develop a
 bid’ stage through to the point of submission.

 The supportive structures have enabled junior researchers to successfully obtain ‘first time’
 funding and build the confidence, experience and capability to support the step up to Principal
 Investigator roles. For example, Williams was a co-lead on a £8,000 project funded by a
 charity Plan International UK and obtained £650 from Clue to evaluate inclusivity in ‘femtech’,
 and obtained £42,421 as a Principal Investigator from the Economic and Social Research
 Council to investigate the impact of Covid-19 on menstrual health and period poverty.

 Our dedication to sustaining this growth and attracting further funding is illustrated by the
 substantial grants that were in final stages of development and approval at the date of
 REF2021 submission. These are predicted to generate over £1 million of income and include
 prestigious funding bodies such as the Health Foundation and the National Institute for Health
 Research.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Health research has benefited from substantial University-level investment in research
 governance since 2014 (see REF 5a). This has secured a significantly transformed,
 comprehensive policy and infrastructure framework that is well supported by a centralised
 team of dedicated research excellence (RX) and research gateway (RIG) officers who oversee
 all aspects of the research governance and project support life-cycle. HELS FRC, chaired by
 Kendall (ADR), brings together RX/RIG officers, the University’s insurance, EDI and Finance
 officers, Research Centre leads, academic leads for ethics, research integrity and Athena
 Swan to ensure that research governance at UoA level is systematic, compliant and informed
 by best practice. In turn, each Research Centre supports a network of Research Co-ordinators,
 reaching into every department within faculty to ensure the principles and practices of good
 governance are cascaded and embedded, along with providing a point of contact for training,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 support and dialogue. HELS has developed an inter-disciplinary research governance Moodle
 site and online-training materials and resources to support staff and students to achieve best
 practice.

 HELS Academic Ethics Committee (FAEC) has oversight of all Education and Health related
 research for the University, and all levels of student and staff research follow a common
 approval process supported by the University’s online portal and team of ethics officers. HELS
 appoints a Chair and Deputy Chairs (x3) for a three-year term with 0.25FTE and 0.2FTE
 respectively invested in each of these roles to reflect the significance and value of the work
 and the expected contribution to providing staff development and training. The FAEC Chair’s
 group is recruited to represent the constituent disciplines of the Faculty. Chairs are supported
 by a network of Departmental Ethics Champions who provide a conduit between FAEC and the
 needs and challenges of departments. This supports strong dialogue, a collective,
 developmental approach to ethical practice and ensures that FAEC is responsive to the needs
 of a highly diverse, interdisciplinary research community.

 Securing an open research environment has been central to our commitment to ensuring that
 research is co-produced with, and impactful for, collaborating partners, particularly practice
 based and international partners who do not have easy access to a research library.
 CSCHaRR and CLaSS are committed to a green open access policy for all research outputs
 and related activity. BCU’s Open Access (OA) Repository acts as the main location for staff to
 deposit research outputs, though this is complemented by dedicated project web-spaces that
 share the tools and processes of our work with a wider practitioner community on an OA basis.
 Health researchers work closely with BCU’s OA Officer and library team who provide ongoing
 training and support alongside a dedicated UoA moderator and OA champion (Cowdell).

 The DRC and RIG and RX research support teams are co-located with CSCHaRR and CLaSS
 researchers in a dedicated building, establishing a recognisable and distinctive physical
 presence. The building houses office space, a research seminar room and top floor studio that
 supports PGRs working with arts-based practices. This is complemented by a purpose built,
 recently refurbished DRC Hub. The DRC hub offers a vibrant, exclusive space for PGRs that
 provides dedicated desks, computer and photocopier access and kitchen access. The space is
 co-managed by PGR course representatives and FRDEC. HELS funds a weekly fruit delivery
 to the hub.

 HELS invested £70,000 between 2018 and 2019 in equipment to support fieldwork, data
 collection and analysis for use by staff and PGR researchers. This includes audio and video
 recording equipment and a bank of 35 long-loan laptops. All equipment is GDPR compliant,
 and usage is managed through the faculty’s GDPR standard operating procedures and
 protocols, which is overseen by the dedicated Research Integrity officer.

 All researchers and doctoral students have access to specialist research equipment,
 appropriate IT hardware and software, and laboratory facilities. There are two dedicated
 librarians who support our researchers and PGRs. The library support includes individual and
 group tutorials on request, workshops delivered on topics such as copyright for researchers,
 induction and ongoing support of PGRs, and advice for uploading research publications onto
 the repository. A wide range of print and electronic literature can be accessed through the Inter
 Library Loan service which borrows from institutions such as the British Library and other
 Universities.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview

 The research environment and support processes discussed above encourage staff members
 to produce research outputs that have contemporary relevance and contribute to expanding
 knowledge and improving practice. As the ‘University for Birmingham’ and in line with the
 Universities’ Core Values Framework we strive to work collaboratively and to ensure that our
 research has tangible benefits for the society, this is evidenced by examples below.

 Contribution to the research base

 The Centre’s commitment to contributing to the knowledge base is evidenced by outputs
 including 313 journal publications, 12 book chapters, 3 books, and 2 specialist issues of
 journals.

 Ten of our members have positions on the editorial boards of prominent journals such as the
 Emergency Nurse (Bryant), Journal of Cancers (Jahangiri), BMC Nursing and British Journal
 of Dermatology (Cowdell) and the Journal of Clinical Nursing (Brooke). Professor Ross is an
 editor for the National Institute for Health Research Journal Library.

 Furthermore, core and associate members (Weckesser, Brooke, Cowdell, Walsh, Jenkins,
 Hogan, Leaver, Rabiee-Khan and Hurst) actively support the peer review process of relevant
 journals such as the British Journal of Community Nursing, Nursing Older People, BMJ Open,
 Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group, Journal of Public Health, European
 Journal of Public Health Nutrition, and Sex Education.

 Our staff influence the direction of national and international research by disseminating their
 findings at regional, national, and international conferences. Of particular importance are
 opening and keynote presentations including Brooke’s invited opening speeches at the Annual
 Nursing Conference (Kosovo, 2017) and International Nursing Conferences (Slovenia, 2017,
 2018, 2019), Jenkins’ invited keynote at the Nursing Care Congress (Japan, 2018), and
 Cowdell’s invited keynote presentation at the Sustainable Caring for Health and Wellbeing
 Conference (Finland, 2019).

 Further contributions to the research base occur through collaborative work with external
 academic institutions and participation in academic networks. Collaborations are sustained
 through visiting roles and partnerships at other UK universities such as Canterbury University,
 University of Birmingham, Coventry University, and University College London. Our
 collaborations also extend beyond the UK with partnerships in Australia (Brooke), China,
 Netherlands (Vreugdenhill), Italy, Greece (Hurst), Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Saudi Arabia,
 Poland, Belgium (Rabiee-Khan) and Sweden (McAree). Through these collaborations
 researchers have conducted and explored endogenous retrovirus research (Hurst) and the
 impact of COVID-19 on university staff and students (Rabiee-Khan). Lastly, collaborations has
 occurred through the Erasmus scheme on projects exploring safeguarding for family mental
 health (Clark), and endogenous retrovirus workshops (Hurst).

 Staff contribute to research networks, bodies, and councils through voluntary positions. Ross
 is vice-president of the British Association for Sexual Health and HIV. Brooke is a director of
 the International Dementia and Culture Collaborative, an expert member of the National
 Research Ethics Service for Health Research Authority. Jenkins is a resource reviewer for the
 World Health Organisation. Cowdell was a Chair Elect of the European Academy of Caring
 Sciences for 2019 and is a UKDCTN Executive Committee Member and Trustee. McAree is
 an advisory board member for UKRI COVID-19 task force on maternity care. Staff members
 participate in the following NIHR groups: Health Technology Assessment Funding Committee
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and Dissemination Centre Panel of Expert Commentators (Ross), Research for Patient Benefit
 (Weckesser and Brooke), CRN Specialty Cluster C Dermatology (Cowdell), Evaluation, Trials
 and Studies Coordinating Centre (Clark).

 Contributions to economy and society

 Our members are recognised experts in their fields and actively influence the direction of
 health care locally, nationally, and globally. This is achieved through fellowships and positions
 in medical councils and professional bodies such as the Royal Colleges of Nursing, Winston
 Churchill Trust (Cannaby and Brooke) and Midwifery (McAree), British Association of
 Dermatologists, Society for Academics in Primary Care (Cowdell), and Public Health England
 WHO Collaborating Centre for Public Health Nursing and Midwifery (Clark).

 Our colleagues directly contribute to health care delivery, McAree, Ross, and Cannaby
 through clinical roles at local NHS trusts (as a lead midwife, consultant physician, and chief
 nursing officer respectively). These roles facilitate impact on practice in internationally reputed
 health services and the application of current healthcare to teaching and research at BCU.

 Additionally, our staff use their research- and industry-derived knowledge to support the
 development of health and social care policy. For example, Clark was invited to present
 evidence to an All-Party Parliamentary Conference (2019) on Witchcraft-related Child Abuse
 linked to Faith and Belief and Williams contributes to the research stream of the Period
 Poverty Taskforce (Government Office for Equalities). The work of Family, Gender and Health
 cluster on menstrual health and endometriosis awareness informed the first NICE guidelines
 for the diagnosis and management of endometriosis. Research activities for the BME Mental
 Health Project: Being Understood, Being Respected (funded by the Department of Health) and
 dissemination of findings from among service users, carers, frontline organisations, and policy
 makers resulted in substantial changes in mental health care provision for BME populations in
 Birmingham (Rabiee-Khan).

 Our staff shape and influence national and international conversation through public events,
 media presence, and development of user-oriented literature. Examples of this include the
 development of social media content to raise awareness of sexually transmitted diseases
 (Ross) and menstruation awareness (Williams), a series of reports on period poverty
 (Williams, Weckesser, Randhawa), multiple public events by The VQ collective on women’s
 sex (Weckesser), a series of fact sheets on maternity care (McAree), and contribution to blogs
 on careers in STEM (Jahangiri) and care for prisoners with dementia (Brooke).

 An example of our wider community activities is PGR participation in the Brilliant Club, a
 charity that allows outstanding pupils, who may not be thinking of going to university, to learn
 about university life and research. To date, PGRs participated as tutors and delivered short
 courses about their research to the pupils. Through this engagement we motivate young
 people from underrepresented backgrounds to consider pursuing a degree and facilitate their
 progression to highly selective universities.
