Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment 20: Social Work and Social Policy

 SECTION 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 Key achievements over the REF2021 assessment period, at-a-glance:

    •   Publications: 47
    •   Total funding: GBP40,000
    •   PGR students: Since 2015 the Unit has achieved 5 PhD completions (including 2
        collaboratively supervised PhDs), and 11 are registered in 2020
    •   Employer engagement: database of 50+ organisations involved in our work
    •   600% increase in visiting researchers: 6 research professors and fellows, drawn from
        industry partners since 2018
    •   Staff with doctoral qualifications has increased from 2 staff with PhDs and no
        professors in 2013/14 to 1 professor, 1 reader, and 6 staff with PhDs in 2021

 Unit context and structure

 The University of Chichester (UoC) UOA 20 submission encompasses academic teams working
 in the overlapping areas of Social Work and Social Policy (SWSP) and Early Childhood. This
 group comprises the academic departments which established the Centre for Workforce
 Development, through which our research activity has been developed since 2016.

 The Unit and the Centre are led by Dr Kish Bhatti-Sinclair, Reader in Social Work and Social
 Policy, Dr Janet McCray, Emerita Professor of Social Care and Workforce Development, and
 Dr Sandra Lyndon, Senior Lecturer in Childhood Studies. Since its inception, the Centre has
 successfully promoted a positive, culturally vibrant research environment, befitting the
 University’s broader aim of fostering impactful, interdisciplinary and employment-focused
 research.

 Interdisciplinary research was further encouraged by a University restructure in 2018, which saw
 Social Work, Social Policy and Early Childhood join Psychology, Counselling and Teacher
 Education within a new Institute of Education, Health and Social Sciences (IEHSS), co-directed
 by Chris Smethurst and Dr Antonina Pereira.

 Research and impact strategy

 Strategic vision

 Mirroring the UoC’s broader strategic vision, we are committed to ensuring that our research
 contributes towards the welfare and sustainability of a broad range of stakeholders within our
 local economy/population and the wider world. This is particularly the case in relation to
 workforce development, which we have cultivated as a focus within the REF2021 assessment
 period. In order to deliver on these aspirations, the Unit has embedded the following measures,
 which are described more fully below:

    • Targeted support for research and innovation projects
    • Strategic links with internal and external research experts
    • Protected time for research related activity
    • Funded training, development, conferences and strategic partnership activities
    • Supervision and support for ‘research active’ students, staff and leaders
    • Opportunities for joint collaborative research projects and research funding proposals
    • Promotion of key research leaders


                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Infrastructure research facilities to enable staff to publish outputs of a minimum of 1 and
        up to 4 articles
    •   Increase in staff numbers holding or working towards a research degree and equivalent
        eligible to supervise postgraduate research students

 Research excellence

 Under the umbrella of the Centre our research profile has achieved regional and national
 recognition. Our focus on the needs of the workforce has resulted in research projects rooted in
 evidence-based professional practice. Since 2015 there has been a significant increase in the
 number of funding applications and commissioned projects with which we are affiliated.

 We have seen an increase of 600% in the numbers of visiting fellows (5) and professors (1).
 These colleagues occupy prestigious roles within the NHS and social care sector. Mr David
 Beattie, Consultant Surgeon, and Professor Ben Mathews are Visiting Professors within the Unit.
 We have also recently awarded Visiting Professor status to Dr Cate Bell (Head of Research and
 Nursing, Midwifery and Health Professions), Clinical Academic Programme Lead, Western
 Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust). Our visiting fellows in social care are Ms Karen
 Stevens (Locality Manager, London and South East, Brighton & Hove, East Sussex, West
 Sussex Skills for Care); Mrs Rosemary Pavoni, Chair of the West Sussex Partners in Care; and
 Mr Rodney Noon (editor of Seen and Heard and Executive Member of the National Association
 of Guardians and Legal Review Officers).

 In addition to the above, the Unit has awarded 4 PhD bursaries within the REF2021 assessment
 period, and the achieved an impressive number of completions through an increase in the
 number of qualified supervisors working in multi-disciplinary supervision teams.

 The changes outlined above have resulted in a range of positive outcomes, including a total of
 47 books, peer-reviewed journal articles and academic chapters: 8 (Bhatti-Sinclair); 8 (McCray);
 8 (Lyndon); 11 (Mikuska); 1 (Kurowski); 7 (Price, M); 1 (Baeza); 2 (Smethurst); and 1 (Price, D).
 Staff publications are held on the University’s Open Access platform ChiPrints, alongside which
 colleagues are encouraged to upload relevant papers and reports onto ResearchGate, the
 Social Sciences Research Network, Google Scholar and other public websites. Put together, this
 has resulted in a wide dissemination of SWSP research.

 Employer engagement and links with industry

 Since 2013/14 our Unit has developed strong professional relationships with a wide variety of
 public sector healthcare, social care and community organisations. This is evident in our recent
 appointment of visiting academics from industry, as described above.

 A recent example of our links with industry is our 2019 commissioned review and revision of the
 national Foundation Programme Curriculum for newly qualified Foundation Doctors. This funded
 commission includes a follow-up evaluation of the efficacy of learning sets and delivery of the
 revised curriculum for doctors and trainers. When, in 2019, we were approached to deliver this
 work, the commissioners cited our reputation both for developing innovative learning approaches
 with medical professionals (McCray) and for our research on professional values (Bhatti-
 Sinclair).

 The ’Well-Led Project’ (McCray – see REF3), is a further example of a project addressing the
 needs of the professional workforce. In this case the focus was on registered managers in adult
 social care, across four geographic regions. Participants reported that the research process
 enabled them to learn how to gain personal support and develop coping strategies. In order to
 lead their individual services and develop emotional resilience, individual work-based problem
 solving in action learning groups shown to be highly effective. Partly as a result of this research,
 Skills for Care are now reviewing the training programme for registered care managers and the
 South East England Regional Lead is working with us to further develop national standards.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We work effectively to integrate to facilitate co-production of projects, involving employers,
 education providers and policy makers. In 2018 the University led a consortium of 11 universities
 and colleges and 5 local authorities to deliver an Office for Students-funded project, ‘Co-
 designing curriculum innovation to address Health & Social Care skills gaps in Sussex, Surrey,
 Hampshire & Isle of Wight’ ( Harper, Smethurst, McGregor). The project evaluated barriers to
 HE participation and career progression for staff working, or contemplating a career, in the
 Health and Social Care sector. The collaborative approach incorporated input from the Sussex
 Learning Network, Skills for Care and Health Education England. It also dovetailed with a further
 UoC project, ‘From Adversity to University’ (Edwards and Lyndon), detailed below, which
 culminated in the successful introduction of an innovative ‘bridging programme’ into Higher
 Education for people who have experience difficult life circumstances (including homelessness).

 Our collaborative approach extends to research design and evaluation. It involves partners and
 stakeholders from the start, ensuring that they can contribute to the planning process and claim
 ownership of methodologies and findings. We build ongoing evaluative feedback processes into
 our projects. This model enables us to react quickly and positively to changing ideas and
 circumstances.

 The ‘Well-Led Project’ provides an example of this approach. The project offered ongoing
 support to both the project commissioners and the research participants. This was noted by the
 project commissioner Mike Derrick (Chair of the Registered Care Association for East Sussex,
 Brighton and Hove), who stated that ‘We benefited from support throughout the project, they
 helped us design and measure the project outcomes and supported us to evaluate the project’
 (Derrick, 2/2/2021).

 Our inclusive approach to research design and evaluation supports active stakeholder
 engagement and thus maximises the potential for conclusions and recommendations to be
 implemented in practice. For example, our research on resilience and well-being (McCray) has
 received national recognition for its impact on the development of good practice in management
 and leadership. Similarly, our methodological approaches, such as action learning, narrative,
 autoethnography and focus groups, have catalysed significant change in a range of contexts
 (McCray, Lyndon and Mikuska). Furthermore, outputs from applied research include project
 reports based on evaluative data derived from the following studies: Wandsworth Borough
 Council Looked after Children and West Sussex Children Services ‘Five to Thrive’ (Bhatti-
 Sinclair).

 Secondary analysis of statistics on child abuse and exploitation informed several publications,
 including papers based on a cross examination of approximately 2,000 reports in the print media
 and 2011 Census data on grooming gangs exploiting children in selected localities (Bhatti-
 Sinclair – see REF3). In turn, these studies have catalysed further research, including a PhD
 bursary to conduct a pan-European study of grooming gangs.

 Policy development on contemporary public concerns

 Bhatti-Sinclair is regularly consulted on the development of social policy and sits on several
 national committees. These include the WRES (Workforce Race Equality Standard) Advisory
 Group set up by the Department Health and Social Care/Chief Social Workers to develop race
 equality standards. We are consulted on public policy at strategic meetings with, for example,
 medical staff from the Western Sussex NHS Trust, and senior managers and Principal Social
 Workers from Southampton, Portsmouth, Surrey, Hampshire, West Sussex and Isle of Wight
 Councils. Most recently, our expertise has been sought in relation to the data challenges
 generated by the Covid-19 pandemic, and employer evidence on racism faced by staff and
 students within the context of Black Lives Matter (detailed below).

 Covid-19 and work-related stress


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Workforce welfare emerged as an acute concern in early 2020, when staff in the public sector
 (our key constituents) faced unprecedented challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a
 result, our research on management and leadership, sleep and work, poverty, austerity and
 policing child exploitation (Mikuska and Bhatti-Sinclair) received even greater attention from
 organisations employing key and frontline workers than it hitherto had. Skills for Care, the NHS,
 and the Care Associations of West and East Sussex have shown a particular interest in 2 key
 research areas: the disproportionate risks facing black and minority ethnic staff, and the isolation
 faced by managers supporting staff and residents through grief and loss (Price).

 This interest has generated 3 ongoing collaborative projects, commencing in 2020 and involving
 stakeholders from Skills for Care, the NHS and regional care associations:

 (a) Gathering data on the training needs of registered care managers (McCray)
 (b) Surveying the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on black, Asian and minority ethnic social
 care staff in residential care (Bhatti-Sinclair)
 (c) Researching the impact of stress on the sleep patterns of senior social care managers
 (Bhatti-Sinclair, Smethurst)

 Black Lives Matter

 As a result of current concerns about racism in society, our reputation for research in this area
 led to the following developments in 2019/20:

    •   The Policy Advisor of the Chief Social Workers Office, Department of Health and Social
        Care, is working with Bhatti-Sinclair to develop a research project which compares the
        social work educational standards across the 4 countries of the UK with the aim of
        addressing the race equality gap in the social work curriculum
    •   Bhatti-Sinclair has been invited to act as an advisor, consultant and member of a
        number of UK groups including:
             o The National Education and Training Advisory Forum, Social Work England
             o The Workforce Race Equality Standard Advisory Group, Department of Health
                 and Social Care
             o The Joint University Council, Social Work Education Committee: Research
             o The NIHR Applied Research Collaborations (ARCs), Kent, Surrey and Sussex
                 (KSS) Organisation and Research Capacity (ORCA)
             o Scotland HEIs social work managers and leaders
             o The Principal Social Workers Group in Surrey and Sussex
             o In addition, Bhatti-Sinclair chairs a network of 50 senior black social work
                 academics working across the UK and overseas (Social Work Education Anti-
                 Racist Education Group)
 This activity has been mirrored by a number of events and research papers:

    •   A Community Care podcast on anti-racist social work, 9 July 2020 (Bhatti-Sinclair)

    •   An expert panel paper (Bhatti-Sinclair) on anti-racist social work practice, which
        attracted approximately 2,000 participants (Community Care Live, 13/14 October 2020),
        amplifying the reach and impact of our research outputs internationally

    •   Managing and supervising a pan-European PhD study in Child Sexual Exploitation with
        Hampshire Constabulary, working in collaboration with police forces in the Netherlands
        and Germany (Bhatti-Sinclair)

    •   A keynote lecture (Bhatti-Sinclair) on ‘Diversity and Difference in Social Work
        Education’, World Social Work Day, London Metropolitan University, March 2019




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A keynote lecture (Bhatti-Sinclair) on ‘Looking forward, Looking Back: developments in
        Anti-Racist Social Work Practice’, Black History Month Programme, Brunel University,
        October 2018

    •   A keynote lecture (Bhatti-Sinclair) on ‘Safeguarding and Racism to the International
        Congress of the British Association for the Study and Prevention of Child Abuse and
        Neglect’ (BASPCAN)

 Widening HE participation among those affected by homelessness and adversity

 Our ‘From Adversity to University’ project (Edwards and Lyndon) has attracted collaborations
 with local homelessness charities (such as Stonepillow and Bognor Housing Trust) and received
 funding from the UPP Foundation. This money has supported longitudinal co-productive
 research designed to evaluate the outcomes of the project and further collaborative projects with
 UPP, including a national webinar to launch a ‘toolkit’ for setting up similar projects in other
 universities.

 The project has been successful in attracting a range of international and national media
 coverage, including on radio, television, YouTube and broadsheet media. This includes an
 article published in The Guardian (April 2019), interviews with students about their experiences
 of the project on local radio (SpiritFM, February 2019), and articles in local newspapers (e.g.,
 Chichester Observer, May 2019). The project is being considered for the UoC submission for the
 Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education.

 A vibrant and visible research environment

 Over the course of the REF2021 assessment period, the Unit has placed an ever growing
 emphasis on building a strategically coordinated research culture. Central to this has been a
 keen internal focus on supporting our staff to undertake publishable research, doctoral and
 postdoctoral qualifications, and to bid for internal and external research funding.

 Internal Events

 Research Summits (3 per year)

 These full-day workshops began in 2015. Aimed at all researchers, from PGR students to staff
 members, the Research Summits have enabled our doctoral students to talk about their
 progress and share potential challenges and recent successes in a supporting environment. The
 workshops follow a structured agenda to enable an equal share of time, so every student has
 the opportunity to reflect on their research journey and ideas for future work.

 Methodology Mastermind Seminars (monthly)

 These seminars have been in place since 2015. Each session comprises 1 PhD student and 1
 ‘Critical Friend’/‘Chairperson’ (a peer committed to encouraging and supporting the student). The
 student presents ideas about a topic (e.g. austerity and foodbanks) and/or methodological
 concern (e.g. autoethnography) for 15 minutes. They then have to answer 3 pre-prepared
 questions directed by the Chairperson. The expert audience are then invited to ask follow-up
 questions. This provides an excellent opportunity for those preparing for a doctoral viva or who
 are in the process of producing a research proposal to seek and gain peer feedback.

 Research Café Presentations (fortnightly)

 Presented fortnightly since 2015, these cafés are for postdoctoral, doctoral and staff
 researchers, are invited to present recent ideas or methodological challenges in formal
 presentations to peers and academic staff, with a view to seeking feedback, questions and
 comments in order learn, develop and change. The research paper may be at introductory,

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploratory or advanced level, and there is an expectation that the speaker will engage with the
 audience in a reflective manner.

 Externally, our focus has been to increase our number of PGRs and build on our positive links
 with industry, via events to promote and sustain these aims. Such events have included expert
 seminars and conferences showcasing the work of staff, students, visiting fellows/readers and
 professors, which have led to concrete outcomes such as joint publications with service users,
 carers and external partners.

 External Events

 Expert Seminar Series (3 per year)

 We regularly host distinguished guest speakers within the Unit, which are open to all. These
 have included:

     •    2017: Professor Mekada J. Graham (Chair of the Department of Social Work, California
         State University Dominguez Hills). Her scholarly works focus on social work
         theory, childhood and oppression studies.
     •    2017: Professor Trish Hafford-Letchfield (University of Middlesex). Her specialist
          research interests are in cross-disciplinary support for improving the quality of care for
          older people from marginalised populations, intersectionality and equality issues in social
          work.
     •    2018: Dr Cate Bell (Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trusts), ‘What does an
         excellent practitioner look like?’
     •    2018: Professor Graham Riches (Emeritus Professor and former Director of the School
          of Social Work at the University of British Columbia), ‘Food Banks: Who Wins Who loses
          Who Cares?’
     •    2018: Karen Stevens and Debbie Boys (Southern England and London Directors Skills
         for Care), ‘The State of the Adult Social Care Sector and Workforce in England’
     •    2019: Mr David Beattie (Consultant Surgeon and Visiting Professor, Western Sussex
          Hospitals NHS Foundation Trusts), ‘Artificial Intelligence medical decision making and
          you’
     •    2019: Professor Ben Mathews (Principal Research Fellow, Faculty of Law, Queensland
         University of Technology Director; Childhood Adversity Research Program, Faculty of
         Health, Queensland University of Technology; Adjunct Professor, Johns Hopkins
         University, Bloomberg School of Public Health), ‘Progress in responding to child sexual
         abuse: Reforms to law, policy and practice after Australia’s Royal Commission into
         Institutional Responses into Child Sexual Abuse’
     •    2019: Helen Rignall and Vanessa Swain (Nurse leads for Frailty for the Costal West
         Sussex CCG), ‘The Stop Look Care Frailty Project – Lessons for living healthily’
     •    2020: Isaac Theophilos (Social Care Consultant and West Sussex Partnership in Care
         Member), ‘What does an excellent Care Home Look Like?’

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our research plans are underpinned by three key principles: (1) leveraging opportunities based
 on talent, need and capacity; (2) individualised forward planning; and (3) access to opportunities,
 both national and international. In order to deliver on these aspirations, we will support the
 continuation of the following plans, which have been in place across the REF2021 assessment
 period:

 Developing our key research strengths

 We have identified these as the following:
    • Action learning and leadership development (McCray)


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Widening participation in higher education (Edwards and Lyndon)
     •   Workplace stress and sleep (Bhatti-Sinclair)
     •   Early childhood education and care of Hungarian ethnic minority groups in Romania,
         Slovak Republic and Serbia (Mikuska)
    •    Race, ethnicity and public services (Bhatti-Sinclair)
    •    Pan-European child exploitation (Bhatti-Sinclair)
    •    Clinical supervision in palliative care (Price, M.)
    •    Sex offenders (Baeza)
    •    Service users and carers’ participation (Armstrong, Edwards)
    •    Resilience (Smethurst and McCray)
    •    Covid-19 related studies (Mikuska and Bhatti-Sinclair)
    •    Partnerships in health and social care (McCray and Bhatti-Sinclair) and social work and
         police (Bhatti-Sinclair)
    •    Childhood, poverty and social justice (Lyndon, Edwards, Mikuska)

 To achieve the above we will consolidate and extend our exiting links with employers, policy
 makers and other stakeholders. For example, we have recently formalized links with regional
 police authorities in Sussex and Hampshire (Bhatti-Sinclair) to build on current projects, such
 as Bhatti-Sinclair’s ongoing work on child exploitation and race. This has already secured the
 involvement of representatives from safeguarding leads from the Isle of Wight, Hampshire and
 West Sussex Police Services. This project has also attracted interest from national organisations
 including Barnardos, the Home Office Expert Centre on Child Sexual Abuse, and the National
 Association of Guardians and Legal Review Officers (see REF3).

 In addition, we will build on our reputation with employers for identifying modern and/or novel
 approaches to workforce development issues. The ‘Well-Led Project’ and the initiatives on work
 and sleep, Covid-19, resilience and the Foundation Programme for doctors are examples of this
 intended trajectory.

 Similarly, we will capitalise on our emerging reputation for innovative responses to social issues
 and problems. For example, we will aim to access further funding for the Adversity to University
 project to support the longitudinal co-productive evaluation of outcomes and the national webinar
 to launch a ‘toolkit’ for setting up similar projects in other universities. Within this trajectory we
 have launched a project (August 2019) to identify potential strategies to improve co-production
 and partnership working between professionals and the parents of children with disabilities
 (Edwards, Green, Smethurst). Drawing on primary research with parents, the project will result
 in the production of a ‘guide for professionals’, due for publication between September and
 December 2021.

 SECTION 2: PEOPLE

 The REF2021 assessment period has coincided with a variety of successful initiatives to support
 researchers within our Unit.

 In order to recruit, develop and foster research leadership promotional, incentives such as study
 leave and support have been provided across the assessment period for those seeking and able
 to take on senior roles (readerships and professorships), as well as pursue doctoral studies.
 Newly appointed staff without a doctorate are encouraged to apply for PhD funding and
 supervisory support whether studying at the UoC or another university. This has led to an
 increase in the number of PhD students registering, progressing and completing.

 Our commitment to developing our research cohort is also demonstrated in successful PGR
 recruitment, which has seen a 75% increase in registrations since 2013/14 (refer to table below).

 Since 2015 we have pioneered a ‘peer buddying’ initiative for staff and PGRs (the reviewing of
 abstracts and manuscripts to support colleagues going through peer-review processes). This

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach has proved particularly successful as it has led to an increase in successful
 submissions to journals and acceptance of papers at national and international conferences.
 Additionally, we have pioneered an approach whereby new PhD graduates are invited to
 contribute to ‘mock vivas’ to give them experience of examining higher level work.

 Across the REF2021 assessment period we have continuously developed progression routes to
 research study through our Masters programmes, which have attracted doctoral students with a
 wide range of professional and disciplinary expertise in policing, teacher education, early years,
 nursing, social work, family therapy, education psychology and counselling. Consequently, in
 2018/19, we launched a taught Professional Doctorate Programme. This incorporates an
 innovative ‘Writing for Publication’ module, which has been accessed by 21 staff from the NHS,
 in addition to the 6 students currently registered on the full programme.

 Equality and Diversity

 The University is a Mindful Employer and signatory to the Charter for Employers who are
 Positive About Mental Health. Its passion for inclusivity is evidenced in its Inclusivity, Equality
 and Diversity Annual Reports, which have been published each year since 2009, summarising
 the equality, diversity and inclusivity activities within each academic year, and the University’s
 ambitions for future years (Two Ticks, Stonewall Champion).

 The success of such policies, groups, and programmes is evidenced by the fact that we have
 relatively high numbers of BAME students and students with disabilities (16%).

 Our commitment to equality and diversity is evidenced by the research backgrounds of members
 of the UoA and the projects included in this REF submission.

 Staff Profile

 The academic teams comprising our Unit have a strong people-centred approach to research
 and a strong focus on equality and diversity. Staff are predominantly female and in the older age
 range. A number are categorised as early career researchers (ECRs). The following table
 provides details of staff profiles:

  Staff on permanent/fixed-term/atypical contracts
                                     Submitted staff (%)             Eligible staff (%)
  1 - Open ended/Permanent           100.0                           100.0
  2 - Fixed term contract            0.0                             0.0

  Disability profile of staff
                                   Submitted staff (%)           Eligible staff (%)
  Disability declared              0.0                           0.0
  No known disability              88.9                          93.8
  Unknown                          11.1                          6.2

  Gender profile of staff
                Submitted staff (%)                       Eligible staff (%)
  Male          11.1                                      25.0
  Female        88.9                                      75.0

  Age profile of staff
                          Submitted staff (%)                Eligible staff (%)
  Aged 20-29              0.0%                               0.0%
  Aged 30-39              0.0%                               0.0%

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Aged 40-49           11.1%                               12.5%
  Aged 50-59           55.6%                               62.5%
  Aged 60+             33.3%                               25.0%

  Ethnicity profile of staff
                          Submitted staff (%)               Eligible staff (%)
  White                   88.9                              93.8
  Black                   0.0                               0.0
  Asian                   11.1                              6.2
  Other/Mixed             0.0                               0.0
  Unknown                 0.0                               0.0

 Staff Development

 As a result of the formal research strategy commenced in 2015, which aims to support staff to
 develop their research skills, in the period 2017-2020 there has been a notable shift in the
 quantity and quality of conference attendance, acceptance of abstracts and papers and
 memberships of national and international fora by academic staff and students. In this period, for
 example, keynote speeches and conference papers have been presented at conferences such
 as the National Association of Child Protection; the National Association of Legal and Review
 Officers; the British Educational Research Association [BERA]; the European Congress of
 Qualitative Inquiry; Narrative Matters 2018, Enschede, The Netherlands; and the British
 Academy of Management. Staff have produced an impressive range of outputs, including journal
 articles, books, policy reports, conference presentations and supervised research projects with
 PhD students. We believe that this increase in scholarly activity was achieved as a result of the
 support measures set in place for staff since 2013/14, including the research cafes, methodology
 mastermind sessions and ‘buddying’ provisions.

 Staff have been publication and editorial reviewers for publishers and journals including:

    •   Open University
    •   Policy Press
    •   Trentham Books
    •   Pearson Press
    •   Palgrave MacMillan
    •   Jenny Mosley Publishing
    •   Routledge
    •   SAGE
    •   Hodder Education

 They have published in:

    •   Race Ethnicity and Education
    •   The British Journal of Social Work
    •   Social Work and Social Sciences Review
    •   Child and Adolescent Review
    •   Practice, Journal of Social Work Education
    •   Journal of Social Work
    •   Gender and Education
    •   Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood
    •   Education, Philosophy and Theory
    •   British Journal of Developmental Disabilities
    •   Qualitative Sociology
    •   Journal of Workplace Development

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Personnel Review
    •   European Management Review
    •   Children and Society

 Membership of editorial boards includes:

    •   International Journal of Public Sector Leadership
    •   HEA Health and Social Care Education Journal
    •   Personnel Review
    •   Seen and Heard
    •   Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood
    •   Journal of Adult Protection

 Evidence of individual endeavour

 Dr Kish Bhatti-Sinclair’s research interests include ‘race’ and racism, ethics, values and
 empowering practice both with children and adults. Studies funded by Wandsworth and West
 Sussex Children’s Services provided a statistical analysis of looked after children, and survey
 data derived from the USA produced 2 publications. Recent projects focusing on the dangers
 inherent in environments where child abuse and exploitation takes place led to a national
 roundtable conference in 2019 on policy development and a journal article (see REF3). Another
 project, which has also received recognition from leaders of residential health and care settings
 examines work, sleep and fatigue. Both projects have received seed funding for the
 development of a full research proposal, supported by two fee waiver PhD studentships.

 Bhatti-Sinclair has been involved with the following national organisations: the Department of
 Health and Social Care: Social Care Workforce Race Equality Standard Advisory Group; the
 Joint University Council Social Work Education Committees: International, Research and
 Teaching and Learning; the planning group of the Joint Social Work Education Conference
 2017; and the Social Work Education Anti-Racist Network (SWEARN) which has a national
 membership of 50 programme leaders and managers (which she coordinated). Members of
 SWEARN sit on 3 Social Work England national committees and are meeting Social Work
 England every 3 months to inform strategic development on social work education and research.

 Across the REF2021 assessment period she has published 3 academic journal articles, 2 policy
 reports, and edited and contributed towards 2 volumes of scholarly essays and 2 policy reports.

 Professor Emerita Janet McCray has presented nationally and internationally, and her
 expertise and networks in social care development have driven innovative research into
 workforce development, reconfiguration and transformation. McCray continues to publish and
 present with Dr Rob Warwick (UoC) and Dr Adam Palmer (University of Winchester). She is also
 writing and undertaking research on the topic of PhD student resilience with Dr Paul Joseph
 Richards (University of Ulster, Northern Ireland). McCray and Richards presented a symposium
 at the BAM International conference doctoral stream on PhD student resilience in September
 2019 and 2020. Further presentations are planned with BAM in 2021, alongside keynote
 speaker engagements at the University of Greenwich and University College London. McCray
 and Warwick have also recently completed a major study into resilience and Business School
 PhD students as part of this activity, and building on a previously-funded project which is now
 accepted for publication and will be part of any future REF assessment.

 Across the REF2021 assessment period she has written and collaborated on 8 published journal
 articles.

 Dr Sandra Lyndon completed her Doctorate of Education (EdD) at the University of Sussex in
 January 2019. Her thesis, ‘Early years practitioners’ narratives of poverty in early childhood’,
 makes novel contributions to the field of early childhood education and care (ECEC), including


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 early years practitioners and child poverty. Through her narrative methodology she has
 developed innovative approaches to narrative data analysis that draw on interpretivist
 approaches such as the use of I-positions and the Listening Guide. Lyndon has presented at
 national and international conferences, such as The European Conference on Education. She
 was invited to be the keynote speaker at the Early Years Conference at the University of Sussex
 (postponed due to the impact of COVID-19). Lyndon is part of the ‘From Adversity to University’
 widening participation project, working collaboratively with Becky Edwards to evaluate
 outcomes. Lydon is also working together with Helen Moss, Senior Lecturer at the University of
 Chichester, on a collaborative intergenerational research project with a local care home and
 nursery school. Their paper has been accepted for the international OMEP 72nd world assembly
 and conference in Greece (July 2021). Lyndon is part of an international study looking at
 preschools’ role in alleviating the effects of poverty in England and the USA, working
 collaboratively with the University of Teeside, the University of Northampton, and 3 universities
 in the USA.

 Across the REF2021 assessment period she has written and contributed towards 5 journal
 articles, a policy report and an edited volume of scholarly essays. Her article on ‘Troubling
 Discourses of Poverty in Early Childhood’ in the journal Children and Society was in the top 10%
 of downloads in 2018 and 2019.

 Dr Eva Mikuska is a Senior Lecturer in Early Childhood Studies. Her research is informed by
 critical feminist and post structural theory. Mikuska’s EdD thesis employs feminist-post structural
 theory as a lens through which to view ECEC subjectivities, professional identity and
 (un)recognised emotional labour. Mikuska’s international work is linked to the investigation of
 ethnic minority early childhood education in Serbia, Romania and Slovakia. Her work seeks to
 broaden current views on ECEC in England, with the aim of producing a more generative, ethical
 and political way to enact ECEC research. Her language skills (native Hungarian, and Serbo-
 Croat) and her research enable her work to have synergy with a national and international set of
 ECEC researchers. She is currently involved with a collaborative project investigating ECEC of
 ethnic minorities living in Serbia.

 Across the REF2021 assessment period she has written and contributed towards 11 academic
 publications, including peer-reviewed journal articles for international journals, edited volumes,
 and policy reports for SAGE.

 Marie Price is a Senior Lecturer in Social Work with a particular interest in end of life care. Her
 research investigates supervisory and support approaches to enable professionals to work
 effectively with people facing grief and loss, and has been undertaken in collaboration with
 colleagues from a regional organisation delivering innovative end of life care. Presentations at
 national and international conferences on palliative care (e.g., the European Association of
 Palliative Care) led to collaborations with experts in practice and academia. Price has organised
 a number conferences on end of life care at UoC, which have included expert keynote
 speeches. The conferences have focused on: Working with Children (2017), Working with
 people with a learning disability (2018) and Working with people with dementia (2019).

 Across the REF2021 assessment period she has written and contributed towards 5 academic
 publications, including peer-reviewed journal articles. She has also published an article on
 ‘Reflective Supervision in Palliative Care’ in the Guardian.

 Support, training and supervision of PGR students

 Since 2013/14 the Unit has established a highly successful track record of interdisciplinary
 doctoral supervision. Our 75% increase in registrations is detailed in the table below. In addition,
 during the period 2014-May 2020, 6 doctoral students graduated through the following routes:

    •   PhD by research (5, including 2 awards shared 50% with the Business School)
    •   PhD by publication (1)

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In 2018 we introduced a Professional Doctorate in Advanced Practice. The introduction of this
 route, alongside our PhD by publication, is designed to diversify the number of pathways through
 doctoral study and thus increase the number of doctoral students we recruit. We recognise that
 PhD by research is not the only route to producing active researchers and have consequently
 sought to introduce plurality into our provision.

 The table below highlights our postgraduate student numbers since 2014. The awards of a PhD
 in Social Policy for PhD by Research total 5 for the period 2014 to May 2020. There was also
 one member of staff who completed a PhD by publication in 2018. Supervisory teams included
 colleagues from the Business School, Theology and Teacher Education.




             Registrations on Social Policy pathway        New Starters
  13/14      8                                             4
  14/15      8                                             1
  15/16      11                                            5
  16/17      14                                            4
  17/18      14                                            4
  18/19      15                                            1
  19/20      14                                            2

 Within the framework of the PhD by research, we have formalised a thesis by compilation route,
 pre-designed as 3 or 4 discrete but linked phases, which incorporate ethical approvals, scoping
 exercises, reviews of literature, data gathering and writing up findings in a publishable form.

 PhD students have multi-disciplinary supervision teams and steering groups committed to
 supporting quality critical, methodological and theoretical thinking. This is rooted in the belief that
 academic and practitioner scholars are motivated by personal goals, good training and
 supervision underpinned by peer support. Research processes can be isolating but we have
 found that colleagues are generous in sharing time, methods, theories, challenges and
 strengths.

 Students registered in 2020 are studying the topics below:

    •     Social work responses to child abuse (Sam Baeza – now completed)
    •     Patient participation in service improvement in the NHS (Tom Thompson)
    •     ‘Anger’ in social work (Chris Smethurst)
    •     Practice supervision in palliative care (Marie Price)
    •     Social work practice under austerity (David Gaylard)
    •     Leadership in education (Andre Kurowski – now completed)
    •     White working-class boys’ experience of education (Dane Norris)
    •     Child exploitation and grooming gangs (Stuart Barton)
    •     Work and sleep (Viv Colleran)
    •     Experiences and motives of volunteers who work in church-based food banks (Suzanna
          McGregor)

 Our Professional Doctorate in Advanced Practice award was approved in 2018 and builds on our
 established tradition of professional programmes. Within this we have successfully marketed the
 module ‘Writing for Publications’, which was commissioned by the Western Sussex Hospitals
 (NHS) Foundation Trust as part of their early career researcher training programme.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 SECTION 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 Physical Infrastructure

 In order to encourage a cross-fertilisation of ideas and experiences, research students have
 access to a shared office space with subject academic staff. All students and staff are offered
 research leave, conference funding and networking opportunities. The childhood team have
 created a monthly research meeting to support each other in research projects with internal and
 external partners. The social work team have a dedicated IT resourced lab room with multiple
 functions, from teaching (set up as a mock court) to research (for interviews and focus groups).
 This space allows students to mingle socially and share research challenges with established
 researchers.

 The University offers centralised facilities such as office spaces, training and support through the
 Research Office. Library resources (physical books and journals and eBooks and journals) are
 supported by an extremely knowledgeable subject librarian who is also available to guides
 researchers in writing literature reviews. Training and support is available for all researchers
 using qualitative and quantitative analysis tools (such as NVivo).

 The University is located across 2 campuses in Chichester and Bognor Regis, where the local
 population is enhanced by the contribution made by students to the local economy who, on
 graduation, often join the local workforce as social workers, early years professionals and care
 managers. All students following our programmes are taught the value of evidence, knowledge
 exchange and methodological approaches as used in applied professional practice. In
 dissertation and independent projects, they enhance their employment prospects by researching
 topics which relate directly to the sector and service user needs. They are able to confidently
 defend their research to academic tutors, practice placement supervisors and future employers
 at interview panels.

 Research Income

 The table below sets out the successful funding streams we have been able to attract across the
 REF2021 assessment period. The profile of this funding record reflects the strong local
 partnerships we have developed within the region, which allows us to design and develop
 impactful research.

 The UoA has attracted seed funding from the University’s Innovation budget which has resulted
 in the appointment of 3 visiting professors and 3 visiting fellows. The expectation is that the
 visitors will provide a vital link to their organisations and form the basis for wider membership of
 the Centre for Workforce Development.

  Name              Year             Amount          Project                  Funder
  Kish Bhatti-      July 2020        GBP15,000       Foundation Doctors       Western Sussex NHS
  Sinclair,                                          Curriculum Review        Trust
  Janet McCray                                       and Evaluation
  and Chris
  Smethurst
  Sandra            June 2020        GBP7,000        ‘New normal’ or          British
  Lyndon                                             same ‘social             Academy/Leverhulme
                                                     distancing?’             Small Grants SPG
                                                     Preschool pandemic       2020 round.
                                                     and poverty across
                                                     England and the
                                                     USA.
  Kish Bhatti-      May 2020         GBP3,000        Evaluation of the        Western Sussex NHS
  Sinclair                                           Scholar Project          Trust

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Kish Bhatti-      February         GBP3,000        Work and Sleep          University of
  Sinclair          2020                             Project and PhD Fee     Chichester
                                                     Waiver
  Kish Bhatti-      February         GBP3,000        Child Exploitation      University of
  Sinclair          2020                             and Race Project        Chichester
                                                     and PhD Fee Waiver
  Kish Bhatti-      February         GBP1,200        Networking for          University of
  Sinclair          2020                             research                Chichester
  Becky             December         GBP17,370       Adversity to            UPP Foundation
  Edwards           2019                             University Project
  Janet McCray      2018/19          GBP4,000        Better-Led Project      NHS England


  Janet McCray      2019/20          GBP29,000       Better-Led Project      NHS England


  Janet McCray      2019/20          GBP4,000        Well-Led Project        NHS England


  Nikki             July 2018        GBP3,400   Unsettling ECEC              Sociological Review
  Fairchild                                     classrooms                   Foundation
  Project team      January 2018     GBP200,000 Catalyst funding             HEFCE
  led by
  Professor
  Catherine
  Harper
  Janet McCray      October 2017     GBP2,500        Resilience in PhD       Solent University
                                                     Students led by Dr      Seed Funding
                                                     Paul Joseph
                                                     Richards
  Janet McCray      April 2015       GBP36,000       3 year full time        University of
                                                     Doctoral student        Chichester
                                                     Bursary for NHS
                                                     studentship
  Kish Bhatti-      April 2015       GBP11,275       Evaluation of the       West Sussex County
  Sinclair                                           Five to Thrive          Council
                                                     Initiative
  Janet McCray      April 2014       GBP1,175        Social Care team        Business Innovation
                                                     research skill          Grant
                                                     development
  Kish Bhatti-      2014             GBP5,880        Analysis of LAC         Wandsworth Borough
  Sinclair                                           data, processes and     Council
                                                     reports on BME
                                                     Children
  Jim               December         GBP5,000        Education outcomes      West Sussex County
  D’Authreau        2014                             for looked after        Council
                                                     children
  Nikki             February         GBP1,250        ECEC graduate           Higher Education
  Fairchild         2014                             professionals           Academy

 Kish Bhatti-Sinclair’s success in gaining local authority funding for projects on policy areas
 such as looked after children represents national recognition of this work, which fits with
 strategic drivers of socially responsible research for the benefit of vulnerable children, carers and
 service users.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Work and Sleep project builds on Kish’s work with the Western Sussex NHS Trust and
 Skills for Care. Its focus, on the impact loss of sleep and fatigue on the wellbeing of
 professionals, has powerful resonance across the 4 nations of the UK, and may yet attract
 interest internationally. It is likely that social work, social care, education and health workers in
 countries which have privately funded welfare provision are more likely to be affected by the
 need to make profits and work longer hours than those in the UK. The project is multi-agency by
 design, and will be of interest to a range of research commissioners, providers and social
 enterprises.

 The NIHR is currently encouraging multi-professional research projects across a range of
 service providers, and will support the development of this proposal to its final successful stage
 with a view to securing external funding. In order to facilitate this, Bhatti-Sinclair is a member of
 the Capacity Building Strategy group, part of the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC
 Kent, Surrey and Sussex), and on the steering group for a University of Kent project
 investigating knowledge gaps and priorities in adult social care research.

 Janet McCray has secured substantial funding through her work supporting and developing
 practitioners in the Health and Social Care workforce (Well-Led). This helps meet our
 institutional research aims and contributes to both local and national priorities on increasing the
 skill sets of the Health and Social Care workforce (see REF3). She has also secured funding to
 develop an innovative CPD programme for junior doctors, which will be taken forward
 collaboratively between the UoC, Western Sussex Hospitals and Health Education (Kent, Surrey
 and Sussex).

 Catalyst funding: the UoC was the lead partner (2018/19) in the GBP200,000 regional Catalyst
 Project, which was designed to upskill those who currently work in the health and social care
 sector, encouraging this workforce to gain further qualifications and develop on a personal and
 professional level. It is aligned to the Government’s long-term Industrial Strategy, launched last
 year, which aims to boost the productivity and earning power of people across the country.

 From Adversity to University (Edwards and Lyndon): a collaborative project piloted by the
 UoC in partnership with local homelessness charities (the UPP Foundation and Stone Pillow), to
 facilitate widening participation by overcoming the barriers to Higher Education through a co-
 produced bridging module. This funding (GBP17,370) has supported the sustainability of future
 research.

 Nikki Fairchild has gained funding to contribute to the knowledge base on early childhood
 education and care (ECEC) teachers. The support and funding of the ECEC sector is a national
 Government priority, and this research adds to and extends the work done by scholars on
 professionalising the ECEC workforce. It is the precursor for a larger funded bid to ECSDN
 which will explore the impact of the early childhood graduate practitioner competences (with
 Mikuska).

 SECTION 4: COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE,
 ECONOMY AND SOCIETY

 As the only University in West Sussex we are in a strong position to influence employers and
 policy makers through our networks and links. Our ability to offer evidence-based responses to
 the needs of targeted populations, such as those affected by homelessness, the vulnerable,
 poor and elderly, is exemplified by the commissioned studies, evaluation projects and data-
 driven policy reports. We have formal partnership arrangements with authorities providing
 children, adults and health services to ensure that we contribute to their strategic services and
 workforce targets.

 We have built on our reputation for delivering expert conferences with significant regional reach
 and influence. Over the 2017-2019 period we attracted approximately 300 delegates


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representing the NHS and private and social care organisations to the events below (held at the
 UoC):

    •   Children facing death and bereavement, October 2017
    •   Children’s resilience, October 2017
    •   Adults with learning or intellectual disabilities facing death and bereavement, October
        2018
    •   Facing death and bereavement, October 2019
    •   Dangerous environments: child exploitation and race, October 2019

 Key Local Collaborations

    •   Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trusts: we are working with local
        partners to develop a number of research opportunities to explore the impact of frailty on
        hospital admissions (in partnership with a number of local care homes) and the
        economics of wound care and how this might impact long-term NHS budgetary needs.
        While these projects will focus initially on the local area, the NHS is likely to consider a
        knowledge transfer partnership to develop wider projects nationally. Projects such as this
        are an integral part of health economics at a time when national debates are focusing on
        the funding and service delivery relationship between health and social care. We
        therefore feel that these projects have the potential to create significant impact over the
        coming 5-year period.
    •   Professor Janet McCray’s research with regional and local NHS and Social Care
        providers promises to deliver ongoing benefits to our region. The commissioning
        intentions of workforce developers for health and social care workforce employees in
        regional and local organisations have already changed as a result of this research.
        McCray has provided the evidence that commissioners need to make more effective
        decisions about the design and content of CPD programmes for sustainable skill
        acquisition to deliver the integrated care that policy and service delivery reconfiguration is
        demanding. This research has impacted on the CPD choices made in the NHS England
        Funded Well-Led Project (covering providers in Surrey, East and West Sussex, Brighton
        and Hove).
    •   Sandra Lyndon and Helen Moss are working with a local maintained nursery school
        and residential care home to support the development and evaluation of
        intergenerational practice. There is potential here to build collaborations with other
        nursery schools and care homes within the area and work co-productively to extend
        research into other areas.
    •   The Catalyst Project, led by Professor Catherine Harper, was a collaboration between
        further and higher education providers, private businesses, and public authorities
        to upskill the workforce across Sussex, Surrey, Hampshire, and the Isle of Wight. HEFCE
        funds were achieved to upskill those who will contribute to future UK economic growth by
        providing employees with expertise in technology-related sectors, including advanced
        engineering, artificial intelligence, bioscience, and health and social care.

 National and International Collaborations

    •   Edwards and Lyndon’s research with supporting those affected by homelessness into
        Higher Education has led to collaborative work with the UPP Foundation. The project is
        innovative and has the potential to impact policy at a national level supporting widening
        participation in Higher Education for groups who are under-represented in Higher
        Education.
    •   Bhatti-Sinclair’s research has resulted in involvement in national forums is as follows a
        member of the planning group of the Joint Social Work Education Conference (2017) and
        leading on developments on workforce and educational standards in social work.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Mikuska is working with a group of Serbian academics to develop a collaboration on
        early childhood education and care minority rights, following the publication of her article
        on the history of Hungarian migrant children in Serbia.
    •   Lyndon is working with academics from universities in England and the USA on an
        international project which is researching the role of preschools in alleviating the effects
        of poverty in England and the USA.
    •   Dr Rosana Pacella was Head of Research at UoC until 2018, until when she acted as a
        consultant to our research teams and projects in need of her high-level expertise in
        quantitative analysis. Pacella is also skilled at managing a diverse portfolio of research
        and engaging with experts in assessing national and global responses to disease, with
        an emphasis on mental health disorders and interpersonal violence-related risk factors,
        including child maltreatment, bullying and intimate partner violence.




                                                                                             Page 17
