Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Leicester
Unit of Assessment: 18
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview: A transformed research culture
Leicester Law School had 59 academic staff as of 31 July 2020, of whom 50 held teaching and
research contracts (48.6 FTE). Its research ethos is pluralistic, with the overarching objective of
supporting world-leading research across diverse areas of legal scholarship. Accordingly, the
School encourages a range of methodologies, covering theoretical approaches, socio-legal
research, policy-oriented work and doctrinal research. During the current REF period, the School
added to previous areas of excellence in empirical socio-legal research and in European and
international law, by developing new concentrations of research activity, especially in civil
dispute resolution, private law, and law and theory.
The development of research in the School during the REF period was aided by the creation of a
merged College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (CSSAH) in 2016. This led to greater
emphasis on interdisciplinarity within the University, which benefitted legal research in particular.
For example, the period saw successful cross-disciplinary research projects concerning
relationship education in schools (Cumper) and post-Brexit governance (Cygan).

Through the REF period, the School successfully implemented an ambitious research strategy.
Its REF 2014 submission set out the strategic objectives of promoting legal research with
potential for policy impact, developing empirical socio-legal research, and strengthening
European and international law research. Those objectives were taken forward though the
approval of a formal research strategy in 2016, to increase and diversify external research
income, and develop new research infrastructure, including research support measures and a
system of research clusters.

The successful implementation of the School’s research strategy transformed its research
culture and outcomes. Highlights have included:

      Tripling the annual average of external research funding, relative to REF 2014
      Securing 2 external research funding awards in excess of £750k
      The award of seven prestigious research fellowships
      The production of research with substantial policy impact in a range of legal fields
      Extensive engagement with law and policy-makers, at national and international levels
      More than doubling the number of research monographs, from six submitted in REF
       2014 to 14 in REF 2021
      Increasing the number of PhD degrees awarded to campus-based PGRs, from 25 in REF
       2014 to 43 in REF 2021.

Research achievements
A key achievement in this REF period was a step-change in the acquisition of external research
funding. That was linked to changes in School support, including the activity of a research
funding lead, to advise on applications, to arrange peer review and to organise an annual grants
workshop for the School. The School’s Director of Research contributed to raised expectations
through regular research bulletins which focused on funding opportunities. Key outcomes
included the following:

      Total external research income increased from £404k in the REF 2014 census period, to
                                                   1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       £1.68M in the REF 2021 census period.
      The annual average of external research income increased from £81k a year in the REF
       2014 period to £240k a year, relative to the REF 2014 period (an increase of 197%).
      Looking forward, we project that post-31 July 2020, income from ten existing (pre-31 July
       2020) awards will be £1.8M, an increase on the total income reported for the 2014-2020
       REF period.

External funding successes include two individual awards of especially high value, both for
ground-breaking projects: £1.06M to Watkins for research on measuring and improving
children’s legal capability (ERC, 2019), and £775k to Cole, for empirical research into
commercial arbitration practices (ESRC, 2018). In addition, there were substantial ESRC awards
for research on prisons (Gooch, £318k), Brexit and Parliament (Cygan, £272k) and children’s
understanding of law in their everyday lives (Watkins, £198k). In the census period, 25
academic staff (equivalent to 50% of those with teaching and research contracts) obtained
research awards in excess of £5k.

Seven prestigious research fellowships were awarded to School academic staff during the
period. These awards were made by the AHRC to Ulph (museum collections) and Ziegler
(knowledge exchange with the Foreign Office), by the British Academy to Ryan (migration law)
and Ziegler (law of war), by the Leverhulme Trust to Jaffey (theory of private law) and Wills
(animal rights) and by the Nuffield Foundation to Cortes (consumer redress).

To enhance the policy impact of research, a senior colleague was appointed to advise on
pathways to impact and authors of potential case-studies were given a workload allocation. That
support, combined with institutional funding, enabled the national-level policy impacts at the
heart of the four case-studies in the School’s REF submission. Ahmed’s work on civil procedure
led him to draft the professional negligence pre-action protocol for the Civil Justice Council, and
to his appointment as a member of the Civil Procedure Rule Committee (ICS1). Burton’s
research on domestic violence courts led to her appointment to a Ministry of Justice expert panel
assessing the risks of harm in child arrangement proceedings, whose work shaped provisions
within the Domestic Abuse Bill 2020 (ICS2). Ryan wrote briefing papers for the Immigration Law
Practitioners’ Association on the protection of EU residence rights and was centrally involved in
a successful lobbying campaign to obtain recognition for Irish citizens in immigration legislation
in 2020 (ICS3). Ulph’s research on the complexity of ownership of museum collections led to
her development of official guidelines for local authority museums, and to the Law Commission’s
inclusion of museum collections in its 2017 programme of work (ICS4).

Beyond these cases, a further group of colleagues have had high-level engagement with law-
and policy-makers in their fields of expertise. Cortes authored a policy paper for the European
Parliament on the amendment of the European Small Claims Procedure Regulation, co-authored
an official report on the implementation of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Directive in Spain,
and was a member of the Civil Justice Council advisory committee which produced an influential
report on online dispute resolution. Cygan worked with ‘UK in Changing Europe’ to provide
briefings to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and Department for Exiting the European
Union, and to edit a report and organise a high-level seminar on ‘Parliament and Brexit’; in
addition, he was appointed to a POST parliamentary academic fellowship, which involved
authoring research briefings for MPs and advising parliamentary counsel on legislation.
Ziegler gave a presentation at the Court of Justice of the European Union on the relationship
between EU Law and international law, gave evidence to a Committee of the Parliamentary

                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Assembly of the Council of Europe on the impact of EU law upon Council of Europe
conventions, and acted as consultant to the Council of Europe’s directorate of legal affairs on the
same topic.

The breadth of excellence in the School’s research outputs in the period was reflected in an
increase in the number of monographs produced in the School, with 14 submitted in the current
period, compared to six in 2014. New initiatives to support staff in delivering research
excellence, include a School research fund. An illustrative example is the funding for Cammiss
to observe the trial of the ‘Stansted 15’ anti-deportation campaigners, which led to an article in
the journal Sociology. A voluntary scheme of research pairs was also put in place in 2018 to
enable colleagues obtain advice about their research ideas and publications on an ongoing
basis. As of mid-2020, this scheme was utilised by ten lecturers and three associate professors,
with annual staff feedback showing that it was valued both by early career academics and by
more established staff. Key publications that benefitted included Allan’s article on trusts law and
abuse of the corporate form, Bone’s monograph on drug control and human rights, and
Craven’s article on complex contracting in the public sector.

A further transformation has seen the enhancement of support for open access principles in the
School, building on the University’s open access policy (Institutional Environment Statement
(IES), section 2.6), and relying upon the institutional research repository Figshare. From 2014 to
2018, the School had a working paper series on SSRN which provided a further platform for the
dissemination of outputs and work in progress. This working paper series attracted downloads of
37,093 papers during the period of its operation. Project reports by Kyd and Cammiss on road
safety, and by Cole on commercial arbitration, are hosted on the School website, and Watkins’
ERC grant on children’s legal understanding includes funding for publications to be made gold
open access.

Research groupings and areas of excellence
A key strategic initiative early in the REF period was the establishment of a system of research
clusters (2015), to provide a framework for interaction among academics and PGRs. Ten
clusters now cover the major areas of research activity within the School: company/commercial
law, criminal law/ justice, civil dispute resolution, European law, human rights law, international
law, law and theory, medico-legal research, private law, and socio-legal research. Clusters
arrange internal ‘work in progress’ sessions, often in a workshop format, and presentations to
clusters enhance the quality of outputs (examples in section 3, below).

The School’s most substantial research grouping continues to be the Centre for European Law
and Internationalisation (CELI, directed by Ziegler). CELI organises large-scale conferences and
seminars, runs an annual public engagement lecture series, and develops funded research
projects in EU and international law. It has an annual funding allocation from the School
research fund for its activities, which has typically been of £5,000. From 2016 to 2020, CELI
benefitted from a University-funded Graduate Research Assistant (GRA), at a cost of £76k, to
support grant applications and the organisation of academic and dissemination events. Thirty
academics in the Law School, and a further five in Schools of Media and Communication, and
History, Politics and International Relations at the University, are affiliated to CELI.

The School’s strategic objective of broadening its strengths in European and international law
led to extensive activity in those areas. CELI’s achievements in relation to European law in the
period included a major conference on ‘The UK and Human Rights: A Strained Relationship?’ in

                                                   3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2014, which resulted in an edited collection under the same title (Ziegler, Wicks and Hodson,
Hart, 2015). CELI members obtained EU funding awards for projects on the application of the
EU Charter of Fundamental Rights at the national level (£39k, Vargiu and Ziegler), and on the
general principles of EU law (£43k, Ziegler). These led to a database on case-law concerning
the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights which is accessible through the EU Fundamental Rights
Agency’s website.

Throughout the REF period, CELI provided an intellectual space for dynamic scholarship on
European law. The social aspects of the EU law featured prominently, including in monographs
by Caracciolo di Torella on caring policies and by Rodgers on vulnerability in labour law, with
a review of the latter stating that it “advances our understanding of the field, exposing …
shortcomings of existing theories and laws along the way”. Reflecting the School’s research
strengths in relation to civil dispute resolution, Cortes authored a ground-breaking monograph
on consumer redress in Europe. Golynker hosted a workshop on ‘The Future of EU Social
Security Law’, the papers from which were published as a special issue of the European Social
Security Journal. With the support of the British Academy, Ryan organised an international
workshop on migrant workers and labour law which is the subject of a forthcoming edited
collection.

Several projects in the international law cluster obtained external recognition in the period.
Desmond’s open-access edited collection Shining New Light on the UN Migrant Workers
Convention, published in 2017, is the only non-UN document featured on the website of the UN
Committee on Migrant Workers. Deplano’s The Strategic Use of International Law by the United
Nations Security Council was classed among the most influential books of 2017 in the European
Journal of International Law and contributed to her invitation to the prestigious Stanford
International Junior Faculty Forum in 2019. Hodson and Lavers’ edited collection Feminist
Judgments in International Law received the American Society of International Law’s 2020
Certificate of Merit for a Preeminent Contribution to Creative Scholarship.

CELI and the international law cluster together supported many innovative research projects in
international law in the period. With funding from the Society of Legal Scholars, Deplano
organised two conferences: one on methodologies in international law, which led her to edit a
collection entitled Pluralising International Legal Scholarship and to co-edit a collection on
Research Methods in International Law (forthcoming); the other on the legacy of the League of
Nations, papers from which appeared as a special edition of the International Community Law
Review. Desmond obtained Modern Law Review funding for a conference on the global
compact for migration, held at the University, the papers from which will appear in a special
issue of the International Journal of Law in Context. Omorogbe obtained funding from the
Modern Law Review for a conference on the crisis of international criminal law in Africa, held
concurrently at the Universities of Leicester and Johannesburg, papers from which were
published in the Netherlands International Law Review.

The School’s strengths in empirical socio-legal research include a particular concentration of
expertise relating to criminal law and justice. Bone was co-investigator on an ESRC-funded
research project investigating the opinions of drug users concerning drug policy (£55k share,
www.drugpolicyvoices.co.uk). The Sentencing Council commissioned Carline, Burton and Kyd
to evaluate the sentencing guidelines for sexual offences and robbery. Kyd and Cammiss
conducted research for the Road Safety Trust on the investigation and prosecution of road traffic
offences concerning dangerous driving.

                                                 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Empirical socio-legal research within the School developed in innovative new directions over the
period. Cole led a major comparative project for the European Parliament on commercial
arbitration in the EU and beyond, and then obtained £775k in ESRC funding for an inter-
disciplinary study of arbitration practices in Europe. Findings from this project have been set out
in publications for the Journal of Dispute Resolution and an edited collection on Emerging
Trends and Practices in International Arbitration, and through a blog
[https://commercialarbitrationineurope.wordpress.com/project-blog]. Research led by Watkins
on children’s legal understanding and capability, aimed at transforming the evidence base for
policy on public legal education, attracted £1.3M in awards from the Legal Education
Foundation, ESRC and European Research Council. Through this work, Watkins developed and
implemented a pioneering game-based approach to empirical legal research, in collaboration
with a colleague in the University’s School of Informatics.

The School’s clusters on law and theory and on private law enabled the development of
excellent, novel work in those areas. In the law and theory cluster, Bertea received support for
his work on legal obligations from the Marie-Curie Intra-European Scholarship (224k euro), and
from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinshaft (250k euro), and published a monograph on that
subject. There were significant monographs on legal rights by cluster members, including by
Marshall on personal identity, by Riley on dignity, by Rodgers on vulnerability, and by Wills on
global justice and socio-economic rights. A related area of dynamic research concerns the
theory of private law, where key achievements have included Turton’s monograph on causation
in negligence, Masiyakurima’s monograph on copyright in unpublished works, and Jaffey’s
Leverhulme major research fellowship for his work on private law theory.

Future research and impact strategy
Looking forward, the School’s priority in research strategy is to sustain its recent transformations
in research outcomes - covering external funding, policy impact and high-quality outputs - while
maintaining an ethos of pluralism and enabling pioneering and innovative legal scholarship. We
aim to continue the vitality of research in European and international law, empirical socio-legal
research, legal research with a policy dimension and law and theory. A further priority is to
sustain our research through investment in early career researchers, including by developing the
School’s research support mechanisms, such as the research pairs scheme.

Our system of research clusters will remain at the heart of our research practices. The
importance of our research clusters has been highlighted by the recent COVID-19 pandemic,
with cluster meetings and events flourishing in a new online format. The use of online
meetings/events alongside face-to-face meetings will continue to be supported post-pandemic.
The School will keep the number of clusters and their focus under review to ensure that they
reflect School’s research strengths and emergent priorities. By way of illustration, the research
area of social inclusion and the law, which is of growing importance within the School, will be
supported by a new research cluster from 2021.

The legal and policy issues arising from the COVID-19 pandemic will be an important future
research theme. We have already developed considerable expertise, across a range of legal
areas. Riley has written on the implications for conceptions of a right to health, and Slade is
researching the licensing framework for patented vaccines, with a view to their equitable
allocation. Other academics in the School have researched the effects of the pandemic upon the
world of work (Babayev, Brayson, Rodgers), gender roles (Caracciolo and Lavers), legal

                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
practice (Cole, Elliott) and migration and mobility (Desmond, Ryan).

2. People

Overview
The School’s strategy relating to academics and PGRs reflects its research ethos of pluralism
and the objective of developing cutting-edge, world-leading research. Equality, diversity and
inclusion (EDI) considerations have become central to the School’s policies and practice over
the period, leading to a successful application for an Athena Swan bronze award and the
establishment in academic year 2019-2020 of an EDI committee covering all protected
characteristics. The School has an active and internationally diverse PGR community and made
a total of 55 PhD awards in the period (43 of which are counted by HESA and so included in this
REF return).

Staffing and staff development
The School recruits and nurtures outstanding staff undertaking novel topics of legal research or
new approaches within established field. During the REF period, the School’s commitment to
research excellence led to 30 appointments to teaching and research contracts. Of these, four
were at professor level, nine at associate professor level, and 17 at lecturer level. Fifteen of
these appointments were female academics, and 15 male academics, with broadly equal gender
representation at each grade (professor - two female, two male; associate professor - four
female, five male; lecturer - nine female, eight male). The School made four appointments of
BAME scholars over the period (two associate professor, two lecturers).
These appointees have made a substantial contribution to the vitality of research in the School.
Novel empirical approaches to legal study have been developed by Bone and Cole in the areas
of drug control and commercial arbitration respectively. In the area of European and international
law, Deplano’s work has explored alternative and innovative methodologies in international law,
Desmond and Ryan have developed the discipline of migration law, and Kumar’s research has
addressed ideas of decolonisation in international law. In the area of law and theory, Allan and
Jaffey have developed the theory of private law, Brayson has brought contemporary
perspectives to feminist research on law, and Riley has developed the understanding of the
interaction between law and dignity.

As regards promotion, a key development was the establishment by the School of a Career
Progression and Development Committee (2015), to support applicants. This committee
significantly influenced outcomes in EDI terms. Of 17 research staff who were promoted
internally in the period, eleven (65%) were female (three to professor, eight to associate
professor) and six were male (two to professor, four to associate professor). By comparison, in
the previous REF period (2007-2013), 7 of 15 promotions (47%) were of female staff. Three
further promotions of female colleagues to associate professor, were approved within the REF
period, and came into effect in August 2020. Two of the four male colleagues promoted to
associate professor were BAME staff; by comparison, no BAME academic had been promoted
in the previous REF period.

Promotion decisions during the period rewarded research excellence. Cortes’ promotion to
professor reflected his expertise and engagement with policy-makers in relation to consumer
disputes and alternative forms of dispute resolution, while Watkins’ promotion to professor
recognised her innovative empirical research into children’s understanding of the law. At
associate professor level, Ahmed’s promotion recognised his contribution to policy on civil

                                                 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
procedure, Caracciolo di Torella’s was based on her expertise on the development of family-
friendly rights at the EU and UK levels, Lavers’ promotion reflected her contribution to the
development of feminist perspectives on international law, and Rodgers’ recent promotion
recognised her innovative research bringing a vulnerability approach to labour law.

Staff development is supported through an annual performance development discussion with a
School professor, which examines individual research plans. In addition, there is a voluntary
system of research pairs, which enables advice on individual research development. The Law
School benefitted from the University’s institutional commitment to career development (IES,
3.2), with 16 of its academics (10 female, 6 male) having taken leadership training offered in
2016-2019. These included the current Head of School (Kyd), the first woman to hold that
position in the School’s 55-year history.

The School supports and implements the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. ECRs on probationary contracts, have a workload allowance of 20% and benefit
from formal mentoring by a professor in the School. Two female colleagues promoted to
associate professor in the mid-2020 promotion round (with effect from August 2020), benefitted
from this mentoring within the REF period. The appointment of a Law academic in 2019 as chair
of the CSSAH ECR committee (Desmond) led to greater recognition within the School of the
needs and concerns of early career researchers.

Equality, diversity and inclusion

Strategy
In recent years, the School has advanced the University’s institutional goal of effective action to
promote equality and diversity through initiatives across all its working practices, including those
relating to research (IES, 3.1). A wider range of staff are engaged in research on topics related
to EDI, including decolonial perspectives and decolonisation (Brayson, Kumar), work-life
balance (Caracciolo di Torella), freedom of religion (Cumper), migrants’ rights (Desmond,
Ryan), feminist approaches to law (Brayson, Hodson, Lavers) and LGBTQ+ questions
(Hodson, Maine).

The process leading to a successful Athena Swan bronze award in 2019-2020 was central to the
embedding of equality, diversity and inclusion policies and practices within the School. In
particular, the feedback from an initial unsuccessful application (2017) prompted deeper analysis
of, and reflection upon, gender and other EDI questions. Central to that process was a series of
ten well-attended working lunches in the academic year 2018-2019, open to all staff. These saw
discussion of EDI-related issues - dignity at work, wellbeing, unconscious bias and women in
leadership – and of more general topics - including promotion, workload, study leave and REF
preparations.

One consequence of the Athena Swan reflection was the formalisation of the School’s support
arrangements for those taking maternity leave, and for subsequent returns to work. The process
also led the School to reforms of potential benefit to other staff with protected characteristics that
might face obstacles to career development. The School appointed a Deputy Head whose role
includes responsibility for all aspects of EDI. It opened all administrative roles and other career
development opportunities to all grades of academic staff and adopted a practice of
transparently calling for expressions of interest prior to the allocation of such roles and
opportunities. The School adopted a policy of appropriate representation by gender and grade,

                                                   7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and of BAME colleagues, on all School committees.

The Athena Swan application led to the establishment in 2019-2020 of a School committee to
promote equality, diversity and inclusion. The EDI committee includes the Deputy Head and has
diverse representation by gender, race/ ethnicity, disability and LGBTQ+, in line with the
equivalent University-level Equality Action Groups (IES, 3.1). Members of the group have been
assigned responsibility for the development of initiatives and policy in respect of each of those
four subjects. EDI considerations feed into the School’s leadership team through the Deputy
Head, and all School committees include a representative of the EDI committee.

The School’s commitment to EDI has been reflected in innovations concerning appointment and
promotion. For all academic appointments, shortlisting panels are gender-balanced, and are
made up only of staff who have completed equality and diversity, unconscious bias, and
recruitment and selection training. The School policy is that, when an appointment at professor
grade is advertised, a search committee will approach potential candidates with the aim of
achieving gender balance among applicants, and this innovative strategy was praised in Athena
Swan feedback (2020). As regards promotion, the Deputy Head organises annual workshops for
all academic staff and provides one-to-one advice to colleagues considering individual
applications. These proactive School initiatives have contributed directly to a substantial number
of female colleagues being promoted internally in the current period (this section, above).

We share the aim of the University’s Vice-Chancellor, set out in 2020, to address the lack of
BAME staff in higher education (IES, 3.1). Six of our research staff are BAME (12%), the same
number as in 2013. A positive development since the last REF is that four BAME academics
were at associate professor grade, as compared to just one in 2013. However, only two BAME
academics in the School are originally from Britain, which is at odds with the fact that 55% of our
PGRs identify as BAME (2019/20), while Leicester is among the cities in the United Kingdom
with the highest ethnic minority share of population. Through the Deputy Head and its EDI
committee, the School is actively engaging with University efforts to PhD study and academic
careers to members of British BAME communities, including specifically in Law.

Staffing data
The School has an even gender balance, partly as a result of the initiatives summarised above.
Figure 1 summarises the position as of 31 July 2013 and 31 July 2020. It shows that 52% of
academics in the School (26 of 50) were female in mid-2020. The key change over the period
was the achievement of greater gender balance at all grades, so that 6 of 13 professors (46%), 8
of 16 associate professors (50%) and 12 of 21 lecturers (57%) were female as of 31 July 2020.
A mid-2020 promotion round improved the position still further: as of 1 August 2020, 10 of 18
associate professors (56%) and 9 of 18 lecturers were female (50%).




                                                  8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 30

                                                                                                  26
 25                                                                                          24             24
                                                                                                       23


 20

                                                                 16
 15
                                                                      12
                                                                           11
 10                                                                              9
                   8                       8        8
                         7
              6
                                     5
  5                                             4
         3


  0
             Professor               Associate Prof                   Lecturer                    Total

                             2013 Female       2020 Female   2013 Male           2020 Male

                         Figure 1: Academic grades by gender, 2013 and 2020

Academic staff in the School are highly diverse in terms of nationality. Taking country of origin as
the reference point, as of 31 July 2020, 26 of 50 (52%) were from the United Kingdom, 14 were
from EU27 states (28%), and 10 from the rest of the world (20%), including African, Asian and
North American countries. This is a slightly increased international share of staff relative to 31
July 2013, when 27 of 47 (57%) were from the UK, 12 from the EU27 (26%) and 8 from the rest
of the world (17%). The breadth of knowledge which this international diversity brings to the
School is of particular benefit to research in European and international law, to work on law and
theory, and to legal research with a comparative dimension. By way of illustration, in the field of
international law, Bakircioglu’s research engages with Islamic traditions, and Omorogbe has
published on international criminal law in Africa, while in the field of international commercial law,
Hsaio and Yeung have published extensively on developments in East Asia.

REF preparations
The School’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, and for transparency and
consensus, were reflected in the approach taken in developing its submission to REF 2021.
Throughout the process there were briefings on preparations to School meetings. In mid- 2019,
a School-level advisory committee was established with 11 members, with an explicit EDI role,
reflected in a majority of female academics (seven), and the inclusion of BAME colleagues (two)
and lecturers (four). This committee met on eight occasions in 2019 and 2020 and provided
input on all aspects of REF preparations and the School’s draft submission.

In line with the University’s REF Code of Practice, there has been the maximum practicable
transparency in relation to individuals’ contribution to the submission. As regards outputs, all
staff were made aware of the individual circumstances process, and that process led to the
University obtaining a reduction in the number of outputs to be submitted. External and internal
reviews of outputs, and provisional selection decisions, were shared in good time with the
academics concerned. All academic staff were consulted on the REF environment statement,
with the opportunity to suggest changes relating to their research and related activities. The four
                                                             9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
impact case-studies were selected by the University in consultation with the School, after
extensive feedback to authors, and a review process which included external, discipline-specific
assessment.

PGR programme
A broad-based PGR programme is at the heart of our successful research environment,
ensuring the vitality of the School through fresh research ideas and questions, often with an
international dimension. As of 31 July 2020, the School had 54 PGRs, 25 full-time and 29 part-
time (11 campus-based, 18 by distance learning). 30 (56%) were female, and 24 nationalities
were represented among current PGRs. There was broad involvement in supervision, with 39 of
50 academic staff supervising at least one PGR.

Between 1 August 2013 and 31 July 2020, 42 campus-based PhDs were awarded; an average
of six a year. A further 13 PhD awards were made to international distance-learners, for a total of
55, and an average of 7.9 a year. This was an increase on the 25 campus-based PhDs awarded
from 2008/09 to 2012/13 (an average of five per annum). Of the 42 campus-based PhDs, more
were awarded to women (24) than men (18), and some 18 nationalities were represented.

We aim to recruit the best researchers by providing funding, or by supporting its acquisition.
During the period, total University expenditure on PGR funding for Law was £399k. That funding
enabled the School to recruit eight PGRs over the period, on four-year contracts, combining
part-time teaching/ research assistance (0.2 FTE), and an EU/ home fee waiver. The School had
three PGRs who held four-year AHRC M3C/ M4C doctoral training programme scholarships in
the period (IES, 3.3).

The most recent Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (2020) showed that our PGRs had
a high level of confidence in the arrangements relating to their studies. Some 94% of the
respondents agreed that their supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to support their
research; that they had regular contact with supervisors; and that supervisors provided
appropriate feedback. The same proportion stated that they knew who to approach if they had
concerns about any aspect of the programme.

All PGRs, including those researching by distance, attend the School’s training programme at
the probation stage (one year for full-time candidates, two years for part-time). Until 2019/20,
this PGR training was held for one week in each of October and January, with the first week
introducing the PhD in Law, and the second covering different theoretical perspectives and
methodologies in legal research. This training has been very well received, with PGRs
commenting (January 2020) that they were “brilliant”, “very informative” and “very helpful” in
terms of their studies. This training is supplemented by semester-length modules on research
design and methodology provided by CSSAH. From 2020/21, the School’s training will move to
weekly sessions online, both in response to Covid-19, and to better cater for distance learning
PGRs.

PGRs organise an annual conference, supported financially by the School. The conference was
held as an open event in 2019 and 2020, involving PGR presenters and attendees from other
universities in the UK, Ireland and elsewhere. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the June
2020 conference was held online, with 40 presentations across 12 streams. These conferences
have included sessions aimed at career support of PGRs, covering publication, grant capture
and effective networking.

                                                 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Campus-based PGRs also play an active role in research clusters (see section 3, below). PGRs
were central to the organisation by the dispute resolution cluster of a conference on Alternative
Dispute Resolution in 2017.

Our PGRs have obtained external recognition of the excellence of their academic research.
Abdelkarim obtained a visiting fellowship at the University of Melbourne to support her research
on resistance and human rights. Ball, Joyce and Mills (all GTAs) won the prize for the best co-
authored paper at the 2019 Association of Law Teachers conference, for research into law
PGRs’ perceptions of PhD tutors which was later published in the Law Teacher; they then
obtained funding of £1000 from the Association of Law Teachers to produce a best practice
guide as a further academic publication. Fyock and Lightfoot obtained Modern Law Review
scholarships valued at £10,000 each (2020), for their research on the legal status of research
animals, and international investment law and development, respectively.

PGRs have access to funding for research-related expenses from the School research fund, the
CSSAH PGR fund and the University’s doctoral college. This funding has enabled PGRs to
deliver papers at major annual conferences, including those of the Society of Legal Scholars, the
Socio-Legal Studies Association and the Association of Law Teachers. CSSAH and doctoral
college funding has been used to support specialised training, international research visits, and
PhD-related field-trips.

The School makes a substantial contribution to the development of legal scholars, both in the
United Kingdom and elsewhere. Career development training within the PhD programme covers
academic publications, preparation for a viva, and academic job interviews. A specific academic
role covers training and career support, through one-on-one advice, feedback on job
applications, and interview preparation. The dissemination of PhD research is ensured by
making dissertations open access through the University’s Leicester Research Archive.

Twenty-eight campus-based graduates or current PGRs in the REF period obtained academic
positions in the UK or elsewhere. Three of those hold academic positions at the University of
Leicester: Rodgers, whose research on labour law and vulnerability contributed to her recently
promotion to associate lecturer (this section, above); Wills, who has researched socio-economic
rights and animal rights, and recently obtained a Leverhulme fellowship (section 1); and
Zelazna, who has developed a research profile on EU constitutional and trade law. Fourteen
other PhD graduates or current PGRs obtained academic positions elsewhere in the United
Kingdom, including at leading law schools in Cardiff, Durham, KCL, Newcastle, Nottingham,
Oxford, QMUL, Southampton and Warwick. Eleven others hold academic positions in Costa
Rica, Cyprus, Germany, Kuwait, Oman, Taiwan, Turkey and Zambia.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

In implementation of the strategic objectives set out in section 1, research infrastructure was
significantly enhanced in the School during the census period which, combined with research
support and funding at the institutional level (IES, 4.1), fostered transformations in external
research income and the extent of policy impact.

External research income
As a result of our research strategy, the REF period saw a step-change in the level and range of

                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
external research income obtained by academics in the School. Table 1 provides information
concerning the level of external research income. Overall, £1.68M in income was obtained in the
census period, more than four times the total reported in REF 2014.

Table 1: Total research income, all sources


                    Research income                     REF 2014             REF 2021        Change
                    Total                               £403,916             £1,679,852      + 316%
                    Average per year                    £80,783              £239,979        + 197%
                    FTE returned                        39.53                48.6            +23%
                    Average per FTE                     £10,218              £34,565         + 238%
                    returned
                    Average per FTE/ year               £2,044               £4,938          + 142%

This transformation accompanied an increase in income from diverse sources (see Figure 2). By
comparison with REF 2014, there were marked increases in funding obtained from the ESRC,
the British Academy, EU government bodies and UK charities, and a smaller increase in
funding obtained from the AHRC.




                                                                                                                   £1,679,852
                                               REF 2014                    REF 2020
                   £693,177




                                                                                                        £403,916
                                             £278,825



                                                                £270,373



                                                                                  £201,133
                              £144,260
                              £111,283




                                                                                             £109,759
                                                                                             £87,206
                                                                                £75,768
         £51,044




                                         £17,329



                                                            £16,487




         ESRC                 AHRC       BRITAC              EU                 UK     UK GOVT          TOTAL
                                                           BODIES            CHARITIES


                              Figure 2: Research income by source, 2014 and 2020

The improvement in research income is set to continue after 31 July 2020, as the figures quoted
only partly reflect substantial awards within the REF period which will generate income beyond
that date. Those awards include the two high-value examples highlighted in section 1: £775k
from the ESRC award for Cole’s empirical research into commercial arbitration (2018-2024),
and a European Research Consolidator award of £1.06M for Watkins’ research on children’s
legal capability (2019-2024). They also include an AHRC fellowship for Ziegler (2020-2022) and
Leverhulme Trust fellowships for Jaffey (2020-2022) and Wills (2020-2021). We project that
                                                                 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
post-31 July 2020 income from pre-31 July 2020 awards to current academic staff will be £1.8M.
This would be an increase on the total income for the 2013-2020 REF period and provides a
strong starting-point from which to grow our research income after July 2020.

School research support
Support for research within the School has three key elements: research funds for individuals,
research groupings, and one-to-one advice. School research infrastructure during the REF
period saw crucial innovations in respect of all three.

The School provided an annual research fund allowance of £750 a year to each academic for
conference participation and networking visits. In 2018, the share of overhead contribution
income which is provided to the School was designated as a School Research Fund. In parallel,
a School-level policy concerning the Fund was formulated, to emphasise its complementarity to
external and institutional funding, and to permit flexible support for all of research publications,
research funding development, and activity with long-term impact potential. In 2018/19, £20k
was allocated in 25 individual awards to support academic workshops and a PGR conference at
the School, travel to other countries, and engagement with public bodies and legal campaigners.
The School Research Fund provided targeted support to new researchers: of the 2018/19
awards, eight were to early career academics, six to other lecturers, and two to GTAs. Among
the ECRs to benefit were Wade for an academic visit to Leiden to research an article on human
rights and surrogacy, and Zelazna, for an academic visit to Max Planck Institute, Heidelberg, to
research an article on the general principles of EU law.

The School also provides an allocation of £5000 a year to CELI, and £500 to each of the ten
research clusters. CELI and the research clusters provide an intellectual space within which to
develop work in progress. Outputs included in the REF submission which were first presented in
these fora include two articles by Allan on the misuse of the corporate form (private law cluster),
Babayev’s article on the post-Brexit status of EU citizens (EU law cluster), Cammiss’ article on
the Stansted 15 trial (criminal justice cluster), Hodson and Lavers’ edited book on feminist
judgments (CELI) and Yeung’s co-authored monograph on Institutions and Economic Growth in
Asia (2018, company/ commercial law cluster).

Clusters had a particular role in assisting PGRs in developing their research. The findings of a
research project on law PGRs’ perceptions of PhD tutors by Ball, Joyce and Mills (GTAs) were
initially presented to the School’s socio-legal cluster, and then at the 2019 conference of the
Association of Law Teachers, where it was awarded a prize (see section 2, above). Arslan
(GTA) presented joint research with Ahmed on the concept of judicial early neutral evaluation to
the dispute resolution cluster, which then formed the basis for an editorial they published jointly
in the 2020 Civil Justice Quarterly.

One-to-one support is provided through annual performance development reviews for all
colleagues, and through mentoring for early career academics on probation. Colleagues also
benefit from individual advice, and comments on draft applications, from the research funding
lead. The School has its own ethics officer, who advises academics and PGRs on socio-legal
and human rights-oriented projects involving interviews and/ or potential self-incrimination by
subjects. An illustrative example was Bone’s successful ESRC bid for an investigation of the
opinions of drug users. A key innovation in the current period was a voluntary research pair
scheme to permit advice on all aspects of an individuals’ research (covered in section 1, above).


                                                  13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These forms of support are additional to the substantial contribution made by University policy
on study leave, which permits such leave for one semester in seven. The School complements
study leave through reduced administrative and leadership responsibilities in the summer period
before or after it. Law staff were granted 63 semesters of study leave by the University between
academic years 2013/14 and 2019/20. The allocation of study leave is subject to School and
University approval of a research plan which is ambitious and achievable. The raised
expectations for study leave link to our transformed research culture (see section 1). Periods of
study leave facilitated the completion of high-quality monographs, including works by Bertea on
legal obligation, by Bone on human rights and drug control, by Cortes on consumer disputes, by
Masiyakurima on copyright law, by Rodgers on vulnerability, by Turton on causation in
negligence, by Wicks on bodily autonomy, by Wills to challenges to world order, by Witt on
competition law, and by Yeung on institutions and economic growth in Asia.

Institutional support for research
The transformation in the School’s research performance benefitted from extensive research
support provided through the CSSAH. Law academics obtained awards from the CSSAH
research development fund, which covers research costs such as grant writing, pilot studies,
overseas travel, field trips, buy-outs of teaching or marking, and research assistance. They also
benefitted from specific schemes for grant capture, impact development, external engagement
and international collaboration (IES, 4.1). In total, 47 awards, for a total of £155k, were made to
Law academics over the period (see Table 2).

Table 2: CSSAH research support awards to Law (2013-2020)

            Type of Fund               Awards              Value (£)
            General fund               24                  £74,756
            Impact                     20                  £53,800
            Engagement                 5                   £4,618
            Grant capture              3                   £4,546
            International research     3                   £17,329
            Total                      55                  £155,049

The Socio-legal research cluster particularly benefitted from CSSAH support. Watkins’ ERC
consolidator grant for research into socio-legal approaches to children’s legal capacity followed
almost £3,000 of CSSAH research funding to support grant writing. Research by Carline (now at
Liverpool) on local policies to limit violence against women was supported by two College impact
funding awards totalling £7,751. In relation to legal policy impact, CSSAH funds were essential
to travel linked to the development of the impact potential of research by Ahmed on civil
procedure (ICS1), Cortes on online resolution of consumer disputes, Ryan on post-Brexit
immigration law (ICS3), and Ulph on museum collections (ICS4).

Cross-disciplinary research support structures put in place at the University level further
enhanced legal research. University peer-review structures for large grant applications
contributed to the increased value of awards, including Cole’s ESRC award (2018) of £775k for
empirical research into commercial arbitration, two related ESRC awards (2018, 2019) totalling
£139k obtained by Cygan for interdisciplinary research (with two academics in Politics at
Leicester) on Brexit and parliament, and Watkins’ ERC award of £1.06M (2019). Peer review of
applications within the University also assisted in the acquisition of fellowships by Cortes

                                                  14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Nuffield Foundation), Jaffey (Leverhulme), Ryan (British Academy), Ulph (AHRC), Wills
(Leverhulme) and Ziegler (AHRC and British Academy).

The University’s establishment of the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS) in 2017
(IES, 2.2) as a product of its strategic commitment to develop world-class interdisciplinary
research, has been of particular significance for the School’s researchers. LIAS funding for a
‘tiger team’ and for the Leicester Prisons Research Network led directly to Gooch’s ESRC award
of £318k in 2018 for a project entitled ‘The rehabilitation prison’. Cumper was co-lead of a ‘tiger
team’ on relationship and sex education in schools involving academics from the University’s
schools of Education, Law and Psychology. Ryan is co-lead of a University network on
migration, mobility and citizenship (2019-2022), which includes academics and PGRs from
Medical Sciences, and the Schools of Arts, Business, Geography and History. This network has
developed research projects on migration cities and on migration, mobility and health, including
pilot research by Joyce (a GTA in Law) in respect of COVID-19-related border and travel
restrictions.

Law academics benefitted from an ESRC impact accelerator account administered within the
University in 2019-2020 (4 awards, total value £11,072). Those awards supported a public
engagement event by Bone and Wade entitled ‘Prescribing Cannabis: Breaking Down Myths in
Medicine’, Cygan’s parliamentary fellowship with the House of Commons library service on
Brexit and constitutional reform, and Deplano’s organisation of an interdisciplinary conference
entitled ‘When Blockchain meets Arbitration’ (also supported by CELI and the Society of Legal
Scholars).

Facilities and infrastructure
The University provides research support for costings and external funding through its Research
and Enterprise Division. It provides training on research funding opportunities and applications,
including an annual workshop for Law academics. The School also benefits from extensive
provision by the University Library, and its dedicated Law Librarian and Research Consultant. In
2019-20, the Library budget was £4.06M, which includes all law books and periodicals (in print
and electronic formats) and legal research databases (including Lexis and Westlaw). The Library
supports the development of PGR research skills by providing workshops and advice on
searching for legal information and legal referencing. The Library's doctoral college reading room
is a dedicated study space for PGRs with 24/7 opening hours.

The School’s research policies are overseen and implemented by its Director of Research, who
is a senior member of the School, with a workload allocation corresponding to 40% of their time.
The DoR sits on the College Research Committee and the School Business Group and chairs
the School Research Committee which decides on School research policies and support
strategy. The School Committee has 15 members of academic staff, including all those with
roles in relation to research matters, together with an ECR representative and a PGR
representative.

As regards physical space, the School has exclusive use of the Jan Grodecki room as a meeting
space, which is used for cluster events and small workshops. Larger research events are
elsewhere on the University’s central campus, or at College Court, a University-owned
conference facility one mile away.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The diversity of legal research in the School, with its orientations to socio-legal research, policy
impact and innovation, enabled it to make a growing contribution to the research base, to public
policy, and to the community, over the period.

Research collaborations
Over the REF period, colleagues engaged in many research collaborations with other legal
scholars, often internationally, or with an interdisciplinary ethos, which often involved holding
events at the University that led to research publications. Many such collaborations reflected the
School’s strategic orientation to research on European and international law and were typically
facilitated by CELI. Between 2014 and 2017, it hosted a series of events on the position of the
European Convention on Human Rights in the United Kingdom. These included a conference of
academics and practitioners at the University, funded by the Modern Law Review, entitled ‘The
UK and European Human Rights: A Strained Relationship?’ and two conferences in London with
the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, concerning the European Court of Human Rights and
the United Kingdom, and the implementation of judgments of the European Court of Human
Rights, respectively (Bates, Ziegler).

Together with CELI, academics in the School organised a series of externally funded
collaborative projects on European or international law. Deplano’s project on methodologies in
international law included participants from eleven countries, while that on the legacy of the
League of Nations included participants from six countries. Deplano also organised a
conference on blockchain and decentralised justice with participants from Argentina, Canada,
Malta, Portugal, Spain, the United States and the United Kingdom, and Kleros, an organisation
specializing in decentralized online justice. Desmond’s conference and journal special issue on
the global compact for migration included participants from Ireland, Lebanon, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom, drawn from universities, international organisations and NGOs.
Omorogbe’s project on the crisis of international criminal law in Africa was run jointly with
colleagues at the University of Johannesburg, and involved participants from the International
Criminal Court, the International Committee of the Red Cross, and universities in Greece,
Nigeria, South Africa, Sudan and the United Kingdom. Ryan’s comparative project on migrant
workers and labour law included participants from eight countries. Ziegler’s research project on
the construction of legal orders in Europe led to a CELI conference, and an edited collection,
involving academics and practitioners from 11 European countries.

In line with the University’s strategic aim to promote interdisciplinary research (IES, 2.2), many
academics were involved in collaborative research groupings within the University of Leicester.
The Leicester Institute of Advanced Studies (LIAS), an interdisciplinary centre of excellence,
supported interdisciplinary initiatives by members of the Law School, including Cumper and
Ryan (see section 3, above). Other collaborative research groupings included Cygan’s ESRC
priority grant (2017-20) with Lynch and Whitaker from the School History, Politics and
International Relations , which involved research on the implications of Brexit for parliamentary
committees, and Miola’s collaboration with academics in the College of Life Sciences in a project
on research on dynamic consent in clinical settings (2019-2020), supported by the University-
administered Wellcome Trust institutional strategic support fund.

Law academics have also been involved in international interdisciplinary collaborations. Bertea
is a member of the research group NormActivity on the normative dimension of human
experience, with academics from ethology, law, neurology psychology, sociology, and urban

                                                  16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
architecture. He is also a member of the standing group on Kantian political thought of the
European Consortium for Political Research. Lorber and Rodgers are leading members of the
European Working Group on Labour Law, which brings together researchers from universities in
seven European countries. Slade is a member of the Oxford Intellectual Property Research
Centre, which hosts on international and interdisciplinary research on the legal, economic and
public policy aspects of intellectual property).

Sustaining legal disciplines
The School’s commitment to pluralism is reflected in membership on editorial boards of law
journals in many legal fields. There are 14 members of staff across the school engaged in this
activity, covering different theoretical approaches to law (Jurisprudence, Feminist Legal Studies)
as well as subjects as diverse as European and international law (Human Rights Law Review
and International and Comparative Law Quarterly) medical law (Medicine Science and the Law),
civil procedure (Civil Justice Quarterly) and business law (Journal of Business Law).

Members of the School run national and international academic networks. Ahmed is the founder
and convenor of the civil justice systems and ADR stream of the SLSA conference. Through
Bertea, the School collaborates with De Montfort University and the University of Modena in an
annual legal research conference. Hodson and Lavers co-chaired the European Society of
International Law’s interest group on Feminism and International Law until 2018. Omorogbe set
up and chairs the International Law and Policy in Africa Network (ILPAN). Ryan is co-chair of the
Migration and Law Network which promotes that field in British universities.

International networks have also arisen from specific projects. Cole’s ESRC grant on the social
and psychological underpinnings of commercial arbitration involves researchers from universities
in six countries. Cumper set up an AHRC-funded UK-wide network on collective worship in
schools, involving educationalists, lawyers, philosophers and sociologists. Du Bois’ British
Academy funded project “Crossing Boundaries? Private Remedies for Public Duties” was
established in collaboration with Cape Town University, and included contributors from five other
South African universities, and from the National University of Lesotho.

Engagement with law- and policy-makers
Engagement with law- and policy-makers is a strength of the School, which is linked to its
strategic objective to promote research with potential for impact. The far-reaching nature of that
engagement is reflected in the breadth and excellence of the School’s four submitted impact
case studies. These represent engagement with legal policy makers in fields as diverse as civil
procedure (Ahmed ICS1), domestic violence (Burton ICS2), immigration law (Ryan ICS3), and
the ownership of museum collections (Ulph ICS4). In all of these cases, the engagement activity
has resulted, or will result, in important policy changes, affecting legislation (ICS2 and ICS3),
legal guidelines (ICS1) or practical guidelines for actors in the field (ICS4).

The engagement activities at the foundation of the four impact case studies reflect just a small
proportion of these activities undertaken within the School. Many academics have been involved
in presentations to United Kingdom policy-making bodies. Bakircioglu advised the All-Party
Parliamentary Group on international freedom of religion on religious violence in Nigeria. Cygan
gave evidence to the House of Commons Procedure Committee, and its European Scrutiny
Committee, on scrutiny of EU affairs after Brexit, and held a POST parliamentary academic
fellowship. Ryan gave presentations on the Mediterranean migration crisis to the Home Affairs
sub-committee of the House of Lords EU Select Committee, and to the Public Bill committee on

                                                 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Immigration and Social Security Bills of 2019 and 2020. Ulph participated in meetings of the
All-Party Parliamentary Group for the protection of cultural heritage, and in a Government
summit on cultural protection, and was awarded a grant by the Arts Council to produce guidance
with the Institute of Art and Law) on repatriation for the museum sector (ICS4). Watkins gave
presentations to a cross-government social research seminar on gamification, and to the All-
Party Parliamentary Group for public legal education. Wade participated in a Law Commission
stakeholder event on children’s rights and surrogacy, leading to her research being cited in its
2019 consultation paper, Building Families Through Surrogacy: A New Law.

Members of the School submitted written evidence on government or parliamentary
consultations. Desmond and Ryan jointly submitted evidence to a House of Lords inquiry on EU
asylum law and Brexit. Evans helped draft the Society of Legal Scholars property law section’s
response to the Law Commission’s Consultation Paper on making a will. Yeung submitted
evidence to the Foreign Affairs Select Committee on China and the international rules-based
system. Kyd and Cammiss submitted their report on the prosecution to road traffic offences to a
House of Commons Transport Committee inquiry into road safety. Ziegler submitted written
evidence to the Joint Committee on Human Rights’ inquiry into the Government’s proposed
derogation from the European Convention on Human Rights (2017). Burton submitted research
and evidence to a Scottish parliamentary committee in 2019, contributing to the case for
introducing emergency protection orders (EPOs) for domestic abuse in Scotland, and these
were proposed in a Scottish Government Bill in October 2020 (ICS2).

Other policy-relevant work has had an EU law focus. Caracciolo di Torella gave presentations
at Eurofound and EFTA seminars on work-life balance in Brussels, and prepared reports for the
European Commission on gender equality and the collaborative economy, and for the European
Parliament on the directive on equal access to goods and services. Cortes was a speaker at the
European Parliament workshop on European civil law, and keynote speaker at an international
conference on online courts co-organised by HM Courts and Tribunals Service. Lorber
presented a report to the ETUC on confidentiality in information and consultation of worker
representatives. Ryan gave a presentation on international law and the migration crisis at the
European Commission policy centre in Brussels.

A separate strand of work involved engagement with EU and international human rights
standards. Bates gave presentations on states’ margin of appreciation and subsidiarity at the
European Court of Human Rights, and on prisoners’ voting rights at a Council of Europe event
hosted at the University of Moscow. Wade gave a presentation to the Committee on the Rights
of the Child on surrogacy and is an expert visitor to the Children’s Rights and Bioethics Divisions
of the Council of Europe.

Research by academics in the Law School has been cited in reported judgments. An article by
Evans (a colleague with a teaching-focused contract) in the Conveyancer and Property Lawyer
was cited in Skelwith v Armstrong [2015] EWHC 3830 in connection with powers of sale under
an equitable mortgage. Hsiao’s article ‘Legitimized interference with private properties’ was
cited in the Singapore International Commercial Court case CIPT Investments Ltd v Qilin World
Capital Limited and another [2017] SGHC(I) 5.

Colleagues have been involved in training of state officials. Caracciolo di Torella delivered
seminars on anti-discrimination law to members of the German judiciary for the German
Academy of Law, to members of the judiciary in Italy for the Scuola Superiore della Magistratura,

                                                 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and to lay members of the Employment Appeal Tribunal in England. Rodgers spoke on labour
law and the right to a fair trial to judges and other members of civil society through the European
Research Academy. Ryan delivered training on the Dublin Regulation on asylum to the relevant
decision-making unit in Malta.

Civil society, public engagement and media
External engagement with the civil society, legal practitioners and members of the public has
also become an increasingly prominent feature over the period. Many developments have
involved collaboration with civil society bodies. Bakircioglu acted as consultant to TOHAV, a
human rights NGO in Turkey, on the right to freedom from torture or inhuman or degrading
treatment. Canto Lopez (an academic with a teaching-focused contract) presented research
concerning voluntary redress for energy consumers to academics, practitioners, and energy
market actors at an event organised at the University. Cygan participated in Industry and
Parliament Trust stakeholder consultations on Brexit and discussed Brexit at public events
organised by the Social Market Foundation and the Legal Education Foundation. Kyd and
Cammiss’ research for the Road Safety Trust in 2018-2019 (see section 1) was presented at a
workshop involving the Magistrates’ Association, the Parliamentary Advisory Committee on
Transport Safety, police officers and road safety professionals. Lorber provided consultancy to
the European Trade Union Institute on social policy and inclusion. Ryan collaborated with the
Traveller Movement in a campaign concerning the legal status of Irish citizens.

Many academics in the School collaborate with members of legal and related professions.
Ahmed is the secretary of the East Midlands branch of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators, and
Cole is a board member. Cole and Cortes each act as independent arbitrators for civil disputes
including aviation, water, telecommunications, landlord-and-tenant, and domain names. Ryan
worked with the Immigration Law Practitioners’ Association on the protection of EU rights of
residence after Brexit. Cammiss is a member of the Ethics, Integrity and Complaints Committee
of the Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner for Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland.

Members of the Law School have been active contributors to media and blogs. Bates runs the
‘UK Strasbourg spotlight’ blog (https://ukstrasbourgspotlight.wordpress.com). Cammiss
contributed to blogs concerning the Stansted 15 Trial for Metro, the Political Quarterly, the New
Statesman and Open Democracy. Cygan provided commentary on Brexit to media from France,
Germany, Spain, Poland, Romania, and the United States. Desmond wrote opinion pieces
about migration law and policy questions for RTE and the Irish Independent. Golynker wrote on
citizenship and nationality for The Conversation. Ryan wrote about the EU migration crisis for
The Conversation.

Conclusion
The current REF period has seen a marked transformation in research outcomes in Leicester
Law School. The School enhanced its research support infrastructure and raised research
expectations across the School. The achievements which resulted included a substantial
increase in external research funding, significant law and policy impacts, extensive engagement
with law- and policy-makers, and an impressive range of monographs and other research
publications. Our strategy for the future is to continue to develop our areas of research strength,
particularly in European and international law, empirical socio-legal research, legal research with
a policy dimension, and law and theory. The School’s pluralistic ethos, based on valuing both
personal and intellectual diversity, puts it in a strong position to sustain the vitality of its world-
class research in the challenging period ahead.

                                                   19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          20
