Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: English Language and Literature (UoA27)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1: Unit context and structure

 English Language and Literature represents one of the more mature research disciplines at the
 University of Northampton (UoN) and since REF2014 has built on its research strengths. This
 maturity is reflected in the Unit having a number of senior researchers including two Professors
 and three readers over the REF period. Since REF2014 declining undergraduate student numbers
 and a University restructure has led to a reduction in staff FTE from 12 in REF2014 to 8.7 for
 REF2021. Despite this, the UoA has remained stable in that the majority of those submitted in
 REF2014 will be submitted in REF2021. In 2019 as part of the restructure, a wider Humanities
 group within the Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology was created which placed English and
 Creative Writing alongside History, Media, Performance and Journalism. With the decline in
 student numbers, the aim of these changes is to build sustainability in key research disciplines
 and to encourage greater collaboration and interdisciplinarity in research in-line with the University
 Research Plan 2020-2025.

 Key to this UoA is the Centre for Critical and Creative Writing (CCCW). CCCW was developed in
 2016 to consolidate two earlier research centres – the Centre for Fiction and Narrative (CCFN)
 and the Centre for Contemporary Narrative and Cultural Theory (CCN&T). CCCW brings together
 the research of scholars working in the areas of postcolonial literature, trauma studies and popular
 culture. Alongside these well-established research specialisms, CCCW is cultivating strengths in
 life writing, childhood and adolescent studies, and fantasy and wonder. CCCW brings together
 staff, postgraduates and visiting scholars to build on its interdisciplinary research base and to
 support:

    1.      High-impact scholarly research from inception to publication in journals and
            monographs. There has been a strong focus via the Academic Interactions Map (AIM)
            process (Section 2.1) to support authored monographs (Allen, Jowett, Mackley,
            Reese, Rosenquist, Simmons, Starr, Wilson) alongside chapters, journal articles
            and compositions. We have supported longer-term, more in-depth research that makes
            a significant contribution to knowledge and thereby extends the reach and significance
            of the research.

    2.      A thriving postgraduate research community. The growth in postgraduate research
            (PGR) students (home and international) has been a key success for this UoA.
            Substantial time and resource have been put into fostering a research environment
            that promotes diversity, gives a range of opportunities (presenting, teaching,
            conference organising, research assistant roles) to the PGR community. Since
            REF2014 21 students have completed their PhDs and a further 13 are in progress.
            (Section 2.2).

    3.      UoN’s social impact agenda by focusing on contemporary social issues and
            cultural heritage through literature and performance. Projects aimed at engaging
            and impacting on audiences beyond academia and using literary scholarship,
            composition and film to broach wider issues of loneliness, aging, equality and
            inclusivity, and cultural heritage have been supported in this UoA. (Section 4.2)

    4.      Sustainable research networks locally and globally. Members of CCCW are well
            networked and have actively worked to develop sustainable networks. First, by
            research activity that has involved leading on and contributing to scholarly societies
            (Jowett, Starr, Wilson), committee membership (Jowett, Starr, Rosenquist,
            Wilson), journal editorial boards (Jowett, Starr, Wilson) and regular conference

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           attendance and presenting keynote lectures. Second, by working more closely with
           local and international public sector institutions to support wider engagement initiatives
           (Jowett, Starr, Wilson). Third, by hosting visiting researchers and appointing visiting
           professors and fellows within CCCW and fourth by developing networks such as the
           AHRC-funded Diaspora Screen Media Network (DSMN), and providing an institutional
           base for academic journals and societies such as the Journal of Postcolonial Writing,
           Ibidem’s book series ‘Studies in World Literature’ and the Katherine Mansfield Society.

    5.     Regular seminar, conference and public engagement activity. Since 2014 CCCW
           members have organised or co-organised a total of 25 academic conferences or
           symposia, many at the University of Northampton alongside large scale international
           conferences (Andermahr, ‘Decolonizing Trauma Studies’ 2015; Black British and
           British Asian screen media symposium 2019; Wilson and Simmons ‘Diaspora Screen
           Media Symposium’ 2020). (Section 4.3)
 1.2: Research and impact strategy

 There is considerable evidence of positive step changes in the research culture, strategy, and
 impact within this UoA. In REF2014 there were five ambitions for CCCW:

    1. Consolidate research groups and grow international reputation. The formation of
       CCCW in 2016 (section 1.1) consolidated research activity across the disciplines of English
       literature, creative writing, film and media studies fostering a more inclusive and
       interdisciplinary research group. External Visiting Professors and Fellows were also
       appointed to support the research environment of the group and to build its international
       reputation. Appointments were made in the areas of African, Black British and Diaspora
       theatres (Ukaegbu), postcolonial literature (Kimber), gay literature (Parker) and 19th
       century print culture (Drew). The Centre also provided a stronger hub for postgraduate
       students and visiting doctoral students. The consolidation and reorientation of the research
       group was key to the following four objectives.

    2. Expand collaborative and interdisciplinary research within and beyond the
       Department. Internal and interdisciplinary collaborative work has developed with, for
       example, the Institute of Health and Wellbeing (project on the social impact of placemaking,
       titled ‘Wellbeing through Heritage, Arts and Technology’ (co-investigators Wilson,
       Mackley and Rosenquist)) and external networks like the Diaspora Screen Media
       Network in partnership with Birmingham City University (principal-investigator Wilson, co-
       investigator Simmons). Researchers have continued to pursue interdisciplinary and
       broad-reaching projects beyond individual outputs or publications. These projects and
       collaborations have led to many of the more public-facing activities within the unit, and thus
       helped to provide pathways for impact.

    3. Increase the level of research income. In an increasingly competitive funding landscape,
       there has been some modest successes in terms of funding awards, and postgraduate
       student income has increased since REF2014. GBP142,656 of external funding has been
       won alongside GBP40,704 of internal funding. This comprises of funding that crossed over
       from the last REF cycle and came from the EU Marie Curie Initial Training Network, entitled
       ‘Diasporic Constructions of Home and Belonging’ (CoHaB), led by Westfalische Wilhelms-
       Universitat Muenster (GBP88,000). Further success came from the AHRC-funded Cult TV:
       TV Cultures Network (2015) of GBP22,590 (Jowett), UoN’s share of the DSMN (Wilson
       as Principal Investigator). Smaller awards include an Arts Council ‘Grants for the Arts’
       award of GBP6,150, won by C. Bennett to serve as poet in residence for Wicken Fen, and
       two Santander travel grants (GBP1,000 each for Andermahr 2014 and Wilson 2018) to
       attend international research events. Internal seed funding has been won, including
       pedagogic Innovation bids (Andermahr and Simmons 2015, GBP6,000; Burnapp and
       Reese 2017, GBP6,000); travel to research archives (Rosenquist GBP1,910 (2017) and
       GBP942 (2018)); and a collaborative internally-funded Changemaker Challenge Fund bid,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        with the Institute of Health and Wellbeing, on the subject of ‘Wellbeing through Heritage,
        Arts and Technology (Wilson as co-investigator, multiple partners, including Mackley and
        Rosenquist, GBP11,000).

    4. Sustain external networks and international research collaborations. International
       networks in trauma studies and postcolonial literatures have expanded. This has been
       facilitated by the DSNM which combines strengths in both diaspora studies texts and cult
       screen studies. Similarly, the Katherine Mansfield Society has expanded its reach and
       significance illustrated by annual international conferences, regular publications and
       increased impact through heritage initiatives across Europe and New Zealand. Members
       of CCCW sit on editorial boards for journals and play key roles in scholarly societies
       alongside academic bodies such as the National Council of Professors (Wilson, Vice-
       President). (Section 4.1)

    5. Enhance public engagement and increase partners and beneficiaries of research.
       The dissemination and reach of the research of CCCW has developed since REF2014.
       This is demonstrated by collaborative projects internal to the University but also those
       involving new external partners. Examples include C. Bennett’s collaboration with Age
       Concern with the publication and performance of ‘The Voyage’, as part of a campaign to
       end loneliness and also ‘Wenceslas’ which was supported by John Lewis in recognition of
       150 years of the partnership. CCCW members have been active in organising events,
       giving public-facing interviews and talks. In literary studies, engagement with local radio
       book clubs, regular blogging and podcasting, school visits and public lectures (including
       the annual John Clare Memorial Lecture, in honour of local writer Clare) has led to a wider
       dissemination of research ideas. Media and film studies initiated the monthly Cult Film Club
       at the Errol Filmhouse.
 Building on the developments outlined above the following objectives have been identified moving
 forward. These are linked to the wider University and Faculty research plans and focus on:

    1. Sustaining the research quality and strengthening the resource base via strategic
       collaborations within and beyond the University. CCCW will look to continue to
       produce quality research outputs, with the focus on collaborations and interdisciplinary
       work to be strengthened. The recent restructure which places CCCW in the subject area
       of Culture alongside cognate disciplines such as History, Media and Performance
       facilitates the opportunity to develop collaborative projects. It will also be important to build
       on regional and international networks to further establish and build on key research
       strengths to sustain the research environment for staff and PGRs. Recent success with a
       small Association of Commonwealth Universities Gender Grant (P. Bennett and
       Andermahr) with a colleague in History (GBP1,000) is evidence of the interdisciplinary
       synergies that exist. Building on an already strong record of interdisciplinarity and
       collaborative research within and beyond UoN will become a key priority.

    2. Building pathways for impact and developing the reach and significance of research
       projects. CCCW will use UoN’s researcher development training and work more closely
       with the Research and Innovation Funding Support Team (RIFS) to develop project
       proposals that have clear pathways to impact and the evidence to support impact. This fits
       closely with the UoN’s commitment in the Research Plan 2020-25 to produce purposeful
       research that has social value and to align research to the United Nation’s (UN)
       Sustainable Development Goals 2030. There are clear opportunities in terms of the
       research specialisms in trauma studies, life stories, postcolonialism, identity and in building
       on existing work around equality and inclusion (Andermahr, Decolonising Trauma Studies
       Symposium 15/5/2015 and Investigating Identities in Young Adult YA Narratives 2017)).
       CCCW has on-going work that focuses on reducing inequalities (UN Goals 5 and 10) and
       fostering strong and just institutions for sustainable communities (UN Goal 16).




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Provide supportive and inclusive postgraduate research provision and staff
       development opportunities for all types of researcher. As a research centre, CCCW
       will continue to act as a hub for researchers at all stages of their career. It will disseminate
       and consult with colleagues in relation to research updates, opportunities and events, be
       a focal point for research development opportunities and maintain and extend regional,
       national and international networks. The Centre will provide a collective identity and be a
       locus for discipline-based training. Mentoring and peer review opportunities will also form
       part of CCCW’s remit. CCCW will look to build on its network of visiting academics in
       support of the ambitions outlined above.

    4. Enhancing Bidding Activity. CCCW remains committed to building its research income
       and, as noted above, will support interdisciplinary and collaborative projects to submit
       competitive bids that align with ambitions of its members and those of the Faculty and
       University. Staff will be supported to undertake development opportunities to enhance
       bidding activity, to network and to development funding proposals. Colleagues will be
       encouraged to form part of wider bid teams in other disciplines, such as History and
       Education, across the University as part of our drive to increase the amount of
       interdisciplinary research undertaken.
 1.3 Open access

 English staff at the University of Northampton are encouraged to publish in the most appropriate
 venue for their publications, giving due consideration to copyright restrictions and opportunities for
 open access, making use of creative common licences where appropriate. The university has
 provided central funding and administrative support to assist researchers to make articles, book
 chapters and monographs open access where possible.

 1.4 Research integrity

 English staff support a culture of research integrity. It works within the UoN’s Research Integrity
 Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of
 research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly.

 2. People

 2.1: Staffing strategy and staff development

 Since REF2014 declining undergraduate student numbers and UoN restructure has led to a
 reduction in staff FTE from 12 in REF2014 to 8.7 for REF2021. This reduction has been mitigated
 by a strategy to consolidate fractional posts. Two members of the team (Allen and Rosenquist)
 were moved from fractional to full-time positions in 2017, with four out of five fractional contracts
 since then being voluntary. There has also been career progression with one colleague (Allen)
 submitted to REF2014 as an Early Career Researcher (ECR) who is now a senior lecturer. Since
 REF2014 a further three members of the unit also moved from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer during
 the period under review (Allen and Rosenquist in 2016; Reese in 2019). All colleagues are on
 permanent Teaching and Research contracts which means they have dedicated workload
 allocation hours for research activity and scholarly activity.

 The long-standing staffing strategy for this UoA has been to recruit staff with demonstrable
 research experience at a level commensurate with their career standing. As all current CCCW
 staff are research active and have PhDs, recruitment of new staff requires a demonstrable record
 of research outputs and achievement. During shortlisting and at interview, candidates are

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expected to address their capabilities for high-quality research outputs, research impact,
 postgraduate research supervision and contribution to the research culture of the University and
 the sustenance of the discipline externally. It is equally important that all new staff can contribute
 to the teaching portfolio and so experience of teaching and wider administrative responsibilities
 forms part of the recruitment strategy. All new members of staff are welcomed into the CCCW and
 offered a mentor. They are signposted to research events and opportunities alongside an early
 evaluation of any research support they may need.

 Research activity and ambitions are primarily managed and audited through the University’s
 Performance Development Review (PDR) process. Individual objectives and key performance
 indicators are agreed annually with line managers and appraised and reviewed after six and twelve
 months. At least one objective for all CCCW staff relates to research development and progress,
 and identifies any underlying support needed. In CCCW the formal PDR process is supplemented
 by a further meeting with the centre’s director (Wilson) where an Academic Interactions Map (AIM)
 is completed with a specific focus on research and enterprise. These meetings allow individual
 researchers to identify and target specific projects or outputs; they seek to ensure that any required
 training or funding is identified, that research bids are prepared in connection with peer review and
 that University support systems, and individual aims and accomplishments, are integrated into the
 strategic aims of the Centre, Faculty and University. The AIM process is normally completed just
 prior to the start of a new annual PDR and feeds into more holistic professional development for
 each researcher, offering strategic support while the PDR is a more formal appraisal.

 In addition to line managerial and CCCW director support, the Faculty has a research leader who
 has oversight of all research active areas and oversees researcher development opportunities
 within the Faculty. Colleagues have access to an extensive range of researcher development
 training aimed at all research career stages from ECRs, to mid-career, to Professors. Institutional
 support is provided by RIFS in conjunction with the Human Resources Staff Development Unit,
 the Graduate School and the Library and Learning Services. Annual programmes for Researcher
 Development also include workshops delivered by external experts related to the University’s
 priorities (e.g. sustainable leadership in research, equality and inclusion in research, aligning
 research to UN Sustainable Development Goals) and those identified by research leaders. There
 is also tailored mentoring for ECRs, Associate Professors and Professors. Individual support for
 funding applications, research events, networking and conference attendance is provided. CCCW
 plays a key role in discipline-focused staff development in line with the AIM process outlined
 above. The Graduate School offers an in-house PGCert in Postgraduate Research Supervision,
 with two members of the team (Allen and Rosenquist) having secured the qualification within the
 period under review and two ECR contract staff members (Reese and Bever-Donker) having
 completed the first module of the programme. The Graduate School also provides regular training
 events to support supervisors and examiners of research degree students to ensure high quality
 provision and best practice.

 Career progression for researchers can come more formally through awarding the title of
 Associate Professor (AP) and in Professorships. Associate Professors are supported by an
 institutional development programme and have fast-tracked opportunities to participate in Faculty
 and Institutional committees relating to research governance, strategy, ethics, and excellence.
 Members of CCCW sit on the Faculty Research and Enterprise Committee, the University
 Research and Enterprise Committee, and they are also members of the Readers, Associate
 Professors and Professors Group thereby ensuring research priorities and development needs
 can be fed into Faculty and University planning. As a further investment in the development of
 research leaders, Associate Professors are allocated additional hours for research leadership and
 dedicated support and allocated time in developing and evidencing research impacts and other
 REF activities.

 2.2: Postgraduate research students

 English has an excellent record of recruitment and progression of PGR students with 13 PhD
 students currently in progress and another 21 having completed their studies during the REF

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period. This small unit is responsible for a proportionally large postgraduate research community.
 PGR numbers reflect a steady growth and at the census date another eight students have been
 recruited for the next academic year. 11 of our PGRs are full time overseas students with
 government funding and 14 are home students who are largely part-time and self-funding.
 Particularly strong recruitment during the REF period arises from networks in Algeria (Burnapp)
 and Saudi Arabia (Wilson and Andermahr), from which we have enrolled approximately 20
 PGRs, all of whom are fully funded by their governments or education ministries. CCCW is active
 in supporting these students in acclimating to British research culture with induction sessions and
 dedicated workshops. Our home students, most of whom follow a part time route, tend not to hold
 major studentships reflecting the attractiveness of the University of Northampton’s postgraduate
 offer to part-time students. Additional support is offered to these students with a number having
 successfully applied for small local grants. We have a strong record of recruiting students from
 non-traditional backgrounds including mature students and BAME students. Over half of our PGR
 students are women. Our research strengths in issues of equality, diversity, gender and sexuality
 often attract PGR students with protected characteristics.

 At UoN all PGRs are supervised by a team of two to three subject specialists. As the Humanities
 subject area consists entirely of active researchers, we can provide balanced supervisory teams
 with both the appropriate subject expertise and experience of process for our students.
 Supervisory teams are allocated at the initial application stage and are designed to offer a balance
 of subject expertise, methodological background, and supervisory experience. The University’s
 regulations require that supervisiory teams include at least one colleague with PhD completions,
 and an experienced Director of Studies. Colleagues who are new to supervision are required to
 complete the Graduate School’s training in research degree supervision. New supervisors are
 given experience as second supervisors in the first instance to ensure they are mentored by
 experienced colleagues. Supervisory teams meet regularly with their PGR students (typically
 monthly for full-time and 6-weekly for part-time students) and work closely with them to support
 and monitor the progress of their project, research skills and professional-academic development.
 Supervisors receive ongoing training from the University’s Graduate School.

 All PGR students receive a comprehensive package of induction and generic researcher
 development training from the Graduate School. This is complemented by discipline-based
 induction and training delivered by CCCW. Support is also available from the University’s Assist,
 Learning Development and Educational Linguistics teams. Students initially enrol as Advanced
 Postgraduates in their probationary period, progressing through interim steps of initial project
 approval, development needs analysis, survey of resources, ethical approval and subject-specific
 development training. This leads to a transfer point to full PhD status at approximately 1 year for
 FT and 18 months for PT students, evaluated through submission of writing, transfer viva and
 seminar presentation to the research community. This rigorous system of support and preparation
 ensures the PGR students receive generic and tailored support according to individual needs. An
 annual progress review provides an auditable quality check of both the researcher’s work and the
 supervisory team’s work in support of the researcher’s personal and professional development.
 This includes discussion and planning of the student’s wider career aims and ambitions. UoN
 commits to all PGR students having the opportunity to teach if they wish to and its C@N-DO
 course is an accredited route to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. Our PGR
 students have taught on BA modules in English and Media Studies. PGRs also receive an annual
 development fund (currently GBP500 for full time and GBP300 for part time PGRs) which can be
 used for anything related to their studies, such as equipment or conference attendance, and
 opportunities exist for PGRs to apply for additional internal competitive bursaries and scholarships
 such as the postgraduate Research Environment Enhancement Fund (REEF), the Chancellors
 fund, Dr Mike Daniel Research Degree Scholarship, Sir John Lowther Scholarship for Arts
 students, T D Lewis Scholarship and the Santander Travel fund. CCCW students have
 successfully applied for such funding such as Jamie Callison receiving Chancellors funding.

 PGR students have dedicated space at the University of Northampton which is equipped with
 state-of-the-art workspaces, social areas and meeting spaces. The Graduate School and the
 Faculty have undertaken significant work in the current REF period to develop PGR representation

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and engagement through a number of development activities including student-led peer support,
 digital inclusion, new PGR representative roles and forums alongside representation at key
 Faculty and University Research Committees. CCCW PGRs have served as representatives and
 had membership on every committee concerned with Level 8 provision.

 UoN as a whole performs exceptionally well in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey,
 coming first nationally for overall satisfaction in 2020, and regularly featuring in the top ten across
 all categories. Breaking this down into subject areas PGRs within CCCW rank well above the
 national average in all categories: Supervision (97%), Resources (100%), Research Culture
 (77%), Progression (97%), Responsibilities (100%), Research Skills (100%), Professional
 Development (93%) and Overall (100%). This showcases our thriving research culture within our
 PGR community.

 Central support is supplemented by discipline and subject-specific skills enhancement delivered
 in level 7 modules which focus on Critical Theory, Trauma Fiction, Literary Transmediations, and
 Twenty-First Century Storytelling. Where possible we provide PGR students with the opportunity
 to co-deliver on wider research projects. Examples include SuCCEED @8 (2017-2018) a project
 that explored supporting the PGR community to collaborate and emotionally engage in digital
 shifts, Exploring the use of Socratic Dialogue in Teaching and Learning (2017), Exploring the
 Ethical Implications of Staff-Student Research Partnerships (2018) and TECH4ALL Enhancing
 Digital Literacy in HE (2019). Over the last REF period, our students have been involved as
 attendees, organisers, chairs and/or presenters in conferences and symposia. Wider opportunities
 for our PGRs to share their work and develop key transferable skills are offered via University-
 wide PGR competitions, an annual PGR conference, the East Midlands Doctoral Network
 Conference and a number of discipline-based symposia linked to CCCW themes such as the
 Decolonising Trauma Studies Symposium (2015), The Dark Fantasy Symposium (2016), and
 Investigating Identities in Young Adult Narratives (2018). PGRs are actively involved in the
 organisation of these events. Monthly research seminars offer further opportunities for PGRs to
 present and share their research. A Chancellor-funded video series drawing awareness to PGR
 opportunities at UoN has been organised by a PGR from English with active support and
 involvement by senior researchers in the team, including a member of staff (Jowett) speaking in
 depth about diversity and inclusivity in research.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 There is a strong tradition of inclusive practice within this department having a keen focus on
 equality and inclusion in research. Equal opportunities for all researchers is a central principle for
 all work of the CCCW, from staff recruitment, to training, development, progression and
 assessment. The research centre, through the AIM and PDR processes seeks to support
 researchers from all protected characteristics and pay special attention to individual needs. While
 staff remain underrepresented in certain areas – notably lacking in racial diversity, at present –
 there is evidence of diversity across other categories, including age, sex and sexual orientation,
 religious belief, and family status. The research activity of all staff members is supported
 regardless of these characteristics and special measures are put in place to foster good working
 environments: for example, cover and allowances are made for parental leave, adoption leave,
 flexible and remote working arrangements and flexible timetabling of research events to work
 around non-work-related demands placed on individual researchers. Individual and bespoke
 needs are supported through the PDR process.

 All Institutional and Faculty Research Committees must have fully representative membership. All
 Institutional and Faculty research policies and strategic plans are required to undergo a formal
 Equality Impact Assessment. All English Language and Literature colleagues must participate in
 mandatory, regularly refreshed institutional training on equality and diversity in the workplace.
 Attention to equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion has also informed the REF selection
 process for this unit, following the University’s code of practice. All REF leaders and coordinators
 have undertaken equality and diversity and unconscious bias training in preparation for the REF
 selection processes to ensure all decisions are made in a transparent and fair way.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues from English participate in a number of staff-led institutional advocacy groups such as
 the Global Ethnic Majority network, the LBGTQ+ group and the Equality and Inclusion staff forum
 (Andermahr, and P. Bennett) which monitors progress against the Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Plan 2020-2025. Andermahr is Equalities Representative and P. Bennett is the
 Women’s Officer for the University College Union at UoN and both work actively to support and
 advance equality and inclusion issues across the University. Colleagues have also benefited from
 the University’s Navigator (men and transmasculine) and Springboard+ (women, trans and non-
 binary) staff development programme for colleagues in academic or professional services roles
 which provides an opportunity for staff to undertake personal and professional development and
 support for leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1: Research funding and strategies for income generation

 Despite a competitive external funding environment, UoA colleagues have been awarded a total
 of GBP142,656 of external funding. The largest sum GBP88,000 came from the EU Marie Curie
 Initial Training Network, entitled ‘Diasporic Constructions of Home and Belonging’ (CoHaB), led
 by Westfalische Wilhelms-Universitat Muenster. Further success came from the Cult TV: TV
 Cultures Network (2015) an AHRC award of GBP22,590 (Jowett), CCCW’s share of the Diaspora
 Screen Media Network (DSMN), GBP23,916 of a total GBP29,560 FEC led by Wilson as Principal
 Investigator. Smaller awards include an Arts Council ‘Grants for the Arts’ award of GBP6,150 won
 by C. Bennett to serve as poet in residence for Wicken Fen, and two Santander travel grants
 (GBP1,000 each for Andermahr 2014 and Wilson 2018) to attend international research events.
 GBP40,704 of internal competitive funding has been won. This includes pedagogic Innovation
 bids (Andermahr and Simmons 2015, GBP6,000; Burnapp and Reese 2017, GBP6,000); travel
 to research archives (Rosenquist GBP1,910 (2017) and GBP942 (2018)); and a collaborative
 internally-funded Changemaker Challenge Fund bid, with the Institute of Health and Wellbeing, on
 the subject of ‘Wellbeing through Heritage, Arts and Technology (Wilson as co-investigator,
 multiple partners, including Mackley and Rosenquist, GBP11,000).

 Successful funding applications have involved collaboration across national and international
 networks, and thus extending research collaboration and networking will be a key focus over the
 next five years in line with CCCW’s themes. It is also the case that since 2014 there has been
 success working with a number of external organisations (charities, business, local government)
 to deliver research with impact and we anticipate expanding our research in this area. UoN has
 funding pots for impact-related research projects working with external partners and stakeholders
 and thus we will look to develop projects based on research strengths in trauma studies, equality,
 and identity.

 The pursuit of research funding is central to the AIM process (Section 2) and mentorship is widely
 offered and taken up. In particular, Wilson – with strong experience in bidding, winning and
 assessing research grants across a number of different funders – regularly reviews and offers
 feedback on research bids, as well as leading on grant bidding strategies. RIFS supports bidding
 activities through regular workshops and training events also offering one to one support with
 funding applications which CCCW members have used.

 3.2: Organisational and scholarly infrastructure for research and impact

 UoN has recently invested heavily in its facilities and infrastructure with the move to the new
 Waterside Campus, which opened in autumn 2018 at the cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus
 has won the 2019 Royal Institute for Chartered Surveyors coveted ‘Design through Innovation’
 award. While it is not possible to attribute a precise portion of this investment to CCCW it has
 brought a number of tangible benefits. Prior to 2018, the unit was based on one of two campuses
 within Northampton, with library materials and faculty structures spread across both. With nearly
 all academic activity now rooted in three buildings on the same purpose-built campus, and with

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 office space organised around subject areas, finding shared research interests (arts, humanities
 and media all located in the same study space) is facilitated. For example, English and History
 research seminars are now cross-listed and more regularly lead to interdisciplinary responses to
 research subjects. A majority of the library’s physical resources are located in the same ‘learning
 commons’ building where academic staff have office space and do their teaching, thus rendering
 better opportunities for the de-cloistering of the unit’s research culture. The investment into new
 facilities extends to a state-of-the-art IT infrastructure and new office space. This also includes a
 dedicated PGR workspace in the Senate building used by staff and students alike. The success
 of the strategic investment in the PGR workspace is evidenced in the PRES results (2018 and
 2020).

 UoN has also invested substantially in electronic resources. These now represent 85% of the total
 holdings and facilitate more flexible working and greater access to key publications. CCCW has
 negotiated strengths in resources that reflect key research strands, including postcolonial,
 modernist and contemporary literatures. Where the unit already drew upon resource strengths like
 Project Muse, JSTOR journals and 19th-Century Periodicals, since 2014 the library has added
 access to approximately 500,000 e-book titles via subscriptions to Gale Literary Sources,
 Cambridge Core, Academic Complete, JSTOR EBA and Sage Knowledge EBA. This has served
 to significantly strengthen research across levels and disciplines especially for the PGR
 community and serves to attract visiting students and scholars to the University. (Section 4.1)

 As part of the University’s wider transition to flexible and active blended modes of learning and
 teaching, this UoA has been able to support enhanced online and virtual collaborations for
 research. This has been extremely important in the context of COVID-19 where virtually all staff
 and PGR research projects have shifted to online/virtual formats.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1: Effectiveness and impact of research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Established research collaborations have continued and developed since 2014. Examples include
 Andermahr’s ongoing partnership with researchers at the University of Zaragoza, resulting in a
 number of research events, a PhD student exchange programme and collaborative bid for
 European funding, and Wilson’s key role in a network of partners, primarily the University of
 Münster, resulting in key events, doctoral projects and the essential Routledge Diaspora Studies
 Reader (Wilson and Stierstorfer co-editors, Routledge 2017). Further research networks and
 collaborations have emerged during the period under review. Wilson is a founding member of
 the South Asian Diaspora International Network (SADIRN), Rosenquist is a founding member of
 the Cultures of Trust research network (active 2014-15), while Andermahr serves as member of
 the Mapping Maternal Subjectivities, Identities and Ethics (MAMSIE) research network. Wilson
 also serves as Chair of the Challenging Precarity Network, a global collaborative research group
 with focus in India, Spain and the UK, while Wilson and Simmons launched DSMN with key
 stakeholders at Birmingham City University. Each of these networks has not only developed
 individual projects and led directly to research outputs, but also established partnerships beyond
 academia: e.g., local organisations such as Royal & Derngate Theatre, Threshold Studios and
 FilmHub Midlands. Wilson has also developed a Santander-funded project on populism and post-
 truth politics with a colleague in History (Jackson) as part of the Challenging Precarity global
 network she chairs. Rosenquist and Mackley collaborated on an internally-funded Changemaker
 project on Heritage and Placemaking with colleagues from the Institute of Health and Wellbeing,
 revealing some of the opportunities afforded within UoN.

 A number of Visiting Professors and Fellows have been associated with the unit during the period
 under review, including John Drew (University of Buckingham); Victor Ukaegbu (University of
 Bedfordshire); and Peter Parker and Gerri Kimber (both affiliated solely with University of
 Northampton during their tenure). Likewise, Wilson has served during the REF period as Visiting
 Professor at other institutions, including University of Auro (Gujurat, India) and Monash University

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Melbourne, Australia). Close associations with external researchers and institutions has enriched
 the research culture in the discipline, helped members identify good practice and potential
 networks, and broadened the reach and esteem of the unit. The activities of visiting researchers
 to UoN include delivering seminar papers (Parker and Kimber) or taking part in conferences
 (Parker), sitting as an external member on the Arts and Humanities Research Degrees Board
 (Ukaegbu) and co-supervising research degree students (Kimber and Ukaegbu), as well as
 producing and disseminating their research in affiliation with CCCW staff (Kimber and Parker).

 CCCW has also welcomed eight visiting PGR researchers testifying to the international reach of
 our research. This has included seven visiting researchers from Algeria, Brazil and China and a
 number of PGRs staying three months from the University of Zaragoza in Spain. Visiting
 researchers enrich the research degree students’ chances for sharing good practice and
 networking, as well as fostering the research of students across the globe who may not have
 access to the research culture and resources we can provide.

 Key collaborative projects have been undertaken during the period under review by members of
 the unit, including co-editing of key research publications (such as: TV Horror (Bloomsbury 2013)
 and Global TV Horror (UWP 2021), edited by Jowett with Stacey Abbott (Roehampton); Creating
 Myths (2016) and Order and Disorder (2017), edited by Mackley with researchers at University of
 Jendouba; ‘Modernism in Public’ special issue of Modernist Cultures, edited by Rosenquist with
 Alice Wood (DeMontfort) and ‘Transatlantic Celebrity’ special issue of Comparative American
 Studies, edited by Rosenquist with Paraic Finnerty (Portsmouth); Reassessing the Twentieth-
 Century Canon (Palgrave 2014), edited by Simmons with Nicola Allen (Wolverhampton); and
 Wilson with researchers at UIB, Monash, Liége and Edinburgh).

 4.2: Public engagement and relationships with key research users and beneficiaries

 Members of CCCW have engaged in a wide range of research activities for academic and public
 audiences. Highlights include heritage events (Wilson), public performances of work (C.
 Bennett), national and international keynote lectures and invited talks (Jowett and Wilson), public
 lectures (including at Film Institute, William Morris Society), media interviews, podcasts, blogs,
 consultative work and educational reading lists. Further examples include Andermahr’s work on
 Jeanette Winterson leading to consultation on development of course materials for Open
 University English, Wilson’s article on the Turner Diaries which led to a consultation following
 Christchurch mosque attack in 2019, Jowett writing for the Washington Post, Vice UK, The
 Guardian and BBC website; and research outputs leading to keynote addresses or expert panellist
 spots (Jowett at British FiIm Institute, Southbank; P. Bennett at Bodleian Library, Oxford;
 Rosenquist at Dimbola Lodge, Isle of Wight; Wilson at Prospect Dinner, Oxford. Recognition for
 Wilson’s work came with the unveiling of the Katherine Mansfield Sculpture/public address in
 BadWorishofen and culminated in WIlson being runner-up New Zealander of the Year in 2018.
 Simmons and Starr have also curated and led a regular ‘cult film’ series through the period under
 review, with regular public lectures and public engagement arising explicitly from areas of research
 expertise. UoN also sponsored the Althorp Literary Festival until 2016 where CCCW members
 hosted sessions and presented.

 4.3: Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and wider influence

 CCCW make wide-ranging contributions to the sustainability of the discipline with staff having
 supported and lead on a number of scholarly societies within the English discipline. Jowett as
 Vice President of the Joss Whedon Society; Rosenquist as executive committee member for the
 British Association of Modernist Studies; Wilson is Vice Chair of the Katherine Mansfield Society,
 Vice President and (from 2020) President of National Conference of University Professors, and
 Chair of the Challenging Precarity: A Global Network. Wilson is also a Fellow of the Royal Society
 of the Arts as well as trustee of the New Zealand-UK Link Foundation.
 We have supported funding bodies with Wilson serving as AHRC Strategic Reviewer for College
 of Peer Reviewers; External Reviewer for Marsden Fund, Royal Society of New Zealand; for


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Association Flanders; for the Italian Ministry of Education, University and Research,
 Peer Review panel (MIUR); and for the South African National Research Foundation.

 Researchers in CCCW have organised or co-organised a total of 25 academic conferences or
 symposia. Many of these events are directly responding to national or international priorities in the
 discipline, including expanding and decolonising the curriculum (e.g., Andermahr organising
 ‘Decolonizing Trauma Studies’ 2015, or Wilson and Simmons organising ‘Diaspora Screen
 Media Symposium’ 2020); or examining precarity, risk and social forms of trust (e.g., Rosenquist
 organising ‘Cultures of Trust’, 2015, or Wilson organising three events on Precarity 2018-2020);
 or expanding academic perspectives on popular cultures and otherwise marginalised literatures
 (e.g., first international conference on ‘Brigid Brophy’ 2015 and ‘Fleur Adcock’ 2016, or events on
 ‘Daughters of Fangdom’ (Jowett 2015) and ‘The Art of Punk’ (Allen 2016). Members of the unit
 are also regularly invited to deliver keynote lectures at international conferences or specialist
 seminar series, amounting to 38 invited lectures delivered during the last REF period. This
 includes keynotes delivered across the world, including University of Queensland, Australia, and
 King Saud University, Saudi Arabia (Andermahr), University of Seville, Spain (Jowett), Jendouba
 University, Tunisia (Mackley), and a number of other universities across Australia, New Zealand,
 India, Hong Kong and Europe (Wilson).

 Many colleagues have editorial and specialist review roles such as Wilson has serving as editor
 for the Journal of Postcolonial Writing throughout the period under review, which has opened
 opportunities for postgraduate and early-career researchers to engage with scholarly publishing
 at an advanced level and has attracted broader networks of researchers to the University. Wilson
 is an International Advisory Board Member for European South: A Transdisciplinary Journal of
 Postcolonial Humanities, an International Board Member for the Journal of Alterity and World
 Literature and on the Editorial Board of ARIEL. Wilson has also served as one of two general
 editors of the ‘Studies in World Literature’ series for Ibidem-Verlag publishers. Other members of
 the team have served on advisory or editorial boards for major scholarly publications – for 13
 academic journals and 1 scholarly book series – including (but not limited to) Contemporary
 Women’s Writing (Andermahr), The Journal of William Morris Studies (P. Bennett), Intensities:
 The Journal of Cult Media (Jowett), Journal of Popular Culture (Simmons) and Journal of New
 Zealand Literature (Wilson). Beyond this, all members of the unit have been asked during the
 period under review to serve as specialist peer reviewers for scholarly journals or book publishers,
 including academic presses like Bloomsbury, Edinburgh University Press, Gale, Lexington Books,
 Oxford University Press, The Open Library of the Humanities, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge and
 University of Mississippi Press, and leading research journals including titles not listed under
 editorial boards above: Alterity Studies, Americana: The Journal of American Popular Culture, The
 BAAS Journal, C21 Literature, Journal of Multicultural Discourse, Modern Fiction Studies,
 Modernism/Modernity, Speculum and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature.

 CCCW remains committed to the relevance, vitality and sustainability of research in the themes
 central to CCCW in wider activities such as peer review (articles, books, funding applications);
 dissemination activities and pedagogic developments (Andermahr, Ops for Apps 2015).




                                                                                              Page 11
