Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: A04 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The NTU A04 Unit of Assessment is comprised of academic staff with significant responsibility
 for research based within the Department of Psychology within the School of Social Sciences.
 The Department has expanded significantly since 2014, benefitting from strategic University
 investment in staff and research facilities. Exceeding its stated goals in REF2014, the
 Department has built research capacity in established areas of excellence whilst also creating
 new research groups that reflect both the evolving discipline and national and international
 research priorities. The result is a Unit outstanding in both breadth and critical mass. Key
 highlights in this period include:
       A 166% increase in staff with significant responsibility for research, including 7 new
         professors with 4 recruited from established chairs at traditional and modern universities,
         2 internal promotions, and 1 external recruitment from associate professor;
       Institutional investment of £4.5m in research buildings, equipment and initiatives,
         including relocation and expansion of research laboratories in a new dedicated research
         building;
       New state-of-the-art sleep and phlebotomy labs;
       Dedicated centre for research into and treatment of sex offending;
       Over 1300 peer-reviewed publications (with 10,000+ citations) since 2014; and
       Accelerated growth in research revenue from UKRI and other sources from £156k in
         13/14 to over £930k in both 18/19 and 19/20.

 1.1 Unit Context

 NTU Psychology is a large and growing Department with the ambition of being one of the top
 university Psychology departments in the UK in terms of research excellence. This vision is
 founded on the core aims of delivering robust theoretical and applied research that will advance
 knowledge and have transformative impacts on individual lives and society. Departmental
 breadth brings multiple methods to bear on psychological issues of societal concern, spanning
 the spectrum from neuroscientific interventions (EEG, TMS) to comparative and developmental
 approaches (observational lab, field research) to advanced qualitative techniques (IPA,
 discourse analysis).

 Since REF2014, the Department has more than doubled in size, with 123 academic staff in 2020
 (105 FTEs). The strategy underpinning this growth has been to invest in talent and potential
 within NTU while making significant external appointments (e.g. 5 new externally- recruited
 professors). Consequently, the Department has increased peer-reviewed publications (totalling
 1300+ publications since 2014), trebled PhD completions (N=54), and increased external grant
 spend in a challenging environment by 71% compared to last REF period. Simultaneously, it has
 maintained the best overall undergraduate student satisfaction (NSS) in any UK psychology
 department, averaged over seven years. This success has been underpinned by University
 investment, with £2.2M institutional-level investment in research initiatives and £2.3M capital
 investment on equipment and facilities.

 1.2 Unit structure

 The size of the Department necessitates a layered research structure that engages colleagues
 at three levels. First, all staff and PGR students are aligned to at least one of fifteen research
 groups which channel resources, provide information, advice and support, and facilitate research
 collaboration. Many of these groups began organically, but were formalised during this REF
 period to harness their potential for promoting research excellence. Group Leaders coordinate
 group activities while providing access to internal sources of support. Groups publish research


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and scholarly works, supervise PGRs, contribute to research training, and obtain research
 funding. They hold regular research meetings and host one major externally facing event per
 year (workshop/conference).

 To coordinate these diverse research groups more effectively, they have been aligned with one
 of four Research Clusters (Table 1), each led by two senior researchers (professor and
 associate professor). Cluster Leads support their group leaders, providing regular updates and
 meeting annually to review groups’ strategic research plans. Research clusters report annually
 to the Department, contribute to Departmental financial planning, and oversee mentoring of
 research staff.

 Table 1. Psychology Research groups within Research Clusters:
    Brain, Cognition &       Addiction,              Health &             Individuals,
       Development        Bullying, Crime &         Wellbeing             Identities &
                             Desistance                                     Cultures
      (Led by Wood)        (Led by Winder)      (Led by Groeger)       (Led by Stevenson)
    Ageing & Lifespan    Behavioural         Sleep                   Cyberpsychology
     Development           Addiction (incl.    Trauma, Social          Groups, Identities
    Embodied Brain        the International     Isolation and           and Health
    Language, Literacy    Gaming Research       mental health          Person
     &                     Unit)               Work, Wellbeing          Perception
     Psycholinguistics    Bullying &            & Performance
    Perception,           Aggressive
     Attention &           Behaviour
     Memory               Sexual Offending,
    Transport             Crime &
     Research in           Misconduct
     Psychology (TRiP)     Research Unit
    Hearing Research      (SOCAMRU)


 These research groups also interact with four larger Research Centres that span the whole
 School of Social Sciences, providing access to theoretical and applied interdisciplinary research
 opportunities: the Centre for Behavioural Research Methods (CBRM); the Centre for Public and
 Psychosocial Health (CPPH); the Centre for Crime, Offending, Prevention and Engagement
 (COPE), and the Nottingham Centre for Children, Young People and Families (NCCYPF). COPE
 and CPPH are led by Psychology staff (Winder and Karanika-Murray respectively). CBRM
 utilises the richness of methodological expertise in Psychology to support staff across and
 beyond the School in developing advanced, innovative and interdisciplinary research
 approaches. As a result, CBRM members conduct research across a wide range of disciplines
 with links to overarching University Strategic Research Themes: Health and Wellbeing; Safety
 and Security of Citizens and Society. Psychology colleagues are at the heart of these
 interdisciplinary themes. They have won £248k of internal funding to support inter- and intra-
 school collaborations, leading to external funding, publications and impact.

 The Department of Psychology is managed by the Head of Department (HoD), with
 responsibility for departmental performance and line management of senior staff. Ten professors
 and a group of principal lecturers line manage all other staff. Professors and associate
 professors also act as research mentors, a role intentionally distinct from line management,
 serving to scaffold development of individuals’ long-term research plans.

 Departmental research strategy is developed by the HoD and professoriate who hold the roles of
 Director of Research; Income Lead; Impact Lead; REF Lead; PGR Tutor; and
 Centre/Cluster/Group leads. Strategy implementation is overseen at bimonthly meetings, with a
 monthly REF Steering group to guide the REF submission. The departmental Research



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management Group meets twice-yearly and includes all professors and associate professors
 who share information, review progress and set time-bound goals.

 At the individual level, staff roles are chosen to reflect the work of individual colleagues.
 Currently, 49% have significant responsibility for research. In line with our REF2014 goal of
 consolidating our research base through recruitment, 22.1 such FTEs have been recruited since
 2017. Departmental research events for staff include weekly research seminars for staff and
 students, with presentations from 70 external national or international researchers since 2014.
 Twice-yearly research away days gather the whole Department together to disseminate
 research related information, discuss research strategy, and foster collaboration.

 1.3 Research Integrity

 NTU is strongly committed to maintaining the highest standards of integrity and probity in the
 conduct of research. The University expects that all those engaged in conducting or facilitating
 research have an individual and collective responsibility to uphold the principles of research
 integrity which are set out in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and apply to the whole
 research lifecycle. Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen
 centrally (see REF5a) and managed locally.

 The University Research Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor – Research and
 Enterprise, and reporting to Academic Board, is responsible for the development and monitoring
 of research integrity policies and procedures. The University Research Integrity Sub-Committee
 has responsibility for the implementation of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the
 production of a publicly available annual statement on research integrity, which is presented to
 Academic Board.

 A Code of Practice for Research, Research Ethics Policy and Procedure, Research Data
 Management Policy and Responsible Metrics Statement provides the policy framework.
 Robust scrutiny of projects undertaken by staff and PGR candidates in the Department of
 Psychology is overseen by a committee including reviewers from the wider School of Social
 Sciences, and from other schools where appropriate. This approach ensures projects are
 scrutinised from different disciplinary perspectives. Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught
 student research is also subject to ethical review and this is undertaken by a committee
 operating at School-level.

 Training resources are available to all staff and students in the form of online modules which
 cover different aspects of research integrity. This central resource complements training
 arrangements at local level, which are designed to meet the needs of specific committees. Staff
 with significant responsibility for research provide annual positive confirmation of their
 commitment to uphold the standards in the Code of Practice for Research.

 1.4 Research Aims

 The research aims and associated strategies for this REF cycle have been developed over the
 intervening years, reflecting the transformation of the Department and changing national and
 international circumstances. In summary, the Department aimed to:
 A1. Improve the research profile of the Department as reflected in the number of quality
       outputs, research income and PhD completions. This aim has been achieved, with annual
       grant spend rising from £156k (2014) to nearly £1m (2019) across the period (totalling
       £3.38m), 54 PhD completions, and 447 outputs identified as internationally excellent by a
       member of an external panel (compared to £1.98m spend, 17 PhD completions, and 44 x
       3*/4* outputs in REF2014).
 A2. Increase research capacity within the Department in terms of number of staff engaged in
       research. Increased capacity was achieved via targeted recruitment, training, freeing-up
       staff time for research, and investment in equipment and facilities. The number of staff with


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       significant responsibility for research has increased from 23 (36.5% of staff were returned
       in 2014) to 60 (48% of staff in 2020).
 A3.   Empower staff to undertake research via a vibrant, sustainable and inclusive environment
       where individual interest and expertise are the deciding factors in undertaking research.
       This aim has been realised through extensive mentoring and research groups which
       support a wide range of research alongside equality and diversity initiatives which ensure
       an equitable distribution of resource and opportunity.
 A4.   Increase impact at the local, national and international level through incubating emerging
       areas of impact while also investing in existing impact success. This aim has been met,
       with a wealth of impact at: the local level (e.g. facilitating prostate cancer diagnosis in local
       Afro-Caribbean communities, Seymour-Smith; improving the lives of Nottingham children
       via the ‘Small Steps Big Changes’ programme, Wood), the national level (e.g. assisting a
       National Probation Service policy review, Slade; changing the inclusion criteria for
       treatment courses for sexual offenders, Blagden) and the international level (e.g. inclusion
       of ‘gaming disorder’ in the International Classification of Diseases, ICD-11, Griffiths;
       advising the Dutch Government’s development of a national hazard test, Crundall).
 A5.   Develop a national and international profile for research leadership, increasing the
       Department’s visibility for theoretically informed applied research and high-quality research
       training. Specific strategies (embracing open science, thought leading on research, sharing
       research resources) have raised the Departmental profile as evidenced in its ability to
       attract high-level staff from prestigious positions, host major conferences, and embed staff
       in external organisations. For example, staff hold visiting scholar posts at 20+ national and
       international institutions (Section 4.2), collaborate with many companies (Section 4.3), and
       are embedded in many policy-influencing groups and charities (Section 4.4).

 1.5 Research Strategies

 The following strategies were designed to meet the above aims:

 S1. Staff strategy: Recruit, Resource, Reward, Retain – These strategies are detailed further in
     Section 2. Briefly, the strategies were:
       a) Recruit new staff targeting priority research areas including existing strengths (e.g.
            language +5 staff; transport +3) and new emerging themes (e.g. cyberpsychology +3,
            aging +4);
       b) Resource staff through training (£200k since 2014), equipment (£630k since 2014), in-
            house research funding (Kickstarter, Consolidator and Incubator grants, £400k since
            2014; Section 3) and our innovative Research Assistant Pool that allocates
            Department-funded RAs to staff via twice-yearly competitions (£1.2m since 2014);
       c) Reward staff via appraisals (46 staff nominated for bonuses, 9 internal promotions to
            associate professor or professor), and sabbaticals (12 in the current REF period, since
            2017);
       d) These strategies were designed to retain staff, demonstrated by the low turnover ratio
            (Section 2.2.4) and the high percentage of NTU students and researchers who
            subsequently join the academic staff (23 out of 84 new recruits in this REF period).

 S2. Grow and diversify PGR recruitment - The Department has supplemented University-funded
      and Departmental-funded bursaries (N=70 since 2014), with part-funded bursaries (at
      50%) from external partners (N=8), and self-funded/fee-funded students (N=80). A key
      growth strategy has been the diversification of PGR recruitment via a new DPsych in
      Forensic Psychology (N=24, 6 completions), a new International PhD in Applied
      Psychology with Spanish and Portuguese partners (from October 2019, N=3), and the
      introduction of Academic Associate posts (from October 2019, N=3). These combine
      teaching duties with part-time doctoral studies and are used to target under-researched
      issues (e.g. decolonising psychology) and under-represented staff groups.

 S3. Provide time and space for research – The Research Assistant Pool allows staff to manage
      small research projects, while sabbaticals (4 per year), and ever-greater synergy between

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        teaching and research, provide time for research. The Department now has 32
        undergraduate modules linked to staff research interests, with five specialist UG pathways,
        and six postgraduate courses grounded in Departmental research expertise. Such
        research-led teaching won the inaugural NTU ‘Achievement in Teaching’ award in 2018.
        Benefits include also co-publishing with students (25 papers co-authored with UGs and
        200+ papers co-authored with PGs).
        Increased research activity requires additional research space. In 2014 the Department
        had one EEG lab and assorted testing cubicles. A successful physical expansion strategy,
        supported by University investment (£929k) provided a dedicated 3 storey research
        building (>8500sqft), and separately located facilities for sleep research and rehabilitation
        of people with convictions for sexual offences (£457k, see Section 3.4).

 S4.     Impact strategies - Specific strategies aimed to:
       a) Develop existing impact – Resources were prioritised to develop existing depth and
          reach, curate evidence, and follow new impact pathways. For example, NTU academics
          and HMP Whatton partnered to form the Safer Living Foundation; a charity providing
          evidence-based rehabilitation for sexual offenders based on NTU research. Located in
          dedicated University premises, this partnership increased the visibility and reach of the
          research, while providing a sustainable long-term commitment to stakeholders (Section
          3.4). Many other staff with established or burgeoning impact have received administrative
          support to seek and curate data, support from the RA pool to develop aligned research,
          and external mentorship from the Rand Corporation;
       b) Incubate early-stage impact – Resources and support were targeted at prospective
          impact that will mature in the medium to long-term, including resources for research on
          harassment of young people in public places and into online support groups for eating
          disorders;
       c) Co-design research – The Department encourages research to be designed in
          partnership with end users, ensuring impact from the start of the research process. Prime
          examples are research on prevention of sexual offending, reducing harmful behaviours in
          prisons, care pathways for eating disorders, harm minimization in gambling and bus
          driver safety (Section 4);
       d) Respond quickly to current issues – The Department strategically supports timely
          responses to emerging challenges. For instance, the COVID-19 Knowledge Exchange
          group was set up to provide support to local government and the NHS via Nottingham’s
          Local Resilience Forum, Humanitarian Action Group and Sherwood Forrest Hospital
          Foundation Trust. At a national level, Departmental staff assist the C19 Cross-
          Parliamentary Foresight Group and advise the Joint Bio-security Centre. The Department
          has won £755k across several funders for COVID-related research (including £345k
          UKRI funding) and has already published 54 papers on psychological aspects of
          COVID19;
       e) Communicate, engage, disseminate – The Department engages with the public and
          stakeholders through a variety of outlets from invited presentations to Government
          departments and Select Committees (Section 4.6) to growing social media use (including
          a departmental blog, Instagram, Facebook and Twitter groups, Section 4.7). Colleagues
          present at a range of academic and professional gatherings and the Department
          provides free resources to public (e.g. testmydriving.com; Section 4.5). Dissemination is
          supported by NTU’s Nottingham Civic Exchange (NCE). This unique place-based think
          tank maximises research, policy and practical impacts by matching University expertise
          with local end users. NCE brings this research, grounded within a specific community
          and context, to policymakers at national and international levels. Psychology leads
          NCE’s work on the lived experience component of its Ordinary Working Families
          programme, exemplified by psychological research on food bank use and food insecurity
          informing UN commentary.

 S5.     Providing national and international research leadership - The Department raised its
         national and international profile into the top 250 Psychology departments in QS world
         rankings through:

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    a) Providing research support beyond NTU – Staff provide training in R, python, Bayesian
       statistics (ESRC-funded) and qualitative research methods to researchers from other
       universities (including a national workshop for improving the quality of qualitative
       publications, April 2018). The Department also provides free software for other
       researchers to use (e.g. OpenHandWrite software for capturing and analysing pen
       movement, developed with the University of Potsdam; Section 4.5);
    b) Hosting conferences – The Department has sought strategically to host major
       international conferences on cyberpsychology, qualitative methods, bullying and social
       psychology (e.g. 5th International Conference on Social Identity and Health, 2020;
       currently postponed until 2021). Other conferences include the BPS Cognitive (2014) and
       Cognitive Developmental (2019) sections, and an upcoming EPS conference in 2021.
       Home-grown international conferences have focused on driving psychology and sexual
       offending (Section 4);
    c) Embedding staff into external organisations – Staff are encouraged to take up posts as
       editors (40+ journals), reviewers (125+ journals), trustees, and members of national and
       international groups that influence or benefit from research. Section 4 details the wide
       penetration that staff have had in national and international areas of relevance to
       psychological research;
    d) Embracing open science – The Department is committed to open-source software (e.g.
       teaching R and OpenSesame) and to Open Science through the research life-cycle
       including development (preregistration), analysis (open code) and findings (open access
       reports, data archiving).

 1.6 Future Strategy

  Building on current successes, the Department has detailed an ambitious 5-year research and
  impact plan in a recent departmental strategy document, Psychology, reimagined. Key aims
  include:
     • To be acknowledged as world-leading for innovation, supporting research with critical
        mass to shape the theoretical and methodological debates in key areas (e.g. addiction,
        sexual offending, transport, open science, research management);
     • Encouraging new and nascent research areas to flourish (e.g. cyberpsychology,
        organisational psychology, comparative psychology and social identity research)
     • Enhancing the inclusivity of the Department’s research culture by supporting the equality
        and diversity of staff engaged in high quality research;
     • Increasing research efficiency through ever more comprehensive and effective research
        leadership, support and governance;
     • Becoming a centre of excellence for impact by following NTU’s aspiration to become a
        ‘regional anchor institution’ while informing policy and practice change at national and
        international levels.

  To achieve these ends, the Department will:
  a) Focus on equality – The Department will seek to decolonize research through critical
     scrutiny of current practices, improving on a recent Bronze Athena Swan award by further
     ensuring equal access to research opportunities;
  b) Disrupt the traditional research assistant model – The Department will investigate
     employment models that will create more sustainable research careers, building on the
     success of the RA Pool (Section 3.5.1) and Independent/Early Career Research Fellows
     (Section 2.2.1);
  c) Enhance further internal leadership - NTU has created a new Associate Dean of
     Psychology post to lead the realisation of the Department’s ambitions within the broader
     national and international HE environment;
  d) Consolidate the structure of research oversight and governance of the unit –professors will
     each take a research leadership portfolio in one of ten key areas of departmental
     development including grant capture, external engagement and staff/researcher
     development, reflecting a more structured and integrated approach to research


                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     management. These leadership roles will be supported by new support staff including a
     grant income and project manager, an impact officer and a research resources manager;
  e) Increase the international reach, academic impact and reputation of Departmental research
     – Innovative research with world leading potential will be supported through University
     investing in and incentivising development of national and international networks.
     Dedicated research leadership roles will mentor staff in their international research grant
     capture activities;
  f) Consolidate and develop our existing links with external partners – A new Head of Applied
     Psychological Studies will oversee the forensic and clinical teams and coordinate the
     Department’s national engagement strategy with NHS and HMPS;
  g) Increase third-stream income via research-informed consultancy, evaluation and training –
     Creation of a new Department of Applied Psychological Practice, expansion of the
     professional doctoral programme to include other protected titles in Psychology, and the
     provision of nationally leading consultancy and evaluation services will bolster third-stream
     income. These efforts will be supported by the Centres for Behavioural Research Methods
     and Public and Psychosocial Health. The formalisation of these interventions will provide
     another avenue for leveraging impact and ensure that knowledge exchange activities are
     maximized and recorded for the imminent KEF.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff numbers

 The Department has 123 academic staff (105 FTEs), of whom 60 (58 FTEs) have significant
 responsibility for research. These Category A staff include 10 professors, 10 associate
 professors, 39 lecturers, senior lecturers and principal lecturers, and 1 independent research
 fellow. Forty-one of these Category A staff (39.9 FTEs) were recruited in the current REF cycle,
 with the modal year of recruitment being 2017, underscoring the Department’s relatively recent
 expansion in research strength. In addition, there are currently 7 research
 assistants/postdoctoral research fellows employed via the Research Assistant Pool (Section
 3.5.1), and a further 10 research assistants who are directly employed via external grant
 funding.

 2.2. Staff strategy

 The staff strategy seeks to Recruit, Resource, Reward, & Retain.

 2.2.1 Recruit

 Whilst Recruitment has to balance teaching and research needs, the strategy to develop
 research excellence has included targeted recruitment. Accordingly, the Department
  - recruited five new professors since 2014 to improve research leadership in established
      areas of research (Wood - developmental; Jaspal - health) and provide new foci (Groeger -
      sleep; Mitra - motor control; Waller – evolutionary psychology). The four most recent
      professorial appointments all previously held chairs, with two of these attracted from,
      research intensive institutions. The most recent professorial appointment has brought a
      £1.7m ERC grant to NTU, supporting the appointment of three new staff and two PhD
      students;
  - complemented existing areas of strength with new staff, especially in impactful areas of
      research such as behavioural addiction (+2 new staff), bullying (+2), transport (+3),
      hearing (+1), language (+5), sexual offending (+1), work and wellbeing (+2);
  - incubated new areas of research with targeted recruitment, such as cyberpsychology (+3)
      and aging (+4);
  - appointed an Independent Research Fellow in person perception and an Early Career
      Research Fellow in psycholinguistics. These fellows have 5 and 3 years, respectively, to
      develop their research profile before joining the staff team.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.2 Resource

 Resourcing staff to undertake research has been a focus of the research strategy. This includes
 training and development, which is supported through research mentors, research group leads
 and line managers. Training needs are identified through individual research plans and twice-
 yearly appraisals.

 School and University-level staff training is supplemented by training within the Department
 using both external and internal experts. External training has included grant writing (e.g.
 Parker Derrington Ltd.), paper writing (via independent experts from the REF2014 panel),
 technical training (via companies including Tobii, Codamotion and Advanced Medical
 Equipment) and training in management and administrative skills (e.g. external training in
 effective mentoring). Internal training has included writing skills, media presentation, and
 qualitative and quantitative analyses (provided by NTU psychologists through the Centre for
 Behavioural Research Methods, and, in one case, via an ESRC grant to provide Bayesian
 workshops).

 While some development needs are at a group level, specific staff needs are identified through
 individual research plans, reviewed regularly with a personal research mentor and agreed with
 line managers during twice-yearly appraisal meetings. A staff development fund supports
 individual training requirements that go beyond in-house provision (£200k since 2014).

 Additional needs are supported by strategic investment in facilities and estate development
 which are detailed further in Section 3.3. In addition to these large-scale investments, the
 Department has a twice-yearly competitive call for the equipment fund. Staff can apply for
 software, hardware, psychometric tools, etc., that will foster research excellence within their
 research group (£407k on equipment >£10k, and £223k on smaller purchases since 2014).
 This fund has purchased diverse equipment including TMS, eye trackers, motion capture, VR
 equipment and a driving simulator, which have subsequently proved instrumental in winning
 research bids (e.g. the VR equipment helped win £135k of external funding), supporting
 publications (e.g. ongoing investment in EEG/TMS has supported over 20 publications), and
 facilitating PhD research (e.g. a PhD student is using the new Departmental drone to film polo
 matches).

 Institutional-level investment is dispersed via in-house Kickstarter, Consolidator and Incubator
 grants (detailed further in Section 3). These are made available via once or twice-yearly
 competitions to kickstart new research or to consolidate current research that needs extra
 financial support to realise their potential. Kickstarter grants are particularly aimed at ECRs and
 new starters, encouraging them to create a research team to address novel issues involving at
 least one senior member of staff. This promotes horizontal and vertical collaboration within the
 Department. These internal funds have led to external funding (e.g. mobility scooter research
 totalling £88k), new partnerships (e.g. Bodywhys), and have underpinned many outputs in high-
 profile journals (e.g. Psychopharmacology, Journal of Neurophysiology, Psychology and
 Aging).

 In the same vein, RAs from the RA Pool are allocated to staff for 1-4 month periods via
 competitive bids (Section 3.5.1). Pooled RAs provide an excellent way to provide staff with
 experience in running a research project and managing staff, while giving RAs a breadth of
 experience that they would not obtain in a typical research post. Eighty months of RA time have
 been made available to staff in the current REF period, which has supported grant income and
 publications.

 2.2.3 Reward

 Staff appraisals are the primary formal method of identifying and rewarding excellent
 performance. In 2019, the Psychology Department recommended 46 staff for bonus salary
 increments, or non-consolidated bonuses where appropriate, in recognition of their outstanding

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 or exceptional performance across the year. Promotion between academic levels is also an
 important recognition of staff performance. Since 2014, six lecturers/senior lecturers were
 internally promoted to associate professor and two professorial appointments were internal
 promotions.

 The Department celebrates individual and group successes, with twice-yearly celebrations
 augmented by gatherings to acknowledge specific achievements, such as the recent Athena
 Swan Bronze Award (Section 2.6). The Department also invests in frequent wellbeing events
 (e.g. staff massage day, during which two trained masseuses provided 15 minute de-stress
 head and shoulder massages to academic and research staff) and funded 21 staff members to
 take part in the 12 month Virgin Pulse Global Challenge 2019 (a national team-based health
 and wellbeing competition).

 2.2.4 Retain

 Retention of staff is an outcome of successful recruiting, resourcing, and rewarding. Staff
 turnover is unusually low for such a large department. In the current REF cycle, 21 staff have
 left the University for other posts (with 3 returning within the same period). In the context of 86
 new staff recruited over the same period (39 Category A), and a total current staff of 123 (60
 Category A), this figure reflects well on the Department’s ability to retain staff.
 Home-grown talent is also retained: twenty-three new members of academic staff were
 recruited from former students and research assistants since 2014 (8 of whom have significant
 responsibility for research).

 Retention is aided by the outstanding collegiate nature of the Department. This can be judged
 by informal metrics, such as the number of social clubs that have evolved organically (staff peer
 support groups, regular book group, board game group, running group, football group, weekly
 coffee morning, and monthly social meeting at the local public house). All such events are
 explicitly supported by the Department, providing resources where necessary. The most recent
 Capita Staff Survey (2018) found that 97% of NTU Psychology staff endorsed the statement
 “I’m satisfied with the support I get from my work colleagues”. The same percentage also
 endorsed the statements “my line manager respects and values me” and “I feel safe and secure
 in my working environment”. In total, 25 questionnaire items received positive agreement from
 over 90% of staff covering equality and diversity practices, organisational trust, and
 departmental performance.

 2.3 Technical Support Staff

 The Psychology Department has augmented central services with dedicated Technical Support
 Staff (TSS). In 2014, the Department had one dedicated TSS. As part of the resourcing
 strategy, the Department increased this to four TSS in 2020, a manager and three specialist
 technicians, providing support across a range of specialist equipment, including EEG, eye-
 tracking, motion capture and TMS. A research support officer was also recruited to assist with
 administration of new strategic processes (e.g. the equipment fund, kickstarter grants). The
 University is a signatory of the Science Council’s Technician Commitment, which aims to
 support career development and sustainability for technical support staff in research.

 2.4 Staff management

 All staff, including RA/RFs and technical support staff, participate in an annual appraisal cycle
 with their line manager which includes three formal meetings per year. New staff take part in a
 similar probation process, before joining the established appraisal cycle. Professorial staff with
 line management responsibility meet annually in the summer term to review appraisal data and
 to identify opportunities to support staff who intend to apply for promotion. The Department has
 achieved a 100% completion rate in each annual appraisal cycle since 2014.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff below professorial level also have a research mentor. The mentor and mentee develop
 an Individual Research Plan that identifies short-term goals that feed into appraisal objectives
 and longer-term goals in relation to career progression (supporting the most recent Researcher
 Development Concordat, 2019).

 Our approach to the management of RAs is informed and inspired by the commitments
 regarding environment and culture, employment and career development upheld in the
 Researcher Development Concordat. Externally funded RAs work closely with their research
 team, while Pool RAs work (both individually and in pairs) with small teams of academic
 supervisors. All RAs are mentored, and Pool RAs have a line manager that is distinct from the
 research supervisor, allowing researcher-supervisor interactions to focus on research. All RAs
 are supported by the most relevant research group (Section 1.2) and are housed together in
 shared office space which creates a supportive and companionate atmosphere. Flexible
 working is built into our practice as the RAs commitments are to the assigned work rather than
 specific hours. Pool RAs are employed on contracts spanning the whole academic year,
 providing stability that per project contracts do not, and they receive extensive guidance and
 support in preparing job applications and interviews. Our RAs’ record of progression to funded
 PhDs, and postdoctoral lecturing position testifies to the effectiveness of our programme in
 developing our RA’s professional careers (Section 3.5.1).

 2.5 PGR students

 PGR provision at NTU is a partnership between the Doctoral School, academic schools (led by
 a PGR tutor in each School), Research Degrees Committees and a wide range of Professional
 Services Departments (particularly Organisational Development, Employability, Registry, and
 the Library). The Department supports these students with additional local resources, including
 an experienced research student coordinator within the Department. Students join a research
 group and are given a PGR mentor on enrolment. They have access to specialist laboratory
 facilities and equipment through their research groups and the wider research clusters. PhD
 student progression and examination are overseen by a Research Degrees Committee
 comprised of experienced researchers including psychologists and social scientists across the
 School of Social Sciences. DPsych student progression via examination is overseen by the
 DPsych Course Committee. Both committees report to the University Research Degree
 Committee (URDC) and prepare an annual Course Standards and Quality Report (CSQR).
 These committees are the key fora for monitoring the ongoing health of the course and the
 quality of student learning. Overall provision is assessed by a periodic school review process.
 The 2013 review led to wide changes in the organisation of PGR research including the launch
 of the Doctoral School and DoctoratePlus training programme.

 As noted above (Section 1.5), PGR numbers have grown with bursaries funded by the
 University or Department (70), through external funding (where a partner supplies 50% funds;
 8) and self-funded students (80). Currently, the Department has 96 PGR students of whom 79
 are studying for a PhD and 17 studying for our recently introduced DPsych in Forensic
 Psychology (71.0 FTE and 8.5 FTE respectively).

 Extensive training is provided relating to the PhD/DPsych process (as part of the Doctoral
 School DoctoratePlus core training offer, School provision and bespoke events) and specialist
 training in relation to particular methods or analyses (e.g., structural equation modelling;
 Bayesian data analysis). All PhD students are assigned a PhD mentor, attend their respective
 Research Group meetings, and are expected to attend the weekly research seminar
 programme during term. They also present their work internally at the Doctoral School
 Research Conference and/or School Research Conference. Fully funded scholarship students
 (n = 70) have access to an annual fund of up to £750 for specialist training, equipment, and
 conference attendance. Non-scholarship students can access up to £150 to contribute to
 conference or other costs. Students have won external funds to support their studies from
 Santander, the EPS Grindley Grant scheme, and NIHR CLARHC East Midlands. This support,


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together with the strength of the PGR cohort, has led to over 200 peer-reviewed journal papers
 from January 2014 on which they are named authors.

 As PhD student numbers rise, completions have risen concomitantly (Table 2). The increase in
 completions towards the end of the REF period mirrors the rise in staff with significant
 responsibility for research, the launch of the DPsych, and the targeting of external funding for
 PhD bursaries.

 Table 2. PhD completions per academic year
  PhD & DPsych Completions
  2013-      2014-     2015-16 2016-        2017-       2018-     2019-20     Total
  14         15                    17       18          19
  7          4         9           5        8           12        9           54

 PGRs are encouraged to publish with their supervisory team and submit papers for external
 conferences and our annual School Research Conference. This activity has led to several
 national and international awards and prizes including the PsyPAG rising researcher award
 (Smith, 2016), the Durand Jacobs paper award (Pontes, 2016), Innovator of the Year (Women
 in Gaming Awards) and two Gambling Compliance Global Regulatory awards (Bonello, 2017),
 and multiple BPS awards (Blackburn, 2018; Atkin, 2018; Wallace, 2019; Felsner, 2019).

 2.6 Equality and diversity

 The Department actively promotes positive values of diversity and inclusion among staff and
 students, exploring these issues in public fora, in teaching, and within the inclusive work
 environment. This was a key pillar in the Department’s aim to create an inclusive research
 environment in order to empower all staff to undertake research (Section 1.4); it has taken on
 even greater prominence in future strategies (Section 1.6). Since 2016 the Department has
 engaged with a number of initiatives including the Aurora program (Advance HE's leadership
 development initiative for women), with 7 female staff taking part so far. The Department has
 also embraced and promoted the University’s Respect campaign. All staff receive Equality and
 Diversity training (including a recent online module on unconscious bias, and trans awareness
 training).

 NTU joined the new Athena Swan charter in 2015 and received an Institutional Bronze award in
 May 2019. Psychology staff contributed significantly to the Institutional Self-Assessment Team
 and Psychology was the first NTU Department to apply for a Departmental Athena Swan
 award, which was awarded in October 2019. The application contained an ambitious 4-year
 plan for gender equality to ensure representation, progression and success for all. The Athena
 SWAN Charter panel reported “… [we] unanimously agree the submission meets the criteria for
 a Bronze award, as it evidences a thorough self-assessment, SMART action plan and several
 areas that highlight a good working culture and many good practices embedded in the
 Department… [it is] a strong submission and commend the SAT [School Assessment Team]
 and the School for their impressive work.”

 In the current REF period, the Department has focused on decolonising the curriculum (led by
 Deanne Bell), and will look to decolonise research practices in the next REF period. New
 Academic Associates (part-time PhD students with teaching duties) are being recruited to focus
 on this issue.

 The Department recognises imbalances in the gender split and ethnic diversity of research-
 active staff, especially at higher levels. Though some progress is being made (3 of the 7 new
 professors recruited in this period were female, with a fourth female professor appointed just
 after the current REF period), the AS Bronze award reflects acknowledgement of this issue,
 and the plans the Department has to rectify it. These efforts are led by the Departmental
 Athena Swan Champion (Dillon), who also leads on the Departmental version of the
 University’s ‘Success for All’ strategy, designed to ensure that NTU is a place where people

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from all backgrounds can thrive and achieve. The Department has additional working groups on
 sexual safety and consent, race equality and estranged students. All of these working groups
 are coordinated through a new Departmental Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion committee which
 was set up in 2019. This committee oversees activities to celebrate important annual events
 such as Black History Month and International Women’s day (such as film screenings, group
 discussions and internal and external speakers).

 The Department implements NTU parental policies and ensures that staff on fixed-term
 contracts receive the same entitlements as staff on permanent/open-ended contracts. Where
 personal difficulties arise, staff are encouraged to notify line managers and HR as soon as
 possible so that appropriate support can be put in place. The Department also supports NTU
 flexible working policies, most recently allowing special leave or reduced hours for psychology
 staff with caring duties during the COVID lockdown.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Psychology has generated over £4.85m in new research awards from 2014 to beyond 2020
 with income-spend totalling £3.38m up to 2020. This represents an increase in research spend
 (relative to £1.98m in REF2014) against a challenging and highly competitive funding climate
 (Table 3). Notably, research spend rose from £156k in 13/14 to nearly £1m in 18/19. This
 trajectory reflects the impact of departmental strategies to improve grant-writing skills and
 encourage staff to apply for external funds.

 The Department has sought to diversify research funders, receiving funding from a range of
 sources including: research councils (e.g. ESRC, Innovate UK, MRC, UKRI); Government
 departments and agencies at both home and abroad (e.g. DfT, NIHR, NSF, DVSA); non-
 governmental funding bodies (e.g. the British Academy); charities (e.g. Bial Foundation,
 Nuffield, Leverhulme, RAC Foundation, Road Safety Trust, Safer Living Foundation,
 Samaritans, Wellcome); and commercial organisations (e.g. Camelot, Crystal minds, Kaspersky
 Labs, Norsk Tipping, Precision Biotics, Stagecoach, Tarmac, Tonic Ltd., Trimetris, TRL). Local
 funding reflects the Department’s commitment to seeking local impact (e.g. HMP Nottingham,
 Nottingham City Clinical Commissioning Group).

 Table 3. Research income spent from new awards of over £4.6m (remainder to be spent post-
 2020)
           Research Spend
           2013-    2014-    2015-     2016-   2017-      2018-    2019-     Total
           14       15       16        17      18         19       20        (k)
  Total 176k        192k     220k      212k    776k       967k     837k      3,380k

 Researchers in the Department have also been awarded internal funding for University
 research priorities (totalling £248k; Health and Wellbeing and Safety and Security of Citizens
 and Society). This has been used to fund equipment, data collection and impact activities,
 including the setting up of the Trent Ageing Panel. This panel of general-population volunteers
 provide healthy comparison groups for ageing research in Psychology and across NTU, which
 in 20/21 underpinned the success of two RCUK bids worth over £1m.

 3.2 Third Stream Income

 Departmental expertise is often sought by external organisations for work that is not classed as
 research by Higher Education Statistical Agency. Such work includes literature reviews, expert
 advice, reports and expert witness work. Since 2014, staff have undertaken 81 separate pieces
 of consultancy and have brought in £357k. Clients include UK and overseas organisations, both
 in the public and private sector. Examples include Norsk Tipping, Jaguar Land Rover, Deloitte,

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Swedish Gambling Authority, Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, Hodder Education,
 the DVSA, STEPS Drama, Rising Stars/Reading Planet, YoungMinds and the VIAS Institute.

 3.3 Investment

 University investment in research has totalled £4.5m since 2014. Though individual investments
 are detailed in the relevant sections, in summary the Department received £2.2m for initiatives
 including training (£200k), Departmental PhDs (£400k), small grants for researchers (e.g.
 Kickstarter grants; £400k) and the Research Assistant Pool (£1.2m). A further £2.3m was
 invested into equipment (£630k), a new research building (Taylor Building, £929k), a separate
 Sleep Laboratory, and the Corbett Centre for Prisoner Reintegration (£457). Remaining funds
 were used to remodel various laboratories, including testing cubicles in the main Psychology
 building (Chaucer Building, £284k).

 3.4 Infrastructure and facilities

 A key aim since 2014 has been to increase capacity for research (Section 1.4). A constraint on
 research capacity was the physical space available in the Chaucer Building. In support of
 Departmental ambitions, in 2017, the University provided and refurbished a new building the
 Taylor Building. Over three floors (>8500sqft), it now houses the technical support staff, the RA
 Pool and some academic staff with significant responsibility for research. It contains 24
 laboratories including testing cubicles, large multipurpose laboratories and a range of specialist
 labs; these include a VR lab, two EEG labs, a soundproof audio lab, a driving lab (including
 Carnetsoft and STI-SIM simulators), a social and developmental lab (with observation window),
 three eye-tracking labs (2 x SMI RED 500 trackers, an SR 1000 tracker, and 2 x pairs of Tobii
 eye-tracking glasses), a focus group/interview room, a movement lab, and a TMS lab.
 With the strategic recruitment of a professor in sleep research, rapid investment was made to
 establish this new research theme. A Sleep Laboratory was built in separate research premises
 (Terrace Royal, 2019), with facilities including dedicated clinical-level Polysomnography (2 x
 sound/temperature/light-controlled bedrooms), sleep deprivation suites, and HTA-compliant
 plasma and saliva collection, processing and storage facilities.

 The University has also provided a building for the Corbett Centre for Prisoner Reintegration.
 Opened in 2019, this is run by the Safer Living Foundation (SLF), a charity set up by NTU
 academics and HMP Whatton to support the reintegration of former sexual offenders back into
 society using interventions based on NTU Psychology research (see Section 4). While the
 centre is pivotal in realising the impact of previous research, it is also home to current research
 projects, with the SOCAMRU research group undertaking multiple evaluations.

 Major equipment purchases totalled £407k in this REF period (with a separate bill for minor
 equipment <£5k totalling £223k), including specialist kit for all the above laboratories and
 maintaining an extensive library of psychometric tests. Most importantly, new equipment and
 resources are open to all staff, PhD students and where appropriate, undergraduate
 researchers, with training provided where necessary. The effects of this approach are already
 evident in recent outputs and increasingly in successful external grant capture.

 3.5 Other resources to support research and research impact

 The following paragraphs give more detail on aspects referred to in previous sections.

 3.5.1 The Pooled Research Assistant Scheme Starting in 2015, 3 research assistants (RAs)
 and 2 postdoctoral research fellows (RFs) were recruited, growing to 7 RAs, and one RF in
 2020. These researchers were chosen to maximise the spread of skills and methodological
 expertise across the pool. The strategic rationale for the RA pool is multifaceted:
      The RA Pool provides a lean staffing solution supporting rapid responses to short-term
         or short-notice external research opportunities (e.g. commercial/local authority funding,
         including COVID-19 projects which require immediate start-up;

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The RA Pool solves the perennial problem of research assistants leaving externally
        funded projects a few months before their contract ends by providing alternative
        researchers;
       The RA Pool is staffed to ensure significant spare capacity beyond short-term external
        funding. Spare capacity is offered to academic staff in regular competitive calls for
        research ideas. Pool RAs have assisted in staff winning externally funded projects
        valued over £1.45m and have supported 34 outputs and related impact;
       The competitive calls for pooled RA time also encourage horizontal and vertical
        collaboration within the Department. For instance, ECRs are required to team-up with at
        least one associate or full professor in these calls.

 Of the 17 RAs and 8 RFs employed since 2015, 4 RFs have gone on to academic posts at
 NTU, 3 have taken permanent academic posts elsewhere, and one has been recruited as a
 postdoctoral fellow on an RCUK funded project. Eight RAs have since won funded PhD
 studentships (4 NTU, 4 elsewhere) and 2 have been accepted into NHS training programs for
 Psychological Wellbeing Practitioners. Pool RAs have co-authored 19 papers with NTU staff
 and 15 papers with non-NTU staff over the 2015-2020 period. This record of completed projects
 underscores the Department’s commitment to, and success in, supporting early-career
 researchers in the manner envisioned in the Researcher Development Concordat.

 3.5.2 Internal funding schemes to promote research - During the current REF period
 academic staff have been able to bid for internal research funding to the Psychology
 Department. Since 2015, different calls have targeted different aspects of research and impact:
      Kickstarter – Up to £7k to undertake novel research with the potential for 3* outputs;
      Consolidator – Up to £7k to develop existing or established research, providing
         resources to push the research over the 3* goal line;
      Incubator - Grants specifically targeting enhancement of future impact of current
         research.

 Each project must have a clear plan towards research outputs, impact or future income. They
 must be collaborative and involve at least one ECR or recently appointed member of staff.
 Project bids can also be teamed-up with requests to the RA Pool. The focus of this funding is
 on ECR and mid-career research staff, with associate professors and professors involved in a
 mentoring capacity rather than as PIs. Progress against plans is tracked and reviewed after 12
 and 24 months. One example of a highly successful project focuses on food bank and food
 insecurity research supported by Kickstarter, and later Consolidator, funding. This led to journal
 publication and submissions to a UK Parliamentary Select Committee and two UN bodies.

 3.5.3 Staff development funds - All staff have access to a pooled staff development fund that
 equates to £500 per staff member per year. Development funds are used for external training,
 scholarship support and conference attendance. The Department supports critical-mass
 conference attendance to demonstrate the wealth of expertise in specific areas of research,
 with some research groups fielding up to 8 delegates at international conferences. The
 Department has spent more than £200k on staff development since 2014.

 3.5.4 Scholarship Projects for Undergraduate Researcher (SPUR) – University-funded and
 Department-funded scholarships allow undergraduates to join a research group to undertake a
 summer project between the second and final year. Eighty SPUR students have been funded
 (plus 3 BPS-funded undergraduates). Five students from these projects have gone on to PhDs
 or other Doctoral programmes at NTU or elsewhere (with one eventually joining the academic
 staff at NTU), while many more have co-authored journal outputs, and presented at academic
 conferences.

 3.5.5 Voluntary research apprenticeships - Like many Psychology departments we also offer
 voluntary research apprenticeships (RAs) for both NTU students and non-students. Since 2015,
 all voluntary researchers are registered with the Department’s Voluntary Research
 Apprenticeship Scheme. This ensures that researchers new to the Department understand key

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policies and procedures (e.g., health and safety, research integrity) and can be properly
 supported. The aim is to provide staff with a managed approach to obtaining research support,
 while providing volunteers with research experience, transferable skills and CV-enhancement.
 All apprentice agreements are voluntary for both parties and allow the apprentices access to
 academic resources including library facilities, computing and training. Over 100 apprentices
 have resulted in 17 co-authored conference presentations and 8 peer-reviewed journal articles
 with staff.

 3.6 Enabling public participation in research

 The encouragement of public participation in research is key to the Department’s aims (Section
 1.4) to improve quality of research and increase impact (e.g. by targeting more representative
 samples beyond traditional undergraduate participants and engaging with local community links
 and partners). The Department’s central location in the City of Nottingham is ideal for
 encouraging such public engagement in research.

 The addition of the Taylor building to departmental facilities opened up additional options for
 external engagement such as the annual Family Day, aimed at 4-11 year olds and their carers.
 Launched in 2017, this outreach activity provides a valuable opportunity to collect data and add
 to the Department’s child and parent participant database, while showcasing connections with
 local initiatives which link with to research activity, such as ‘Read on Nottingham’, a literacy
 charity with whom NTU has collaborated for the last 2 years.

 Taylor is also home to the Trent Ageing Panel (created with £46k of University-level
 investment). This panel consists of over 200 participants who are willing to take part in studies
 focusing on the health and wellbeing of older people. This existing infrastructure has benefitted
 two successful RCUK bids in 20/21 to the ESRC (Badham) and to the UKRI COVID-19 call
 (Stevenson). These projects will in turn support the development and enhancement of the
 panel.

 For studies requiring participants between 18-60 years of age, the Department has a paid-
 participant panel with 100+ volunteers, with demographic details allowing targeted invites to
 studies. While some panel members are NTU students, 40% are from outside the University.

 The new sleep laboratory also has a public-facing dimension to its research offering. It engages
 with local schools and family support groups who have identified a need for sleep support and
 provides a sleep support ‘service’ for NTU staff. It is also currently trialling a caffeinated nap
 intervention for medical registrars working overnight at Royal Derby Hospital (funded through
 the Safety and Security NTU Strategic Theme).

 In addition to seeking public participation in research, the Department recently launched a
 consultation project with the public regarding a range of research projects. Over the Summer of
 2019 a ‘Psychology Research - Involvement Panel for the Public’ (PR-IPP) was trialled. The
 PR-IPP recruited, trained and paid a diverse group of 5 of members of the public for 4-8 hours
 of work each month. The panel is consulted on a range of research activities including
 developing research questions, communicating research findings and piloting research
 materials. This builds on the successful Forensic Service User Panel that has been running at
 HMP Whatton for 5 years, in which prisoners collaborate with academics on designing research
 and research instruments for research in secure settings.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Successful collaborations are a key achieving the Department’s aim for research excellence
 and significant real-world impact. The Department has explicit strategies to optimise
 collaborative teams via a range of activities including sandpits, research away days and
 activities to encourage cross-fertilization of ideas between research groups and clusters (e.g.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research speed-dating). Internal funding calls (e.g. kickstarter funds) have targeted novel
 collaborative ideas. Beyond the Department however, collaboration continues at many levels.

 4.1 Academic collaboration across NTU

 The Department contributes to a wide range of interdisciplinary collaborations across the
 University and with external academic partners. The University explicitly supports
 interdepartmental working and has internally funded collaborations under its: Sustainable
 Futures research priority (Stevenson with Nottingham Business School); Safety and Security of
 Citizens and Society priority (Smith, with Arts and Humanities, Nottingham Law School;
 Crundall, with Architecture, Design and the Built Environment); and the Health and Wellbeing
 theme (Sumich, with Science and Technology; Vernon, with the Medical Engineering Design
 Research Group).

 Collaborations across NTU departments have secured external funding. In collaboration with
 Architecture, Design and the Built Environment, Crundall has undertaken research work with
 construction companies (Tarmac and McGee), while the Small Steps Big Changes evaluation
 based in the NCCYPF involves Wood and Betts working with colleagues in our Nottingham
 Institute of Education and the Sociology Department.

 4.2 Academic collaboration beyond NTU

 Staff collaborate widely with academic partners in the UK and internationally. During the REF
 period, staff have held visiting scholar posts at the University of Waikato and the University of
 Granada (Crundall); McGill University (Griffiths); Universities of Tehran, Isfahan, Montreal,
 Monash, Cork and Surrey (Groeger); Universities of Duisburg Sessen, Athens, Zadar,
 Barcelona and Maastricht (Kuss); University of Queensland (McNamara); Mazaryk University,
 and the University of Tampere (Stevenson); the Institute of Psychiatry and Auckland University
 of Technology (Sumich); and the University of Stavanger (Torrance).

 Our new International PhD in Applied Psychology is a collaboration with Universidade Catolica
 Portuguesa (Porto) and Universitat Ramon Llull (Barcelona). The Department has a jointly
 funded PhD student with Auckland University of Technology and NTU staff have contributed to
 external PhD supervision at Brunel, Cambridge, Cardiff, Coventry, Queen's University Belfast
 and Sheffield in the UK, and a range of international universities including Gazi, Groningen,
 Monash, Ramon Llull, Stavanger, Tampere, Toronto and Valencia.

 International partnerships have been further supported through Erasmus mobility funding. For
 example, in 2018/19, NTU hosted reciprocal visits with the University of Tampere, funded by
 Erasmus+. The participating staff members (Stevenson, NTU; Finell, Tampere) co-authored
 papers, developed a research grant and co-supervised two PhD students. This relationship has
 now been consolidated through the award of a 3-year research grant to Finell and Stevenson
 (funded by the Kone Foundation). Santander funding also supported Ventsislavova and
 Crundall to visit Tsinghua University, Beijing, resulting in three joint publications.

 The department sabbatical scheme has supported the release of staff from departmental
 commitments to visit scholars at home or abroad to initiate or foster collaborative schemes of
 work. Jones was supported through the scheme to visit Prof. Bill Macken (Cardiff) and Prof.
 Caroline Rowland (Max Plank Institute, Nijmegen) resulting in joint grant proposals and
 research outputs (Jones and Macken, 2018; Jones and Rowland, 2017). Binder was awarded a
 sabbatical in 2018/2019 to enhance collaborative work with media psychologists at the
 University of Würzburg. This has already resulted in a high-quality output (Carolus, Binder, et
 al. 2019), while a visit to computer science and psychology researchers at Bath during the
 same sabbatical resulted in a bid to the EPSRC (currently undergoing invited revision).

 4.3 Research collaboration beyond academia


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A key focus in developing departmental research since 2014 has been to broaden the research
 base, building in particular on a track record of successful research impact as well as
 supporting and expanding expertise underpinning this work. One approach has been to develop
 impact partnerships with significant stakeholders who are relevant to areas of departmental
 academic activity. In some cases, conversations with partners have developed following the
 publication of initial work in a related area such as Griffiths’ work on the structural
 characteristics of gambling (impact case study 1) and Betts’ work on peer relationships. This
 has then led to working relationships with key organisations interested in reducing harm from
 gambling (e.g. Norsk Tipping) and bullying (Anti-Bullying Quality Mark-UK).

 In other cases, this more proactive approach has involved working with end users and
 stakeholders to co-create research, thus ensuring its relevance to the target audience. For
 example, McNamara’s work on online communities for individuals recovering from eating
 disorders was developed with and for BodyWhys; the results have stimulated conversations
 with a wider range of stakeholders than might otherwise have been achievable (e.g. clinicians
 and other eating disorder charities).

 The SPUR scheme mentioned above has also supported partnership working with third sector
 organisations. For example, in June 2019, Wood was awarded SPUR funding to support
 analysis of large-scale data collected by the National Literacy Trust on children’s reading
 behaviours outside of school. This work formed the basis of an external engagement campaign
 which was shared widely with librarian groups; indeed, the research findings are being used to
 inform the design of the new library planned for Nottingham.

 The apotheosis of collaboration is embodied in the Safer Living Foundation (SLF); a charity set
 up jointly by HMP Whatton and academics from NTU in 2014 to minimise risk of recidivism in
 people convicted of sexual offences and to prevent ‘first time’ offenders. Based on the ongoing
 research of Winder and colleagues, the charity supports individuals on release using
 mechanisms and approaches shown by NTU research to be effective in preventing offending
 (impact case study 2). To date, this unit has helped 130 service users, with only a single
 incident of reoffending. The SLF collaboration has won four major awards in the current REF
 cycle (see Section 4.8).

 4.4 Embedding researchers in external organisations

 In some cases, the research engagement of NTU staff has resulted in their secondment into
 key organisations, often to assist in reviewing policies and practices. For example, Slade was
 formally seconded into the National Probation Service to review national policies in relation to
 reducing harm. Subsequently, she rewrote the Risk of Serious Harm guidance for the
 assessment system, which is completed for every offender in England and Wales annually
 (OASys; impact case study 3). McNamara received University funding to support an initial year-
 long 0.2FTE knowledge exchange secondment with Self-Help UK with a view to providing a
 theoretical framework and academic evidence-base to underpin their nation-wide group training
 programme. The sustainability of the secondment is supported by a financial agreement
 whereby a proportion of the revenue derived from the enhanced programme ensures that the
 secondment will become self-sustaining after September 2020.

 Impact activity has also been supported through the departmental research sabbatical scheme.
 For example, Blagden was awarded a sabbatical in 17/18 during which he collaborated with
 Correctional Services Australia. He helped design rehabilitative climates for new prisons in New
 South Wales (impact case study 4) and has co-created a number of related-research projects
 with them.

 The Department is also represented on national and international bodies that shape research
 policy and influence policymakers. Griffiths is Chair of the European Association for the Study
 of Gambling Research Committee and Kuss is a member of the expert advisory group on
 Online Addictions for the World Health Organisation. Wood is Secretary of the Society for the

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientific Study of Reading. Crundall is the Chair of the Road User Behaviour Working Group of
 the Parliamentary Advisory Council on Transport Safety (PACTS). He is also a member of
 Traffic Psychology International and has been recruited to the Research Development Unit of
 UKROEd, which is the organisation with responsibility for course content on the National Driver
 Offender Retraining Scheme (including the national Speed Awareness course). Jones is a
 member of the external advisory board for the Centre for Studies in Human Development
 (Universidade Catolica Portuguesa, Portugal). Torrance is the Literacy Technologies Working
 group leader for EU COST: Strengthening Europeans’ capabilities by establishing the European
 literacy network.

 Staff provide their time and expertise to many community and third-sector organizations.
 Winder is one of only 2 academic members of East Midlands HMPS Ethics Committee. Kellezi
 is on the Nottingham NHS Research Ethics Committee. Betts is a trustee for the Ben Cohen
 StandUp Foundation (an anti-bullying charity). Wood is a Save the Children ‘Wonder Words’
 Advisory Group Member and a Trustee of the National Literacy Trust.

 4.5 Facilitating end user uptake of research findings

 It is recognised that not all stakeholders or end users are able to apply research to their
 practice if this requires time or resourcing. The Department has attempted to overcome this
 barrier to engagement by packaging and distributing practical resources which are ready for
 use. For instance, Betts’ research into cyberbullying was translated into a series of lesson plans
 for schools, which were then distributed through anti-bullying networks and the TES website
 where it is available as a free download. Betts is now developing similar resources with
 commercial publishers. Similarly, Wood has built a strategic partnership with Rising
 Stars/Hodder Education to develop evidence-based resources for teachers dealing with early
 literacy development (Reading Planet), and more recently, wellbeing in Key Stage 2.

 The Transport Research in Psychology group (TRiP) has developed a public-facing website to
 provide access to its hazard tests. One particular resource will benefit considerably from this:
 hazard perception for fire appliance drivers (impact case study 5). Fire and Rescue services
 (FRSs) have limited resources to host new software on their own eLearning systems, so NTU
 funded www.testmydriving.com with the explicit aim of providing an opportunity for all FRSs to
 access the assessment and training materials easily and without cost.

 Other examples of free-resources made available to other researchers and the general public
 include Torrance’s OpenHandWrite suite of programs for capturing and analysing pen
 movement (developed with the University of Potsdam), Guest’s ‘See and Scoot’ safety video for
 mobility scooter users (also available through www.testmydriving.com, funded by the Road
 Safety Trust) and several programs based on Belmonte’s collaborative work in autism.
 Belmonte's work applies basic research to deploy technology-assisted and human-delivered
 innovations in global public health, clinical, and educational practice in detecting autism,
 remediating autistic deficits, and developing autistic skills. Products include Point OutWords,
 software to develop motor and communication skills in minimally verbal autistic children
 (available on the Apple App Store); MaTHiSiS, an automated tutor used in autism classrooms;
 and START, software to aid community health workers in screening for autism in low-resource
 environments.

 4.6 Engagement with national discourse

 NCE, NTU’s place-based think tank, has supported dissemination on research into Ordinary
 Working Families as well as parliament and policy interventions on key topics such as
 problematic internet use (Kuss and Griffiths) and workplace health (Karanika-Murray).
 Other users of our research at policy level include NICE (e.g., Winder and colleagues’ work on
 anti-libidinal medication), Public Health England (Karanika-Murray), the UN Special Rapporteur
 on extreme poverty and human rights (Wakefield and Bowe, for their food bank research), and


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Netherlands’ equivalent to the UK DVSA (the CBR are modelling their new national hazard
 test on Crundall’s design).

 Griffiths and Betts gave evidence at the Science and Technology Select Committee and Kuss
 gave evidence at the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee. Fifteen staff have
 also contributed to eleven written evidence submissions on diverse topics including
 transportation safety (Guest), social media (Buglass), how early years affect life chances
 (Wood), male mental health (Slade, Seymour-Smith), stalking and child sexual abuse (Winder),
 the impact of coronavirus on people with protected characteristics (Jones, Sumner, Wright) and
 upon education and children’s services (Marriott, Wood). Several of these written submissions
 were undertaken in conjunction with the NCCYPF.

 4.7 Engaging with the public via Media and Social Media

 The Department’s social media footprint includes Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, with a
 dedicated staff member charged with updating content. Nineteen staff have written pieces for
 The Conversation. The Department began a weekly blog in May 2020 and aims to start a
 monthly podcast in 2021.

 Individual staff members (e.g. Griffiths, Kuss) have strong research-based media and social
 media profiles. Griffiths’ blog on additive behaviours, for example, has had 7.8 million visitors
 since 2011. He has also written articles for The Washington Post, The Independent, The
 Guardian, The Times, The Telegraph, The Daily Mail, The Mirror and The Sun and he is a
 regular contributor to The Conversation (25 articles in the current REF period with 1.3 million
 readers). His work has been cited over 75,000 times and his research has featured in
 thousands of national and international news stories since 2014.

 4.8 Engagement with Psychology as a profession

 Beyond the research domains, staff play an active role in supporting the development and
 progression of the profession in many ways. Staff are particularly active for instance within the
 British Psychological Society. This includes the BPS Research Board (Baguley; Deputy Chair,
 2016-19), Education and Public Engagement Board (Banyard and Baguley), Standing
 Conference Committee (Sergeant), East Midlands Branch (Guest), the Forensic Psychology
 Committee (Athwal-Kooner and Slade), BPS Cognitive Section (Guest), BPS Special Interest
 Group in Oncology and Palliative care (Rennoldson), Mathematics, Statistics and Computing
 Psychology Section (Baguley, Andrews, Betts and Dr Justice), and the BPS Social Section
 (Bowe is chair elect).

 NTU Psychology researchers serve as editors and members of editorial boards for 40+ journals
 and reviewers for 125+ different journals since 2014. Some editorial highlights include the
 British Journal of Mathematical & Statistical Psychology (Baguley, Consultant Editor, 2013-
 2018), Culture and Evolution (Dunn, Editorial Board, 2015-present), the BPS Cognitive
 Psychology Bulletin (Dunn, Chief Editor, 2017-present; Guest, Founding Chief Editor, 2015-
 2017) and the Journal of Writing Research (Torrance, Joint Editor, 2012-current).

 The Department contributes expertise to major funding bodies for the discipline and to
 government and other bodies responsible for setting research priorities. Baguley, Crundall,
 Jones, Karanika-Murray, and Wood are long-standing members of the ESRC Peer Review
 College. Baguley was also a member of the ESRC NCRM funding panels for Commissioned
 Research Projects – phase 1 and phase 2 and in 2018 joined Panel A of the main ESRC Grant
 Assessment Panel providing expertise on psychology and statistical modelling.

 Staff regularly review grant applications for a range of funders including the Ontario Problem
 Gambling Research Council, Gambling Research Australia, The Finnish Academy of Sciences,
 Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, European Institutes for Advanced study, Swiss
 National Science Foundation, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada, the

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Polish National Science Centre, as well as BA, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC, Newton Fund,
 NIHR, Public Health England and charities such as Arthritis Research UK.

 4.9 Recognition and esteem

 Members of the Department have received external recognition including early career awards
 such as the PsyPAG Rising Researcher award for outstanding doctoral research (Smith in 2016
 and Harper in 2015), and the British Psychological Society’s Qualitative methods in Psychology
 mid-career citation of excellence (Seymour-Smith). Betts recently won an Emerald Literati
 Award for her paper ‘Adolescents’ experiences of street harassment’ which was hailed as, “One
 of the most exceptional pieces of work,” in 2019. Griffiths has won 22 awards including the US
 National Council on Problem Gambling Lifetime Research Award (2014), an honorary doctorate
 by Eotvos Lorand University (Hungary, 2017), the Italian Premio Imbucci Award from the Prime
 Minister's Office (2017), the US Society for the Advancement of Sexual Health Research Award
 (2018), Responsible Gambling Recognition Award from the Macau Institute for Commercial
 Gaming (2018), and most recently the Highly Cited Researcher 2019 & 2020 Awards from
 the Web of Science Group for “recognition of exceptional research performance demonstrated
 by production of multiple highly cited papers that rank in the top 1% for field and year” (2019).
 In 2016, Griffiths won NTUs inaugural Vice-Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher Award while
 Blagden won NTU’s first Outstanding ECR Researcher Award.

 By involving students in research, the Department has also seen recognition of undergraduate
 research such as the Sean Morley Memorial prize for road safety research won by Aaron
 Howard, and awarded in the Houses of Parliament in 2016.

 There have been further successes in winning awards for impactful activity. The Safer Living
 Foundation collaboration won the Robin Corbett Prize for Prisoner Rehabilitation in 2015, the
 Guardian University Award for Social and Community Impact (2016), the Guardian Public
 Service Award for Leadership Excellence (2018) and Charity of the Year at the Third Sector
 Awards (2019). In addition, Winder has twice won a Butler Trust Certificate for her work on
 prisoner rehabilitation. Beyond sex offending, Crundall won the Fire Magazine Award for
 Research Excellence (2017) for his development of the Fire Appliance Hazard Prediction test,
 and Wood’s team was shortlisted for a Teach Primary award (2019) for their Rising Stars
 Wellbeing resources.

 Since 2014, staff have given over 200 keynotes or invited talks at both national and
 international conferences. As well as numerous keynotes delivered by Griffiths, Crundall,
 Winder and Wood, keynote addresses were given by mid-career researchers and practitioners
 including Kuss, McNamara, Slade, Blagden and Wakefield.




                                                                                           Page 20
