Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Arts University

 Unit of Assessment: 33 - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 UoA 33 comprises new subject areas for the University, which began to teach courses in BA
 (Hons) Filmmaking and BMus (Hons) Popular Music Performance in 2018. Planning for the
 facilities began in 2016 when development started on a new building to house the resources and
 teaching space.
 Leeds Arts University gained university title in 2017. This will be the first Research Excellence
 Framework submission that the institution has made. Research strategic planning and
 infrastructure development for this submission began in 2013 with the appointments of the
 Director of Studies - Higher Education Enhancement and Research [the title changing to Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor Academic with a responsibility for research in 2016] and a full-time Head of
 Research. One of the first tasks was to review and rewrite the Research Strategy (2013-2018)
 which was amended and extended through to 2021 in 2019-2020. The strategy was considered
 through the University’s deliberative structure, recommended by the Research Committee and
 approved by the Academic Board. An Ethics Policy was written and an Ethics Sub-Committee
 was established, reporting to the Research Committee. From 2017 research capacity began to
 grow in relation to UoA 33, Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies.
 This was due to the introduction of BA (Hons) Filmmaking and BMus (Hons) Popular Music
 Performance at the University. The FTE for UoA 33 on 31 July 2020 was 4.2. All academic staff
 who are on teaching and research contracts are supported to undertake research.
 The Research Strategy for the University applied to UoA 33.
 The main objectives were to:
     1. Establish postgraduate programmes to enhance and progress practice-based research
          and scholarly activity in subject disciplines.
     2. Develop research across the College [University] and encourage international links to
          enhance research outcomes.
     3. Source research funding, as appropriate, from a wide range of sources.
     4. Support our staff and help them to develop their research practice; encourage internal
          collaboration; and, through external networks and meetings, enhance subject-specialist
          knowledge (especially as it relates to teaching and learning).
 By 2018 these objectives have been met.
     1) Two successful taught masters courses had been established in Creative Practice and
          Curation Practices. In 2019, three more masters courses were introduced: MA Fine Art,
          MA Graphic Design and Photography. The masters’ provision was expanded in 2020-21
          to include MA Animation, MA Creature Design, MA Digital Fashion, MA Graphic Novel,
          MA Illustration and MA World Building. The University is looking to include doctoral
          provision and is now working with a validating partner to set up the infrastructure to
          support practice-based PhDs.
     2) The University has active researchers working across all its subject areas; progress has
          been monitored through deposits in the University repository. Metrics show that outputs
          are accessed by an international readership. UoA 33 researchers presenting work at
          conferences and festivals have also been monitored through the Annual Research
          Report. In 2017-18, the contribution of UoA 33 Category A staff to one publication and
          one conference presentation was recorded. In 2018, this had grown to one publication,
          two conferences and three performances. Finally, in 2020 despite the Covid-19
          pandemic, UoA 33 staff successfully contributed to two publications, one festival and one
          performance. The strategy has begun to establish and grow a research culture in UoA
          33.
     3) It is not currently a requirement for researchers at Leeds Arts University to source
          funding, but it is encouraged when appropriate. One member of the Filmmaking team
          has been successful in gaining an award from the Wellcome Trust.
     4) In order to support staff in developing their research practice, events have taken place
          through which staff can disseminate their work. Specialist training around open access,
          writing for publication and ‘pathways to impact’ have been delivered through group

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          sessions and one-to-one mentoring. UoA 33 Category A staff are also given access to
          funds to support the dissemination of their work. They are responsible for submitting an
          annual research proposal in which they describe how they will use their 15 days (pro
          rata) research and impact time, and request appropriate funding.
 Strategies and approaches for developing Unit 33 research in the next five years:
      1. Develop policies and procedures for PhD to be scrutinised through stage 2 of The Open
          University Affiliated Research Centre approval process.
      2. Develop a pool of PhD supervisors with training and mentoring support.
      3. Support 2 doctoral students in music performance.
      4. Reflect on and evaluate current performance.
      5. Develop new research strategy in light of experience gained from 2021 submission.
      6. Continue to support UoA 33 researchers at the University.
      7. Continue research events suitable for UoA 33 research and impact.
      8. Through process of continuous improvement, develop the research infrastructure to meet
          the needs of UoA 33 researchers.
      9. Research Team to work on research bids for external funding where appropriate.
 Impact
 As particular strands of research progressed, it was apparent that there were some research
 staff who were committed to designing integrated research and impact activities. These
 members of staff were asked to think about how they could plan their impact in a more
 systematic way. They were supported in creating ‘pathways to impact’ that recognise that it is
 important to build long term relationships with the beneficiaries of the research. Research staff
 are able to apply for funds through the research budget to undertake public engagement and
 impact activities. The researchers have also taken part in various training opportunities and have
 been mentored by the Head of Research. The training comprised of, CREST (now
 GuildHE/Research) case studies and impact training, 25 September 2018; impact case study
 training 6 December 2018; enhancing impact case studies, 31 October 2019; impact case study
 workshop, 4 February 2020.
 Research staff are responsible for identifying, documenting, measuring and providing evidence
 for the impact of their work. This is done in a collegial and supportive environment. The benefits
 of this approach were that researchers were mindful of the need to integrate impact strategies
 into their overall research design. Impact activity is regularly reported to the University’s Board
 of Governors and to the Research Committee. The Unit’s two impact case studies (Under an
 Artificial Sun and Whose Blues?: From the Delta to the Download) are made visible to the public
 through the University’s website.
 As a result of this activity, these areas of impact have emerged:
              • Under an Artificial Sun is a documentary research project funded through a
                  Wellcome Trust Research Bursary, focusing on materials in the Stannington
                  Children’s Sanatorium Collection held at Northumberland Archives. The research
                  in development utilises creative methodologies to investigate connections
                  between the archival material and contemporary childhood studies debates. It
                  uncovers untold stories of the emotional legacy of childhood hospitalisation and
                  examines experiences these children may not otherwise have been exposed to. It
                  explores how these experiences may have shaped these children’s lives in
                  unexpected or as yet undocumented ways. The medical benefits of long-term
                  hospitalisation due to tuberculosis are well documented. This research focuses
                  on extending phenomenological understandings of developmental experiences
                  including: parental separation, trauma, loneliness, boredom, resilience, education,
                  exposure to creative pursuits and relationships with adult staff.
              • Whose Blues?: From the Delta to the Download is a performance practice-led
                  participant-observation of popular music consumers, producers and cultural
                  workers, exploring the effects of digital technologies on the perpetuation,
                  dissemination and development of blues music and blues culture. The impact led
                  to a clearer public understanding of how the narratives and history of the blues
                  have been constructed and told. It has contributed to an increased awareness of
                  and interest in blues music as a lived experience and practice beyond imagined
                  boundaries of race, geography and time. The beneficiaries of the research are UK

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                  national and international blues music consumers, arts cultural workers and
                  practitioners.
 Strategies and approaches for developing research impact during the next five years.
      1. It is important that the initial relationships that the researchers have instigated with their
         publics and beneficiaries are deepened and widened. Therefore, a more explicit
         infrastructure to support impact will be created alongside a dedicated training and
         development programme for identifying, capturing and measuring impact.
      2. Researchers will be encouraged to see impact as an integral part of research design
         from the start of a project.
      3. Identify potential new areas of research impact, that do not necessarily depend on the
         research of one academic, but on a body of work from a group of Unit 33 researchers.
 Interdisciplinary research
 Where interdisciplinary research is central to a researcher’s practice, it is facilitated via the
 research proposal process. Through this, researchers can ask for funds to support collaborative
 working with researchers from other institutions and disciplines. The Continuous Professional
 Development (CPD) budget can support any scholarship activity in other disciplines needed to
 support this kind of research. The UoA 33 researchers have been successful in interdisciplinary
 practice and examples are given in Section 4 of this statement.
 Open access and UoA 33
 Throughout the assessment period the unit has made progress towards an open research
 environment. In particular, the number of research outputs openly available via the institutional
 repository has significantly increased. All researchers within the unit are asked to deposit all
 research outputs, wherever possible, including outputs outside the scope of the REF open
 access policy requirements, such as film and audio outputs. Deposit is encouraged via a
 consistent, fully mediated deposit process, which promotes the repository to researchers as a
 space for all output types. Additionally, through enhancements, the repository has adapted to
 better suit the requirements of non-text outputs. This allows outputs in film and audio formats to
 be easily accessed and used by the public. As a result of these developments, 55% of outputs
 proposed for submission in the unit are openly available as of 31 July 2020.
 As open access and open research continue to develop within the field, the institution has made
 contributions to discussions at a local and national level. For example, research staff have
 participated in knowledge exchanges on open access and the institution is a member of the
 GuildHE Open Access Policy discussion group. The University Research Coordinator engages
 with training opportunities to keep-up-to date with developments in national and global open
 access policies.
 Open access guidance has been published on the staff portal to inform UoA 33 Category A
 research staff. There have also been research training sessions for staff focused on the
 principles and policies relating to open access of research.
 Research integrity
 Researchers from UoA 33 are required to create work in line with the institution’s Ethics Policy.
 In the larger context of the University, researchers are mostly practice-based and working within
 the visual arts. With the introduction of new subject areas, sections of the Ethics Policy have
 been modified to address particular issues associated with filmmaking and music performance
 alongside those to do with informed consent and duty of care when participating in these
 practices. For example, the section named Representation and appropriation, addresses
 research integrity when representing others and appropriation in creative practice. This was
 included to address tensions that may exist within areas such as filmmaking and music
 performance, where the appropriation of musical styles and filmic imagery may be common
 practice. This needed to be done in such a way that it did not impinge on the legal and moral
 rights of other people.
 All research that is carried out with participants, irrespective of method or topic should follow the
 University’s Ethics Policy. Research misconduct by not adhering to the policy is dealt with
 through the University’s Disciplinary Policy and Procedure.
 The Ethics Sub-Committee plays an important role in supporting research integrity; it reviews all
 research proposals submitted by staff on an annual basis. There is also provision in the Ethics
 Sub-Committee’s terms of reference for additional meetings when required. Researchers from


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA 33 have been active members of the Research Committee to which the Ethics Sub-
 Committee reports.
 As well as the Ethics Policy and the work of the Ethics Sub-Committee, there is also an Ethics in
 Research Procedure that describes how ethics operates within the University. Participant
 consent forms are available, which researchers from the UoA 33 discipline areas can adapt to
 their own context and needs.
 Strategies and approaches for developing research integrity in the next five years
 A lot of work has been achieved in the areas of research ethics and integrity. However, there is
 still more to be done, going forward during the next five years there are four areas that need
 development:
       1) An ethical review process needs to be designed for research degree students that is
          appropriate for researchers from Unit 33. This may be part of a wider process that
          considers the ethical issues relating to undergraduate and taught postgraduate students
          as well as members of staff.
       2) Work needs to be done to develop a clear research misconduct process that is visible to
          external audiences so that reporting of misconduct can be clear and transparent.
       3) The promotion of examples of good practice relating to research integrity in UoA 33
          activity.
       4) Signing up to the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and
          continuing to comply with its basic requirements, exceeding them where possible.


 2. People
 The University was awarded the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2017 and has submitted
 two Gap Analysis and Action Plans as well as a two-year review. This process has supported
 the Unit of Assessment in promoting equality and diversity as part of the University’s policies and
 procedures.
 Staff development strategy for all staff pursuing a career in research at all stages of their
 careers
 All new UoA 33 Category A staff have an induction period including a one-to-one meeting with
 the Head of Research and the Research Coordinator. At this point they are introduced to the
 research infrastructure, the Research Team, the research proposal process and the institutional
 repository. They are also encouraged to share their research achievements and future
 aspirations. The Vitae Researcher Development Framework is also discussed and new staff are
 signposted to it. As part of the probation period, new UoA 33 Category A staff are asked to
 submit a research proposal. Members of the Research Team act as mentors if a member of staff
 requires support and guidance. The researcher’s progress is recorded and acknowledged
 through the annual appraisal process which is designed to specifically include research goals.
 The Research Team offer training through ‘Research Tuesdays’, a series of events based on
 sharing good practice around ethics, research, dissemination and impact activity. One-to-one
 training is given by the Research Team where appropriate. Actions suggested by the Concordat
 to support the career development of researchers are reviewed by the Head of Human
 Resources and the Head of Research on an annual basis and reported to the Research
 Committee and the Academic Board.
 Staffing and recruitment policy and evidence of its effectiveness
 Overall University staff numbers have not seen a significant increase between 2014 and July
 2020. The general numbers of academic staff on teaching and research contracts have
 remained relatively static in spite of planned growth in some areas.
 The University has historically provided courses in one Unit of assessment, UoA 32. In
 2018/2019 there was a launch of two new undergraduate courses (Filmmaking and Popular
 Music Performance). This has expanded the University provision to include UoA 33. The
 increase in UoA33 Category A staff numbers in this specific area since 2014 is 100%.
 It is the policy of the University to give people permanent contracts where possible, to support
 the wellbeing of the staff. In UoA 33 it can be seen that 100% of the Category A staff have a
 permanent full-time or part-time contract. Fixed-term contracts are only issued in specific
 situations such as maternity covers, working towards retirement or growth in new developing
 areas such as postgraduate studies.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 When Category A staff have been appointed they are able to request support and remission
 from teaching to undertake a PhD. Between 2016 and July 2020 the University has supported 1
 UoA 33 member of staff in studying for their PhD.
 The table below provides information about the staff roles. At the census date the courses were
 very new and had not had a graduating cohort.

  UoA 33 Cat. A     Numbers
  Staff roles
  Course
  Leaders           2
  Senior
  Lecturers         3

 This ambitious, but also prudent, approach to recruitment and staff development has been very
 successful. This can be seen in the growth of UoA 33 research culture over the last 3 years
 noted in section 1. The growing pool of 2 potential PhD supervisors also indicates that the
 approach to recruiting and developing Category A staff has been effective. This strategy has
 enabled the University to make its first REF submission in 2021 and to look forward to working
 with a validating partner to deliver PhDs.
 Demographic analysis of UoA 33 Staff
 The proportion of male staff in UoA 33 (80% of UoA 33 Category A staff are male) is not
 consistent with the University’s gender profile (57.1% of the Category A staff for UoA 32 are
 female). This could however be misleading as the number of staff is only 5. The average age of
 Category A staff is 44.5. 60% are aged between 35 and 54, 40% between 55 and 64. Due to the
 academic staff’s experience they have established research practices and profiles. Also, due to
 the nature of their subject they are confident in engaging with audiences and publics.
 There are slightly more UoA 33 Category A staff on full-time contracts (60%) than part-time
 (40%). This reflects the nature of the subject area where many staff also have a creative practice
 or business that complements their part-time paid employment. Some may also have caring
 responsibilities that fit in with part-time work. If an individual begins on a part-time contract there
 is sometimes the opportunity to expand their contract if appropriate.
 The ethnicity profile of Category A staff for UoA 33 is 60% white with 40% of staff identifying
 themselves as coming from other background than white. This could paint a misleading picture
 as there are only 5 staff. The University has begun to analyse and address the systemic reasons
 for the ethnicity profile of academics in the wider staff population through its senior management
 team and its deliberative structure.
 None of the Category A staff in UoA 33 have declared a disability. The University has policies
 and procedures in place that provide reasonable adjustments for staff with particular needs.
 Supporting and integrating individuals at the beginning of their research careers are
 being supported and integrated into the research culture
 The contribution of postdoctoral researchers has been very important in supporting the evolving
 research culture. During the assessment period there have been three postdoctoral research
 fellows employed who have mentored individual members of staff. These were institutional roles
 not specific to UoA 33. New researchers are encouraged and supported in disseminating their
 work through internal dissemination days. During the induction period, the Head of Research
 connects individuals with others who have shared research interests.
 Evidence that this has been a useful strategy comes from the 2017-18, the 2018-19 and the
 2019-2020 Annual Research Reports. There has been steady progress over the three years.
 On the census date, July 31 2020, there were 5 UoA 33 Category A staff members and all have
 submitted at least one output for REF2021. At that point, there were 20 outputs from UoA 33 on
 the institutional repository and 11 have been submitted for REF 2021.
 Research impact leave/sabbatical leave, for all staff at all stages of their careers
 (including fixed-term and part-time staff)
 All part-time and full-time UoA 33 Category A staff are able to apply for research leave up to 15
 days pro-rata according to their contract. This is managed through the Human Resources
 system where staff can request research related absence.
 Exchanges between academia and business, industry or public or third sector bodies

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of the five staff who have been employed in this UoA, all are practitioners in the cultural
 industries (screen writers, filmmakers, musicians). The impact case studies demonstrate how
 they have used this expertise to engage with industry and third sector bodies in their academic
 research. They have also been able to engage with a wide variety of audiences.
 Recognising and rewarding staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact
 The achievement of research and impact goals are acknowledged and recorded through the
 annual appraisal process. Successful completion of goals can lead to the member of staff
 progressing up the pay spine. Researchers must “have agreed an outline research project in
 place with the Head of Research by the agreed date and that the Head of Research is satisfied
 with the progress made”. (Staff Pay Increase Policy, section 1, page 2). Staff achievement can
 also be recognised through the appointment of associate and full professors. The Professorial
 Policy and Procedure lays down the criteria for achieving these titles through research and
 impact activity.
 Study leave arrangements (including supporting data where relevant)
 The University currently does not have research students but anticipates supporting doctorates
 within the next five years. Members of staff who are studying qualifications including PhDs are
 considered for funding and/or remission/time from teaching. This process is described in the
 Continuous Professional Development Framework.
 Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working
 There is a Flexible Working Procedure published on the University portal that is related to large
 scale and long-term changes in working patterns. An individual may request such a change due
 to parental or caring responsibilities. Such a request may be approved if it meets certain stated
 criteria. On a more day-day basis UoA 33 Category A staff are able to negotiate when they take
 their research time with their line managers. This process is managed online where staff can log
 their research days through the HR system. Where researchers are working remotely there is
 some detailed advice available to ensure they protect their wellbeing, health and safety while
 being away from the work place. The line manager or Head of Research maintains regular
 contact with the member staff to enhance a feeling of continued belonging to the institution.
 Remote working policies and procedures have been particularly valuable during the Covid-19
 pandemic.
 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Where fixed-term contracts are used, staff have the same access to University resources and
 facilities and enjoy the same terms, conditions and service. The University seeks to avoid the
 use of temporary contracts and only uses them where there is a direct business need,
 recognising the impact that the insecurity of employment may have on both the employee’s
 wellbeing and performance.
 Researchers on fixed-term contracts and part-time contracts have the same access to and
 participation in probation processes, induction, appraisal and continuous professional
 development as full-time permanent staff.
 Conference attendance or other necessary travel to support research
 All UoA 33 category A staff are able to apply for funds to attend and present at conferences. The
 University will make reasonable adjustments to ensure no one is disadvantaged in this activity.
 The Research Coordinator works with staff on a one-to-one basis to ensure travel and
 accommodation bookings are suitable for individual requirements. Internal research
 dissemination activities are organised during different days and during twilight hours to
 accommodate part-time staff and those with caring responsibilities.
 Taking onto account equality and diversity considerations
 All Unit 33 Category A staff are welcome to ask for support from their line managers and the
 Head of Research in regard to the submission of funding applications, access to internal funds,
 research-related promotion, conference attendance and training. All staff can access this
 support either directly from the Research Team or through the research proposal process.
 All staff, including the Research Team participate in equality, diversity and inclusion training
 including online training and a session on behaviours in the workplace delivered by Human
 Resources. An external training organisation also provides unconscious bias training that is
 undertaken by all staff.
 The University has a range of policies to support and promote equality and diversity. There is an
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy which is supplemented by policies on Equality in

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Employment and Anti-Bullying Policy. These outlines how issues around harassment,
 discrimination and bullying should be both raised and tackled. The University also has a policy
 on how it will support staff who experience domestic violence.
 When promoting or recruiting individuals for research-related leadership roles the Equality in
 Employment Policy is followed. This references equality issues in relation to career development
 and research assessment.
 All staff, including researchers with protected characteristics, are represented in the University’s
 deliberative structure.
 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
 The University has various policies and guidance in relation to returning after a period of leave
 such as Maternity, Paternity & Adoption, Flexible Working Procedure, Authorised Absence and
 Special Leave Policy and Absence Management Procedure. Individuals are supported through
 staged or phased return that is agreed with the individual, Human Resources and line managers.
 Tasks and deadlines may be revised where appropriate. ‘Keep in touch’ contact between the
 individual and the University can also be arranged.
 Support for staff with protected characteristics (e.g. disabilities) to enable them to
 research productively
 All UoA 33 category staff are able to discuss their needs with their line managers, through
 induction, probation, regular catch-up meetings and appraisal. Risk assessments can then be
 undertaken by Human Resources and the Health and Safety Team so that needs are identified
 and reasonable adjustments can be made. This is done in consultation with the researcher. For
 example, a researcher may require a particular kind of software to mitigate against dyslexia or a
 special office chair to help with physical conditions.
 Individuals may need more nuanced support that require a change in management style, or style
 of communication. The equality and diversity pages on the staff portal signposts to relevant
 policies and procedures that can help managers to support staff with protected characteristics.
 There is also more detailed advice and information available on the portal for staff and
 managers.
 In relation to REF 2021, Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) have been carried out in 2018 and
 2019 as part of a mock research assessment exercise. They considered the processes for
 deciding research independence to identify any disadvantage to any groups with protected
 characteristics. Further EIAs will also consider the processes that take into account staff
 circumstances and the adjustments to the numbers of expected outputs in relation to protected
 characteristics. The selection of outputs and the appeals process will also be subject to EIA, as
 outlined in the Code of Practice.
 Approach to supporting the wellbeing of staff
 The submitting unit has encouraged its Category A staff to submit a minimum of one output,
 irrespective of being full or part-time. Timescales and deadlines for REF 2021 have been
 published in the Code of Practice well in advance and have been adhered to. This approach was
 to reduce unnecessary anxiety due to unexpected and changing demands on staff time. After
 the REF 2021 Selection Panel met in June 2020, it was concluded that the output pool
 considered met the REF eligibility criteria.
 If a line manager or the Head of Research suspects that someone’s wellbeing requires support a
 meeting is arranged where deadlines can be negotiated and additional help and guidance can
 be given. UoA 33 Category A staff can also be directed to a section on the portal that focuses on
 staff wellbeing. If needed, they can access the free resources Care First (Employee Assistance
 Programme) and Big White Wall. Discounts are also offered on gym membership to aid with
 fitness and mental health.
 Practical tools available to managers are the Well Persons Questionnaire and Stress Risk
 Assessment Form and are used in conjunction with the Policy and Procedure on Stress
 Management.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Unit 33 Category A staff are not required by the University to seek out external funding for their
 research activity. However, a Senior Lecturer in Filmmaking was successful in gaining funding
 from the Wellcome Trust Research Bursary for Under an Artificial Sun (2018-2019), a project

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focusing on materials in the Stannington Children’s Sanatorium Collection held
 at Northumberland Archives.
 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Funds are made available from the University’s general income the majority of which comes
 from student fees. The University makes £70,000 per annum available for the purposes of
 supporting research and impact activity. This money can be applied for by Unit 33 Category A
 staff through the annual research proposal process. Proposals are reviewed by the Research
 Team and approved by the Senior Management Team. Staff are given individual feedback on
 their proposals.
 If proposals are approved, staff are able to apply for funds. This is done through a budget
 request form that records their funding requirements and intended research output(s). Funding
 is related to creating research outputs or creating impact activity and this is documented by the
 Research Team.
 UoA 33 Category A staff are able to apply for additional funds through the Research Committee,
 for costs that cannot be applied for through the proposal process. If successful, staff are asked
 to report back on the progress of their projects to the Committee.
 Management of the Research Team is undertaken by the Head of Research. Individual UoA 33
 Category A staff are managed in undergraduate and postgraduate courses, most often by the
 Course Leader or Subject Leader. Issues relating to research can be discussed by line
 managers with the Head of Research if required.
 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The estate for research comprises one research and postgraduate office and two open-plan
 learning and dissemination spaces. These were created as part of a new building development
 in 2018. Staff from UoA 33 have been active in using these spaces during internal research
 events, including dissemination, training and development.
 Any facilities or equipment needed by UoA 33 Category A staff for their research are sourced by
 the Research Team. The University has an Annual Capital Bids process which the Research
 Team can access if required. Previously specialist IT software and equipment has been applied
 for by the Research Team for Unit 33 researchers.
 Currently, the Research Team share an office with the Postgraduate Team. There are also two
 large multi-purpose rooms with projection facilities that can be booked for research and
 dissemination events. The Research Coordinator manages the open access provision for
 research outputs. They share an office with the Exhibitions Team and also have a desk in the
 University library.
 There is a comprehensive specialist artists’ book collection containing publications spanning
 from the previous 90 years which is a resource for archival research. There is also an archive
 housed in the Blenheim Walk library relating to the University’s history which is of interest to
 those researching the development of art school curricula, pedagogies and social stratification.
 The University has developed an acquisitions policy and acquires examples of creative outputs
 for its growing collection.
 Addressing relevant equality and diversity issues
 As the research culture of the University is seven years old, and the growth of UoA 33 research
 began in 2017, there are some ECRs. These are staff who may be employed in higher education
 for the first time and as yet do not have a research profile. There are also those who are mid or
 late-career as teachers but are new to research. Within UoA 33, there are staff who work part-
 time so they can carry on their own music performance or filmmaking practice as well as tend to
 their caring responsibilities.
 In order to ensure no one is disadvantaged, an inclusive approach to funding has been taken. All
 Category A staff can apply to the research budget for the funds they need to undertake their
 research, scholarship and impact activity, as long as the requests are reasonable and comply
 with budget constraints and financial regulations. Funding is not related to the size of contract so
 part-time staff have equal access to the support they need.
 In relation to REF 2021 selection of outputs the aim again was to be as inclusive as possible. As
 such, everyone on a teaching and research contract or a research only contract is included in
 the submission. The University recognises that undue anxiety can arise in the staff who are new
 to research. To counter this, all Category A staff irrespective of being full or part-time are asked


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to submit a minimum of one and a maximum of five outputs to the Selection Panel. The process
 is described in the Code of Practice.
 Activities designed to support research such as dissemination events, training sessions and
 research briefings are planned to consider the needs of part-time workers and those with caring
 responsibilities. Therefore, events such as research breakfasts, research lunches, twilight
 reading groups and twilight dissemination have taken place. The Research Team aim to be
 flexible in the timings, content and the nature of events.
 Much of the day-to-day work of the Research Team is flexible, offering one-to-one support to
 individuals when required. For example, any accessibility requirements are accommodated
 when booking events. Training resources are supplied online for staff to use if they are unable
 to attend a particular research session. The Head of Research is available to talk to individuals
 if they need further support.
 The Research Team has received extensive training in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training
 as noted previously in Section 2.
 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise utilised in relation to impact activities
 Impact activities are funded through the research budget, which is accessed by the research
 proposal system or by direct application to the Research Committee. UoA 33 Category A staff
 can use this fund to pay for travel, hospitality and accommodation for impact events, such as
 meetings, presentations to public bodies, dissemination events and workshops in communities.
 Training for impact activities and evaluation is supported by the University’s continuous
 professional development budget. The Head of Research has also provided targeted training for
 those UoA 33 researchers writing impact case studies.
 The two impact case studies are presented on the University’s website in order to make the
 projects more visible.
 The University auditorium has been used for performance and public engagement events and
 there is a potential to develop this further so that future impact is systematically recorded.
 Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 Opportunities for cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure arise from the
 research projects and interests of UoA 33 Category A staff.
 Through the University’s membership of GuildHE/Research they have access to shared
 resources related to research such the institutional repository, the membership of Vitae and the
 resources relating to the annual PhD summer school.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The Annual Research Reports (2017-2020) have charted the development of UoA 33’s research
 culture. This unit is situated within a small, specialist art and design institution and there have
 only been three years of development. However, UoA 33 Category A staff have been successful
 in engaging with a wide range of communities and publics through their research activity.
 Although the majority of projects are small and are funded by the University rather than
 externally, they have had an impact on many diverse groups of beneficiaries outside of
 academia. This impact has the potential to be developed in future years.
 Collaborations, networks and partnerships Collaborative arrangements
 In 2018, the Director of Art and Performance [new title is now Director of Undergraduate Studies]
 began an interesting connection with the Dance4 International Centre for Choreography,
 Nottingham as an invited research consultant. This was funded by Arts Council England and
 Dance4 International Centre for Choreography.
 Also, in 2018 UoA 33 Category staff, Huxtable, collaborated with Timothy Palmer as part of
 Maraca2 Percussion Duo on Threshold a commissioning project between Joseph Pereira
 (Composer and Principal Timpanist: Los Angeles Philharmonic), the Los Angeles Philharmonic
 Association and Gustavo Dudamel (Music & Artistic Director, Los Angeles Philharmonic) with
 support from Marcia and Gary Hollander. The piece received its World Premiere on 25 January
 2018 at the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles (Cond. Gustavo Dudamel) with subsequent
 performances on 26-27 January 2018 (The Granada Theatre, Santa Barbara) and 28 January
 2018. Threshold received its Asian Premiere on 3 May 2019 at the Esplanade Concert Hall with
 the Singapore Symphony Orchestra (Cond. Pascal Rophé).
 Research users, beneficiaries or audiences


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has supported particular UoA 33 research that has been designed to engage with
 various research users, beneficiaries or audiences from its inception.
 The beneficiaries of the research can be identified through the impact case studies where
 researchers addressed: former patients and nursing staff of Stannington Sanatorium;
 policymakers; oral historians; archive users; medical and historical tuberculosis researchers;
 local historians; the general public; UK national and international Blues music consumers;
 arts/music cultural workers and practitioners.
 Engagement with communities and publics
 UoA 33 Category A staff have engaged with various communities and publics through various
 kinds of activity. For example, community engagement is integral to the Under an Artificial Sun
 project where Ballin, a documentary filmmaker and researcher, investigated the archives from
 Stannington Sanatorium and collected sound recordings from former patients and staff. The
 work was presented to community groups and former patients at Northumberland Archives in
 June 2019.
 The Course Leader of BMus (Hons) Popular Music Performance, Attah has taken part in
 extensive public engagement activities in relation to their research on the Blues. In 2017, the
 blues researcher contributed to the BBC Radio 4 broadcast All You Need is Lab, in which Midge
 Ure looked at the many ways scientific and technological innovations have stimulated creativity
 in pop music sequencer. The research explored how the laboratory has informed and inspired
 the studio.
 The research has been disseminated through the Cerys Matthews Blues Show, BBC Radio 2, in
 2018 and 2019. Each broadcast lasts for 60 minutes and Matthews’ programmes typically
 receive half a million listeners. The researcher also hosted Blue Notes Christmas Special, BBC
 Radio Lancashire, 19 December 2018. The next year they contributed to Laying down the
 BLUES with @MWalklate, Goin’ Up the Country Blues Club, Louth and Wales, 9 March 2019.
 They appeared on Sky Arts’ The Decade the Music Died, a programme celebrating musicians
 who died in the 2010s. The programme aired on 10 January 2020.
 Attah also engages with audiences through his musical performances, as seen through their tour
 dates scheduled for 2020.
 Dissemination has also taken place through a series of public lectures:
     • Whose in the Blues? Public lecture, 90 minutes – ‘Sitting at the Foot of the Blues’, 27
         January 2019, Wapping, London.
     • Whose is the Blues? Public lecture, 60 minutes – ‘Blues at the Ritzy’, 2 July 2018,
         Brixton, London.
 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 The unit’s researchers are open to interdisciplinary research and seek out opportunities to work
 with others on various research projects. This has led to a sustainable approach to the subject
 due to increasing the scope of networks, collaborations, dissemination opportunities and
 possible beneficiaries of the unit’s research.
 One area of research in UoA 33 has focused on widening access and participation in music
 education. This has been facilitated by an interdisciplinary approach drawing upon music theory,
 social sciences and educational methods.
 One interdisciplinary project came from research on the Blues that has explored musical,
 historical and sociological practices and contexts. The work also relates the Blues to current
 musical practices and cultures ensuring that the subject remains relevant to new audiences.
 Research from the Under an Artificial Sun project drew upon historical, archival research,
 documentary-making and storytelling methods to reveal stories about the experiences of staff
 and patients dealing with Tuberculosis in the mid-20th Century.
 Wider activities and contributions to the research base
 UoA 33 Category A staff are encouraged through the annual progress review process to develop
 their academic citizenship and identities. Their achievements are recorded in the Annual
 Research Report and celebrated in regular updates provided to the Board of Governors and
 Research Committee.
 Editorship
 Attah has carried out editorial work for the Routledge Taylor & Francis Group.
 Scholarly awards or fellowships


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ballin achieved a Wellcome Trust Research Bursary Award in 2018 for the project Under an
 Artificial Sun.
 Invited keynotes, Lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles
 Attah was invited to present, Discovering the Blues: Paul Oliver and the world of blues research
 at the Think Human Festival - Festival Of Humanities and Social Sciences, Oxford Brookes
 University, 7 February 2020.
 In July 2020, Attah was appointed as chair for the Popular Music Study Group for the Royal
 Musical Association. This is the first popular music group that has been included during the
 association’s 174 year history.
 Refereeing academic publications
 Booth, Course Leader for BA(Hons) Filmmaking has undertaken peer-review activities for the
 International Journal of Research and Method in Education since January 2017. They also
 continue to undertake peer review work for the International Journal of Art and Design Education
 (iJADE) and the Journal for the Association of Learning Technology.
 Film criticism
 The Head of Research has reviewed films in relation to an interest in equality issues from 2016,
 2017 and 2018 for The Senses of Cinema Journal, Australia. They were also asked to write
 Hard Women: Representations of older femininities in 2010s’ horror, in Senses of Cinema
 October 2019.




                                                                                          Page 11
