Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: D-34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

The Unit consists of the Information School and the Department of Journalism Studies (hereafter
the iSchool and Journalism), both members of the Faculty of Social Sciences in the University of
Sheffield. They share a focus on the production, processing, consumption and exploitation of
content, broadly defined, and host three dedicated research centres: the Centre for Freedom of the
Media, the Centre for the Study of Journalism and History, and the Centre for Information Literacy
Research (hereafter CFOM, CSJH and CILR).

Both departments have strong academic reputations. The University was graded first in the UK for
journalism and media in the Complete University Guide 2020; the Guardian university league
tables for 2019 and 2018; and the Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide in 2018. The
iSchool was ranked first in the world for Library and Information Management in the QS World
University Rankings in 2021 and 2019 (and second in 2020), and is represented on the Board of
Directors of the international iSchools organisation, which comprises 112 of the world’s top
information departments. The departments have grown substantially over the assessment period,
resulting in plans for both Journalism and the iSchool to move to new, purpose-built
accommodation in 2023 as part of a strategic plan to enhance collaboration by co-locating Faculty
departments.

Both departments are dedicated to understanding the roles of information and communication -
both current and past - as critical elements in the development of societies, but also maintain their
own intellectual agendas. The iSchool’s research investigates the interactions between
information, people and technology and how these shape an increasingly dynamic and complex
world. There are three broadly defined areas: data science, how information is used in diverse
organisations, and how information literacies, practices and policies benefit individuals and
societies. The research includes both computational and non-computational activities, which
encompass a wide range of theoretical and methodological approaches, with current themes
including: librarianship; data science; chemical and health informatics; information retrieval;
information systems; knowledge management; and social media and the digital society more
generally.

Journalism is committed to promoting the fundamental importance of journalism and its value as a
contributor to the communicative nature of societies and is dedicated to understanding, sustaining
and improving their communicative base. Accordingly, Journalism’s research focuses on
communication, media and journalism, with current research themes including: conflict and crisis
communication; media freedom and journalism safety; European and comparative media and
information law; journalism and communication history; journalism, communication, civil society
and democracy; language, communication and journalism; and the digital media and
communication environment. Department research interests coalesce in the Unit around the
growing problems of the publication on and offline of misinformation, disinformation and hate



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
speech, which affect the quality and sustainability of trustworthy information and communication
and highlight the complexity of relationships between technology, producers and users/consumers.

1.2 Research strategy and objectives

Review of REF2014 plans

The Unit has undergone substantial changes in staffing since 2014, allowing it to grow whilst
achieving the five strategic objectives detailed in its REF2014 submission and maintaining its
world-class reputation in areas such as information retrieval, media freedom, journalism history
and librarianship. These objectives were:

   •   To increase collaborative research, and involvement with other iSchools. Extensive
       links developed within Sheffield with collaborations involving 17 departments across all five
       faculties. New collaborations with 11 other members of the iSchools organisation in
       Australia, North America, Europe and China. Supported in 2018 by the iSchool becoming
       only the second European member to host the iSchools annual conference; Bath is chair of
       the European iSchools committee.

   •   To exploit the iLab. An iSchool facility, recently upgraded with state-of-the-art eye tracking
       equipment, to support behavioural research, and to enable digital focus-group data
       collection. It now forms a key component of several iSchool research strands, e.g., work by
       Rutter on emotional reactions to health-related images, and task-based evaluations of the
       Worldcat.org and Europeana databases (Clough17, Goodale14). It is now being used
       widely outside the Unit, including by other disciplines (e.g., Education and Sociological
       Studies), and by major non-academic users such as the development of an app by
       FirstBus.

   •   To develop research on the protection of journalists and of media freedom. The Unit
       has led the development of CFOM to become an officially recognised partner research
       centre of UNESCO on its Journalism Safety agenda. In 2016, the Unit founded the
       Journalism Safety Research Network (JRSN), an international network of ca. 200
       academics with global recognition for contributions to research and advocacy in media
       freedom, journalism safety and the issue of impunity (Harrison18).

   •   To internationalise the research and teaching agenda in journalism. Exemplified by:
       an AHRC project on press ethics and regulation in 13 European countries; an ESRC project
       on radio and women’s empowerment in the Sahel; contributing to the annual UNESCO
       International Day to End Impunity (IDEI) by hosting an associated event in Sheffield;
       contributing to and participating in UNESCO’s annual World Press Freedom Day; and the
       internationalisation of the curriculum through the creation of new research-informed MAs in
       ‘Global Journalism’ and ‘International Public and Political Communication’ (with ca 270
       students in the current cohorts).

   •   To develop research in social media and in research data management (RDM). Three
       new staff appointments in the iSchool (Dasuke, Reilly and Zhang) and one in Journalism
       (Tong) with interests in social media, and social media regulation (Katsirea) who have
       already contributed significantly to this important and growing area of research (e.g.
       Dasuke18, Zhang19). Cox and Pinfield have, inter alia, conducted two major international
       surveys of academic libraries’ support for RDM (e.g., Cox17), forming part of an extensive
       programme of research into digital scholarship and open access (OA) more generally (e.g.,
       Pinfield17, Sbaffi17, Willett20).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition to these objectives, the Unit’s REF2014 submission also detailed a number of specific
planned activities, whose successful outcomes are evidenced in the iSchool by:

   •   Research on drug discovery with a range of pharmaceutical companies (Gillet14, Gillet19)
       and a translational EU-FP7 project to develop new diagnostics and therapeutics for
       Alzheimer's Disease (de la Vega de Leon18)

   •   Moving beyond conventional information retrieval with, e.g., Checco directing a
       Horizon2020 project that uses machine learning techniques to strengthen the European
       fashion industry and Bates, Clough and Hopfgartner co-investigators in a Horizon2020
       project on algorithmic bias and transparency in social settings

   •   Studies of health information in the Global South, e.g., collaborative research with
       colleagues in Malawi, Nigeria and Uganda (Dasuki18)

   •   Extensive studies of scholarly communication, with a particular focus on the emergence
       and role of open access (OA) mega journals (Pinfield19, Willett20) and the relationship
       between theory and practice in OA.

   •   Webinars organised on information literacy for the UNESCO-sponsored annual Global
       Media and Information Literacy week, and for the International Federation of Library
       Associations and Institutions and the American Library Association.

and in Journalism by:

   •   Extensive research on ethics and regulation, and media law to expand an understanding of
       the wide range of contemporary challenges to media practice (Steel, Katsirea19. Harcup).

   •   Extensive publication programme on journalism and history (e.g., The Routledge
       Companion to British Media History; Tabloid Century: The Popular Press in Britain, 1896 to
       the present; Letters to the Editor: Comparative and Historical Perspectives; Redefining
       Journalism in the era of the Mass Press: 1880-1920), and an AHRC/NWO funded project
       with the University of Groningen on changing perceptions of the role of journalism at the
       end of the 20th century

   •   The establishment by UNESCO of a UNESCO Chair on Media Freedom, Journalism Safety
       and the Issue of Impunity at the University of Sheffield in recognition of Harrison’s expertise
       and the impact of Harrison’s research and input into non-academic agendas (one of only
       13 UNESCO chairs in the UK and the first focussing on these three themes)

Objectives for the coming 5-year period

Building on its current expertise, the Unit will analyse and respond to dramatic societal changes
taking place because of technological developments, such as social media and artificial
intelligence (AI), and global challenges, such as sustainability, peacebuilding and social justice,
and the accelerating shift towards the digital due to COVID-19, among other catalysts. To achieve
this vision, we will:

   •   Further enhance our vibrant research culture which produces world-leading interdisciplinary
       research in

           o   Information science, including: applications of data science to solve problems in
               areas such as chemoinformatics, health informatics and social media analysis;
               understanding the role in organisations of data, information and knowledge, and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
              information systems and services, including governance, innovation, openness and
              sustainability; and understanding of how literacies, practices and policies in data,
              information and knowledge, used ethically, benefit individuals and societies.

          o   Journalism, media freedom and communication including: understanding the
              societal impact of journalism on the communicative base of societies; development
              of research capacity to strengthen the protections for free, independent and diverse
              media in law and practice, with particular emphasis on the wide range of challenges
              to media in a digital age; development of digital monitoring methodologies to
              address the lack of systematisation and harmonisation of data collected by
              monitoring organisations worldwide on attacks against journalists; expand research
              capacity on the role of media and communication in conflict and post-conflict
              situations and in peacebuilding.

   •   Lead both our own University and our disciplines in further understanding how to exploit the
       new research opportunities created by big data, AI and innovative digital methodologies.

   •   Strengthen the reach and depth of our collaborations with external partners in all sectors
       (private, public and the third sector), evidenced by growing numbers of joint funded projects
       and co-authored and co-created outputs, specifically further deepening our partnerships in
       Europe, East Asia, and the Global South.

   •   Embed the Knowledge Exchange (KE) Concordat and further invest in our strategy for KE
       to maximise the impact of our research. Foster our long-term relationships with external
       partners in industry and in wider communities, forging in-depth collaborations with the
       purpose of understanding and addressing real-world problems, for measurable social
       benefit.

   •   Draw on the opportunities offered by a wide range of funders to establish new
       interdisciplinary studentships, supervised by teams across and beyond our Unit, forging
       collaborations within other disciplines and with non-academic users in order to develop the
       next generation of researchers, equipped with the cutting edge conceptual and
       methodological skills needed to address complex global challenges within and beyond
       academic career contexts.

   •   Continue to build strong groups of early career researchers (ECRs) equipping them to
       engage in multidisciplinary collaborations all around the world, and with the diverse
       communities of users of their research; and to provide them with the skills and aptitudes to
       be leaders of the ambitious and responsive research programmes required to address the
       complex challenges facing society.

   •   Embed a strong culture of equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) in all our structures and
       practices: as evidenced through the recruitment and career progression of our staff and
       postgraduate research students (PGRs); the foregrounding of EDI in research design; and
       further diversification of the partners in, and beneficiaries of, our research.

   •   Lead responses to societal challenges using our expertise in data, information and
       knowledge, including those posed by COVID-19. Using our interdisciplinary expertise and
       collaborations we will generate knowledge to inform the response of organisations and
       communities, and by leading the development of innovative methods, concepts and ethical
       frameworks we will sustain world-leading research in the context of future global crises.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Build on our long-standing commitment to, and strong track record in, open research and
       the knowledge of our world-leading experts on OA to position the Unit at the forefront of
       embedding FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable), open, ethical, and
       replicable research.

1.3 Supporting interdisciplinary research

The Unit is inherently interdisciplinary and encourages this diversity through interdisciplinary
recruitment, by promoting collaboration with colleagues in other University departments and other
institutions, and by providing seed funding for interdisciplinary work.

Staff backgrounds cover many varied disciplines, with some staff having moved to the Unit from
within Sheffield (e.g., Cameron from Psychology, Jimenez from Geography) and Bath recently
moving to a joint appointment with the School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR). The
Unit can draw on expertise in both quantitative and qualitative research methods as diverse as
clinical pathway analysis (Bath15), content analysis (Harcup16, Harrison15, Ogbebor20), data
journeys (Bates19), focus groups (Tomlinson20), interviews and surveys (Heywood18), discourse
analysis (Ahmad18), crowdsourcing (Demartini15), Foucauldian analysis (Surowiec16), grounded
theory (Martins16), machine learning (de Leon15), natural language processing (Zhang18),
comparative legal research (Katsirea19), legal analysis (Parmar18), log analysis (Harvey19),
scientometrics (Lin18), and user modelling (Foster18).

This wide range of expertise facilitates inter-disciplinary collaborations with departments across
Sheffield, e.g. Chemistry (Gillet19), Computer Science (Clough14), ScHARR (Webber18) and
Sociology (Bath17) and in many of the (inter)national collaborations described in Section 4. The
inter-University collaborations often contribute to broad interdisciplinary research groups within
Sheffield, e.g., the Digital Society Network (where Bates and Chernobrov are joint leaders of two
principal research themes, and where Clough was Deputy Director), iHuman (which supported de
la Vega and Cameron for work on trust factors in healthcare AI systems and on human-robot
interactions), the Sheffield Institute for International Development (SIID, where Abbott,
Chernobrov, Harrison, Mazumdar, Pukallus and Zamani are fellows, and where Jimenez is
joint leader of the Development Alternatives strand), Sheffield Political Economy Research
Institute, where Katsirea is an Associate Fellow.

The Research Hub (see Section 3) provides a central mechanism for identifying and promoting
interdisciplinary research within the Faculty, which has provided funding for networking events and
contributed to the establishment of the UNESCO Chair in Journalism.

1.4 Sharing and open access

The Unit has a long-standing commitment to openness. To ensure maximum discoverability of our
research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with
Leeds and York (green route). The 876 outputs deposited over this assessment period were
downloaded over 219,000 times. This is our preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing
opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish outputs in fully OA journals, and are
supported by a faculty fund to do so, or hybrid where required for funder compliance. Data is
contributed to the institution’s Online Research Data repository, e.g., data from a large-scale
international survey of research data management in libraries, and from a study on use of
commenting in OA mega journals (Willett20).

The Unit includes world-leading experts on OA-related issues and open scholarship more generally
(e.g., Cox17, Pinfield17, Sbaffi17), who have helped drive institutional open research approaches.
                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
They have also provided national and international advocacy and leadership in this area over many
years, with Pinfield an external advisor to UUK, Jisc and the various SHERPA facilities for OA,
and Wilsdon chairing the group that produced The Metric Tide report (Wilsdon15) and leading
national debate in this area.

Some Unit research has made significant contributions to data and code sharing.
Chemoinformatics research code and data (e.g. de Leon18, Gillet19) are distributed via the GitHub
repository, and information retrieval data are distributed through fora such as the NTCIR,
MediaEval and CLEF conference series (Hopfgartner18), which provide benchmarking facilities
ensuring the effectiveness and the reproducibility of information access algorithms.

Sheffield is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment, and supports
the principles of open research as set out in the Concordat on Open Research Data and the FAIR
principles. The Unit is committed to open research wherever possible, following best practices in
managing research data securely, and in considering issues of data sharing from the beginning of
all research projects. All iSchool PGR students receive training on open scholarship and RDM as
part of their research training; and the School’s RDM expertise (Cox19) enables it to work closely
with the University Library RDM service to explore good practice in open scholarship.

1.5 Supporting and sustaining impact

The Unit is well-placed to plan for and to facilitate the impact of its research and achieves this by
encouraging transformative research, much of which is based in practice. Staff have always had
strong relationships with associated professions through:

   •   Membership of appropriate professional bodies (e.g., Association of Information Systems,
       British Computer Society (BCS), Chartered Institute of Librarianship and Information
       Professionals, (CILIP), Society of College, National and University Libraries (SCONUL),
       Association of Journalism Educators, Broadcast Journalism Training Council, the
       Professional Publishers Association and the National Council for the Training of
       Journalists), with Birdi, Hopfgartner, Pinfield and Webber members of BCS, CILIP and
       SCONUL committees, Katsirea a member of the Athens Bar and Harrison a Fellow of the
       Academy of Social Sciences.

   •   Recruitment of research-active staff who have had successful careers as practitioners (e.g.,
       Harcup, Pinfield, Ogbebor, Tong, Webber).

   •   Organisation of meetings on behalf of professional bodies aimed at practitioners, e.g., the
       triennial international chemoinformatics conference (most recently the eighth in 2019
       chaired by Gillet) on behalf of two drug discovery societies.

   •   Teaching programmes with strong professional links through visiting speakers,
       masterclasses and collaborative student projects.

   •   Publication of outputs for both academic and professional audiences.

   •   Both departments having practitioner-based advisory panels to provide current insights into
       the ever-changing worlds of information and journalism.

These characteristics mean that the Unit has developed long-term interactions with many different
national and international organisations that are current and future users of our research (e.g.,
African Media Initiative, Article19, AstraZeneca, Breast Cancer Now, European Commission,
Fondation Hirondelle, Free Press International, GlaxoSmithKline, Independent Monitor for the


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Press, Independent Press Standards Organisation, Index on Censorship, Motor Neuron Disease
Association, UNESCO, Zalando). These interactions achieve impact by informing practice and
policy and by collaborative research with user beneficiaries.

Three of our submitted impact case studies exemplify the diversity of research methods employed
within the Unit and our ability to inform practice and policy. They demonstrate the Unit’s strengths
in internationally relevant research that has clear impacts for a diverse set of beneficiaries.

   •   The media freedom case study exemplifies high-quality research by Harrison. This
       research (part of it funded by Free Press Unlimited, a Netherlands media freedom civil
       society organisation) has contributed to improving the alignment of the data collected by
       monitoring organisations on attacks against journalists to the requirements of the
       SDG16.10 indicator, benefiting local civil society organisations and international journalism
       safety agencies. The research has also formed the basis for evidence to the UK’s Foreign
       Affairs Select Committee hearing on Media Freedom and a UNESCO Chair has been
       established at the University of Sheffield for Harrison in recognition of the international
       impact of her research input into the implementation of the UN’s 2012 global multi-
       stakeholder Action Plan on Safety of Journalists and the Issue of Impunity.

   •   The OA case study exemplifies high-quality funded research (Universities UK and the
       European Commision FP7) and is based on Pinfield’s research on (inter)national policies
       and practices for OA, which has formed the basis for evidence to EC, JISC, RCUK,
       Universities UK and the UK government. He has also engaged with potential beneficiaries
       through consultancy work for the Swedish National Library.

   •   The womens’ rights case study is based on high quality research by Heywood, funded by
       the British Academy. This research has resulted in Fondation Hirondelle, a Swiss media
       development NGO, and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
       developing policies for the use of radio to support female empowerment in developing
       countries where there is likely to be a high degree of illiteracy.

   •   Our use of collaborative research as an impact mechanism is exemplified by the
       chemoinformatics case study, which involves co-production with intended end-users. The
       European Medicines Agency supported research by Willett into orphan-drugs that now
       forms part of their regulatory procedures, part of which is also used by pharmaceutical
       companies applying to the Agency; and Gillet’s work on reduced graphs arose from funded
       collaborations with GlaxoWellcome (now GlaxoSmithKline) and Sanofi, two of the world’s
       largest pharmaceutical companies.

 2. People


2.1 Staff development

The principal aim of the Unit’s staff development strategy is to provide a research culture that
enables staff to fully realise their academic potential as their careers progress and produce
internationally excellent, impactful research. Following induction by both Sheffield and the Unit,
new academic staff are assigned a probation advisor to provide detailed advice and support during
the probation period. During this time - typically 3 years - the probationer is given a reduction of
425 hours (~28% decrease) in their teaching and administrative loads to enable them to undertake
Sheffield’s Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching for Learning in Higher Education. Upon successful
completion, staff are recognised as Fellows of the HEA.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
After probation, staff move to the institutional appraisal system, the Staff Review and Development
Scheme (SRDS). This involves an annual discussion with a senior member of staff (normally the
Head of Department) to review the previous year’s activities, including the extent to which agreed
SMART objectives had been achieved, to set objectives for the coming year that will support
career progression as detailed in the Academic Career Pathway (ACP; vide infra), and to discuss
any support/training requirements to achieve those objectives. A mid-year interim review provides
the opportunity to identify any issues and/or necessary changes. The ACP - made up of ten criteria
articulating the full range of activities expected of staff at each academic level - is the key
framework through which SRDS, probation and promotion are driven and emphasises the
importance of research, skills development, and professional standing.

A wide range of additional support is available at unit, faculty and institutional levels, including:

   •   ECRs have a senior colleague to act as their research mentor, and a coaching scheme now
       operates in the iSchool to provide an experienced partner for staff planning a major grant
       application; in Journalism a similar role is undertaken by the Deputy Director of Research
       for ECRs. All ECRs are required - in collaboration with their mentor - to provide research
       plans detailing subject, publication and grant plans (including plans for impact thereof) for
       the next one and five years.

   •   Additional support and mentoring is provided for new staff, including:

           o   Acting as PhD second supervisors alongside experienced colleagues to acquire the
               skills needed to provide independent doctoral guidance.

           o   Sheffield has a ‘Women’s ECR’ and professional networks to represent the interests
               of female staff at all levels

           o   The Unit’s ECR development programme for new staff covering, e.g., grant writing,
               publication and research ethics

   •   The Sheffield Futures Mentoring Programme provides female and Black, Asian and
       minority ethnic (BAME) academic staff with six months of mentoring from a senior
       colleague to support their career progression

   •   An annual “red-lining week” allowing academic staff to concentrate on research activities by
       putting a notional ‘red line’ through diaries indicating their unavailability for other activities

Such measures ensure that new staff rapidly establish themselves as independent researchers, as
evidenced by the many outputs from ECR colleagues in the current submission, the promotion of
ECRs in the assessment period (Bates, Martins and Pukallus to senior lecturer), and the
promotion of Pinfield, an experienced practitioner initially appointed as a senior lecturer, to a chair.

As staff progress, the University provides a wide range of resources for career development,
including the Sheffield Leader programme and the Faculty Research Leadership programme. The
Sheffield Leader programme (undertaken by 13 staff) is designed both for staff already in senior
leadership roles and for those identified as having potential to undertake such roles in the future.
Other HR courses focus on the development of research capability and include “TRAM: The
Researcher as Manager”, a management development scheme designed specifically for ECRs and
endorsed by the Institute of Leadership and Management.

The Unit provides several internal funding mechanisms to support research and impact activities,
which totalled £568K over the assessment period. In Journalism, staff can apply for up to £2K p.a.
for conference attendance and for up to £1.5K p.a. from the Research Stimulation Fund to pump-

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
prime research, initiate new ideas, support fieldwork, archive visits and the hosting of workshops.
In the iSchool, staff are each provided with £1K annually to fund (principally) conference
attendance (with additional support for staff having papers accepted for presentation at the
iSchools conference) and there is a competitive seed funding scheme (£25K p.a.) to support
network building, pilot studies, grant capture prioritisation and impact activities. Unit funding has
enabled staff to invite international academics to visit to discuss common research interests, with,
for example, visitors from Portugal (two), Slovenia and Sweden (two), as well as two 12-month
visits funded by the China Scholarship Council and two (one from Spain and one from Sweden) by
the Erasmus Staff Mobility Scheme.

All research staff are encouraged to present their research in the regular departmental research
seminars, and are represented on committees bringing together academic staff, research staff and
students.

2.2 Supporting collaboration and exchange with other organisations

Due to the Unit’s extensive collaborations with a wide range of non-academic organisations
(including public, private, and charitable sectors), successful staff exchanges, both to and from the
Unit, are common. For example, Pinfield and Wilsdon spend part of each week at the Wellcome
Trust working for the Research on Research Institute, Mazumdar is researcher in residence at the
Connected Places Catapult developing a structured framework to evaluate urban planning
outcomes, and Clough works part-time at Peak Indicators, a data analytics company. CFOM
funded a three-day research secondment to Journalism for two staff from Free Press Unlimited and
Article 19; and the chemoinformatics impact case study involved a staff member from the
European Medicines Agency working part-time in the iSchool.

Such collaborations frequently result in recruitment of Unit research staff and students into a wide
range of organisations (e.g., AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, Evotec, Merck, BBC iPlayer team, HSBC
project management, IBM Research USA, and IT management in an NHS Trust). Such
employment is encouraged via Think Ahead (vide supra).

2.3 Recognising research achievement and impact

The Unit’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) provides all academic staff with 40% of their time
devoted to research and impact activities, with further allocations for staff with additional research
and leadership responsibilities (e.g., Vasconcelos’s directorship of one of the seven pathways in
the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership).

Staff are rewarded for carrying out research and achieving impact by promotion based on the ACP
which includes three criteria focused on research: producing high-quality research outputs;
securing external research funding and successful supervision of research students; and
demonstrating the impact of the research outside of academia. In the iSchool, research groups are
rewarded with a portion of the overhead of successful grant applications.

Both departments have an impact champion responsible for overseeing the development and
implementation of departmental research impact and public engagement strategies (e.g., ensuring
such activities are fully embedded within staff development processes, and overseeing internal
funding applications to support case-study development). These procedures have resulted in 11
awards totalling £141K from, e.g., ESRC Social Sciences Partnerships Impact And Knowledge
Exchange, HEIF, UKRI Global Impact Acceleration Account, ESRC Global Challenges Research
Fund – Official Development Assistance, and the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account ECR
Scheme. The iSchool also provides seed funding to support development of future collaborative
                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
relationships, and one of CFOM’s core strands is an advocacy role providing a natural starting
point for the development of such relationships.

The Faculty has a cohort of ‘Research and Impact Associates’, one of whom supports Unit staff by
facilitating contacts with external, non-academic research partners, disseminating and translating
research findings for use by policymakers and practitioners, and by collecting primary and
secondary evidence of research impact by such user groups.

2.4 Staffing and recruitment policies

Research excellence is an essential criterion for those recruited to a research-active position,
alongside the need:

   •   To support the Unit’s future research objectives (e.g., the recruitment of Jimenez, Vannini,
       Bentley and Dasuki for research on ICT for Development, and of Zhang and Harvey for
       research on machine learning).

   •   To ensure the Unit’s ability to address emerging challenges (e.g., Journalism’s remit now
       includes not just traditional journalism studies and communication studies but also aspects
       of political psychology (Chernobrov), international law (Katsirea), contemporary European
       history (Pukallus), political communication (Surowiec), public communication (Harrison)
       and digital journalism (Tong));

   •   To reflect the dramatic changes occurring in our world (e.g., the iSchool has made new
       appointments in both data science and critical data studies (e.g. Mazumdar, de la Vega;
       and Bentley, Oman), and both departments have made new appointments in social media,
       which will facilitate COVID-19 related work including addressing the problems of hate
       speech and dis/misinformation).

The Unit emphasises the need to build diverse teams, and particularly welcomes applications from
currently under-represented groups (LGBTQ+, disabled, BAME, and female for strongly IT-focused
positions in, e.g., data science, information systems and text mining), and uses Textio for
advertisements and an external BAME recruitment company to reach and engage with a wider
demographic of diverse talent.

The Unit is submitting 43 full-time and 3 part-time research-active academic staff. It is diverse: of
the 46 Category A staff, 24 are female (including the current heads of both the iSchool and
Journalism; up from 17 in REF2014), 9 are BAME, and 22 are non-UK citizens (from Argentina,
Canada, the Caribbean Islands, China (2), Germany (2), Greece, India (2), Italy (3), Nigeria (2),
Peru, Poland, Portugal (2), Russia, Spain and Taiwan; up from six in REF2014).

Since REF2014, eight staff members have subsequently left to take up positions in top-ranked
institutions, demonstrating the Unit’s international reputation and the quality of its development
programme: two were appointed to senior lectureships in Qatar and the UK, five to chairs in
Australia, China (2), Germany and UK, and one as a Pro-Vice-Chancellor in Australia. The
University has demonstrated its continuing strong commitment to the Unit with new appointments
that have enabled the Unit to grow substantially. The research excellence of new ECRs is
exemplified by the grants that have already been obtained, e.g., Checco (Horizon2020),
Mazumdar (UKRI Catapult), Heywood (ESRC), Tomlinson (Leverhulme Early Career
Fellowship), and Sbaffi (Wellcome Trust).




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All but one of the submitted staff are on open-ended contracts: this facilitates long-term strategic
planning for the Unit, as does the demographic profile (18% of staff <= 34 years old, 39% 35-49,
42% >50).

An important part of SRDS (vide supra) is its use in succession planning, with roles and tasks
being identified for individuals giving them the skills necessary to assume more senior positions in
due course. As the Unit has expanded, a disaggregation policy has been adopted in which major
roles have multiple deputies to share responsibilities, encourage skills development and increase
the pool of potential successors. For example, in Journalism, the Research Director has an acting
deputy and is supported by a Research Executive Team comprising the Head (a former Research
Director), the PGR Director and a Research Support Officer from the Faculty Research Hub and
the Departmental Manager; while in the iSchool the Research Director has three deputies.

2.5 PGR students

The Unit is committed to providing PGR students with a supportive environment where they can
benefit from the wealth of experience available among the academic staff and, by being embedded
in their primary supervisor’s research group, be part of the wider research team. This is achieved
through three key approaches: careful recruitment, comprehensive support and progress
monitoring, and a focus on academic development.

Recruitment and funding

The principal requirements for recruitment are academic quality and fit to existing research
interests, ensuring adequate supervision, and supporting the Unit’s research strategy. Additional
criteria are the need, where possible, to balance supervisory load across both staff and broader
research areas, and to support staff development via a supervisory team comprising both an ECR
and an experienced supervisor.

Whilst some PGR recruitment is staff-led through studentship applications to funding agencies
(including 13 from the ESRC, EPSRC, AHRC and BBSRC between 2013 and 2018), due to our
international reputations we attract student-led speculative applications from all over the world.
Where possible, we seek to use studentships to enhance collaborations and impact with key
organisations including, for example, CASE studentships in collaboration with the African Media
Initiative, AstraZeneca, Evotec, Fondation Hirondelle, Lhasa and UNESCO.

Support and guidance are also provided for Unit Master’s students considering staying in Sheffield
for doctoral studies (with Bath, Gillet, Goodale, Rutter and Willett all MSc and then PhD students
before making their careers in the Unit). Speculative applications from students are reviewed by
relevant potential supervisors, i.e. those having subject/methodological expertise and the capacity
to take on new students (to ensure quality of supervision, staff are not expected to supervise more
than six PhDs). Demand is healthy with ca 80 applications p.a. enabling us to accept 10-15 new
PhD students, with groups of new students joining the Unit twice a year.

Our PhD students are diverse: they are 60% female (against 58% male in REF2014), 18% have a
disability, 7% are BAME; 46% are from the UK, 13% the EU and 41% from other countries.

Monitoring, progress, and support

A local induction procedure complements those provided by the Faculty and University, and
introduces new arrivals to: their supervisory team and the PGR Director; key academic,
administrative and technical staff; and the department-specific modules that are an important


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
component of the Doctoral Development Programme (DDP, vide infra). Each PGR is a member of
their principal supervisor’s research group (and research centre, if relevant) and participates in
group activities and inter-group seminars. Computational facilities and desk space are provided in
Journalism in a large, shared PhD room; in the iSchool each new PGR is accommodated with
other research group members.

Faculty support comes from the Sheffield Methods Institute (SMI), an interdisciplinary community
of methods-focussed academic staff that coordinates PGR training in FSS, providing a wide variety
of short training courses and managing the online Social Sciences Doctoral Training Portal, which
offers training resources on research methods, professional skills and working in an
interdisciplinary environment. The portal particularly supports the 8% of Unit PGR students who
are part-time or study at distance.

Interactions with wider University PGRs occur via the DDP (vide infra) and the faculty-wide
research centres and networks (such as SIID and the Digital Society Network). Interactions with
external PGRs working in cognate areas occur via: the iSchool funding PGRs to present work
accepted for conferences; Unit funding for the Communication, Media and Journalism (Journalism)
and iFutures (iSchool) conferences organised by the PGR students and involving students from
other universities. PGRs also engage with and benefit from the ESRC White Rose Doctoral
Training Centre in the Social Sciences, which offers a suite of workshops available to all Unit
PGRs. A PGR student in Journalism is currently leading a faculty-wide PGR seminar programme.

PGR progress is closely monitored with at least monthly formal supervision meetings including
minuted action points for both student and supervisors and with the PGR Support Officer checking
if no supervision has been recorded in an 8-week period. Minutes form the basis for twice-yearly
reports reviewed by the Unit, with intervention by the PGR Director to support students
demonstrating unsatisfactory progress. After 10.5 months PGRs have a confirmation review, which
involves an oral viva examination and substantial written work to ensure their suitability for
doctoral-level study, followed by a submission review at the start of the third year to confirm that
the student is on-track for successful completion.

Training and academic development

The DDP plays a key role in PGR training and involves an annual training needs analysis (TNA) to
identify research and transferable skills. All Unit PGRs take compulsory courses in research ethics
and integrity, and ‘Doctoral Training in Information Studies/Journalism Studies’. The discipline-
specific DDP modules include sessions on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, on
graduate teaching (where PGRs are encouraged to participate in the Sheffield Teaching Assistant
programme, for which full training is provided), on how to get published and how to get a book
contract; and in Journalism the annual International Journalism Week gives students an overview
of media research and practice from a global perspective. A wide range of optional skills courses
are available in the DDP covering, e.g., public speaking, academic writing for non-native English
speakers, and career management, as well as the Think Ahead programme (vide supra). The
University’s Careers Service provides general advice on writing CVs and interview techniques and
has specialist advisers who provide individual career consultations to explore career paths, advise
on applying for jobs and opportunities, etc.

There are extensive opportunities for PGRs to present their work at, e.g., their confirmation review,
research seminars to individual research groups and their department, to other PGR students in
the Faculty and student-run PGR conferences.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The following additional support mechanisms are provided (and detailed in the Sheffield Code of
Practice for Research Degree Programmes):

   •   In addition to their supervisory team, students have an independent personal tutor to
       provide pastoral support.

   •   Students are represented on the Research Staff/Student Committee and the Unit is
       represented on the PGR Faculty Forum, which meets twice yearly to address issues
       affecting PGR students across the Faculty.

   •   Journalism provides £2.5K p.a. for PGR support to cover conference attendance etc. All
       iSchool PGRs have £900 to cover research and conference attendance costs over the
       course of their studies, plus up to £350 per conference where they have a paper accepted
       for oral presentation.

These support mechanisms have resulted in our PGRs giving the Unit high scores in the
Postgraduate Research Experience Survey - 83% are satisfied with their experience and 87% are
confident they will complete their research within the expected timescale - and in the award of 82
doctorates in this assessment period (as against 67 for REF2014), with 83% within the time limit.
The Unit also supports staff with professional backgrounds who wish to obtain a doctorate, with
Birdi, Harcup and McKinney all completing their PhDs during the assessment period. The quality
of the research is exemplified by the submitted outputs that include PhD student authors (e.g.,
Cox17, Gillet19, Rutter19, Willett14), these coming from among 112 PGR co-authored refereed
publications. Recent PhD graduates have gone on to further roles in academia (e.g., Rutter, now a
lecturer in the iSchool; Rivera González, now Profesor - Investigador at the National Polytechnic
Institute of Mexico; Wakeling now lecturer at Charles Sturt), or taken up prominent roles in industry
(e.g., Shagbahi at HSBC; Ghiandoni at AstraZeneca; Seddon at BenevolentAI).

2.6 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

Sheffield’s longstanding commitment to creating an inclusive and diverse workplace is detailed in
the institutional statement and reflected in the Unit’s policies and procedures. Zamani and
Meacham are EDI Directors in the iSchool and Journalism, for which each have a 100-hours WAM
tariff, and actively encourage their colleagues to undertake and update their EDI training.

The iSchool applied for an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2018. Like many initial applications this
was unsuccessful but panel feedback stated “The School seems genuinely committed to EDI” and
the application has now been resubmitted. EDI is a standing item at both staff and Strategy Group
meetings and the EDI Director sits on Strategy Group. The membership and terms of reference of
iSchool and Faculty committees are monitored regularly for gender imbalance. Birdi is Faculty Co-
Director of EDI and has led on a range of new initiatives and is a member of the Faculty Executive
Board, Faculty Research and Innovation Committee and the University’s EDI and Gender Equality
Committees, ensuring that the Unit contributes strongly to Faculty and institutional priorities.
Journalism’s EDI Director is a permanent member of the departmental Executive and is the Athena
SWAN Self-Assessment Team (SAT) chair; members of the SAT received allocated workload
hours to develop an EDI action plan during 2020-21. Journalism has established a Race Equality
Advisory Group consisting of staff and 10 PGR students to produce recommendations for actions
to advance its race equality work.

Sheffield is one of only two universities amongst the 25 top employers in Where Women Work; is
in the pilot phase of the White Rose Gender Equality College, which seeks to highlight gender
equality challenges across the world and provide academic teams with access to both expertise

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and tools to empower positive change within their own research areas (Birdi is a Gender College
Member); and is addressing EDI issues in recruitment, as above.

The Unit’s two departments comprise 24 female (F) and 22 male (M) individuals and the Unit’s
submitted outputs are balanced across genders (50.5% F outputs from 52.2% F staff). Monitoring
the number of publications considered as likely submissions by gender and FTE enabled the
provision of support to increase the number of eligible, quality publications for all staff. This was
achieved using the WAM by making adjustments for staff with large teaching and/or administrative
workloads, providing them with more research time. The Unit then followed the Sheffield Code of
Practice to select the output folio, with all staff involved in REF decision-making having undertaken
training on the implications of the Equality Act 2010, and on how to apply equal opportunities
legislation to the REF.

2.7 Flexible working and wellbeing

The Unit adheres to University policies, which acknowledge the positive impact of flexible working
for the individual and the department. Such arrangements may be informal or formal, temporary or
permanent. Requests are assessed on employee needs (e.g. caring responsibilities) and
departmental business needs. Staff are provided with relevant information and advised on how to
request flexible working arrangements.

In the iSchool, two staff on part-time contracts have increased their hours when family
commitments have permitted, and three staff have working hours that fit with childcare
arrangements; while in Journalism special timetabling arrangements were made to support one
member of staff with caring responsibilities. Sheffield regulations make provision for PGRs to
pursue all or part of their research remotely; two female PGR students in the iSchool have been
given permission to do this for EDI reasons. Part-time staff receive the same level of support as
full-time staff so that, e.g., while working P/T Birdi was promoted to senior lecturer and both Birdi
and McKinney were awarded their PhDs.

The Unit follows the institutional policies in supporting staff returning from periods of leave, e.g.:

   •   The Women Academic Returners’ Programme provides support (up to £10K) either during
       the period of parental leave or upon return to work, to minimise the impact of leave on
       research activities.

   •   The use of a phased return, where a member of staff returns to their full range of activities
       gradually, over a defined time period. Three Unit staff have recently used phased returns
       following illness, and one is allowed to work from home more frequently than normal to
       encompass their caring responsibilities.

   •   PGRs returning from medical leave can also have a phased return to study, and can apply
       for a change in candidature from full-time to part-time. Where appropriate, a student may
       also be advised to register with central University facilities (e.g. Disability and Dyslexia
       Support Service and the University Counselling Service).

All research-active staff can apply for a one-semester study leave every four years. This provides a
strategic opportunity to focus on specific research activities that would be difficult to undertake in
normal circumstances (e.g., preparation and submission of a major grant proposal, completion of a
book or papers resulting from a completed project, or a collaborative study involving extensive
fieldwork away from Sheffield). In addition, departmental heads are provided with one-year of study
leave on completion of their period of office to enable them to re-engage with their research. 12
staff (5F and 7M) have been awarded study leave during the assessment period with outcomes
                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
exemplified by: Steel developing the £420K AHRC project “Defining freedom of the press: A cross
national examination of press ethics and regulation”, Pinfield developing the £162K AHRC project
“Open Access in Theory and Practice”; and submitted outputs (e.g., Birdi18, McKinney19).

The University provides extensive wellbeing support for staff and PGRs, e.g., a confidential
helpline and counselling service, an ongoing collaboration with Mind, support networks for specific
staff groups (e.g., LGBTQ+, parents, adopters, disabled, and BAME), and the multi-faith
chaplaincy service, as well as the Student Service Information Desk (in the Student Union - the
winner of the Whatuni Student Choice Awards 2017-20) which supports the wellbeing of PGRs.

These functions are complemented by the workload allocation model and SRDS to ensure equity
in duties and an appropriate work-life balance. Maintaining such a balance is one of the wellbeing
issues discussed in the PGR Doctoral Training Module, which also addresses, e.g., concerns
about progress and the relationship with supervisors. Finally, there is the normal range of social
activities for both students and staff, e.g., regular pub evenings, summer barbecue, Christmas
party etc.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Funding and income generation

The Unit has a strong funding record, achieving a 56% increase since REF2014, with support
coming principally from UKRI and the EU, but also from a wide range of public, private and charity
organisations (e.g., Department of Health, Free Press Unlimited, IPSO, UNESCO, Leverhulme
Trust, Unilever Research, and Wellcome Trust). These awards have been achieved as a result of
the sustained efforts of staff and a set of support mechanisms designed to increase the number
and quality of applications, as well as a strategy of encouraging submission to responsive mode
calls, with our multidisciplinary nature permitting submissions to a range of funders.

Working in collaboration with the Faculty Research Hub, the departmental Research Directors
ensure that staff are aware of funding calls across the full range of Unit interests, with a colleague
in the iSchool with specific responsibility for overseeing GRCF applications. Seminars and
workshops for new staff are led by experienced staff, and focus on identifying funders, developing
proposals, and pathways to impact and KE. There is a detailed review procedure for all external
applications in which feedback is first provided in the Unit by a senior member of staff (and in the
case of ECRs also often by their research mentors) and then by Faculty, with appropriate
modifications before submission.

These mechanisms have resulted in awards totalling £3.79M over the funding period (as against
£2.48M in REF2014), with the increased support coming mainly from UKRI (£1.88M as against
£625K) and the EU. The percentage of staff acting as investigators on externally-funded projects is
high with 44% of staff acting as a PI in this assessment period. Notable awards that exemplify the
wide range of funders include:

   •   “FashionBrain” - a Horizon2020 award (€2.9M over 24 months, £332K to the iSchool) to a
       six-partner consortium led by Checco (an ECR) to study data challenges facing the
       European fashion industry using NLP, image recognition and trend prediction techniques.
       The project resulted in increased revenue per customer for Zalando and new, multinational
       customers for MonetDB Solutions’ analytics software (two of the industrial partners in the
       collaboration).


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   “Diagnostic and Drug Discovery Initiative for Alzheimer’s Disease” - a Marie Curie award
       (€2.2M over 48 months, £188K to the iSchool) to a four-partner consortium with Gillet as
       Co-PI to develop chemical biology tools to enhance understanding of the role of the cellular
       prion protein in Alzheimer’s disease and to use this knowledge to design new molecules for
       diagnostic and therapeutic applications (de la Vega18).

   •   “An Evaluation of the Impact of Online NHS111 on the NHS111 Telephone Service and
       Urgent Care System” - a Department of Health award (£356K over 16 months to the
       iSchool) with Bath as Co-I that is studying the relative merits of the new and the existing
       NHS111 services, and whether any changes are needed to improve the advice provided to
       people who use it and make it more accessible and easy to use.

   •   “Defining Freedom of the Press” - an AHRC award (£420K over 36 months, £237K to
       Journalism) to Steel that is studying how press councils in comparable jurisdictions from
       around Europe approach the difficult questions in media ethics of balancing freedom and
       responsibility.

   •   “Research on Research Institute” is a Wellcome Trust project (£3.2M over 48 months,
       £324K to the iSchool, with Wilsdon and Pinfield the Director and an Associate Director)
       that is bringing together research funders, researchers, policymakers and technologists to
       provide data, analysis and intelligence on current challenges in research.

3.2 Research support infrastructure.

The Faculty supports excellence in research through the Research Hub, where dedicated teams
provide advice on external grant capture, impact, KE, partnerships and external communications.
This includes supporting the internal peer review process; identifying research opportunities for
staff; running cross-faculty researcher development sessions on winning grants; and ensuring that
research outputs are made OA. The Hub’s unit-specific teams are complemented by an Faculty-
wide team that supports research across the Faculty through its nine interdisciplinary research
centres and institutes.

The Unit’s academic staff are supported by a total of 29 professional services staff, including five
with specific responsibilities for IT or media support, and two with specific responsibility for PGR
support (plus the support provided by the Hub).

The principal scholarly information resource supporting research is the University Library. This
provides access to ca. 1.1M printed volumes and a wide range of digital resources (including e-
journals from all major academic publishers). Ongoing investment in library collections ensures that
staff have access to specific materials that they need to support their research, e.g., increased
access to digital news archives to support research and outputs from CSJH (e.g., Conboy15).

Some of the iSchool’s computational research makes use of an internal Ubuntu server network,
and of the central Sheffield 2024-core ShARC parallel processing system. There are two specialist
facilities within the Unit: the iLab (vide supra), and four digital newsrooms that support research in
media production. The Joint Academic Data Science Endeavour - the largest GPU facility in the UK
- has been used by the Unit to support machine learning research in chemoinformatics (de
Leon18). Industry-standard software, e.g. the MOE software from Chemical Computing Group, has
been provided by major companies to support the Unit’s chemoinformatics research.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Collaboration

The Unit has a strong track record of collaboration, both within the University and with other
institutions, and in engaging with various stakeholders and potential research beneficiaries. This is
underpinned by a strategy embodied through a number of support mechanisms and activities as
detailed in the following.

The Hub provides a central source for supporting collaborative activities; and Unit staff are
encouraged to initiate links proactively with both public and private sector organisations (alongside
Unit funding to pump-prime this). The Unit’s international reputation means that it is invited to
participate in a wide range of research collaborations, the longest being that linking the iSchool
with the South-East European Research Centre for over ten years, with two PhD completions and
three ongoing in the assessment period. 32% of Unit research awards have involved at least one
international collaborator, as have 36% of publications, and half of the publications involved
collaboration with at least one other institution.

Many of the Unit’s national and international academic collaborations are part of jointly-funded
major research projects, e.g. with: Leeds and Durham (AHRC); City (AHRC); Edinburgh, Kings,
Lincoln, Nottingham, and Warwick (ESRC); Lisbon (Framework 7 Marie Curie); Edinburgh, Haifa,
Open University of Cyprus, and Trento (Horizon2020); Beuth and Fribourg (Horizon2020);
Liverpool and Manchester (Innovate UK); Leiden University (Wellcome Trust); and the University of
Javeriana, Colombia (Newton). The success of the Unit’s collaborations is exemplified by many
submitted outputs (e.g., Bath15, Checco18, Foster17, Hopfgartner18, Lin18, Pinfield19, Reilly20,
Rutter20).

Interactions with research beneficiaries underlie much of the collaborative research described
elsewhere, e.g., work with the UK's largest charity supporting breast cancer sufferers in the “A
Shared Space and a Space for Sharing” project; with press regulators in 13 European countries in
the “Defining Freedom of the Press” project; and with several pharmaceutical and software
companies in the chemoinformatics ICS. The latter exemplifies the long-standing nature of some of
these interactions, since one of the beneficiaries (GSK) has been funding iSchool research since
1994 (as have AstraZeneca and Eli Lilly).

Other recent examples include:

   •   McKinney, Sbaffi and Cox are working with three health organisations, including
       Diabetes.co.uk, the IBS Network and ParkRun.org.uk, to investigate how fitness-tracking
       apps can benefit runners suffering from specific diseases.

   •   Martins and colleagues in the Management School are working with firms and
       policymakers in the Sheffield City Region, Innovate UK and the CBI to help regional firms
       identify and exploit innovations that can enhance their capacities and capabilities.

   •   The Unit’s long-standing research on various aspects of information literacy and information
       behaviour (e.g., McKinney19, Sbaffi17, Webber18) has formed the basis for the CILR
       Information Literacy Weblog, directed by Webber. This has become a leading source of
       information for people working in the library and information professions worldwide, with
       some 1.67M page-views from all five continents since 2014.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Work by Cox with White Rose library staff as part of the iSchool’s continuing interests in
       research data management (e.g., Cox19) led to the development of a package of training
       materials for information professionals that is now used by academic libraries in the UK (as
       recommended in the UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data) and also in Australia,
       Ireland and the USA.

   •   Harrison is working with Free Press Unlimited in partnership with HURIDOCS, The Justice
       For Journalists Foundation and the Nigerian Press Tracker to develop a mechanism for
       strengthening the monitoring of violations against journalists.

4.2 Wider contributions to the economy and society

The strong professional focus of many of the Unit’s activities means that much of its research
contributes to society more generally. In addition to the impact case studies above, examples of
funded research with wider reach include:

   •   As part of the six-partner ESRC project “A Shared Space and a Space for Sharing”
       (£1.01M, £265K to Sheffield) Bath studied the use of online health fora by people with life-
       threatening conditions. Working in collaboration with Breast Cancer Now, information
       sheets were developed for breast-cancer sufferers, healthcare professionals, and people
       with general health conditions seeking support. These are now being used by both local
       cancer organisations and breast-cancer teams in NHS trusts nationwide.

   •   “Improving Resilience to Crises and Disasters through Preparedness and Experiential
       Feedback” was a Horizon2020 project (€4.3M, £214K to Sheffield over 36 months) that
       studied how social media can help response and recovery times during natural and human-
       made disasters. The iSchool team under Reilly developed a communications strategy that
       enables emergency services and incident managers to raise public alertness when
       disasters occur.

   •   “Open-access mega-journals and the future of scholarly communication” was an AHRC
       award (£420K over 24 months, £240K to Sheffield) to a Sheffield-Loughborough team led
       by Pinfield to study a new class of OA journals that have massive subject scopes. The
       project resulted in the provision of strategic advice to many of the major academic
       publishers who belong to the Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers
       and to the Society of Scholarly Publishers (Pinfield19, Willett20).

   •   “Radio and Women's Empowerment in the Sahel” is an ESRC award (£161K over 18
       months) to Heywood that will contribute to improvements in perceptions and
       representations of women's rights and empowerment by using NLP to analyse outputs from
       radio stations in Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso.

   •   As part of the five-partner Horizon2020 “CyCAT” project (€1M over 36 months, €128K to
       Sheffield) Bates, Clough and Hopfgartner are working on methods to make clear to the
       general-public the biases that exist in the algorithms used by internet giants such as
       Amazon, Google, and Facebook.

4.3 Engagement with the public and communities

The approach of embedding professional focus in much of the Unit’s research results in extensive
engagement with many non-academic communities, e.g.:



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Working with the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) Harrison and
       Katsirea have studied publishers’ editorial standards and how standards of complaints
       handling have changed within the industry.

   •   Since 2016, Abbott has been the project head for the LIBSENSE project. This project was
       started by the West and Central African Research and Education Network to bring together
       the research and education networks and academic library communities in Africa with the
       aim of strengthening open access and open science in the African subcontinent.

The Unit is also involved in many varied activities aimed at the general public. It contributes to the
annual ESRC Festival of Social Science event with 11 events to date, e.g., Harrison organized a
Question Time in Sheffield’s Crucible Theatre in 2015 on Media Freedom and Journalism Safety,
and in 2017 Reilly ran an event for local schools based on his research into the use of social
media during disasters. Other activities include the annual “Inform” booklet, which presents
examples of iSchool research at a level suitable for a lay audience; a play developed with the Dead
Earnest Theatre Company on breast cancer derived from the £1.01M ESRC “A Shared Space and
a Space for Sharing” project directed by Bath.

The Unit’s principal contribution to the discipline sustainability over the assessment period has
been the 25 PGRs and RAs who have taken up academic posts on leaving Sheffield, including in
China (4), Malaysia (2), Netherlands (2), and UK (11), and one in each of Chile, Pakistan, Saudi
Arabia, Spain, Sweden, and Thailand. In addition to many collaborative PGR projects with both
academic and non-academic partners, the Unit is involved in more formal collaborative
arrangements for PGR training:

   •   The institution is part of the AHRC White Rose College of the Arts & Humanities
       (WRoCAH), which provides doctoral training in collaboration with Leeds and York. The Unit
       plays a key role in the Creative Arts and Media Academic Subject Cluster (which has been
       chaired by Conboy and by Harrison), leading its Journalism and Publishing and its Library
       and Information Science streams. Since the creation of WRoCAH, the Unit has been
       awarded three PhD studentships.

   •   In association with other European iSchools, Bath is developing plans to support PGR
       students across the iSchools, and is chair of the European iSchools Doctoral Seminar
       Series established in 2020.

   •   Sheffield is part of the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership, which offers a
       range of studentships and fellowships in the social sciences in a collaboration of seven
       northern universities. Vasconcelos is the director for the Data, Communications and New
       Technologies Pathway (one of seven such pathways).

The Unit’s response to national and international priorities is exemplified by the six awards to date
(totalling £46K) for GCRF projects involving Bangladesh, China, Malawi, Mexico, Peru, and
Rwanda. In addition to this, the Unit is already involved in two COVID-19-related research projects:

   •   “Using Radio and Social Media to Address Misinformation about COVID-19 amongst
       Internally Displaced Persons in Burkina Faso” is an ELHRA (Enhanced Learning and
       Research for Humanitarian Assistance) award (£114k over 9 months) to Heywood to
       extend her previous work on the use of radio stations in countries in the Sahel to address
       specific problems arising from the coronavirus.

   •   When patients suspect they have the virus and contact emergency services (via NHS 111,
       999 ambulance services etc.), a rapid decision needs to be taken as to whether they need

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       to be admitted to hospital and how they should be treated. In collaboration with colleagues
       in ScHARR, Bath, Hopfgartner and Mazumdar are using data and text mining methods to
       analyse patient records to determine the effectiveness and accuracy of this decision
       process (£270k total).

4.4 Wider influence, esteem and recognition

Staff have made 73 keynote or invited presentations in the UK and 91 in 31 other countries
covering all five continents. They have been the editors or associate editors of African Journal of
Information Systems, Chinese Journal of Communication, Computational Molecular Science,
Electronic Journal of Information Systems in Developing Countries, Frontiers in Communication -
Political Communication, Health Informatics Journal, Journal of Information Technology,
Journalism, Journalism Practice, Journalism Studies, Online Information Review, and Palgrave
Communications; and guest editors of special issues in nine other journals. They have been on the
editorial boards of 46 academic journals, these including both broadly based (e.g., Information
Research, Journal of Documentation, and Journalism) and more specific (e.g., Ethical Space: The
International Journal of Communication Ethics, International Journal of Information, Diversity and
Inclusion, Journal of Cheminformatics, Media History) journals for the respective disciplines; and
have reviewed for very many others. Willett was joint editor in 2014 of the six-volume
Computational Molecular Science, and Conboy is the general editor of the forthcoming three-
volume The Edinburgh History of the British and Irish Press.

Further evidence of esteem includes:

   •   Fellowships from the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals Cox,
       Webber; from the Royal Historical Society Conboy; the Higher Education Academy
       Chernobrov, Cox, Goodale, Harvey, Heywood, Hopfgartner, Katsirea, Martins,
       Pukallus, Reilly, Sbaffi, Steel; and the Academy of Social Sciences (Harrison).

   •   A wide range of evidence from user communities, policymakers etc., e.g.: Bates Invited
       international expert for Canadian Federal Parliament’s Standing Committee on Government
       Operations and Estimates; Conboy endorsements for books published by Bloomsbury,
       OUP, Palgrave; Harrison awarded UNESCO Chair on Media Freedom, Journalism Safety
       and the Issue of Impunity; Willett honorary membership of Molecular Graphics and
       Modelling Society (one of only nine in the world).

   •   Staff have acted as reviewers for grant applications for the AHRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC
       and MRC, and for 18 other grant-award committees in the UK, EU and nine other countries
       with Reilly and Bates both having been members of the AHRC Peer Review College and
       Gillet a member of the Advisory Board of AI3SD: AI for Chemical Discovery EPSRC
       Network.

   •   Organisation of major international conferences. The Unit has been the host organisation
       for iConference2018 (ca 450 attendees), and the seventh (2016) and eighth (2019)
       Sheffield Joint Chemoinformatics Conference (each ca 125 attendees). Journalism also
       hosts the annual International Journalism Week, and a CFOM event, recognised by
       UNESCO, to mark UNESCO’s annual International Day to End Impunity. The iSchool is the
       co-organiser for the biennial ISHIMR (International Symposium for Health Information
       Management Research) meetings, the eighteenth of which took place in September 2020,
       and of the biennial Data Power Conferences, the third of which took place in September
       2019 in Germany. In addition to the conferences it organizes, unit staff have contributed to


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       over 125 conferences (many of which occur regularly) as members of the steering or
       programme committees.

   •   Prizes including: Abbott 2014 Association for Information Systems best information
       systems publication, Bates 2019 Journal of Documentation Emerald Literati Highly
       Commended, Bates/Checco 2018 Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Human
       Computation and Crowdsourcing best paper, Birdi iSchools Doctoral Dissertation Award,
       2016 runner-up (first ever European prize-winner), Mazumdar 2019 International
       Conference on Dependable Systems, Services and Technologies best paper, Reilly 2015
       JISC 50 most influential UK HE professionals using social media, Surowiec member of
       team for 2019 President of the Czech Science Foundation €150K award for research
       excellence, Webber 2015 UK e-information Group Jason Farradane Award.




                                                                                       Page 21
