Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA33, Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen
 Studies

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 OVERVIEW
 Uniting Music, Drama, and Film and Screen Studies at the University of Birmingham (UoB) is a
 shared interest in bridging the divide between theory and practice that often characterises our
 fields. Across UoA33, staff develop practice-based research with a strong focus on diverse
 audiences and collaboration with non-HEI partners, and their published research evidences rich
 expertise in performance studies, historiography, audience studies, and creative praxis. This
 increasingly-shared emphasis on creativity drives the future of UoA33.

 UoA33 comprises staff from three Departments situated across two Schools within the College
 of Arts and Law (CAL). For Music, all 15.6 staff submitted are based in the Department of Music,
 a constituent of the School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music (LCAHM). Of the 11
 staff submitted for Drama and Screen Studies, 8 are based in the Department of Drama and
 Theatre Arts (DTA) and 3 are based in the Department of Film and Creative Writing (FCW), both
 within the School of English, Drama and Creative Studies (EDACS). Many of our strategies for
 research development are shared across both Schools and are described accordingly below.
 Elsewhere, the Music and Drama and Screen Studies units are described separately, to
 maintain the focus on their unique qualities.

 RESEARCH STRATEGY

 1.a. MUSIC
 The strategy outlined for the 2014 REF envisaged augmenting existing strengths in distinctive,
 individual scholar-led projects, while combining the core of Music’s research activity with:

 (1) more collaborative and interdisciplinary initiatives,
 (2) expansion of the Department’s research portfolio through the addition of growing and vibrant
 subject areas and new sub-disciplines,
 (3) expansion of postgraduate recruitment,
 (4) maximisation of impact in all aspects of music research, and
 (5) maximisation of the potential provided by a new departmental building.

 Music has met and exceeded its ambitions with respect to all five of these strategic aims.

 (1) Collaborative and interdisciplinary work has been undertaken, notably by composers (e.g.
 Wilson with CERN, Geneva; Mahtani with the Rosie Kay Dance Company) and by scholars (e.g.
 Earle’s work with Birmingham Royal Ballet; Kirkman’s research at the intersection of medieval
 musical and visual cultures; Curry’s involvement with the National Youth Jazz Collective).

 (2) Scholarship has expanded beyond a historical and analytical focus on the notated music of
 the Western tradition to embrace a much broader range of repertoires and methodologies,
 including ethnographic and cognitive approaches to popular musics.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Postgraduate recruitment, always strong in composition, has blossomed in musicological
 topics, especially those associated with the expansion of the Department’s research portfolio. Of
 the 31 PhD students in the Department at the census date, 17 were working on subjects relating
 to musicology and performance.

 (4) Music has taken a proactive approach to supporting public-facing research that has the
 capacity to generate impact (e.g. Kirkman’s audio-visual Alabaster project and Mahtani and
 Wilson’s work with Birmingham Electroacoustic Sound Theatre (BEAST)).

 (5) The Department has taken advantage of its new Bramall Music Building (§3) to make
 Birmingham a centre both for international conferences in a wide variety of fields of musical
 scholarship and for equally wide-ranging kinds of performance.

 Since the 2014 REF, as part of a thoroughgoing reconfiguration of the Department’s research
 portfolio, Music at Birmingham has cultivated two primary research streams, Music in
 Contemporary Cultures and Music in Historical Cultures, which replace previous streams.
 Both of the new streams bridge the theory/practice divide.

 Music in Contemporary Cultures brings together scholars and creators. In composition, the
 Department possesses expertise equally in ‘paper’ and ‘studio’ forms: Latimer and Gordon
 (paper), Mahtani (studio), Wilson (both paper and studio). Music now produces work at the
 cutting edge of methodological innovation in ethnographic, empirical and theoretical approaches
 to today’s music (Cannon). Particularly exciting is the emergence of Electronic Music, a cluster
 involving both scholars and composers (Garcia, Haworth, Mahtani, Wilson, Witek), focussed on
 enhancing and diversifying the work of BEAST.

 Music in Historical Cultures brings together performers and scholars – mostly, but not
 exclusively, of notated musical repertoires from the medieval period to the late twentieth century
 – with a particular focus on the contextual understanding of musical forms, genres and
 performance practices. Research falls into four areas of special focus: (1) Early Music and
 Performance (Brosius, Kirkman), concentrating on the late medieval and early Baroque periods;
 (2) Musical Analysis and Criticism (Curry, Earle, Riley), featuring philosophically informed close
 reading of musical texts from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries; (3) British Music Studies
 (Earle, Owen, Riley, Rodmell), with a particular emphasis on the period 1860–1960; and (4)
 Music and Politics in the Twentieth Century (Attfield, Earle), centred on the relationship of music
 and fascism.

 After a period of major expansion, the research strategy for the Department over the next
 cycle will build on the basis of newly acquired and consolidated strengths, with a particular
 emphasis on sustaining the vitality of our work through transdisciplinary and collaborative
 projects. A number of major projects already underway reflect the scope of our research and
 contain a strong impact and/or collaborative dimension that is embedded in the research
 process from the outset. Within Music and Contemporary Cultures, these include: Musical
 Creativity in Southern Vietnam (Cannon); Together, Somehow: Music, Intimacy, and Affect on
 the Dance Floor (Garcia); The Fall of Icarus: a full-length chamber opera for premiere in the
 University’s Barber Institute of Fine Arts (Gordon); Music and the Internet: Towards a New
 Digital Sociology of Music (Haworth), where impact is woven into the research via a process of
 ethnographic collaboration with stakeholders, and is manifest in a series of public-facing
 workshops; What remains: a dance film in collaboration with Dane Hurst (Latimer); Composing
 with Ambisonics: Developing a Hybridised Workflow for Composers (Mahtani); and Embodied

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Neurophenomenology of Dance Music Practice (Witek), which engages with disability activists
 and electronic dance practitioners. Within Music and Historical Cultures, major projects
 include: Listening to the Anschluss: The Wiener Symphoniker and Austrian Cultural Identity
 (Attfield); The Virtuosa in Seventeenth-Century Rome (Brosius); Italian Opera since Puccini
 (Earle); Vaughan Williams in Context (Owen); and Rewriting the History of English Music (Riley).

 Music’s strategic emphasis on collaborative work is also bearing fruit in Music in Historical
 Cultures. The Music Analysis and Criticism grouping will convene a roundtable on the analysis
 of musical surfaces at the 2021 Music Analysis Conference, which it is also hosting. Attfield and
 Earle, who contribute to the Music and Politics in the Twentieth Century grouping, will co-edit
 The Cambridge Companion to Music and Fascism. Curry, Riley and Rodmell have begun work
 on a project investigating schemata in early popular music repertoires, especially that of the
 waltz, to involve both analytical socio-historical aspects. Collaborations of this sort, it is
 envisaged, will in due course lead to large-scale grant bids. Further research at the intersections
 of interdisciplinary creativity with Word, Music, Image (the school-wide research theme in
 LCAHM) will drive future success.

 1.b. DRAMA AND SCREEN STUDIES
 As with Music, collaborative engagement is one of the key research strategies for Drama. In the
 2014 REF, Drama identified broad research strengths in the study of contemporary and
 historical drama as well as practice, particularly in actor-training and writing for performance.
 The forward-looking strategy planned:

 (1) to develop existing as well as new industry partnerships,
 (2) to use new appointments to consolidate existing strengths and introduce new ones, and
 (3) to support collaborative research.

 Film and Screen Studies was not returned with Drama in the previous REF cycle, though its
 strategic goals have long aligned with those of UoA33.

 These plans were partly achieved in the early part of the REF period. However, a mid-cycle
 redefinition of research priorities, sparked by staff movement and institutional investment,
 allowed the Department to identify three new primary research streams in Drama –
 Performance Making, Theatre Historiography, and Contemporary Performance – replacing
 previous streams. While the Unit continued to pursue objectives (1), (2) and (3) above, the
 redefinition of priorities also entailed the Unit adopting a more ethical and internationalist
 perspective in its research strategy. Through our newly identified research streams, we sought
 to expand the relevance of our long-standing strengths in historiographical and performative
 studies by (i) linking them to a deeper understanding of social, human, and environmental rights,
 and (ii) by embracing a truly global orientation in all our research activity.

 In Performance Making, the appointment of Bucknall (2017) brought new research expertise in
 the emerging field of immersive theatre practices, including gameification. One outcome of this
 has been the AHRC- and EPSRC-funded project Corpus Quod, a trans-disciplinary
 programme to develop a prototype immersive theatre project on the experience of applying for
 asylum / refugee status in the UK. Bucknall’s work in immersive theatre practice, in collaboration
 with creative industry partners (see §4 for details), represents a new and rapidly emerging field
 in Performance Studies. Radcliffe’s Arts Council-funded performance installation The Machinery
 (which overlaps with the other identified strength in theatre historiography), explores
 mechanisation of human labour during the industrial revolution. Ledger has also received Arts

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Council funding for his environmental-themed theatre work for young people through his theatre
 company The Bone Ensemble. Picking up on the themes of labour exploitation and the pressing
 issue of climate change, Radcliffe and Ledger’s work forms the basis of two UoA33 Impact Case
 Studies (ICS).

 Theatre Historiography has seen the development of Whyman’s British Academy-supported
 archival work on Stanislavski and Russian theatre, and Saunders’ work on the playwright Harold
 Pinter, which is supported by a substantial 3-year AHRC grant. Radcliffe’s re-evaluation of Wilkie
 Collins’s lesser-known plays has brought them new audiences. Saunders produced foundational
 texts defining contemporary theatre history, with one study of British theatre companies since
 1980 and another on the appropriation of work by Shakespeare and his contemporaries by
 British dramatists since 1968.

 Recent hires have strengthened strategic research areas and helped to develop emerging ones.
 For example, two Samuel Beckett scholars (Pattie and Saunders) were appointed in 2017. Their
 combined expertise is the basis on which to make UoB a destination for Beckett studies, a
 prospect increased by the establishment in 2019 of a strategic partnership between UoB and
 Trinity College Dublin (TCD) (REF5a 2.1.8).

 This kind of contemporary historiography is balanced with practice-based work in
 Contemporary Performance, evidenced by Ledger’s monograph on The Director and Directing
 (2019). Redling and Pattie were appointed to develop areas of expertise in British and European
 theatre. Additionally, Bouchard (appointed 2017) explores biomedical display in contemporary
 performance, and strengthens interdisciplinary research across the medical humanities within
 UoB.

 Through the establishment of a new Department—Film and Creative Writing—in 2014 and the
 subsequent recruitment and redeployment of specialist staff, Film at Birmingham has developed
 three central research priorities that possess a series of key resonances with Drama:
 Aesthetics in Theory and Criticism, Politics and Communities, and Character, Identity and
 Performance.

 Aesthetics in Theory and Criticism is exemplified in Stone’s monograph on Basque cinema,
 which derived from a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship and Associate Research
 Professorship at the University of Deusto, Spain. It is also evident in Lester’s work on genre and
 representation in children’s media. The focus on Politics and Communities informs
 approaches across a range of outputs. These include Lester’s emphasis on cultural
 understandings of audience groups in relation to horror and children’s film in her British
 Association of Film Television and Screen Studies prize-nominated article, Walters’s monograph
 on The Thick of It, and Stone’s identification of nationalist and linguistic bias in filmmaking / film
 criticism and his correlated concept of masochistic nationalism. Character, Identity and
 Performance constitutes a central research strand within Film at Birmingham. This is
 demonstrated in Walters’s analysis of mythical figures in popular cinema, Stone’s work on the
 tensions between regional and national identities, and Lester’s work on protagonists through the
 critical lens of villainy, gender and female companionship.

 Looking forward, our 2021-2028 research strategy focusses on three intersecting objectives for
 Drama and Film: (1) enrich emerging research strengths, with particular emphasis on enhancing
 Performance-as-Research activity and culture within Drama and International studies within
 Film; (2) leverage emerging areas to develop a thriving Postgraduate Research (PGR)

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme; and (3) facilitate collaboration with international partners and organisations beyond
 HEIs. The overall intention behind these strategies is to increase and widen both the diversity
 and interdisciplinarity of research undertaken by staff.

 In order to bridge Music, Drama and Screen Studies, a series of Creative Salons have since
 2019 established moments for interchange to explore the notion, praxis and desirability of
 creativity and interdisciplinarity. We expect that future themes will emerge organically from
 these continuing Salons, and that they will continue to shape the diversifying, collaborative,
 interdisciplinary research trajectory of the UoA.

 IMPACT STRATEGY
 UoA33’s commitment to public engagement and impact is born from the conviction that the
 Unit’s work has the potential for transformative effects on the experience as well as the practice
 of diverse audiences and participants. This builds on the founding civic ethos of UoB and forms
 the basis of our impact strategy, ensuring that our research is accessible to the non-academic
 communities to whom it will be of use and interest. We build sustainable relationships with non-
 academic partners across sectors to identify and meet their needs as stakeholders in our
 research, enabling our research to impact local, national, and international issues. Facilitation
 and support for impact activity is provided by School Impact Leads, in LCAHM and EDACS, with
 further operational support provided by College-funded Research Development Officers (RDO),
 one in each School. The Unit also benefits from institutional investment in professional services
 teams supporting research impact and public engagement, and from the leadership provided by
 the appointment of a Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research Impact) (REF5a 2.1.3).

 Our impact addresses regional concerns: Kirkman’s work on music in the Midlands during the
 fifteenth century, for example, has involved collaboration between his vocal ensemble, The
 Binchois Consort, and public institutions in Nottingham, including Nottingham City Museums and
 Art Galleries. Wilson’s Qawwali project with BEAST, in collaboration with SAMPAD and New Art
 Exchange Nottingham, has made new connections with British Asian and diaspora communities
 in Birmingham and Nottingham and has brought new audiences into the Department. Impact is
 also national and international in scope. BEAST collaborates with CERN in Geneva and Timms’s
 work on raising the profile of Steffani, the focus of one of the UoA’s ICSs, includes a prestigious
 new production of one of this composer’s operas in Berlin.

 This impact strategy further leverages the ability of theatre, music, film, and television to address
 some of the most urgent questions facing the public today, including global climate change, the
 refugee crisis, and labour exploitation. The imbrication of theory and practice, both historically
 and today, underscores two of the Unit’s ICSs. Radcliffe’s The Machinery interrogates Victorian
 factory labour practices. Ledger’s work with The Bone Ensemble produces original
 performances for young people on global climate change and the water crisis. Ledger practices
 what he preaches: his production company practices environmentally aware travel and printing,
 for example, and Ledger has led efforts within the Unit to craft a research environment charter,
 limiting unnecessary air travel, eschewing plastic packaging and unnecessary printing in
 campus-based events, defaulting to vegetarian catering and pursuing ethically approved carbon
 offsets.

 OPEN RESEARCH/OPEN ACCESS
 In line with the ethical imperatives that underscore our impact strategy, the Unit embraces open
 research as a prime way of equalising access and reaching new and underrepresented
 audiences. We strive to make performances and research available (1) through free online


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources, and (2) by leveraging performance-based research to reach audiences with special
 needs.

 In Music, BEASTmulch makes freely available a variety of software for the diffusion of
 electroacoustic music. Mahtani’s Soundwalk app is similarly freely available (downloaded 290+
 times). Gordon, Latimer, Mahtani and Wilson all make their compositional work open access
 through their personal websites. The October 2020 performance of Latimer’s Antiarkie by the St
 Petersburg Symphony Orchestra was live-streamed free online. Video excerpts of Kirkman’s
 work with his Binchois Consort are available via the Consort’s website (Kirkman’s online videos
 have been viewed over 9,000 times). Garcia has disseminated his research in various open-
 access venues, including Resident Advisor, the foremost online magazine for electronic music,
 and the UK-based lifestyle periodical CRACK Magazine. Stone’s B-Film-produced open-access
 ‘Before the End’ received over 70K hits from a global audience. In Drama, Bucknall hosts an
 open-access podcast, Talking about Immersive Theatre (TAIT). Videos of Radcliffe’s The
 Machinery have been viewed 7,409 times online. The film of Ledger’s The Bone Ensemble’s
 Gulp! on water scarcity has been widely streamed during the COVID-19 crisis via the UoB
 platform (currently 6,229 times), and the eBook version of the story has also been freely
 disseminated online. The project ‘Harold Pinter: Histories and Legacies’ is committed to
 producing open research, including a shared database of all extant British professional
 productions of his work.

 Staff across the Unit work with community organisations to ensure underserved populations
 have access to screenings, performances and plays, reflecting our commitment to EDI and
 ethical research and dissemination practices. This has included ‘relaxed performances’ and
 workshops of Radcliffe’s The Machinery project at the Ruskin Mill Trust, which provides
 specialist education for children and adults with complex needs. Ledger’s The Bone Ensemble
 regularly holds workshops and performances for d/Deaf accessible audiences and was
 developed with deaf collaborators, and the company regularly includes programmed ‘relaxed
 performances’ for children with learning difficulties, autism or sensory communication disorders.
 Mahtani’s Soundwalk project facilitates the exploration of local environments via sound and
 music for an audience of diverse ages, needs, and interests.

 RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 Our UoA’s research environment supports staff and PG research in following University-wide
 ethics committee standards and ensuring that research practices are in line with the UK’s
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a 2.2). Training on ethics standards and review
 procedures is built into researcher support at all levels. It forms part of Development Needs
 Analysis processes and training for all PGR students, and probationary training for staff, while
 regular updates are provided to all staff via online CPD.

 2. People

 2.a. MUSIC

 Staffing
 Since 2014, when 11 members of staff were returned, the Department has expanded by 40%.
 This includes 8 new appointments at lecturer level (Attfield, Cannon, Curry, Garcia, Haworth,
 Latimer, Mahtani [promoted 2018], Owen) and 1 as senior research fellow (Witek), resulting in a
 Department currently comprising 3 professors, 1 reader, 4 senior lecturers, 7 lecturers and 1
 senior research fellow. In 2015-18, BEAST hosted a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Erik


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nyström, now a Lecturer at City University. The Department’s long-standing gender imbalance is
 now being recognised; new leaders at the Department and School levels have prioritised this
 issue. Efforts have been made to mitigate underrepresentation both through external hires and
 internal promotions. For example, female research-active staff have doubled from 2 (in 2013) to
 4 (in 2020). Witek was appointed at a senior level; Mahtani has rapidly gained promotion, and is
 currently Head of Department: the first woman—and first woman of colour—in this role in the
 Department’s 115-year history. These are positive steps, though much remains to be done. The
 diversity of the staff body will remain a focus of attention and action as evidenced in the Athena
 SWAN application currently under review.

 Music has effectively increased the diversity of its research profile: this transformation has been
 achieved primarily by the appointments that have brought Birmingham to the forefront of
 scholarly work on Music in Contemporary Cultures. Cannon’s expertise in Vietnamese and
 other Asian music expanded our already strong connections to Asia (BEAST has established
 collaborations in Singapore and Bangkok). Mahtani’s research profile reinforces existing
 strengths while enhancing our culture with new expertise in field recording/phonography. The
 appointment of Haworth brings a new element of theoretical reflection to the work of Mahtani
 and Wilson with BEAST. Garcia’s work in electronic music studies complements existing
 strengths in this area with socio-ethnographic and theoretical approaches to dance music.
 Research Fellow Witek’s research in turn complements Garcia’s through its empirical approach
 to musical cognition in rhythm and dance music. Latimer enhances the roster of instrumental
 and vocal composers with a strikingly individual voice.

 Within Music in Historical Cultures, the appointment of Curry brings a welcome addition of
 expertise in semiotics and popular music to the Musical Analysis and Criticism cluster. Owen’s
 work on Vaughan Williams and English song enhances the Department’s coverage in British
 Music Studies and brings to the Department new expertise both in music and life-writing, and in
 art song performance practice, while Attfield’s work on music in Weimar Germany and the Nazi
 period complements Earle’s research on music in fascist Italy.

 Research Students
 The current cycle saw 54 completed research degrees in Music, of which 36 were at PhD level.
 As of the census date, the Department had 35 PGRs of whom 31 were at PhD level.
 Recruitment in the field of composition, a long-established success at Birmingham, and
 particularly in association with BEAST, has remained buoyant. Of the 54 completed research
 degrees, 31 were in composition; this has been complemented by a considerable upsurge in
 interest in the fields of musicology and performance practice. Students of paper composition
 benefit from the Department’s association with the Birmingham Contemporary Music Group
 (BCMG), which is employed to give yearly workshops of postgraduate work in the Department.
 Concerts by student ensembles provide further crucial opportunities for PGRs in paper
 composition to hear their work in performance. Those working in studio composition have the
 advantage of BEAST, whose concerts regularly feature student compositions. Postgraduate
 students of electroacoustic composition take a full part in the set-up of BEAST events, gaining
 valuable practical experience in the process. The Department of Music attracts a consistent
 proportion of its research students from the EU and the developing markets of China and Latin
 America. The gender balance among PGRs is improving: of the 35 students at the census date,
 43% were female. Home and EU students have been supported by awards from the AHRC
 Midlands 4 Cities Doctoral Training Partnership (M4C DTP, formerly Midlands 3 Cities), and by




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarships available locally, including the philanthropic Bramall scholarships, supporting
 research in creative performance practice.

 2.b. DRAMA AND SCREEN STUDIES

 Staffing
 Since 2014, Drama has added 4 lecturers (Bucknall, Mancewicz, McTighe, Redling), 3 Senior
 Lecturers (Bouchard, Pattie, Radcliffe [promoted 2019]), 1 reader (Ledger [promoted in 2019]),
 and 1 professor (Saunders). The gender balance in Drama at the census date was 62.5%
 female and 37.5% male, which was very similar to the Unit’s gender profile in REF2014 (66.6%
 female, 33.4% male). Much remains to be done to improve ethnic diversity in Drama and Film,
 however; this is a key and urgent recruitment priority in these units, as it is in Music.

 The raft of new appointments in Drama since 2014 added both breadth and depth to Drama’s
 disciplinary profile, with special focus on Contemporary Performance. Bouchard and Bucknall
 embrace interdisciplinary, embodied approaches to performance studies, with emphases on
 cognitive approaches (Bucknall) and medical humanities (Bouchard). This cycle of hiring also
 consolidated strengths in Performance-based research (Performance Making): Bouchard,
 Bucknall, Ledger, and Radcliffe are all practice-based scholars, whose practical experience
 routinely informs their scholarship and shapes the impact and outreach strategies of the
 Department. In Theatre Historiography, Radcliffe’s nineteenth-century focus, along with her
 textual editorial practice, contribute to local historiographical interests and form a bridge to other
 departments within the School of EDACS (English Literature) and College (History). Redling’s
 scholarship links historiographical methodology with a contemporary focus, concentrating on
 post-2000 productions.

 Film and Screen Studies added one lecturer (Lester) to the professor (Stone) and reader
 (Walters) already in post, strengthening the diversity of the staff both in terms of gender
 (increasing women staff from 0 to 33%), career stage (Lester is an early career researcher
 (ECR)), and research focus.

 Staff movement means that the staff numbers at the census date were lower than at their
 highest point in the cycle: Mancewicz and McTighe moved to other positions prior to the REF
 census. These departures encouraged us to consider the intersections of gender, career stage,
 disciplinary specialism and our wider shared sense of academic community. Exit interviews, in
 combination with staff surveys and Athena SWAN surveys, continue to inform action plans and
 future academic planning; the increased presence of practice-based research in this submission
 is already one indication of positive distance travelled.

 Research Students
 Since 2014, Drama and Film Studies have seen 38 completed research degrees, of which 11
 were at PhD level. As of the census date, Drama had 13 PGRs of whom 10 were at PhD level.
 Home and EU students typically comprise 75% of Drama’s PGR students. The gender balance
 among Drama and Film Studies PGRs is 62% female, 38% male (at the census date). Home
 students have been supported by awards from the AHRC M4C DTP, and by scholarships
 available locally, including College of Arts and Law scholarships.

 A robust programme of PGR support is described in the ‘Shared’ section below.

 STAFF SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT: MUSIC, DRAMA, AND FILM

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Good E&D policy begets a healthy research culture. Drama and Film sit within the first
 Humanities School at UoB (EDACS) to receive an Athena SWAN award and best practices for
 addressing intersectional equality and inclusion issues have been shared across UoA33,
 informing the LCAHM AS application currently under review (which includes Music). Innovations
 include enhanced, bespoke unconscious bias training that expands upon mandatory University
 workshops to include humanities-specific research and discussion, and a robust check-list for
 staff taking parental leave, to ensure smooth transitions before, during and after their leave.
 Gender balance on hiring committees is ensured and, in response to staff feedback from our AS
 self-assessment process, an ECR is included on interview panels to acknowledge diversity in
 experience as well as gender.

 In addition, the EDACS Athena SWAN action plan included targeted efforts to balance genders
 on internal REF-output reading panels. The Unit also developed bespoke training in mitigating
 unconscious bias for REF readers that was mandated for all staff evaluating internal REF
 outputs. In concert with these efforts, the REF Reading panels in UoA33 monitored internal
 scoring each autumn for any emerging patterns in bias, in line with UoB’s REF Code of Practice.
 While none were detected in this cycle, the regular monitoring stands as evidence to colleagues
 of active efforts to mitigate any potential areas of concern. As a result of EDI impact
 assessments conducted as part of the Unit’s Output Selection process for REF, some potential
 inequities were identified. In response to those inequities, new calibration and re-scoring were
 undertaken to ensure parity across gender and disciplinary distinctions.

 A number of other best practices that have been developed separately within Music, Drama, and
 Film have become shared across the College and are now being built on by the two departments
 together. Drawing on its research expertise, for example, Music pioneered a Cultural Calendar of
 events that has now been adopted across all Colleges in the University, under the School’s lead.
 The Calendar expresses cultural and religious diversity around the world. Research Centres in
 Music, Drama, and Film monitor the diversity of their invited speakers to address balance across
 protected categories (e.g. gender, ethnicity), as well as other qualities that shape academic
 profiles (e.g. institutional affiliation and career status).

 As with our ECRs on permanent contracts, the unit is committed to nurturing colleagues on
 short-term or contingent contracts by supporting their research and encouraging
 professionalisation that will serve them in future positions at Birmingham or elsewhere. The Unit
 does its best to ensure that timetabling recognises that ECR Teaching Fellows (TFs), while on
 teaching-only contracts, nonetheless should have the opportunity to develop their research
 profiles while at UoB. Staff not on permanent contracts are invited, though not pressured, to
 participate in REF reading exercises and to have a research mentor. During the current REF
 cycle, non-permanent staff in Music have made the transition to permanent positions at
 Nottingham (Ó Briain) and the RAM (Clinch). One recent Drama TF (Fallow) parlayed her
 experience into a full-time Research Fellowship on the ‘Harold Pinter: Histories and Legacies’
 project.

 UoA33 is strongly supportive of College and University initiatives for staff career development
 and wellbeing. ECRs are encouraged to participate in development activities hosted by the Early
 Career and Research Staff Committee (ECARS) (REF5a 3.3). The Unit is also fully committed to
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which endorses a research
 environment underpinned by a culture of integrity based on good governance, best practice and
 support for the development of researchers; this supportive research development occurs across
 all stages of the career, from hiring to retirement (REF5a 3.3). Staff in the Unit are also


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encouraged to benefit from additional institutional support provided for staff wellbeing (REF5a
 3.4.5).

 From 2013 until 2020 an enhanced scheme of research leave has been in operation in CAL, with
 staff entitled to apply every 6 semesters for up to 2 semesters’ research leave (and,
 exceptionally, 12 months, subject to agreed objectives). This is supported by an annual personal
 research allowance of £1000. A full complement of research training workshops is offered by the
 CAL Research Hub, from grant writing to social media strategy.

 Probationers agree objectives with a designated Mentor, Head of School (HoS), and Head of
 College; they meet regularly with their mentor and annually with HoS to review progress and
 assess support needs. All other staff meet at least annually with a reviewer to discuss their
 performance and development. Staff can apply for promotion in any annual review cycle and
 research performance is a central criterion. Exceptional research performance may also be
 rewarded with a one-off payment or an additional salary increment.

 While ECRs do have particular support needs, the Unit works to ensure that the developmental
 needs of staff at all career stages are met. Regular workshops include ones on funding
 development and a yearly session for those planning to apply for promotion, inaugurated in 2018
 in response to Athena SWAN survey data. Similar workshops were introduced in 2019 for those
 applying for study leave. Held at the start of the summer term, these hands-on workshops offer
 advice and insight for preparing the strongest applications possible.

 A variable Work Allocation Model (WAM) allows Heads of Department (HoD) and HoS to
 accommodate major research or impact activities by adjusting an individual’s allocation year-on-
 year. Radcliffe and Ledger benefitted from this support in terms of teaching relief as they
 developed their impact projects in 2017-2019. Nine staff across the unit have continuing Flexible
 Working support in place, to accommodate caring responsibilities. An overhaul of the CAL WAM
 in 2018/2019 was developed through consultation with staff, retaining its emphasis on local
 variability as a cornerstone of effective research management. Study leave timings and workload
 can be tailored to accommodate the needs of individuals; if leave does not naturally fall at a
 point where a colleague could make the best use of it, they are encouraged to seek early leave
 or to delay by a semester or year (while banking additional terms of service) in consultation with
 their HoDs and mentors. Staff on Teaching & Research contracts over the REF period were
 allocated, as a standard arrangement, a minimum of one-third of their workload for research.

 Staff communication is facilitated by weekly research bulletins, which convey important or timely
 information via email. These bulletins advertise research-related events and development
 activities for outputs, funding, and impact activities, while highlighting enrichment events hosted
 by the Research Centres. Funding opportunities, including deadlines for major UKRI and private
 granting organisations are also featured. The bulletin serves another function too: to celebrate
 research and impact achievements.

 In addition to the required training for PGR supervisors and staff mentors, staff take advantage
 of a range of University-sponsored development programmes (REF5a 3.4.4). Participation is
 encouraged by HoSs and HoDs as a way of rewarding potential and nurturing the next
 generation of academic and research leaders. UoA33 staff have been particularly active in UoB
 leadership development programmes, including the Research Leaders Programme (Witek), and
 Academic Team Leader (Attfield, Curry, Delgado Garcia, Haworth). Many participants have gone
 on to School- and College-level leadership positions, including HoDs Mahtani (Research

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leaders, Aurora) in Music and Pattie (Emerging Leaders) in Drama, with other colleagues
 participating in 2019-20 (Bouchard, Emerging Leaders).

 PGR SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT
 At the core of funded PGR provision, the AHRC M4C DTP brings together eight universities
 across the Midlands to support the professional and personal development of the next
 generation of doctoral researchers in the arts, humanities and law. Students seeking M4C
 funding work closely with their prospective supervisors on their applications, a process that
 includes an interview with the supervisor and a member of staff not on the supervisory team.
 Other PGRs are supported by College or University funding or are self-funded, and they too
 draw on the full complement of support services.

 Once admitted, all PGRs undertake thorough inductions at the College and School level to
 support their academic progress and pastoral needs. The CAL Graduate School (CALGS)
 provides funds to enable students to take part in conferences and training opportunities outside
 the university, including language courses and study at universities abroad. CALGS also
 provides dedicated computing and study spaces at the Westmere Postgraduate Researcher
 Hub. All PhD students are allocated a supervisory team consisting of a primary and at least one
 secondary supervisor (allocated according to expertise and the nature of the project) and
 undertake an annual Development Needs Analysis. They are also supported with mentoring,
 consisting of an individual mentor appointed for each student (in addition to more informal
 relationships with other members of staff). Student progression is monitored annually by a
 School-level Research Student Director, who oversees annual progress reviews.

 The Unit expects a minimum of 10 supervisions/year for full-time students (6 for part time). An
 online platform for recording each supervision ensures adequate student preparation and follow-
 up with supervisors and aids in monitoring progression. A first-year progress review also helps
 troubleshoot potential issues early enough to intervene, decreasing the likelihood of serious
 issues that could impair a student’s progress or wellness in their programme. CAL Academic
 Writing Advisory Service (AWAS) has long provided hands-on assistance with academic writing
 challenges for undergraduates; in this cycle, AWAS expanded its reach to include PGRs as well.

 What makes the UoA33 PGR experience special is the culture of student-led research initiatives.
 In Music, PGRs are encouraged to present their own research with a view to (1) fostering
 intellectual exchange, broadly on the LCAHM theme of Word, Music, Image, and (2) creating a
 sense of community, thereby addressing the sense of isolation commented on by many students
 in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. More than 15 PGRs presented their research
 in such fora in 2017-18. As of 2018/19, there is also an annual graduate conference in the
 School.

 Like Music, Drama and Film have worked to integrate PGRs with the broader School research
 and academic culture. Their input is taken seriously, and in addition to a PGR staff/student
 committee, PGR representatives have been added as standing members to the School’s
 Equality and Diversity Committee, Athena SWAN committee, and Research Committee. They
 are valued members of the Birmingham Centre for Film Studies (B-Film) and the Drama
 research seminars, where they have opportunities to present their own scholarship in addition to
 networking with other scholars and keeping abreast of cutting-edge research. Weekly PGR
 research bulletins advertise research and professionalization events, deadlines, funding
 opportunities, and other enrichment content. Among the opportunities are the Birmingham



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal of Language and Literature, a peer-reviewed journal run entirely by postgraduates,
 offering them valuable experience in editorial and copyediting work.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Research Income Achievements
 Over the course of the REF cycle, UoA33 earned £430,954 in research income. This income
 derives from direct grants related to disciplinary research and funding to support collaborations
 across UoB and beyond in partnerships with industry and cultural institutions. Major awards
 include:

    •   Saunders’s AHRC Standard Grant (£250K): ‘Harold Pinter: Histories and Legacies: The
        Impact of Harold Pinter’s Work on the Development of British Stage and Screen
        Practices (1957-2017)’. This project facilitates new appreciation of the widespread
        cultural impact of Pinter’s writing.
    •   Haworth’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£202K): ‘Music and the Internet: Towards a
        Digital Sociology of Music’. This project develops new insights about the changing
        aesthetic, social, and communicative uses of the internet in electronic music from the
        mid-1990s to the present.
    •   Bucknall’s AHRC & EPSRC-funded Corpus Quod project (£60K). This project brings
        together academics, creative practitioners, and performance industry professionals to
        develop a prototype immersive theatrical experience, with the aim of challenging
        dominant and negative representations of refugees and asylum seekers in UK culture.
    •   Bouchard’s 2019 ESRC IAA grant, with Dr Sonali Shah at UoB’s School of Nursing, for
        the project ‘Bridging the Gap: Translating Life Stories about Disability Through Theatre
        Practice’, brings together multidisciplinary practitioners and scholars to explore the life
        stories of women with cerebral palsy.

 UoA33 is also notable for attracting research income that is not included in the HESA returns.
 Recent awards include funding from Arts Council England, which has supported Ledger’s work
 for The Bone Ensemble (over £90K to date), Garcia’s collaborative event ‘BEASTxBleep43’
 (£7K), and Radcliffe’s The Machinery (£13.5K). Smaller grants from other funders also support
 our research. Wilson has received funding from the Canada Council for the Arts, and Ledger’s
 performance and environment-focussed project has been awarded charity funding from the Sir
 Barry Jackson County Fund, the Grimmitt Trust and the John Feeney Trust, totalling £9K.

 Research Income Strategy
 The unit is committed to nurturing funding bids that arise organically from staff research
 priorities, while also matching the priorities of funders. Funded research develops new
 generations of scholars, underscoring UoB’s commitment to ethical and sustainable scholarship,
 and enables research to be conducted at scale and quality that institutional funding alone cannot
 support. Regular research meetings between staff and their academic mentors complement
 advice and information provided by professional services staff on relevant research funding,
 sources, schemes, and calls. In Music, the School-wide Word, Music, Image project offers
 opportunities for funding development. Five-year plans, developed in concert with staff mentors
 and line managers as part of the annual review process, inform the WAM calculations made by
 HoDs, with the allowance for extra time devoted to pressing research output completion or major
 grant applications. These School-level academic efforts are augmented by the full-time
 professional services staff of the CAL Research Hub. Staff dedicated to support grant


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development and costings offer individualised attention in the early process and facilitate peer
 review. They also offer an extensive programme of field- and task-specific workshops that
 cultivate pipeline funding development.

 The College-administered Impact and Research Fund (CIRF) provides a responsive funding
 stream to support the advancement of the College’s strategic priorities for engaged research that
 shows potential for wide impact dissemination. In the first 3 years of the cycle it supported
 output-focussed work before shifting to address impact-related events, including Ledger’s and
 Radcliffe’s projects.

 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 The Birmingham Department of Music is housed in state of the art bespoke-built facilities;
 primarily in the £16M Bramall Music Building, which opened in 2012, and secondarily occupying
 a newly refurbished floor of the Frankland Building, which came on stream in 2019.

 Additional spaces in the Barber Institute (which has been a patron of music at the University for
 more than 80 years) and elsewhere further enhance our infrastructure portfolio. The facilities
 include: six state-of-the-art bespoke electroacoustic composition studios, four of which are
 equipped for multichannel work; two climate controlled and acoustically flexible early music
 rooms as part of the Centre for Early Music Performance and Research (CEMPR); a recording
 studio with a semi-live room and auxiliary recording and rehearsal spaces (all wired for audio
 over ethernet) within the Frankland building; the Dome rehearsal and concert room, which is
 flexibly configured and has a semi-permanently installed 32 channel sound system; and the 450-
 seat Elgar Concert Hall, with its highly flexible and adaptable acoustics and layout, making it
 suitable for varied research related presentations ranging from performances involving full
 orchestra, early music events, and large-scale (100+ loudspeaker) electronic music
 presentations by BEAST.

 The facilities made available in the Bramall Music Building have enabled Music to become a
 leading host for national and international musicological workshops and conferences. Those
 held since 2014 include: Royal Musical Association Research Students’ Conference (2014),
 Medieval and Renaissance Music Conference (2014), Music and Realism: Comparative
 Historical Perspectives (2015), Royal Musical Association Conference (2015), Experiments in
 Music Research: Reassessing Pierre Schaeffer’s Contributions to Music and Sound Studies
 (2016), Music in Nineteenth-Century Britain Conference (2017), Italian Musical Migration to the
 British Isles, 1750–1950 (2019), and BrumMAC Music Analysis Conference (2020, now
 postponed to 2021).

 The Bramall’s facilities have also permitted Music to raise its public profile in respect to
 performance and performance-as-research. The building’s cutting-edge performance spaces—
 especially the Dome Rehearsal Room—have enabled BEAST to maintain and enhance its
 standing as a system for the diffusion of, and research into, electroacoustic music. The rooms
 dedicated to CEMPR (Centre for Early Music Performance and Research) have made possible a
 series of research workshops with leading singers and instrumentalists. These same spaces
 have also made possible the institution of regular festivals. Founded in 2016, CrossCurrents is
 the Department’s biennial new music festival, which has given a public platform to the
 Department’s own composers and performers, as well as hosting distinguished international
 soloists and ensembles and commissioning 30 new works, from leading professional composers
 as well as postgraduate students, all of which speaks to our strategic priority of developing
 practice-as-research at Birmingham. Two concerts from 2018 featured in a 2-hour programme

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on BBC Radio 3 The Birmingham Festival of Early Music, first held in 2019, and planned as
 biennial, involved collaboration between the Department (notably staff and students involved
 with CEMPR), and internationally celebrated ensembles (Fretwork, The Gonzaga Band), as well
 as musical institutions across the city. BEAST FEaST involves a week of activities including
 intensive practice-based research on multichannel music presentation, workshops, and
 culminating in 3–4 days of public events involving all of our performance spaces and external
 partners. This, along with multiple other BEAST events throughout the year, attracts a roster of
 world-leading composers and practitioners.

 In contrast to Music, Drama and Screen studies have historically encountered infrastructure
 challenges. To address some of these challenges, Drama was relocated in 2007 to nearby self-
 contained Selly Oak Campus, 2 miles from the main University campus in Edgbaston. The
 University invested approximately £1.5M to completely refurbish the site to support high-level
 theatrical training. Since 2014, the site has benefitted from further considerable investment,
 including £150K on upgrading sound, lighting and audio-visual hardware for the main theatre.
 The primary performance space (George Cadbury Hall) holds 210 audience members and
 doubles as a high-definition cinema which the BBC use for screenings of their productions.
 Three other rehearsal spaces in the adjacent SOVAC building further serve the needs of staff
 engaged in practice-as-research; these have benefitted from a £30K investment in digital sound
 and editing equipment. A second performance space for productions has been brought online,
 and further studios for teaching and rehearsals sit in the adjacent Gillette Building. This listed
 Edwardian Arts and Crafts building also houses individual offices for staff and communal
 meeting spaces. At the same time, the Unit has forged stronger relationships within the
 Birmingham community and with the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford, another department in
 the School of EDACS. Film Studies has recently increased research capacity with the opening of
 ‘The Carroll’, a bespoke cinema screening space retrofitted in the Muirhead Tower, providing the
 first cinema facility on the UoB main campus. The site has already proven to be a valuable
 asset, especially for the work of the B-Film Research Centre, as a venue for symposia,
 research-led screenings and guest lectures.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 The UoB campus reflects the University’s foundational civic principles, boasting multiple
 performance and screening spaces in addition to three museums, libraries and archives. UoA33
 is committed to supporting local institutions and maximising benefits from University-sponsored
 partnerships and campus resources, but our collaborative research also extends well beyond
 campus.

 Music and its research has a leading presence in the University’s broader range of cultural and
 scholarly activities, and has contributed regularly and substantially to the (nearly) annual Arts
 and Science Festival, and other events organised by Research and Cultural Collections (e.g.
 Wilson) as well as other parts of the organisation (e.g. Mahtani’s contributions to the Women in
 Physics events). The same is true of Drama, where campus facilities support research and
 teaching collaborations between Birmingham staff and theatre companies such as the London-
 based Clod Ensemble, on which Bouchard has written in her monograph Performing Specimens,
 the Walsall-based Little Earthquake, and Ledger’s The Bone Ensemble. A wide range of creative
 partners and funders ensure the vitality of these practice-as-research relationships. Such
 partners and funders include Arts Council England, Midlands Arts Centre (MAC), The National
 Lottery, John Feeney Charitable Trust, The Grimmit Trust, Battersea Arts Centre, London,

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birmingham Repertory Theatre, the Custard Factory, and the Royal Shakespeare Company/The
 Other Place. Bucknall’s Corpus Quod project involved collaboration with creative industry
 partners, such as performance designers and producers The Lab Collective, and Stand + Stare,
 and cultural development agency ArtReach. Film studies regularly collaborates with local
 institutions including the MAC and the Electric Cinema, the oldest working electric cinema in
 England.

 Beyond local boundaries, the Unit benefits from UoB’s international partnerships, including those
 with TCD, University of Illinois Champaign-Urbana, University of Melbourne, and Waseda
 University, Tokyo (REF5a 2.1.8). While still in the early stages, the TCD partnership (established
 2019) within the humanities has the potential to reshape Beckett studies by formalising the
 relationship between the cluster of Beckett scholars at UoB and their counterparts in Dublin, who
 run a yearly summer school on Beckett’s works.

 The UoB-hosted Ironbridge Institute at the Ironbridge Gorge, a UNESCO World Heritage Site,
 was the site of Radcliffe’s installation, The Machinery. Focusing on nineteenth-century
 mechanised labour, the performance resonated with Ironbridge’s history as a major site of the
 industrial revolution. Radcliffe also partnered with Compton Verney, a historical home and
 museum, on a staging of the performance. Ledger’s The Bone Ensemble and their 2019 show
 Gulp! for young people on the subject of water resources received Arts Council funding and was
 supported by Severn Trent Water, which enabled the production to tour six primary schools in
 the West Midlands and funded a bespoke education pack and graphic novel to tie in with the
 show.

 Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base
 In line with the Unit’s aim to maximise its presence within the discipline and expand global reach,
 numerous members of staff sit on editorial boards of major peer-reviewed journals and book
 series. In Music, Riley is chair of the Music Analysis board, on which Earle also sits; Cannon is
 co-editor of Ethnomusicology Forum, has been reviews editor of the Yearbook for Traditional
 Music and is Secretary of the Society for Asian Music; Curry sits on the board of the Journal of
 the Royal Musical Association. In Drama, Saunders sits on the editorial board of Contemporary
 Theatre and of Studies in Theatre & Performance (2014-19), and is series editor for Routledge’s
 relaunched Modern & Contemporary Dramatists monograph series. Stone in Film Studies is co-
 founder and board member of Remapping World Cinema: Regional Tensions and Global
 Transformations, Routledge. Stone also co-edits Hispanic Research Journal, and is on the
 editorial board of Studies in European Cinema and on the advisory board of [In]Transition,
 Ikusgaiak: Cuadernos de Cinematografía and Studies in Hispanic Cinemas. Bouchard is
 Reviews Editor for the ‘Performance Science’ section of the journal Frontiers of Psychology.
 Whyman is on the boards of New Theatre Quarterly and Stanislavsky Studies. Radcliffe and
 Saunders (since 2007) both edit sections of Drama Since 1950.

 Beyond these more permanent roles, members of the Unit participate widely in the international
 peer-review process, reading for major publishers and journals and sitting on review panels for
 funders. Saunders and Stone are members of the AHRC Peer Review College and Stone also
 reads for GAČR (Czech Science Foundation), the Qatar National Research Fund, and the
 Leverhulme Trust. Rodmell peer reviews PhD funding for the Irish Research Council; Attfield sits
 on the board of the Institute of Austrian and German Music Research. Among Music’s
 composers, Mahtani is chair of the UK section of the International Society for Contemporary
 Music (ISCM), of which Latimer is also a panel member; Mahtani has sat on award panels for
 Sound and Music, Klang! Électroacoustique Festival (Montpellier) and the British Composer


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awards. Bouchard serves as co-founder and convenor of the Theatre & Performance Research
 Association’s Performance and Science Working Group.

 Several members of the Unit have achieved international markers of esteem. Riley was awarded
 the 2015 Mozart Society of America Emerson Prize for The Viennese Minor-Key Symphony in
 the Age of Haydn and Mozart. Earle is a member of the jury for the triennial Premio Casella for
 research on Italian music of the first half of the twentieth century, hosted by the Academia
 Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome. Gordon was invited to performances of his music at the
 Juilliard School in New York and at Vanderbilt University (both 2015) and at Antwerp
 Conservatorium (2016). In 2019 he was adjudicator for the Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra
 Young Composers Composition Prize. Latimer’s orchestral work Antiarkie was selected for
 performance at the 2018 ISCM World Music Days festival in Beijing.

 Wilson was Featured Artist at Festival Klang!, Opéra Comédie, Montpellier (2018), and at the
 Spectra Festival, Bogotá (2018). He was a keynote speaker at the Creations 2018 Conference in
 Athens. Mahtani’s debut album, Racines, was released by Empreintes DIGITales (Montreal) in
 2019. More locally, Garcia was Keynote Speaker at the Queer Performance Now! conference at
 King’s College London in 2016; Rodmell was Keynote Speaker at the ‘Music in Nineteenth-
 Century Britain’ conference, Canterbury, 2019; Witek’s paper, ‘Filling In’ (2017), was awarded
 the Adam Krims memorial prize from the Society for Music Analysis; Kirkman’s CD ‘Music for the
 100 Years War’ was chosen as a recording of the year on BBC Radio 3’s Record Review (2017).
 Latimer’s debut album for NMC records (London) is due for release in summer 2021.

 The international reach of Drama staff’s research expertise is evident in specially invited
 presentations. These include: Bucknall (Invited performance, The Story of You & I as part of the
 international Dreams Before Dawn Festival (Paris, June 2018)); Ledger (Université Paris-
 Sorbonne, 2016); Pattie (invited keynote speaker, Dusseldorf 2015; Samuel Beckett Summer
 School, TCD, Dublin, 2016; Theatre in Crisis symposium; Fourth International Samuel Beckett
 Society Conference, Mexico City, 2018; Public Lecture: ‘Beckett and the Archive’, University
 College Cork, March 2017); Radcliffe (Invited speaker, First International Workshop on the
 History of Variety Theatre in Europe, Humboldt University, Berlin 2016); Whyman (Invited
 speaker, University of Tver, Russia, 2014; Vienna, 2015; Moscow State University, October
 2019; co-presentation of workshop, Katowice, Poland, August 2019); Redling (Public lecture,
 ‘Canonizing Youth in Mark Ravenhill’s Major Plays’, University of Heidelberg, 26 January 2015;
 public lecture, ‘Graveyard Poetry’, University of Heidelberg, January 2014). Ledger’s short
 monograph The Tree of Performance Knowledge: Eugenio Barba has been translated into
 Italian.

 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society
 A number of our staff have proactively used their practice-as-research to engage with non-
 traditional or non-academic audiences. In Drama, Ledger’s The Bone Ensemble regularly puts
 on performances for d/Deaf audiences and for children with learning difficulties, autism or
 sensory communication disorders. Radcliffe’s The Machinery installation has also been
 performed to audiences comprising children and adults with complex needs (see §1). Work by
 our music composers is especially relevant here. Kirkman’s performances and recordings with
 the Binchois Consort take his research to a wide public audience. Gordon’s music has been
 played by the BBC Symphony Orchestra and heard at the Cheltenham Music Festival; it has
 also been broadcast on BBC Radio 3. Latimer’s work has also been broadcast on Radio 3 and
 performed by the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, the China National Symphony
 Orchestra, the BBC Concert Orchestra and the Crouch End Festival Chorus. Mahtani has


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborated with the Rosie Kay Dance Theatre Dance Company and her work has been further
 disseminated publicly through the Flatpack Festival, SOUNDKitchen and Multistorey. Wilson has
 had works performed by the Esprit Orchestra (Toronto), the Fidelio Trio, and the Bozzini String
 Quartet. Owen recently made her debut as a recital accompanist at London’s Wigmore Hall. In
 2014, both Earle and Owen took part in Proms Plus events, broadcast on Radio 3; in 2019 Earle
 led an LSO Discovery Day on Italian vocal music. Garcia is a contributor to a 2019 AJ+ episode
 on disco. Witek’s 2014 paper on ‘Syncopation, Body-Movement and Pleasure in Groove Music’
 generated a great deal of media interest, including an appearance by the author on national TV
 (BBC News at Six, 17 April 2014).




                                                                                         Page 17
