Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 13

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 The fabric of society and the shaping of the built environment is significantly impacted by the
 accelerating pace of urbanisation globally. Salford’s research responds to the fast-changing
 realities in our cities by creating new knowledge in emerging fields, such as smart cities,
 hypermobility and the increasing integration of information systems and technology into all areas
 of urban life. We expand original and multidisciplinary academic thought on planning, design,
 construction and evaluating sustainable urban environments, focusing on the interface between
 the physical design, construction, functioning and development of future urban spaces, and the
 lives, health, behaviour and movement of the people who inhabit cities. With key industry and
 policy stakeholders we deliver global impact in the form of sustainable methods and processes
 of construction, energy efficiency and digital innovation. By seeking to understand the key
 questions underpinning the development of cities as equitable, resilient and liveable spaces for
 all, and how citizens, individually and collectively, will shape urban futures, we make unique and
 valuable contributions to the discipline.

 Research is delivered by 5 groups that cluster staff around globally defined, multidisciplinary
 challenges. The submission spans 42.03 FTE staff, listed below against their primary affiliation,
 noting that many collaborate across groups:

 • Acoustics Research Group (ARG; 12.2 FTE: Cox, Davies W, Elliott, Fazenda, Hargreaves,
   Hughes, Li, Meggitt, Moorhouse, Torija-Martinez, Umnova, Von-Hunerbein,
   Waddington): 60+ years of research in acoustic measurement, architectural and building
   acoustics, audio engineering, computer modelling of sound, environmental noise and
   soundscapes, materials for acoustics, psychoacoustics and vibro-acoustics, with established
   excellence in public engagement.

 • Applied Buildings and Energy Research Group (ABERG; 8 FTE: Al-Maiyah, Farmer,
   Fitton, Ji, Oladokun, Paraskevas, Swan, Taleghani): smart homes and smart meters,
   retrofit, sensor technology and energy efficiency including whole building testing through
   Energy House facilities.

 • Disaster Resilience (DR; 3 FTE: Fernando, Ingirige, Keraminiyage): globally relevant
   interdisciplinary work to enable countries and communities to plan, prepare for and recover
   from, natural and man-made disasters. This includes capacity building for disaster mitigation
   and reconstruction, post-conflict reconstruction and community engagement, waste-
   management and collaborative learning/training environments, including VR and immersive
   technologies through our THINKLab facility.

 • Infrastructure Research Group (IRG; 6.83 FTE: An, Aziz, Ekundayo, Fleming, Higham,
   Underwood, Yousif): aims to achieve greater efficiency from existing housing and transport
   infrastructure and providing novel solutions for new construction including lean project delivery
   and socially-responsible procurement. IRG also encompasses Digital Built Environment
   development, including Building Information Modelling (BIM) and Geographical Information
   System (GIS).

 • Smart Urban Futures (SURF; 12 FTE: Davey, Davies N, Elkadi, Fois, Gyau, Hayes,
   Kenawy, Lee, Poppelreuter, Sherriff, Trillo, Wootton): aims to understand contemporary
   societal and ecological challenges and future factors underpinning climate-change resilient
   cities. This includes urban ecology, future mobility, food security and adaptation to changing
   environments.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff are core members of a Research Group and are encouraged to become associate
 members of other groups/centres across the University to support interdisciplinarity. This
 facilitates active participation in the development of thematic research strategies, making explicit
 research synergies and ensuring research cohesion. Recognising existing collaborations within
 the University around built environment themes, two staff are submitted into UoA13 from the Arts,
 Media and Communication Research Centre (Davey, Wootton in IRG), one from the Centre for
 Social and Health Research (Sherriff in SURF) and one from the Ecosystems and Environment
 Research Centre; SURF: Fois).

 ARG is situated within Salford Innovation Research Centre (SIRC); a multi-disciplinary
 environment focusing on engineering, robotics and autonomous systems, computer science and
 advanced materials research. The other four groups are located within the Centre for Urban
 Processes, Resilient Infrastructures & Sustainable Built Environments (UPRISE). Both SIRC and
 UPRISE are Research Centres within the School of Science, Engineering and Environment.

 Major achievements 2014 – 2020

 Our REF2014 environment submission was rated highly, with a profile of 50% world-leading and
 37.5% internationally excellent quality. Throughout this period, we have successfully built on our
 longstanding excellence in built environment and acoustics research, securing investment in our
 unique, state-of-the-art facilities, supporting our staff to grow as research leaders and translating
 research into practice internationally and within the UK. We achieved the following three strategic
 aims:

 1. Continue to invest in our unique facilities as the underpinning support for all research
    and impact activities

 The Energy House facility was established in 2011, (£5m, £2.5m from ERDF), to address the
 retrofit and decarbonisation agendas. Throughout this REF period, this has delivered innovation
 around retrofit of existing homes (£520k, BEIS), building performance and digital control
 technologies that led to the development of the Smart Meters Smart Homes Lab (£270k; HEIF
 and in-kind), detailed further in Section 3. The team has used research outcomes to advise on
 decarbonisation strategy (GMCA Low Carbon Buildings and Retrofit Strategy, Leeds City Region
 Retrofit Strategy, BEIS Retrofit Advisory, Swan), and standards for building performance and
 assessment and delivery (SAPSIG advisory for UK regulatory energy model for homes, Building
 Regulations, PAS2035 retrofit delivery standards, Fitton).

 This success has culminated in Energy House 2.0 (EH2); a £16.5m investment (£8.2m secured
 from ERDF in 2018 to Swan, Fitton, with £3m Office for Students and £5m University funding).
 EH2, to be completed in 2022, has been specifically designed to replicate the conditions of 95%
 of the global populated areas of the world, creating unique research infrastructure to answer issues
 of energy and building performance and the decarbonisation agenda at an international scale.
 EH2 will bring together established research excellence in whole building efficiency and retrofit,
 modern methods of construction and building types and future energy systems issues.

 2. Continue to lead built environment sector developments and set the international
    research agenda through excellent collaborative research

 Our research leads to innovations and improvements across built environment industries and we
 have undertaken projects with a range of companies to co-develop solutions. We have received
 £13.87m of competitively awarded funding, placing us 7th in the sector for total income reported to
 the ‘Architecture, Built Environment and Planning’ cost centre, 2013-19 (HESA). Reflecting our
 priority of Industry Collaboration we are 4th in the sector for total income from UK industry,
 commerce and public corporations 2013-19 (HESA).

 Our research outputs receive considerable attention from the discipline and contribute to wider
 social and economic impact. Since 2014, 26% of our outputs were rated in the top 10% most cited

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications worldwide (field-weighted) and outputs held within our University of Salford
 Institutional Repository (USIR) authored by our 43 staff were downloaded ~296k times during this
 REF period. Our research generates measurable impact: 11 outputs are utilised in policy
 documents nationally and internationally, and 5 outputs are utilised in patents (see section 4). Our
 highest altmetric-scored output (Torija-Martinez; ARG) was the result of an interdisciplinary
 collaboration combining the technological, economic and environmental acoustics aspects of an
 electric aircraft. Published in Nature Energy, it is ranked in the top 5% of all outputs scored by
 Altmetric and has been referenced in 3 policy documents and 12 news articles.

 Responding to international priorities, we have been involved in 21 EC funded consortia (H2020
 and FP7). We have acquired GCRF awards (See Section 3) including the £1.2m 3-year EPSRC
 ‘MOBILISE’ (IRG) project that aims to construct a collaborative multi-agency platform for building
 resilient communities in Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Malaysia; and ESRC’s £856k 3-year
 ‘TRANSCEND’ project that extends into the area of risk-sensitive urban development and
 equitable resilience. These projects have accelerated DR’s plans for generating impact in the form
 of policy making at an international level; examples include collaboration with international
 governmental and non-governmental stakeholders and thinktanks, including the Construction
 Research Institute of Malaysia, the Institute of Policy Studies, UNICEF and the Climate Change
 Secretariat of the Ministry of Environment in Sri Lanka.

 Our expertise in digital built environments, especially ‘building Information modelling and
 management’ (BIM) continues to contribute to national developments, specifically the UK
 Government and construction industry’s commitment to drive digital transformation for improved
 efficiency, productivity and whole-life value of built environment assets. Underwood has been
 involved in developing and delivering the UK BIM Strategy with the goal to raise digital skill levels
 in the construction industry through chairing the ‘UK BIM Academic Forum’ and a national
 BIM4Education initiative project to develop the UK BIM Framework and the BS EN ISO19650
 series of standards (published in 2019, this is the international standard for managing information
 over the lifecycle of a built asset using BIM).

 3. Grow inter- and multidisciplinary research to address complex built environment
    challenges

 Our Research Groups are fully engaged in cross-disciplinary discourse and research among built
 environment professions, industry and academic bodies. To continue to appropriately and
 effectively address multi-faceted, real-world problems we have formed a staff base with expertise
 across many disciplines associated with the built environment, including: acousticians, architects,
 architectural historians, architectural technologists, building economists, building physicists,
 building service engineers, civil engineers, construction managers, cultural theorists, land
 surveyors, material scientists, planners, quantity surveyors, structural engineers and
 psychologists.

 Success through interdisciplinary approaches can be illustrated through funded projects tackling
 complex environmental challenges. For example, IGNITION (Elkadi ERDF, €4.5m, with £1.2m to
 Salford) is a joint research project led by the Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA)’s
 Resilience Unit and 10 other partners with the University providing core expertise in urban green
 infrastructure. Researchers from SURF and the Environment and Ecosystems Research Centre
 (EERC, returned to UoA7) are researching solutions into improvements to the urban environment
 towards meeting sustainability targets such as water usage and clean air.

 Research group areas of focus and achievements

 Acoustics Research Group (ARG)
 ARG focuses on the global challenges of decarbonisation of the built environment, clean transport
 systems and healthy living and ageing. Led by Cox, the group spans expertise in audio
 technology, engineering acoustics and vibration, environmental acoustics, with work contributing
 to new ISO standards and guidance used in buildings, product design and noise assessment

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methods. These have been adopted as standard practice by government bodies, test houses and
 manufacturers, particularly in construction, automotive and aerospace sectors. ARG has received
 £3.8m of external funding to undertake 40 projects in this REF period.

 ARG’s work with creative and broadcast industries focuses on improving accessibility in sound
 broadcasting. ARG is a primary partner in the BBC Audio Research Partnership, set up in 2011
 to bring together the world’s top audio research groups to develop the next generation of audio
 broadcast technology. As part of this partnership, ARG has participated in major research projects
 this REF period: EPSRC £457k (2012-15) ‘Perception and Automated Assessment of Recorded
 Audio Quality’ (Cox as PI, Fazenda and Li); EPSRC £2.6m (2013-19): S3A Future Spatial Audio
 for an Immersive Listener Experience at Home (Cox, Davies, Fazenda); and EPSRC, £1.27m,
 (2016-19) ‘Making Sense of Sounds’ (Cox, Davies W). These have developed and demonstrated
 new ways to make sense from large amounts of everyday sounds, focusing on real-world non-
 music, non-speech sounds and soundscapes to enable more productive interaction with sound
 data and improve the lives of people in their sound environment.

 We are also developing new health technologies (hearing devices) and acoustic methods within
 medical diagnostics, for example, EPSRC £288k (2019-24; Cox) ‘Challenges to Revolutionise
 Hearing Device Processing’. This research is using innovative approaches in speech technology
 and machine learning to revolutionise the function of hearing devices, particularly addressing
 current functional deficits around hearing speech in noise in different environments e.g. the home
 or public spaces.

 The €5m EU FP7-Transport CARGOVIBES (Attenuation of ground-borne vibration affecting
 residents near freight railway lines; Waddington), assessed new measures to ensure acceptable
 levels of vibration for residents living in the vicinity of freight railway lines to facilitate the extension
 of EU freight traffic on rail. This project delivered a guideline on the evaluation of adverse effects,
 for use of engineering companies doing environmental impact studies and for use by policy makers
 seeking to balance costs and benefits of rail traffic. Other notable ARG initiatives include: an
 EPSRC-funded (£556k) project on embedding measured data within a computational framework
 for vibro-acoustic design (Elliot, Moorhouse) and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)
 project with Farrat Isolevel, which applied methods for characterising vibration sources developed
 by Elliot and Moorhouse to buildings and a PhD studentship on Acoustic metamaterials for harsh
 environments (Elliot, Umnova).

 We have received numerous national and international awards including: Institute of Acoustics –
 Tyndall Medal, Engineering Medal, Honorary Fellowship, and Young Persons' Award for
 Innovation in Acoustical Engineering; EPSRC Connected Nation Pioneer award; IET’s Leslie H
 Paddle scholarship; Acoustical Society of America Science Writing Award; and Audio Engineering
 Society Silver Medal. They are named inventors or have been instrumental in the development of
 2 patents and 1 policy (see section 4). Research impact in this area (REF3) describes how the
 standard methodologies and guidance developed by ARG have been used in buildings, product
 design and noise assessment. Direct commercial exploitation of the research by a range of
 manufacturers in construction and transportation (automotive and aerospace) has a collective
 value of over £1 billion.

 Applied Buildings and Energy Research Group (ABERG)

 The former area of ‘energy to building research’ was coupled with ‘impact of building on health
 and welfare of individuals and communities’ to form ‘building performance’ and is led by ABERG.
 ABERG’s strategy has been to support energy transition in the UK and globally, by developing
 outward-facing partnerships (with private, public and the third sector), to focus on delivering strong
 evidenced-based mechanisms to support changes in domestic and small commercial energy
 systems. ABERG has received £1.9m to deliver research using the innovative capabilities of our
 Energy House and Smart Meters Smart Homes Lab (see section 3). Example projects include:
 £244k 2-year (Swan) retrofit optimisation with Radbot to assess the use of smart controls to
 establish the performance of sustainable retrofit in homes; and the £521k 21-month ‘DEEP’ project

                                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Fitton) to demonstrate energy efficiency, working with Leeds Beckett and Loughborough
 Universities.

 Impact in the Group (REF3) addresses the Climate Emergency declaration, that requires a change
 to how we consume energy in buildings. Our work delivers solutions in support of energy and
 emission savings in new and existing homes, supporting innovators to rapidly bring products to
 market. ABERG has been involved in delivering 35,000,000t of CO2 emissions savings and helped
 test 22 energy-saving products, leading to business revenues of £1.03m and the improvement of
 1,842 homes across Greater Manchester.

 ABERG received the 2017 Green Gown Awards for ‘Sustainability Excellence’, the 2015 ‘Love
 Energy Award: Star of the Future’ for delivering the green agenda and were runners-up in the
 Guardian Universities Awards 2019 for ‘Business Collaboration’. Research has received coverage
 on national TV (including BBC News and Channel 5’s Gadget Show), radio (including Radio 5
 Live) and national press (including Guardian, Mirror and Telegraph).

 Disaster Resilience (DR)

 DR undertakes national and international research into ‘disaster management and resilience’ and
 the strategy within this period has been to extend research to cover the full lifecycle of disaster
 planning. Working closely with low- and middle-income countries (e.g. India, Malaysia, Sri Lanka)
 vulnerable to natural disasters or the impacts of climate change we have helped improve resilience
 to extreme weather events. DR influences national and international advocacy/policy-making
 initiatives, sustaining lives and livelihoods through development schemes that do not exacerbate
 climate change impacts/factors. Investigating the phases of preparedness, mitigation, recovery
 and rehabilitation was facilitated by £3m of funded research from UKRI, EU and charities/trusts,
 e.g. the GCRF/EPSRC £1.2m (2017-2021) ‘A Collaborative Multi-agency Platform for Building
 Resilient Communities’ with 18 project partners including the Cabinet Office, Asian Disaster
 Preparedness Centre and Rural Development Foundation, Pakistan.

 Impact emerging from this area (REF3) exemplifies our focus on building resilience through
 digitally enabled multi-agency collaboration involving relevant government agencies and
 communities. We have developed advanced technology solutions that allow the sharing of
 disconnected data on vulnerability, hazard prediction and exposure, enabling collective decision-
 making that reduces risk.

 Infrastructure Research Group (IRG)

 IRG has attracted £1.7m from major funders to support the ‘delivery and maintenance of housing,
 highways and railways infrastructure’ globally. Research leads to solutions particularly around
 maintenance and operation, safety and reliability, long-term prediction relationships, analytics,
 data integrity and information quality. In Vietnam, Jordan, the Philippines and Turkey (see section
 4) this has led to secure, sustainable and resilient energy supplies and developing energy efficient
 and carbon neutral buildings. With UK infrastructure clients and contractors, projects have aligned
 to the UK Government’s roadmap for energy efficient, carbon neutral buildings, improved traffic
 management, ‘digital architecture’ and minimising risks through evidence-based design,
 construction and maintenance.

 The €6.49m EU FP7 Design4Energy project (2013-17) (Underwood, with Fernando, DR)
 developed an innovative integrated design methodology to allow stakeholders to optimise the
 energy efficiency of buildings, both at individual and neighbourhood levels. Digital built
 environment research has included a combination of UK/EU government funded research, KTP
 and knowledge exchange projects, e.g. Underwood worked with the Beijing Construction and
 Engineering Group to pilot improved efficiencies through new BIM-based collaborative work
 practices.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainable Urban Futures (SURF)

 SURF has acquired £3.38m to investigate the interface between the physical design, construction,
 functioning and development of urban spaces; and the lives, health, behaviour and movement of
 humans who live in cities, focusing on ‘smart urban futures’. In the £4m ERDF ‘IGNITION’ project
 (2018-21), Salford was awarded £1.2m (Elkadi) to construct a nature-based solution living lab on
 our Salford campus (raingardens, street trees, living green roofs/walls), to evaluate impact,
 develop innovative financing solutions and tackle socio-environmental challenges. The project
 experiments with integral national building specification (NBS) models that would be attractive to
 differing investors. The findings of this project are already feeding into numerous initiatives to
 ensure that the green infrastructure in Greater Manchester is increased by 30%, enabling
 Manchester to be a leader in NBS in cities.

 The Cutting Crime Impact project (co-ordinated by Davey and Wootton; €3.1m, H2020, 2018-
 2021) is an 8-country partnership supporting law enforcement agencies and relevant local and
 security policymakers to reduce the impact of crime and prevent crime from occurring through
 improved urban design and planning. This leads from previous work, which forms the basis of our
 impact in this area (REF3), to develop ProtectED: a spin-out, not-for-profit Community Interest
 Company focusing on student security and welfare. ProtectED is the UK’s first Code of Practice
 and accreditation scheme and is providing training and accreditation across the UK. This
 evidence-based approach to addressing student security is recognised by the professional
 security sector and has impacted the work of the government regulator of the UK security industry,
 security professionals and British Council representatives. It was awarded the 2019 Security &
 Fire Excellence prize for ‘Contribution to Standards’ and won the 2020 Outstanding Security
 Performance Award for ‘Customer Service Initiative’.

 Future research and impact strategy

 Vision: To be a leading global research community focused on designing and embracing
 disruptive technologies to addresses the multifaceted challenges within our communities, towns,
 and cities, and how we interact with them as individual citizens.

 Group aims:

    •    ARG – incorporating vibration and acoustic design into new product development, new
         construction materials, decarbonisation and ‘Industry 4.0’; and expanding further into
         medical and psychoacoustics, e.g. design for accessibility for people with atypical cognition
         and studying the effects of noise on mental health

    •    ABERG – reinforce existing and foster further international collaboration and grow the
         team to fully utilise the potential of Energy House 2.0 laboratories

    •    DR – expand work across South East Asia on using technology to prepare communities
         against flooding and utilise this knowledge to inform flood defence policy and practice in
         the UK

    •    IRG – use robotics and artificial intelligence to design and construct new productivity and
         performance platforms

    •    SURF – focus on supporting social and economic infrastructure as part of the construction
         of technologically driven climate-change resilient cities

 Objectives:

     •   Increase investment in research infrastructure and maximise opportunities from
         current developments. Alongside EH2, we are constructing a £65m School of Science,
         Engineering and Environment building to open in 2022/23. This will facilitate

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         interdisciplinary solutions significant to infrastructure decarbonisation challenges. The
         next phase of the Campus Masterplan (2020-24) focuses on investment in a state-of-the-
         art Acoustics building to further our global acoustics research and impact linked to the
         aims of ARG.

    •   Increase the diversity and number of staff by developing early career researchers,
        particularly women, through the three-year research plan process and making strategic
        external appointments to expand expertise

    •   Increase the number of postgraduate researcher (PGR) enrolments and completions
        through growth in domestic and international recruitment. This will allow us to boost our
        knowledge base, enrich our scholarly community and grow the next generation of scholars

    •   Increase the value and duration of external research funding to provide a stable and
        sustainable income stream. This will be achieved through the three-year research planning
        process and increased collaborative research grant applications with international
        partners, that will enhance our reach and reputation internationally

    •   Expand the impact of our research for a diversity of non-academic users across industry
        and the public sector through continued staff development in this area.

 Supporting research integrity, open access and open research

 Overarching research governance is delivered through the School Research and Enterprise
 Committee (SREC), chaired by the Associate Dean Research and Innovation (ADRI). SREC
 includes Research Centre (professorial) leads to monitor, manage and report on research integrity
 across the School. All projects involving primary data collection require approval from the School
 Ethics review panels and Approvals committee. SEE has piloted the University’s new ethics review
 scheme to streamline and provide prompt feedback for ethical approval and to ensure
 transparency and visibility of ethical and integrity considerations.

 To ensure data are sustainably accessible and discoverable and to enhance the integrity and
 efficiency of data sharing, validation and re-use, research outputs are deposited and made
 available open-access as pre-prints or final versions, in the University of Salford Institutional
 Repository (USIR) or on external pre-print servers such as arXiv. Authors whose work was funded
 through UKRI programmes have access to Open Access funding to support Article Processing
 Charges (OA Gold). Institutional Open Access Funds are available based on internal peer review
 of the paper by the Research Centre Director and ADRI. Agreements with several academic
 journal publishers reduce or remove the cost of publishing open access in their journals: 49
 outputs have benefitted from Gold OA support via institutional funding or publisher deals.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Our ongoing aim is to recruit staff into our 5 key areas who have established research track records
 and international presence or are early career researchers (ECRs) with exceptional research
 promise. This strategy is to ensure our academic staff will provide an excellent PhD supervision
 experience, undertake high quality research and generate real-word impact from research
 projects.

 We are returning 43 staff: 13 Professors (30%), 6 Readers (14%), 7 Senior Lecturers (SL; 16%),
 9 Lecturers (L; 21%) and 8 Research Fellows (RF; 19%). As approximately one third are
 Professors, we have in place strong leadership to set group strategy and effective mentoring for
 junior staff. With 30% of the group at mid-career level and 40% ECRs there exists a pipeline to
 develop future research leaders ensuring the sustainability of the Research Groups.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Twenty-three researchers (53% of submitted staff) have been recruited since 2014 strengthening
 capacity in each of our research groups: 4 Professors (2 IRG, 1 DR, 1 SURF), 2 Readers (1 DR,
 1 SURF), 2 Senior Lecturers (1 ABERG, 1 IRG), 7 Lecturers (3 SURF, 2 ARG, 2 IRG) and 8
 Researchers (4 ABERG, 3 SURF, 1 ARG). This has expanded our range of expertise, for example:
 Fois, Gyau and Trillo together link human geography, heritage conservation and international
 sustainable urban development (SURF) and Al-Maiyah, Oladokun and Taleghani increase
 capacity around thermal comfort and building energy efficiency (ABERG). We have increased the
 number of female staff through recruitment (6/23; 26%), which has resulted in a modest increase
 in the proportion of women submitted to this REF: from 18% in REF2014 to 21% now. In contrast
 we have a higher representation of staff from a BAME background (28%) compared to the
 University’s academic staff population overall (13%).

 Through our Athena SWAN action plan (Hayes, Lee and Swan have roles on the SEE Athena
 SWAN Self-Assessment Team) we have taken steps to ensure that our internal processes create
 an inclusive environment, e.g. female representation on all selection and recruitment panels and
 mandatory training appropriate to staff roles, e.g. recruitment and selection, widening participation,
 ethics, unconscious bias and equality and diversity. This includes REF-related processes, for
 which we ensured male and female representation in the Unit submission team. In line with our
 REF2021 Code of Practice, the attribution of REF2 outputs to staff has been subject to an equality
 impact assessment. Our REF2 submission is close to the gender ratio of our submitted staff, with
 18% of outputs attributed to a female author (-3% compared to the proportion of female submitted
 staff) and 35% of outputs attributed to staff from a BAME background (-3% compared to our
 proportion of BAME submitted staff).

 A central aspect of our future staff strategy is to improve the low proportion of women in our
 Research Groups and also seek to develop initiatives to address this more widely within built
 environment and engineering research disciplines, through engaging with young people from
 diverse backgrounds to encourage interest in pursuing careers in these areas.

 Formal staff development mechanisms

 Research workload is set by the School under guidelines from the University. All staff undergo the
 University’s annual ‘Performance and Development Review’ (PDR) process, which includes a
 research review as part of the overall academic workload and opportunities to request
 training/support. Since 2019, all staff are invited to submit a three-year plan, detailing their current
 level of research activity and plans, which are peer-reviewed and feed into PDR processes. The
 outcomes of this peer review inform research development needs and workload allocations as
 part of an improved, transparent process for research resourcing.

 Academic staff can seek a review against the ‘Academic Career Path’ criteria annually and apply
 for promotion to Reader/Professor via the annual University Professorial Promotions Committee,
 which includes external verification of their research profile. These opportunities have supported
 14 staff to progress in their careers during the current REF cycle: from SL/Reader to Prof: Aziz,
 Davey, Davies W, Swan, Underwood and Waddington; from L/SL/RF to Reader: Elliott,
 Fazenda, Fitton and Trillo; from L to SL: Al-Maiyah and Fleming; from RF to L: Hargreaves and
 Kenawy. Three researchers hold fractional posts (0.2-0.83FTE) including 2 Professors with
 parental responsibilities.

 Reflecting our commitment towards developing home-grown talent, 40% of our submitted staff are
 Salford alumni; with 3 recruited to Lecturer positions during this REF period after receiving their
 PhDs and 4 of these have been Research Group Leads. Research development for newly
 appointed staff and ECRs is supported through: i) reduced teaching loads during their first year;
 ii) workload and fee-waivers for staff wishing to undertake PhDs; (e.g. Ekundayo, Fitton,
 Fleming); iii) the annual Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarship Scheme providing £2k financial
 support and 10% additional research workload allocation (e.g. Hargreaves). We support new
 members of staff within 2 years of appointment and those returning from maternity/long-term sick


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leave with a separate internal Research Centre fund of £30k, allocated annually, to provide start-
 up and pump-priming support.

 Our Research Groups operate a voluntary research mentoring policy for all staff. We determined
 that this opt-in approach best supports effective delivery of tailored support and the development
 of meaningful mentor-mentee relationships. All researchers are given the opportunity to be
 appointed a senior research mentor to provide guidance in developing their research career,
 including project development, grant applications, publication peer review and developing
 partnerships/collaborations. Over REF2014 30 mentoring relationships have been supported,
 equating to 70% of all submitted staff. This led to successful promotions, e.g. for Trillo (Lecturer
 to Reader, supported by Elkadi).

 Supporting the development of high-quality grants, outputs and impact

 The University’s Research & Knowledge Exchange Directorate (RKE) provides research bidding
 support in the form of a dedicated support office and mechanisms for internal peer review. In
 addition to RKE’s training, SIRC/UPRISE organise discipline-specific sessions for staff including:
 research impact, writing successful proposals, research ethics, writing retreats and sandpit events
 to support interdisciplinary collaboration. Sessions are arranged at different times to support staff
 attendance (including PT, research and contract staff and staff with parental responsibilities).

 In 2018/19, we created 9 impact action plans across our 5 groups to develop concepts and
 technologies around resilience, wellbeing, sustainable use of energy and materials. These will
 contribute to priorities such as the circular economy agenda in the built environment – spanning
 cities, transport systems and infrastructure – to work together to deliver solutions for new forms
 and challenges of (urban) living. Our School Impact Coordinator meets regularly with impact action
 plan holders to monitor progress against objectives.

 Across the REF period £320k of central University and SIRC/UPRISE internal funding has
 supported pump-priming of projects, research/networking visits or conference attendance. This
 includes development of strategic feasibility projects, e.g. Moorhouse awarded £5k to
 commercialise a PhD project in building acoustics; Torija-Martinez awarded £10k to design a
 drone microphone for quiet audio recording. This project is currently being tested within a partner
 organisation and an application for funding will be made to Innovate UK; Elliott awarded £5k to
 develop a prototype sound source for acoustic measurement, which led to a patent application for
 condition monitoring). Poppelreuter awarded £2k to support work on her book ‘Before 1939:
 German-Speaking Women Architects in American Exile’, which crosses sociology, history and
 architecture as an interdisciplinary project.

 We actively create opportunities for staff to interact for productive intellectual exchanges and peer
 support. Our bi-monthly ‘Architecture Matters’ lecture series, running since 2018, includes
 lunchtime/evening talks by our academics and invited speakers for our staff and postgraduate
 students to engage with topical debates in our discipline (e.g. Stephen Hodder, previously
 president of RIBA and Martin Kirkpatrick from Buttress Architects, Manchester). We have
 established a SEE monthly Professoriate forum to feed into SREC and the ADRI organises weekly
 all-staff research meetings as an informal mechanism to discuss upcoming opportunities. As the
 SEE unification process completes we will also implement an ECR network to ensure that this
 community has a voice at SREC.

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research (PGR) experience

 Our PGRs are integral to our research activity and culture and we have significantly grown the
 size of this community. We supported 248 PhD awards (~35 annually); a 92% increase from
 REF2014. We recognise that the majority of our PGR completions are male (76%), and we have
 taken initial steps to increase female academic leadership though promoting/appointing 2 female
 professors, Davey and Lee, to improve the proportion of female PGR supervisors available as
 role models.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of our PhD awards, 32% domicile in the UK/EU, 68% are international (with Nigeria representing
 10%, and Saudi and Iraq 7% each) and 69% identify as BAME. To support our large international
 cohort, we provide additional English language support and social events (see below). We offer
 diverse PGR modes/pathways that enables us to flexibly accommodate differing student needs.
 These include FT, PT, PT split-site, FT and PT distance-learning, PhD by Published Works and
 research based professional doctorates. Of the total completions, 19 (~8% of the total) were
 professional doctorates (Table 1).

 Table 1. Disaggregated doctoral completions.
                   2013/14 2014/15 2015/16             2016/17    2017/18     2018/19    2019/20
  PhD                 45          37        28           37         35          33         14
  Prof Doc            1            3         3            2          5           2          3
  Total (REF4a)       46          40        31           39         40          35         17

 PGR students are aligned to their supervisor’s Research Group upon enrolment and invited to
 participate in all School and Research Group seminars and guest lectures with the overarching
 aim of nurturing future talent. PGRs are provided with opportunities to deliver a controlled amount
 of teaching, through assisting in tutorials/labs and/or dissertation supervision in an hourly paid
 capacity as part of their development: 12 PGRs took up this opportunity in 2019/20. PGR
 representatives are elected from the student body to partake in School committees to ensure that
 the PGR voice is heard.

 In addition to the Salford Postgraduate Research Training (SPoRT) programme and University-
 level events (see REF5a), UPRISE and SIRC provide opportunities for PGRs to develop research
 skills, capabilities and a broader understanding of their fields. The Research Centres provide
 around 18 research seminars annually under the ‘Academics Talk’ programme, covering areas
 such as research methodology and methods, qualitative and quantitative data analysis, plagiarism
 in research, critical thinking, ethics and establishing a career post-PhD. Review of this provision
 is conducted annually based on attendance, supervisors’ views and student feedback.

 Biennially, UPRISE convenes the International Post Graduate Research Conference, now in its
 14th year. PGRs present their work to build confidence in presentation and communication and
 network with researchers from different institutions/countries. In 2019, 50 papers were presented,
 with representatives from 7 countries and 11 universities. We combine each conference with an
 industry day to facilitate industrial engagement and network-building. To support engagement
 across the School, we have hosted 3 ‘Passion for Flash’ events, a TED-style public speaking
 competition for all students undertaking research. For the past 4 years, our Research Centres
 have administered the ‘4-Minute Thesis’ challenge, where prizes are awarded for ‘PechaKucha’
 style presentations.

 Our CIB Student Chapter (part of the ‘International Council for Research and Innovation in Building
 and Construction’) has, since 2009, hosted an annual International Food Festival to promote
 discourse between international students and staff. More recently, the Student Chapter has
 produced a bi-monthly CIB newsletter and hosted a bi-weekly coffee event to support an improved
 PGR community. In 2017, our Student Chapter won the prestigious CIB Sebestyén Future Leaders
 Award. To assist these student-led activities, £5k is budgeted annually by the School.

 A £20k budget from internal Research Centre funds is available annually for PGRs (including PT,
 distance learning and split-site) to attend conferences to present their work. Students can access
 £500 annually and are advised to participate in at least 1 international and 1 national conference
 during their programme of study. Our PGRs have access to a dedicated space that houses 30
 workstations, research equipment/facilities and technician support. This facilitates peer-to-peer
 learning and social engagement between students and is located near offices of academic staff,
 with shared communal facilities ensuring greater cohesion and engagement.

 As a result of our nurture-based approach to the PGR experience and clear expectations for
 development our alumni destinations include notable academic positions at leading universities

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and companies, including: Alshdiefat (Philadelphia University, Jordan), Amadi (River State
 University, Nigeria), Bayer (Lancaster University), Haidar (University of Liverpool), Nawi (Universiti
 Utara Malaysia), Padillo (Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, Brazil), Turo (Catholic University
 of America, USA), Venegas (Universidad Austral de Chile) and Zami (King Fahd University of
 Petroleum and Minerals, Bahrain); and in esteemed roles in leading organisations including: Bew
 (Chair of the Government’s BIM Task Group and now honorary Visiting Professor), Sheaffer
 (Apple Inc.), Stephenson (BBC) and Synodinos (Airbus).

 Support for our Research Technicians to develop their careers

 As signatories to the Technician Commitment, we actively encourage our technical staff to engage
 in research and provide support for their chosen career pathway through the PDR process.
 Professional/technical staff can seek a regrade through our HR processes or apply for a new post
 as a promotion opportunity when research input would be taken into account. Fitton, appointed
 as Technician in 2011, was recruited as Lecturer in 2014 following his notable input into research
 outputs/projects and promoted to Reader in 2019. The outputs he authored as a Technician
 formed 4/14 submitted in 2016 for a PhD by Published Works. Other examples include:

    •   Benjaber (energy technician) contributed to 5 journal and 1 conference outputs
    •   Narish was recipient of the Higher Education Academy’s Technician of the Year in the Built
        Environment in 2014, gaining national recognition for continued support in research-led
        teaching
    •   Rattigan (thermal lab technician) contributed to a journal paper in 2019
    •   Wong-McSweeney (acoustics technician) was lead author of 2 journal papers in 2016.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 Our income totals £13.9m with an average of £1.9m per year during this assessment period. We
 have a balanced portfolio across funder types indicative of alignment to funder priorities that
 address local, national and international agendas. Income is predominantly from 3 sources: £4.9m
 (35% of total) from UK government/industry sources; £4.8m (34%) from Research Councils with
 £4m from EPSRC, £597k from AHRC and £1497k from ESRC; and £3.65m (26%) from European
 programmes, EU industry or other sources. This income has supported 202 projects with 106
 (52%) delivered in collaboration with an external partner (academic and/or industry).

 Selected European programmes include:

    •   H2020 €9m BuildHEAT 2015-20 (Sherriff, Swan) sought to reduce heating consumption
        in the residential sector in Europe through developing a set of reliable, energy efficient and
        affordable retrofit solutions and testing these in 3 multi-family houses, located in Rome,
        Zaragoza and Salford. This involved the whole construction chain in the process of creating
        retrofit solutions, including investors to consider new financing models to facilitate the entry
        of new technologies into the market and addressed technical, behavioural, cultural and
        economic approaches.
    •   H2020 €7.3m ‘EU-Circle’ 2015-18 (Fernando, Ingirige) involved 20 project partners from
        8 countries. Salford led the assessment of the effects of cyclonic pressures and
        consequent flooding in Bangladesh, developing appropriate adaptation measures to
        strengthen the operational resilience (modelling the assemblage of critical infrastructures
        of communications, water, power, buildings, sanitation and health). Onwards impact led to
        an initial multi-agency collaboration idea between Government and private sector
        infrastructure operators in Bangladesh to provide solutions as a cohesive group in
        response to cyclonic pressures on infrastructure.
    •   FP7 €7.2m PROSECO 2013-17 (Fernando) ‘Collaborative Environment for Design of AmI
        enhanced Product-Services Integrating Highly Personalised Innovative Functions with
        Minimal Ecological Footprint along Life Cycle and of Their Production Processes’,

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        designed a novel methodology and a comprehensive ICT solution for collaborative design
        of product-services (Meta Products) and their production processes. The effective
        extension of products with new services in different sectors (automotive, home appliances,
        automation equipment etc.) was achieved by means of Ambient Intelligence (AmI)
        technology, Lean and Eco-design principles and applying Life Cycle Assessment
        techniques. New Meta Products, using AmI, will be capable of acquiring knowledge to add
        highly personalised innovative functions, thus enabling new business models.
    •   FP7 €6.49m Design4Energy 2013-17 (Fernando, Underwood) developed optimised
        design methodologies for energy-efficient buildings integrated into neighbourhood energy
        systems. It explored how the developed tools, provided in an interactive virtual workspace,
        enabled team members, clients and architects to investigate the impact of energy and cost
        of their design through exploring what-if-scenarios. The consortium of 17 institutions
        included VTT, Fraunhofer, Solintel and Technical University of Dresden.
    •   FP7 €3.6m CROSS-DRIVE 2014-16 (Fernando) ‘Collaborative Rover Operations and
        Planetary Science Analysis System based on Distributed Remote and Interactive Virtual
        Environments’ created the foundations for collaborative distributed virtual workspaces for
        European space science. Whilst space exploration missions produced huge data sets of
        potentially immense value for research, planning and operating future missions, the lack
        of integration and the fragmentation of the expert teams, data and tools meant that the
        scope for unlocking this value was being missed. The project improved data analysis and
        exploitation of space-based observations by providing and standardising new methods and
        systems for collaborative scientific visualisation and data analysis, mission planning and
        operation. This used data from Mars atmospheric analysis, rover landing site
        characterisation and rover target selection during real-time operations, collected in view of
        the ESA ExoMars 2016 TGO and 2018/2020 rover missions’ scenarios.
    •   H2020 €3m ‘Cutting Crime Impact’ 2018-21 (led by Davey, Wootton). Salford led the
        research, design and development of bespoke tools tailored to needs and operational
        contexts of end-users: focusing on predictive policing, community policing and crime
        prevention through urban design and planning, and on measuring and mitigating citizens’
        feelings of insecurity. Partners include law enforcement agencies and universities across
        8 countries. The success of the project has led to the introduction of human-centred design
        and development processes within partner police forces.

 Research Council awards include:

    •   EPSRC £5.4m, £1.4m to Salford, 2013-19 – ‘S3A Future Spatial Audio in the Home’ (Cox)
        was a collaboration between three universities (Salford, Surrey and Southampton) and
        BBC R&D. The project produced the soundtrack to ‘The Turning Forest,’ the first public
        virtual reality piece by the BBC that won the 2016 ‘TVB Europe Award for Best
        Achievement in Sound.’ The project was piloted on BBC Taster as a way of exploiting
        ‘Internet of Things’ to create spatial audio. Through the research, BBC R&D has created
        production tools for the reproduction method used for the ‘2020 BBC Proms’ and research
        on accessibility has led to two trials within BBC One’s ‘Casualty’ which improved the sound
        for the hearing-impaired in scripts for a central character.
    •   ESRC/GCRF £4.6m, £855k to Salford, 2019-22 – ‘Transformative Science and
        Engineering for Nuclear Decommissioning (TRANSCEND)’ (Fernando) investigates
        socio-technical systems required for enabling a transition towards a more risk-sensitive
        and transformative urban development approach in Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Malaysia.
    •   AHRC £1.2m, £457k to Salford, 2012-16 – Perry (leaver) was a Co-I on the ‘Cultural
        intermediation: connecting communities in the creative urban economy’ project led by the
        University of Birmingham to study community cultural budgeting and how intermediaries
        can support projects that respond to community needs around their cultural activities within
        current public sector funding mechanisms.
    •   EPSRC £1.2m, 2017-20 – ‘Collaborative Multi-Agency Platform for Building Resilient
        Communities’ (MOBILISE)’ (Fernando) is being used by the Disaster Management Centre
        and National Building Research in Sri Lanka, Provincial Disaster Management Centre in


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Pakistan and Sarawak Multimedia Authority in Malaysia to conduct evidence-based
        intervention for disaster risk-reduction and response.
    •   EPSRC £556k, 2016-19 – ‘Embedding measured data within computational frameworks
        for vibro-acoustic design’ (Elliot, Moorhouse) is led by Salford with the University of
        Cambridge plus 6 industry partners including Dyson and Bentley Motors. The project
        developed methods to provide more reliable and complete models for the vibro-acoustic
        response of mechanical equipment and vehicles, forming the basis for an International
        Standard ISO20270: 2019 and subject of an international webinar for training engineers
        by Siemens.
    •   AHRC £189k, 2018-21 – ‘Monitoring Object and Visitor Environments (MOVE)’ project (Al-
        Maiyah, Elkadi, Fitton, Kenawy) aims to develop a visual live-environmental dashboard
        of data that will assist museum curators in achieving stable and controlled indoor conditions
        to address seasonal and unpredictable weather patterns.
    •   AHRC £148k, 2018-20 – ‘IT Indian Heritage Platform’ (Gyau, Trillo, Udeaja) project
        sought to enhance cultural resilience in India by applying digital technologies to the Indian
        tangible and intangible heritage.

 We have led 11 KTPs, totalling £1.7m and related funding from Innovate UK. Examples include:

    •   Virtual Incident Training Simulation Platform £301k 2018-19 (Fernando). Led by
        Evidential Ltd., this project aimed to create a fully immersive and adaptable platform for
        use as a training experience for Emergency Services across the world, contributing to safer
        environments. Using Augmented and Virtual Reality the platform gives a user the ability to
        create their own scenarios and the inclusion of artificial intelligence technology would
        create unique experiences each time.
    •   KTP with Farrat Isolevel Ltd. £208k 2017-20 (Moorhouse) provided a measurement
        methodology for the prediction of structure-borne noise and vibration, whilst the University
        of Manchester supported by enhancing Farrat’s capability to characterise vibration
        isolation materials for use with these models.
    •   KTP with Links Project Management LLP £154k 2013-16 (Underwood). This 30-month
        project enabled the industrial partner to develop a business-wide BIM strategy towards
        Level 2 BIM compliance. The project enabled the business to improve the management of
        information, reputation, leading to an increase in contract awards, turnover and profit.
        External recognition of the project has been received through invited presentations at
        leading industry events (e.g. ‘BIM Show Live’); being shortlisted for the RICS ‘BIM4SME’s’
        awards in 2015 and was ‘Highly Commended’ at the 2017 ‘North West Regional
        Construction Awards.’ The KTP Associate won the ‘Institutional and National Student
        Employee of the Year Award’ 2015.

 Selected UK government/industry funded projects include:

    •   Saint Gobain Retrofit project £133k 2014-15 (Swan), was designed to allow a major
        products manufacturer to combine a number of project lines into a single sustainable
        retrofit offer and assess their performance to provide an evidence base to support
        predicted performance of the retrofit. Further, the project validated the ‘Quick U-Building’
        method of dynamically assessing the fabric performance of homes against established
        methods, leading to development of a patent.
    •   BEAMA Controls Studies £65k 2015 (Fitton) involved conducting a series of studies on
        the performance of heating controls in domestic properties for Siemens, Honeywell,
        Danfoss, Peglar and other controls manufacturers jointly through their industry association
        of British Electrotechnical and Allied Manufacturer’s Association (BEAMA). The project’s
        output led to a change in the Standard Assessment Procedure (SAP), the UK’s regulatory
        assessment model to establish the projected energy performance of domestic properties.
    •   The Centre for Digital Built Britain £50k 2018-19 (Underwood) Pedagogy & Upskilling
        Network project brought together a network of over 50 collaborators drawn from research,
        practice and other relevant areas to develop a digital competency management


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ecosystem, designed to support a digitally enabled, agile, competent and productive
        workforce.

 Research infrastructure and facilities

 We have continued to develop our research facilities to support our thematic growth areas (see
 section 1). Our key research facilities supporting UoA13 include:

 Energy House and Energy House 2.0 (ABERG)

 This facility advances on ‘Energy House 1.0’ (2011), a typical 1919 Salford terraced house
 reconstructed within a laboratory in which climatic conditions can be maintained, varied, repeated
 and patterns monitored and energy loss or retention studied. It has delivered ~£900K research
 funding since 2014, including collaboration with major companies such as Saint Gobain,
 Viessmann, Honeywell, Siemens, Danfoss and funded projects with Honda, Good Energy,
 Octopus Energy and Electricity Northwest. ‘Energy House 2.0’, with £11.5m funding (£8.2m ERDF
 and £3.3m HEFCE plus University match-funding), will construct a 2-chamber 720m2 facility to
 become the world’s first all-weather buildings research centre, covering diverse temperatures (-
 20C to +40C) weather conditions to reduce test times for new products from years to weeks for
 differing building types. ‘Energy House 2.0’ has already generated opportunities with
 housebuilders (Barratt Homes), product manufacturers (British Electrotechnical and Allied
 Manufacturer’s Association) and electricity distribution network operators (Electricity Northwest)
 who have expressed interest in early involvement at the opening and operation of the facility.

 Smart Meters Smart Homes Lab (ABERG)

 The UK’s first ‘smart meters’ facility (opened in 2018) acts as a research base for industry by
 supplying data and advice on smart meter performance/usage and as a laboratory to test future
 energy services and ‘Internet of Things’ products. It was co-created with support from Innovate
 UK and 12 industry collaborators, with £180k HEIF funding for staffing and ~£40k matched support
 from industry for smart meter, heating systems, renewables and batteries equipment, some of
 which is not commercially available. It has been used by companies such as Octopus Energy,
 Hildebrand and Schneider Electrical and a number of start-up companies for commercial research
 projects, including Chameleon (£40k 4-month; Fitton) and Hildebrand (£56k 2-year; Fitton) on
 the use of smart meter data to assess homes and businesses.

 Acoustics facilities and equipment (ARG)

 Audiobooth (Cox EPSRC £1.4m ‘S3A’; 2015): is a new £30k low-noise soundproof laboratory that
 allows for spatial audio experiments that combine 3D-audio, augmented and virtual reality
 systems. This facility was pivotal in the delivery of further projects, including the EPSRC £1.2m
 36-month (Salford awarded £399k; Davies) ‘Making Sense of Sound’ project and commercial
 research conducting performance assessments of the latest generation of the Qualcomm aptX
 codec (£52k over a 3-month period). The aptX codecs tested at Salford are now installed on an
 estimated 7 billion devices worldwide.

 Acoustic camera (Cox): since 2015, ARG has had permanent loan of the £160k EPSRC acoustic
 camera, which has been used on research projects including the detection of sound leakages in
 buildings. Notably, the camera was used in support of the production of BBC 4’s ‘Sound Waves:
 The Symphony of Physics’ programme in 2017 to demonstrate how a violin works.

 Other improvements to ARG’s measurement capabilities have involved investment of £250k from
 commercial and HEIF funding on various equipment, including a microphone calibration system,
 robot for loudspeaker measurement, head and torso simulator and 40 channel data acquisition
 system. The robotic turntable resulted in £15k-£30k annual commercial income for a range of
 loudspeaker and microphone directivity testing contracts. The calibration equipment was used to
 support work by the National Physical Laboratory and by Sound Level Meter manufacturers (e.g.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Casella UK). The 40-channel measurement system was used extensively for research,
 commercial work and student support, including the EPSRC £496k 30-month ‘EMBED’ project,
 £208k 3-year KTP with Farrat Isolevel (Moorhouse), and £42k 3-month iCASE studentship with
 QinetiQ (Elliot).

 THINKlab (DR)

 THINKlab was set up in 2006 as a Centre for Innovation Excellence to facilitate cross-disciplinary
 research using digital innovation as a key enabler to deliver solutions to our industry partners.
 Technical facilities include the lab is equipped with a 4K rear-projected stereo capable Powerwall,
 touch tables, and a range of XR facilities, including AR and VR headsets, motion tracking and
 haptics, a VR workbench driver and projection system, a 3D-scanner and 3D-printers and
 dedicated technical support. The facility is used for developing advanced technology platforms for
 smart city applications, collaborative engineering, multi-agency collaboration environments,
 serious game applications and interactive learning and training environments and community
 spaces. The facility has been an important vehicle for supporting the co-creation and development
 of large-scale, interdisciplinary, international, strategic, technology-led research and industry
 partnerships and projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Since 2014, we have developed 5 international policies/patents, been awarded 48 prizes for our
 research and made 58 media appearances. Our staff hold 86 roles in leading professional
 organisations, 6 posts as visiting academics, sit on 10 funding review panels, took on 120+ roles
 as conference/symposia organisers, 2 journal editorships, 24 editorial board memberships and
 200+ external examining roles. We gave 88 invited keynotes at academic conferences, 57 invited
 addresses at industry events, 72 guest lectures and were involved as peer reviewers for 150+
 journals/publishers. We have convened 11 international fee-paying conferences, hosted over
 250+ free seminars/workshops at Salford and welcomed 23 residential academic visitors from
 leading universities over sabbatical periods.

 Industry collaborations

 As a result of Research Group strategies to embed collaboration at the heart of all our research,
 we have worked with 600+ companies and academic institutions. We have 20 active research
 MOUs in operation (e.g. our Highways England MOU has secured 10 funded projects worth £262k
 since 2014, demonstrating the ongoing value of our collaboration):

    •   ABERG have worked with product manufacturers, including Saint Gobain (e.g. £133k 5-
        month refurbishment project; Swan), Knauf, Stelrad, Siemens, Honeywell, Resideo, Ideal,
        Honda Motor Europe, Electricity North West in the Energy House and in the field on
        commercial and grant-funded research projects, generally focused on building and system
        performance. The development of the ‘Smart Meters Smart Homes Lab’ (see section 3)
        was in partnership with Landis and Gyr, Kaifa, Secure, Octopus, Good Energy, Hildebrand,
        Chameleon, Geo, NIBE and Viessmann. Notably, ABERG has worked with 170+ SMEs
        as a direct result of their SME engagement strategy. Demonstrating wider leadership,
        ABERG lead/participate in industry-academic networks, such as the International Energy
        Agency Annexes, SAP Scientific Integrity Group, the Building Performance Network and
        Local Government networks (GMCA), supporting energy and building projects locally and
        nationally.

    •   ARG’s work is rooted in industry. For example, the EPSRC £496k 30-month ‘EMBED’
        project (Moorhouse; embedding measured data within computational frameworks for
        vibro-acoustic design) includes Bentley Motors, Dyson, Wave Six and Bruel & Kjaer as
        industrial partners; and the EPSRC £288k 5-year ‘CLARITY: challenges to revolutionise
        hearing device processing’ project (Cox) on improving hearing aids has collaborations with
        Amazon, Honda and Action on Hearing Loss. Other partnerships include Alstom, Arup,

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        BBC, Boeing, Bombadier, Daimler, Deutsche Bahn, Farrat Isolevel, Ministry of Defence,
        Music Tribe and NASA.

    •   In IRG, collaboration with major UK infrastructure clients and contractors in its 3 key areas
        of development across 37 funded projects include: 1) Railways - Balfour Beatty, China
        Ministry of Transportation, Eurostar (UK) Ltd., London Underground Ltd., Network Rail,
        Rail Safety & Standard Board, Risktec Solutions Ltd., Serco Assurance Ltd., Tube Lines
        Ltd.; 2) Highways - Akins, Balfour Beatty, Costain, Highways England (10 projects worth
        £262k), WSP, Jacobs; 3) Housing - Arup, BAE systems, Currie & Brown, Ernst & Young,
        Faithful & Gould, Guinness Trust, Infrastructure UK, Mott McDonald, Seddons, Sir Robert
        McAlpine and Turner & Townsend.

    •   SURF has a strong connection through work with communities and industry. Locally,
        members have engaged with local authorities and collaborate with GMCA, Transport for
        Greater Manchester, British Cycling, the Environment Agency and the Royal Horticultural
        Society (see ‘IGNITION,’ see section 1). Collaborators include United Utilities, Royal
        Horticultural Society, Groundwork, City of Trees, Northern Rail, Seddon Construction and
        Salford Art Gallery and Museum. Internationally, SURF is building a profile with private-
        sector organisations, national governments and agencies in countries including in South
        East Asia, Egypt and Russia (e.g. British Council £52k 1-month project to subjectify UK
        and Russian smart cities; Elkadi).

 Academic collaborations

 We have developed meaningful collaborations with a host of universities nationally and
 internationally. The Unit’s international standing and connections are demonstrated by staff
 holding 6 honorary positions nationally and internationally in recognition of their contribution to the
 discipline:

    •   Elkadi is International Guest Professor at Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany and
        Honorary Professor at Taylor University, Malaysia
    •   Hayes is an Honorary RA at the University of Liverpool
    •   Torija-Martinez is Visiting Fellow at the University of Southampton
    •   Trillo is Visiting Fellow at San Diego State University, USA
    •   Umnova was Visiting Professor at the University of Burgundy, France, 2015-2017.

 Our staff have performed over 200 PGR external examiner roles, demonstrating the breadth and
 value of our contribution to our discipline (including Lee at Queensland University of Technology,
 Australia; Universiti Pendidikan Sultan Idris, Malaysia; University of Witwatersrand, South Africa);
 and given 72 guest lectures, demonstrating our international presence (e.g. Keraminiyage in
 2016 at the University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka, on ‘New Trends, Challenges and Uses of Standard
 Forms for Construction Contracts: UK perspective;’ Fois in 2017 at the Universidade Federal do
 Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil on ‘The Global Countryside: Rural Change and Development in
 Globalization’); and hosted 23 residential academic visiting researchers at Salford, demonstrating
 the attractiveness of our facilities and relationship (including Prof Penamora, Columbia University,
 USA in 2014; and 6 post-doc RFs from China Academy of Building Research, China, in 2017).

 Examples from 2 Research Group collaborations include:

    •   ARG: the aforementioned £288k 5-year ‘CLARITY’ project (Cox) has partners from
        Sheffield, Cardiff and Nottingham Universities; the £1.4m ‘S3A’ project (Cox; see section
        3) has partners from Southampton and Surrey Universities; the £496k ‘EMBED’ project
        (Moorhouse; see section 4) is delivered in conjunction with the University of Cambridge.
        Other examples include joint PGR supervision with the Universidade Federal de Santa
        Catarina, Brazil (Fazenda); and joint publications with the Universities of Essex and York
        (Williams).


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   ABERG work with a number of universities in terms of networks and live projects, e.g.
        Leeds Beckett and Loughborough on the £521k 21-month ‘DEEP’ project. In terms of
        networks, they were one of the founding members of the Building Performance Network
        (with Leeds Beckett, UCL, Oxford Brookes and Sheffield Universities) and involvement in
        International Energy Agency Annexes (Leuven, Innsbruck, Ghent, Liege, Concordia, DTU,
        Ecole des Mines, Savoie Mont-Blanc, Strathclyde, West of England, Lincoln, Wollongong,
        Tsinghua, Aalborg, Chalmers). At a regional level, ABERG has helped established an
        Energy Innovation Agency with the University of Manchester and Manchester Metropolitan
        University to support the energy transition at the city-region; and has supported external
        PhD projects from University College London and Lancaster by providing access to
        facilities.

 We augment our expertise through the appointment of honorary Visiting Professors who are
 aligned to our Research Groups and provide us with connections to national/international
 networks. We review appointments biennially to ensure engagement is meaningful. Our
 appointments include:

    •   4 from public sector organisations: Mark Farmer (IRG; author of the Government’s Review
        of the UK Construction Labour Model: Modernise or Die in 2016), Dr Mark Bew (IRG; Chair
        of the Government’s BIM Task Group and PhD alumni), Mike Ormesher (ABERG; Director
        at British Board of Agrément) and Anke Woessner (SURF; Head of Urban Planning
        Department, Karlsruhe, Germany)
    •   3 from leading construction organisations: Steven Hodder MBE (SURF; Partner at Hodder
        Associates, former RIBA president and 1996 Stirling Prize winner), Claire Handby (SURF;
        Director in Real Estate Practice at Deloitte) and Trevor Mole (Property Tectonics,
        overarching Chair across all Visiting Professors, providing a critical-friend approach across
        all research in the Unit);
    •   2 from academic institutions: Professors Yong Zhang and Hua Feng Zhang (IRG;
        University of Science and Technology, China)

 Contributions to professions and learned societies/disciplinary advances

 Many staff are members of one or more of the built environment professional institutions and play
 a significant role in shaping agendas:

    •   Fitton (ABERG) is leading an EU patent application for a heat flux sensing device
    •   Moorhouse and Elliott (ARG) contributed to the development of ISO 20270:2019
        Acoustics - characterisation of sources of structure-borne sound and vibration; a Gas Strut
        Air Spring patent in the USA (US20180045264A1); and Harman Becker Automotive
        Systems, Germany, referred to their work as part an Acoustic Thermometry patent in the
        EU whom supply Mercedes Auto, along with other car manufacturers, with systems to
        control vehicle road noise by using the car audio system
    •   Underwood (IRG) chaired the UK BIM Academic Forum that led the development work
        that fed into BS EN ISO 19650 series (see section 1) for managing information over the
        whole lifecycle of a built asset using BIM.

 Our work has been recognised through 48 prestigious prizes, including:

    •   Cox received the Acoustical Society of America’s Science Writing Award in 2014 for ‘The
        Sound Book,’ which presents a tour of the world’s most amazing acoustic phenomena in
        exotic noises – creaking glaciers, whispering galleries, musical roads and a Mayan
        pyramid that chirps like a bird
    •   Hargreaves was awarded the 2016 Tyndall Medal by the UK Institute of Acoustics in
        recognition of his contribution to and excellence in acoustics research and teaching
    •   Higham received the Emerald Literati Award for Excellence, Highly Commended Paper
        2016 (‘Life Cycle Costing: evaluating its use in UK practice’, Structural Survey, Vol. 33:1,


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        pp. 73-87) and again in 2017 (‘Sustainability and investment appraisal for housing
        regeneration projects’, Structural Survey, Vol. 34:2, pp. 150-167)
    •   Moorhouse was awarded the 2018 the Institute of Acoustics Engineering Medal in
        recognition of his outstanding contribution in the field of acoustical engineering;
    •   Poppelreuter was awarded the 2016 ‘Milka Bliznakov Research Prize’ by the International
        Archive of Women in Architecture, Blacksburg VA, USA for ‘Refugee and émigré Female
        Architects before 1940’.

 Our staff influence a variety of agendas through the 86 international/national committees and
 panels on which they sit, including:

    •   Elkadi was appointed as board member of the CIB (International Council for Research
        and Innovation in Building and Construction) in 2019, replacing leaver Ruddock who held
        this post since 2013
    •   Moorhouse convenes on the International Standards Organisation (ISO) committee
        TC43/SC1/ WG57
    •   Poppelreuter is a Council Member of the Historic Building Council in Northern Ireland
    •   Sherriff is Trustee of the Fuel Poverty Research Network and committee member of the
        Cycling Society Research Network
    •   Swan is Chair GMCA Low Carbon Buildings Group and Member of the Westminster
        Sustainable Business Forum
    •   Underwood is Chair of UK BIM Academic Forum and actively engages with the UK BIM
        Alliance, Scottish BIM Delivery Academia Group, Behaviours4Collaboration Group,
        Constructing Excellence Digital Construction Group, Nuclear Institute Digital Special
        Interest Group, Northwest Regional BIM Hub and Constructing Excellence Manchester
        Committee
    •   Umnova is a member of the UK Acoustics Network funded by the EPSRC.

 Staff sit on 10 funding review panels in our discipline:

    •   Fazenda: EPSRC, ESRC, AHRC, CONICYT (Associative Research Program, Chilean
        National Commission for Science and Technology Research) and Deutsche
        Forschungsgemeinschaft (German Research Foundation)
    •   Ingirige: EPSRC, ESRC, NERC, Leverhulme Trust and Newton Fund
    •   Ji: EPSRC
    •   Moorhouse: EPSRC and KULeuven, Belgium
    •   Swan: EPSRC and Royal Society.

 We make representation on 18 external boards/advisory committees, including:

    •   Davies: Irwell Catchment Partnership Board
    •   Fitton: BRE SAP Scientific Integrity Group, International Energy Agency and UK Building
        Regulations Advisory Committee on Energy
    •   Swan: Green City Challenge Board for Greater Manchester and Low Carbon Buildings
        Group.

 Ten of our returned staff have chartership status in leading professional, statutory and regulatory
 organisations, engaging widely within each network: Al-Maiyah (CIBSE, SLL, ICOMOS); Elkadi
 (affiliate RIBA, FRICS); Fitton (MRICS); Higham (MRICS, MCIOB), Ingirige (MRICS); Ji (CEng);
 Kenawy (EES); Moorhouse (CEng); Paraskevas (CEng, IET, CMath, IMA); Swan (CMgr FCMI)
 and Underwood (MCinstCES, CPsychol).

 Journal editorships: Our staff are Editors-in-Chief for 2 international journals (Keraminiyage for
 Journal of Financial Management in Construction and Property; Underwood for International
 Journal of Digital Innovation in the Built Environment), act as Associate/Review Editors or are
 Board Members for 24 peer-reviewed titles (including Davies for Journal of Tourism Futures;

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moorhouse for Applied Acoustics; Torija-Martinez for Journal of the European Acoustics
 Association; Umnova for Journal of the Acoustical Society of America and Journal of Sound and
 Vibration) and regularly carry out peer reviews for 150+ publications in our disciplines.

 Conferences and CPD events: Our 88 academic keynotes delivered include: Moorhouse in
 2016 at the Hellenic Acoustics Association’s Annual Conference in Athens, Greece; Ingirige in
 2019 at the Interflood Conference, Singapore on ‘Urban Flood Management and Stakeholder
 Engagement Across Collaboration Chains with Specific Focus into Challenges faced within South
 and South East Asian Region.’ 57 keynotes at industry events include:

    •   Elkadi (2020) at The British Council event in Manila, Philippines on the ‘Assessment of
        Universities Industry Partnerships’
    •   Poppelreuter (2020) at the Public Record Office in Northern Ireland (invitation by the
        Historic Environment Record of Northern Ireland delivered ‘Belfast Architecture of the
        1930s’)
    •   Swan (2017) at the Green Economy Event for the British Electrotechnical and Allied
        Manufacturer’s Association at the House of Commons
    •   Torija-Martinez (2019) at the Acoustics Technical Noise meeting organised by NASA and
        Penn State University, USA
    •   Underwood (2020) to the Chartered Institution of Civil Engineering Surveyors and
        Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.

 We have hosted 11 conferences, including the 3rd International Intelligent Music Production (2017,
 ARG) and the 2019 Smart Meters Conference (140 attendees; ABERG). We have run
 seminars/workshops (250+ events), for example, since 2018 Lee ran a series of breakfast
 briefings to showcase our research to industry – our ‘Construction Standards’ event following
 Grenfell attracted 95 attendees with our honorary Visiting Professor Mike Ormesher (British Board
 of Agrément) as guest speaker; and our ‘Post-Brexit Construction’ event with guest speaker
 Professor Noble Francis (Construction Products Association) attracted 120 attendees; in 2019,
 Umnova hosted the Symposium on Acoustics of Nanopourous Materials (funded by the UK
 Acoustics Network); Underwood hosted the EU BIM Task Group for a Vietnam delegation; and
 Aziz hosted the ‘Big Data Scenarios in Facilities Management event (sponsored by CIOB and
 RICS). Our staff have been involved in 120+ steering committees of conference/symposia
 (including Underwood at 8th International Congress of Architectural Technology 2019, University
 College Lillebaelt, Denmark and 7th International Congress of Architectural Technology, Ulster
 University, Northern Ireland; and Williams at 2019 International Conference on Immersive and
 Interactive Audio, University of York).




                                                                                           Page 19
