Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 20 (Social Work and Social Policy)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 This submission is from the UCL Departments of Security and Crime Science (SCS) and
 Science, Technology, Engineering and Public Policy (STEaPP), collectively, the Unit. Both
 departments are in the Faculty of Engineering Sciences. While we occupy two separate
 premises, we have co-located researchers, research students and selected staff to enable
 strategic joint activities, including an EPSRC-funded CDT in Cybersecurity (also with Computer
 Science). We share the broad mission of producing cutting-edge research and translating it into
 practice and policy, through active engagement with research end-users, in order to address
 pressing global challenges, particularly issues of societal risk. SCS focuses on anticipating
 emerging crime threats and finding new ways to reduce crime and increase security. STEaPP
 coalesces around meta questions about the relationship between science and policy, and
 explores those issues through a range of lenses, such as energy access, climate change,
 cybersecurity and congested cities. There are also synergies between the two departments’
 respective areas of interest; cybersecurity is one, while topics such as climate change raise
 questions both about crime and security implications and ways in which science and policy
 interact. Integral to achieving their missions is a commitment to interdisciplinarity, with both
 departments comprising staff drawn from across the social, physical and engineering sciences.
 Both departments contribute to the Faculty’s strategic aim to ‘exploit (its) strengths in cross-
 disciplinary research to expedite societal impact’, with SCS working with other departments to
 identify the crime (reduction) implications of their work, and STEaPP working with departments
 to bridge the research-policy nexus.

 SCS was formally established in 2009 but its roots go back to 2001 and the founding of the Jill
 Dando Institute of Crime Science (JDI), named in honour of the murdered British television
 presenter. SCS is devoted to helping to reduce crime and other risks to personal and national
 security, and the term ‘crime science’ was coined to describe the empirically-based approach
 taken. Research examines patterns in crime in order to find practical ways to disrupt it. The
 location of the Department within the Faculty of Engineering Sciences was a strategic decision
 that has reinforced the problem-oriented underpinnings of crime science and facilitated the goal
 of integrating the social, physical and engineering sciences in the quest for community safety.

 STEaPP was formed in 2013 as a strategic move by the Faculty of Engineering Sciences,
 following a growing recognition that Engineering’s social impacts call for meaningful and
 sustained interactions with policymakers. Over its first six years, the Department has grown
 rapidly, attracting some of the best science, technology, engineering, social and public policy
 scholars and practitioners globally. It is the only science and policy department in the UK that is
 situated in an engineering faculty, which gives it a unique setting and intellectual framing.
 STEaPP’s focus is unashamedly on policy, with scholarly attention to policy impact in theory and
 practice baked into the Department’s ethos. STEaPP’s scholars are experts in fields including
 energy, environment, cities, digital technologies, futures, and science diplomacy. Much of the
 work in STEaPP targets science, technology, innovation and engineering toward social,
 economic and environmental goals, and is underpinned by a growing and diverse body of
 academic literature that blurs the boundaries between science policy and social policy.

 The departments have nine research priority areas (see Section 1.2.3), which shape their
 mission, and are home to six research Institutes and Centres. These coordinate research
 activities and help to deliver large scale projects, facilitating collaboration across UCL, with other
 universities, and with stakeholders and end-users.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research & impact strategy

 1.2.1 Overview

 The Unit aims to produce research of the highest academic quality that, by influencing policy and
 practice, will change the world for the better. To achieve this mission, our key aims for the REF
 (as articulated for REF2014) period were to:

       Build a critical mass of interdisciplinary researchers with a problem-oriented focus to
        make our activities sustainable and enable us to tackle new problems. We had particular
        ambitions to develop expertise in the field of cybercrime.
       Improve research performance, as indicated by an increase in grant income and high-
        quality research outputs.
       Increase the number of PhD students who will become the next generation of
        interdisciplinary researchers dedicated to finding effective ways of reducing crime.
       Develop our supporting infrastructure, including the capacity to access and analyse
        sensitive datasets.
       Continue to work closely with stakeholders, and increase our reach across them, to
        realise real-world impact. The Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) was
        identified as a particular stakeholder with which we would seek to develop a stronger
        strategic relationship.
       Further our impact-focused work in international contexts.

 Fundamental to our strategy is a challenge-led approach to research; that is, beginning with the
 problem and asking what combination of skills are needed to address it. Key to this strategy is a
 commitment to interdisciplinarity. Accordingly, staff have been recruited from backgrounds
 spanning the social and physical sciences, including criminology, social policy, forensic science,
 computer science, mathematics, electronic engineering, and international relations.

 Similarly, as part of our strategy we have created an environment that encourages staff to
 employ a diverse range of quantitative and qualitative methods that are appropriate to the
 problem(s) studied. Research methods include interviews, experiments, surveys, focus groups,
 computer simulations, statistical (Bayesian and Frequentist) analysis of primary, administrative,
 open source and data scraped from the Internet, machine learning, personas, scenarios,
 systems mapping, and systematic reviews.

 The Unit’s strategies are developed within the context of the Faculty strategy, which in turn is
 informed by the wider UCL Grand Challenges framework (Global Health, Sustainable Cities,
 Cultural Understanding, Human Wellbeing, Justice & Equality, and Transformative Technology).
 As well as providing strategic direction, UCL Grand Challenges and Engagement grants
 awarded to the Unit (36 awards this period totalling £375K) have provided seed funding for new
 projects and funds to support knowledge transfer activities. Strategies are also informed by
 UCL’s commitment to being London’s global university, and to produce research that has impact
 globally but also in London.

 The Faculty strategy is set by the Dean and the faculty management board, and monthly
 meetings, attended by departmental research directors, ensure strategic coherence across
 departments, create pathways to support and implement research and impact strategies, and to
 coordinate responses to large funding calls. The location of both departments within the Faculty
 of Engineering Sciences has been pivotal to their success. It creates seamless opportunities for
 collaboration (including ongoing projects that examine the impact of emerging technologies on
 crime), as well as providing a critical mass to support larger research and infrastructure projects.
 For example, central to the activity of several research groups is the analysis of sensitive




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 datasets, to which access is restricted. This has been enabled by the creation of the JDI secure
 data lab with initial funding provided by the Faculty (see Section 3.2.3).

 At the departmental level, research priorities are reviewed regularly with overall leadership
 provided by the HoDs of SCS JDI (Wortley then Bowers) and STEaPP (Blackstock then
 Chataway), supported by their respective leadership teams, and at the Centre/Institute level by
 their respective directors. Monthly leadership-team meetings ensure agility in responding to the
 changing research landscape, while annual departmental away days provide the opportunity for
 all staff to provide input into the departmental research strategy. Through these processes, new
 academic positions are strategically targeted to develop expertise in priority areas and to grow
 existing ones. To help acquire funding for strategic priorities, both departments have dedicated
 professional services staff whose roles are to co-ordinate major research proposals, identify
 funding opportunities and oversee the development, peer review, and submission of these in
 collaboration with external partners and academics.

 1.2.2 Achievement of strategic objectives since 2014

 STEaPP was established in 2013 and hence our REF2014 aims related only to the activities and
 aspirations of SCS. However, SCS’s key aspirations (outlined in Section 1.2.1) broadly align with
 those of STEaPP, and through developments in SCS, and the addition of STEaPP, the
 aspirations of the Unit have been met and exceeded:

       In REF2014 the Unit comprised 11 FTE staff. With a total of 42 FTE submitted in this
        REF, we have met our first strategic priority; SCS alone has more than doubled in size to
        24 FTE. New appointments have enabled us to not only build capacity in the strategic
        areas identified in our REF2014 vision (e.g., cybersecurity), but also develop exciting
        new areas, including future crime and science diplomacy.
       Growth has enabled a substantial increase in research performance and the
        development and delivery of a broader range of impact activities. Total grant expenditure
        during the REF period has increased by a factor of over 14 from £1.1M for REF2014 to
        over £15.6M in the current REF period. There has been a corresponding increase in the
        volume, quality and reach of our research, with articles published in a wide range of top-
        tier journals specific to our disciplines (e.g., crime and security, science and policy
        journals), contributing disciplines (e.g., mathematics, chemistry, engineering) and in
        leading multi-disciplinary journals (e.g., Science, Nature, PNAS).

                                                   REF2014       REF2021
                          Journal articles           150           620
                          Books                       10           51
                          Book Chapters               62           149
                          Government reports          23           68


       There has been a surge in PhD enrolments and completions while candidate quality and
        alignment with the Unit’s research mission has been maintained. Sixty-three PhD
        students (equivalent to 42.75FTE) have successfully completed during this REF period,
        compared to 3 in REF14, a 14-fold increase. We have 68 PhD students currently
        registered (cf. 35 for REF2014).
       We have also grown the infrastructure required to support our research mission. In
        particular, our secure data lab has been accredited and launched, enabling fine-grained
        research on sensitive data sets.
       We continue to increase the breadth of our engagement with key stakeholders. We have
        strong links with both high-level policy makers, frontline practitioners, the voluntary sector
        and others. The establishment of the Institute of Global City Policing, jointly funded by
        SCS, MOPAC and the London Metropolitan Police, has strengthened our relationship
        with London policing.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We have significantly increased the international reach of our research, with projects and
        collaborations across the globe, including in developing areas such as Africa and South
        America (see Section 4).

 1.2.3 Research priorities and their delivery

 Research and impact activities across the Unit are organised around inter-related research
 priorities or themes (listed alphabetically below). These articulate the scope and mission of the
 departments and inform everything they do, including hiring strategies. Staff may work across
 themes. The delivery of these research priorities is supported by the institutes and research
 centres described in Section 3. Over the REF period, there were 9 research priorities:

 Crime analysis

 SCS staff pioneer methods of crime pattern analysis to advance understanding of crime,
 disorder and terrorism, and their prevention. Work includes the application and development of
 geographical and computational methods to study patterns of crime in physical space and, more
 recently, online environments. SCS’s established expertise in this area has been strengthened
 by the appointment of Davies in 2018. Over the REF period, Johnson and Gill have directed
 research on offender and terrorist spatial decision-making (funders including EPSRC), while
 Johnson and Davies have led projects on the use of spatial and computational models to
 understand patterns of both illegal migration (funded by the Leverhulme Trust) and forced
 migration during conflict (funded by the US Minerva initiative). Funded by the ESRC and
 EPSRC, Davies, Bowers and Johnson have pioneered the use of mathematical graph theory
 in the analysis of crime at the micro level of place (i.e., street segments) and examined new
 ways that urban form impacts on crime risk at this level (see “Evidence Based Policing” Impact
 Case Study (ICS)). Chainey has developed a programme of research to examine such crime
 patterns in Latin America, a region that has received little attention to date.

 Crime reduction policy and practice

 SCS staff specialise in evaluation research (primary evaluations and systematic reviews), the
 development of evaluation methodology, and the use of evidence to shape crime policies. Work
 led by Laycock (see “Evidence Based Policing” ICS) has developed a new framework (EMMIE)
 for evaluating crime reduction strategies. Applied to systematic reviews, EMMIE combines the
 realist perspective (pioneered by Tilley) about how and where interventions might work, with
 experimental perspectives concerned with the reduction of bias. Funded by the ESRC (£3.2M),
 EMMIE and the systematic reviews produced, formed the basis of the College of Policing’s What
 Works Centre for Crime Reduction. The Unit’s portfolio of work on the evaluation of crime
 reduction at micro places has included an NIHR-funded national evaluation of the effects of
 street lighting on crime (Johnson and Tompson, with the London School of Hygiene and
 Tropical Medicine) and a large randomised controlled trial of an intervention to reduce repeat
 victimisation (Belur, Bowers, Davies, Johnson). Wortley and Tilley’s work with colleagues at
 Griffith University (Australia), funded by the by the Australian Attorney General’s Department,
 has focused on the prevention of child sexual abuse in two Aboriginal communities.

 Emerging technology

 Established as a new research priority during the REF period, this theme is supported by seven
 new academic positions (Becker, 2019; Brass, 2017; Carr, 2017; Kleinberg, 2018; Mariconti,
 2019; Tanczer, 2018; Watson, 2014). Staff across the departments take a technical and socio-
 technical approach to understand how digital technologies impact on how we interact, work, and
 govern, and how crimes are committed or prevented. Tanczer and Johnson’s work explores
 the implications of the Internet of Things (IoT) on crime, including gender-based domestic abuse.
 Brass, Carr and Johnson’s EPSRC-funded research examines risks associated with emerging


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technologies (e.g., synthetic biology and new targeted medicines) and how to secure them
 through the development of standards and regulation (see “Digital Technologies” ICS). Stilgoe’s
 ESRC– and EU–funded work explores anticipatory governance in the context of self-driving
 cars. Kleinberg and Johnson’s work has examined crime associated with cryptocurrencies and
 new payment methods, respectively. Mariconti uses machine learning to detect malware and
 online hate crime. Carr’s EPSRC funded work evaluates cybersecurity evidence for policy
 advisors and industry board members who deal with crises or longer-term national security and
 capacity building. Borrion and Becker's EPSRC-funded work develops frameworks and tools to
 influence online behaviours to reduce risk.

 Forensic science

 Forensic science is a dynamic discipline that provides solutions to problems faced in the
 detection and countering of crime and terrorism. This research relates to all stages of the
 forensic science process from the crime scene, the analysis of evidence, the interpretation of
 those results and their presentation in court. The appointment of Nakhaeizadeh (2020) has
 strengthened our activity on this theme. Morgan’s and French’s research focuses on trace
 evidence dynamics, examining the way that traces (DNA, fibres, gunshot residue, electronic
 records) may be changed, become contaminated, transferred, and persist over time. Morgan’s
 and Nakhaeizadeh’s work examines the human element of forensic evidence interpretation,
 focussing on the impact of intrinsic and extrinsic factors on expert decision making at each step
 of the forensic science process. Underpinning both strands is a consideration of the
 philosophical nature of forensic science and how science can and should engage with policy and
 key actors in the justice ecosystem (Morgan), and the imperative for transparency to provide
 more robust interpretation of science to reduce the risks of miscarriages of justice.

 Policing practice

 Identified as research priority to develop significantly during the REF period, our research
 capacity in this area is strengthened by the appointment of Ashby (2019), Bradford (2017) and
 Posch (2020). Research examines operational aspects of the police role, with two broad
 research strands. The first, policing for crime prevention, covers topics such as evidence-based
 policing, hotspot policing, and Problem Oriented Policing. The second focuses on police-
 community relations, examining topics such as public trust, police legitimacy, cooperation and
 compliance in justice settings. Bradford’s ESRC-funded collaboration with LSE and Keele
 University uses innovative virtual reality and ethnographic approaches to consider how police-
 public interactions can be managed to enhance consent-based relations. Bradford, Belur and
 Waseem worked with the Vera Institute of Justice (New York) to evaluate procedural justice
 related reforms inside police organisations in the UK and US. Funded by the Home Office,
 Sidebottom, Tilley, Laycock, and Ashby are evaluating the use and efficacy of police problem
 solving. Johnson, Tilley and Bowers are collaborating with Leeds University on UKRI funded
 research to understand how COVID19 is impacting on crime and policing.

 Policy and decision making

 Established as a research priority during the REF period, and supported by four new
 appointments (Chataway, 2018; Mugwaga, 2017; Steenmans, 2019; Tyler, 2019), this theme
 concerns evidence-based policy decision making. Significant projects include an ESRC
 investment that established a social science section in the Parliamentary Office of Science and
 Technology (Tyler), which has led to changes in the way that Parliament uses evidence.
 Steenmans led two projects for the UAE, one to develop a new national science policy strategy.
 Chataway (with Mugwagwa, Steenmans) leads a UKRI-funded project to steer research and
 innovation to address global sustainability goals in lower-middle income countries. Tyler’s
 research brings together people from high-, middle-, and low-income countries to explore
 research questions about legislative science advice. Chataway leads an ESRC-funded
 International Public Policy Observatory, focusing on synthesising knowledge about the social

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impacts of COVID19 on (for example) homelessness, housing and communities, care and
 mental health, to enable better decision making to benefit the British public. Here the blurred
 boundaries between science and research policy and social policy are particularly evident.


 Sustainable development, energy and environment

 Established during the REF period, with contributions from four new academics (Cooper, 2013;
 Mugwaga, 2017; Peterson, 2014; Washbourne, 2016) and spanning science, innovation and
 social policy, this research priority concerns responses to challenges and opportunities
 (including climate change and changes in governance) in the sustainable development
 domain. Research questions assumptions about development, why institutions behave as they
 do, and why policies fail. Petersen’s work combines science and technology studies with the
 anthropology of development to interrogate how uncertainties are understood and dealt with in
 environmental planning. Mulugetta’s research (funded by EPSRC, DfID and DECC) explores
 how agro-industries in sub-Saharan Africa can help reduce inequalities in rural energy access.
 Chataway and Steenmans are Co-I's on an East Africa-India-UK research collaboration that
 examines how to link industrial and social innovation for social and health policy related to
 cancer care. Mugwagwa’s ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship explored health
 financing in South Africa and Zimbabwe. Washbourne’s GCRF-funded Digital Innovation
 project examines flood early warning systems and water-related disease prevention for
 community capacity building and resilience in Africa.

 Terrorism, serious and organised crime

 Strengthened by the appointments of Schumann (2019) and Zolghadriha (2018), this research
 theme considers how methods of crime prevention, detection and disruption can inform counter-
 terrorism and organised crime research and practice. Research covers topics including lone-
 actor terrorists, radicalisation, terrorism risk prediction, organised crime networks, and trafficking.
 Projects by Gill, Bouhana, Schumann and Zolghadriha, funded by the ERC and others, have
 developed conceptual frameworks for the social ecology of radicalization, developed putative
 risk and protective factors for violent extremist engagement, examined the spatial risk of terrorist
 attacks, tested the reliability, validity and equity of terrorist risk assessment tools, and conducted
 process evaluations of risk assessment and management initiatives (see “Extremist Risk
 Assessment” ICS). Cockbain, Bowers, Sidebottom & Tompson’s ESRC-funded work has
 filled a lacuna of empirical research regarding the scale and methods of human trafficking and
 pioneered approaches to its study that has impacted widely on policy and practice (See
 “Trafficking and Exploitation” ICS).

 Urban innovation and infrastructure

 This theme was identified as a research priority during the REF period, and developed with
 support from new hires (Cosgrave, 2017; McArthur, 2018). Projects are conducted in
 collaboration with public authorities, international organisations, the private sector and SMEs to
 create a unique environment for urban experimentation, research and policy advice. While the
 focus is on globally-relevant city challenges, projects are practically oriented and locally-focused.
 Examples include Cosgrave’s work on choreography and design for sustainable urban
 environments and Washbourne’s collaboration with the University of Melbourne and UN-
 Habitat. Both seek to understand how different types of knowledge about cities is created and
 used in decision-making. McArthur led research on the governance and politics of roadspace
 re-allocation in cities for an EU Horizon 2020-funded project.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Supporting structures, practices and culture

 1.3.1 Pathways to impact

 Impact has been fundamental to the missions of both departments since their inception. This is
 reflected in our research priorities which collectively aim to develop understanding of real-world
 problems, design policies or interventions to address them, evaluate those interventions,
 understand how stakeholders use evidence, and translate research findings into forms that they
 can use most effectively. We have developed a culture in which impact is explicitly valued. This
 is reinforced at staff meetings, during the staff appraisal process, and in promotion
 recommendations. Specific mechanisms through which impact is achieved include:

 Engagement with stakeholders

 Our research is routinely co-designed and carried out in collaboration with governmental,
 industrial and public sector partners. In addition to working with stakeholders on projects,
 engagement and co-production activities are facilitated through workshops with industry,
 government and voluntary sector stakeholders. For example, every 2-3 months, research
 Centre’s run by Johnson and Carr (see Section 3.2.1) run 1-2 day “sandpits” with stakeholders
 (e.g., industry, voluntary sector, academia, policy, and police) to debate and understand how
 technologies (digital or otherwise) might be (mis)used to impact upon crime (or other societal
 outcomes), the associated ethical implications, and to develop programmes of research. Around
 300 stakeholders have contributed to such events since 2017, and over 3500 people have
 attended other events since REF2014. The breadth of our external engagement is detailed in
 Section 4.

 Policy Impact Unit (PIU)

 STEaPP’s PIU works with researchers in the Unit and across the Faculty to design bespoke
 policy engagement strategies. It facilitates engagement between the research and policy
 communities, designing and delivering engagement activities, and providing training. Recent
 examples include working with SCS to produce policy briefs on research concerning future AI-
 enabled crime, threats associated with cryptocurrencies and the challenges of preventing
 counterfeit goods; and assisting Tanczer to put gender issues relating to the internet of things
 on the policy agenda. The PIU conduct extensive background research on what is happening in
 the policy/practitioner community to ensure that researchers connect with those stakeholders
 who can make best use of their research.

 Continuing professional development

 Since 2004, we have had a programme of continuing professional development (CPD), and
 since 2018, a dedicated CPD director (Chainey). Training is research-led and delivered in the
 UK and internationally, and includes police training contracts in India (£1.3m) and Uruguay
 (£800k). As well as enabling knowledge transfer, CPD courses generate income to sustain our
 research capacity, create opportunities for collaboration with stakeholders, facilitate access to
 data, and ensure staff have an understanding of real-world problems which, in turn, informs
 departmental research priorities. For example, as a result of our police training programmes,
 Tripathi developed a research collaboration in Mumbai – part-funded with UCL Grand
 Challenges funding – to develop a Smartphone application for railway police to track missing
 children, which was supported by the chief of Government Railway Police (GRP).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Latin American and Caribbean Unit

 Established in 2017, this unit, led by Chainey, supports the conduct and delivery of research
 and knowledge transfer activities in that region. Projects have included the implementation of a
 four-city hot spots policing programme in Argentina (see “Evidence Based Policing” ICS), and
 the founding of research collaborations in Brazil on analysing patterns of robbery and homicide.
 Furthermore, ten international PhD students have enrolled on our PhD programmes as a direct
 consequence of this activity.

 1.3.2 Creating a stimulating research environment

 Seminars

 The Unit has several seminar series. Fortnightly lunch time seminars are organised for
 departmental staff, departmental and CDT Cybersecurity PhD students. A regular ‘Meet the
 Policy Maker’ series provides a forum for researchers to hear about policy makers’ research
 interests and the practical considerations of making policy. Seminars and other events (including
 an annual horizon scanning poster session) organised jointly with the Home Office provide
 opportunities for staff and students to share their research with the policy community and
 voluntary sector. To support attendance at external seminars and conferences, for the REF
 period, a ring-fenced allowance of £2,000 per annum was available for all staff in the Unit.

 Fostering interdisciplinarity

 Undertaking interdisciplinary research has always been an explicit part of our mission and
 mechanisms to facilitate this are discussed throughout this submission. In the case of SCS,
 interdisciplinary ambitions were significantly accelerated with the establishment of the SECReT
 doctoral programme (see Section 2.2.2). This required academics from different UCL
 departments to supervise every PhD student, leading not only to interdisciplinary doctoral
 research but also stimulating regular inter-departmental interaction. The new CDT in
 Cybersecurity (SCS, STEaPP and Computer Science) has built on this ethos. The establishment
 of SCS-led and STEaPP-led research Centres (see Section 3.2) have further facilitated concrete
 research links across other UCL departments and external university partners.

 1.3.3 Research Integrity

 Research ethics

 Both departments have their own ethics committee. All projects (staff or student) must be
 submitted to the respective Departmental Ethics Committee which, based on explicit UCL
 criteria, evaluates them and decides if they need to go to the full UCL Ethics Committee.
 Training in ethical issues in research are integrated into PhD programmes, and ‘ethics boot
 camps’ for research students (and staff) provide guidance on ethics, the process and timelines.

 Responsible research and innovation (RRI)

 The Unit is committed to research integrity and all staff and students are expected to follow
 UCL’s Code of Conduct for Research. Research students are required to complete compulsory
 taught modules which explore RRI, and EPSRC CDT students are additionally required to
 undertake UCL training devoted to RRI led by Stilgoe. Research conducted by staff across the
 Unit explicitly considers RRI issues. Stilgoe’s work examines the unintended consequences of
 innovation. Bradford’s work explores the impact of policing practices on public trust and
 perceptions of legitimacy. Such research can involve the public, the voluntary sector, NGOs, the
 police and policy makers. As well as identifying issues associated with RRI, our work seeks to


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 identify solutions (e.g., Brass and Johnson’s work to encourage industry to secure the Internet
 of Things).

 Open science

 In line with UCL policy, all staff and research students are required to make publications that
 meet the REF inclusion criteria Open Access either through Green or Gold access routes.
 Publishing fees are (where appropriate) covered by departmental funds, research grants,
 transformative publishing agreements, or the UCL Open Access fund. As of December 2020,
 99% of the Unit’s outputs (2016-) were compliant with this policy. UCL Press supports this policy
 by publishing 13 open access journals, with Washbourne being a member of the Editorial Board
 of the newly established UCL Press open access journal UCL Open: Environment. In addition,
 the Crime Science journal, founded in 2012 with Laycock as editor, followed by Bowers (2017)
 and Wortley (2020), is a fully Open Access journal, published by Springer. It has attracted
 authors from over 40 countries and, with over 300,000 downloads in 2020, it has the most
 downloaded articles of Springer’s Criminology and Criminal Justice journals. SCS runs a
 fortnightly ‘Open Science’ journal club and peer mentoring programme - JDI Open
 (http://jdiopen.github.io) - aimed at all PhD students and academic staff to promote open science
 practices and provide training in associated skills. Other specific activities that help to deliver our
 open science strategy include promoting reproducibility in research
 (http://bit.ly/2ZbUkIr), collating open crime data for others to
 use (https://osf.io/zyaqn/), and making cutting-edge analytic tools openly available (e.g.,
 http://bit.ly/3pd72kt).

 1.4 Future research priorities

 The Unit will build on the aims identified for this REF period. As resources permit, we will recruit
 additional talented staff who can take forward our ambitious interdisciplinary research and
 impact agenda. We will continue to develop our portfolio of research income to sustain and grow
 our existing centres and the training of research students, as well as funding new initiatives. To
 support our research and help our ECRs and research students gain experience managing
 grants, SCS will launch a small grants scheme. We will further develop a physical and social
 environment that not only supports our research ambitions, but enhances well-being, equality
 and diversity (including implementing Athena Swann action plans, see Section 2), and positive
 learning experiences for staff and students. We will strengthen links between research
 excellence and real-world impact, refining our approaches to the co-creation of research
 agendas with stakeholders, and championing the translation of research for policy partners.

 These priorities are set within the broader context of the evolving social and environmental
 problems facing the word, captured in UCL2034’s Grand Challenges. For SCS, there are
 particular challenges around advances in Transformative Technology. While such developments
 bring enormous benefits for society, they also have unintended consequences for crime and
 security. The growing threats of cyber-enabled crime and extremism are prime examples. At the
 same time, technologies offer new strategies for combatting these crime and security threats, for
 example, through advances in data science and machine learning. Reflecting this landscape, we
 will develop further our research capacity in areas such as digital forensics, data science and
 cybercrime. We recognise that these developments also have implications for Equality and
 Justice. We will explore how new and existing approaches might be applied to crime problems in
 ways that are socially responsible as well as effective, developing policy options that balance the
 need to reduce crime opportunities while maintaining public confidence in the legitimacy of
 policing and preventative strategies.

 For STEaPP, work on innovation and science related to Global Health and Wellbeing create the
 framework for new initiatives. STEaPP academics are developing integrative perspectives
 across concepts of health systems, innovation systems and transitions thinking to inform new
 academic and policy perspectives. One important element of the work is focused on

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understanding the dynamic evolution of health, scientific innovation and industrial capabilities.
 Existing work led by Mugwagwa, Chataway and Steenmans looking at these issues at national
 and global levels are examples of early work reflecting this approach.



 2. People
 2.1 Staff

 The Unit has undergone significant strategic growth since REF 2014 with 44FTE submitted this
 time (cf. 11 for REF2014). We have developed particular research capacities in policing, the
 nexus between technology and crime, cybersecurity, the science-policy interface, data science,
 science diplomacy and futures. The staff profile has also matured, with 13 professors (cf. 3 in
 2014) and 8 associate professors (cf. 1 Reader in 2014). As with REF2014, all HESA3 and
 qualifying HESA2 staff have been entered.

 2.1.2 Sustainability

 With four exceptions (Bradford, Chataway, Mulgan and Carr), all REF2021 recruitments have
 been of early career researchers (ECRs) with an appetite for interdisciplinary, impactful
 research. Appointments have been associated with our Masters’ programmes (circa 180
 students pa) or our BSc in Security and Crime Science, which are in turn closely linked to our
 research priorities. This synergy helps to provide a sustainable research environment that aligns
 with our long-term agenda. Sustainability has been supported by year-on-year increases in
 student enrolments. Workload models ensure that academic lecturing staff can devote at least
 50% of their time to research with staff teaching only two modules per annum. The increase in
 HEFCE-funded permanent staff (relative to REF2014) provides a more stable basis for our
 research capacity, but we are also keen to encourage the careers of our non-HEFCE-funded
 researchers. To do this, where possible, these staff have been given short bridging funds to
 enable continuation between research projects.

 2.1.3 Recruitment

 Staff are recruited from a variety of disciplines as appropriate to need. Like the wider university,
 our staffing policy is to recruit the best talent from the global pool. Vacancies are widely
 advertised and processes transparent. We particularly seek out suitable women and candidates
 from other under-represented groups, in accordance with our commitments to increase diversity
 at UCL.

 2.1.4 Equality, diversity & inclusion (EDI)

 UCL policies ensure Equality, Diversity and Inclusion at all levels. Both departments have
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) committees that promote good EDI practice for all staff and
 students. These committees are inclusive and all staff and students are encouraged to apply to
 be part of them. Committee membership is voluntary, but account is taken of this in staff
 workloads. The Unit has a proud record relating to equal opportunities in the recruitment,
 training, appraisal, development and promotion of staff. Both Heads of Department, some 41%
 of our HESA3 staff (cf. 40% for REF2014), 76% of our HESA2 staff (cf. 60% for REF2014), and
 38% of our professoriate are female (higher than the 2018/19 national average of 27%).
 Collectively, Category A staff have taken 11 periods of Maternity or Paternity leave in the REF
 period and subsequent requests for flexible part-time working have been accommodated, with
 workloads adjusted accordingly. In relation to ethnicity, per FTE, 10% of our HESA3 staff (cf.
 10% for REF2014), and 20% of our HESA2 staff (cf. 6% for REF2014) are from BAME groups.
 Two staff completed Women in leadership courses during the REF period. Both departments
 have held compulsory workshops for staff on diversity, equality, bullying and harassment, and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 four staff have completed senior management training regarding bullying and harassment
 prevention. UCL training on unconscious bias is also mandatory.

 Our commitment to EDI is reflected in our approach to REF staff and output selection. Without
 exception, all staff who met the REF criteria were submitted. To ensure inclusivity, all submitted
 staff were involved in the selection of outputs, providing (anonymous) ratings for, and comments
 on, nominated papers. An average of 2.6 outputs were submitted per FTE female staff member
 (cf. 2.5 for males), and slightly more female staff submitted four or more outputs per FTE. For
 BAME staff, the average number of outputs was 1.5, and for ECRs it was 2.3 per FTE. For
 ECRs, this is expected as 100% of our ECRs started in 2018 or later. The figure for BAME staff
 warrants attention, but we note that the figures are distorted by the number of staff with an
 undeclared ethnicity (for whom the rate was 2.25).

 Going forward, both departments submitted applications for Athena Swan Bronze awards in
 November 2020 that presented a comprehensive picture of their EDI profiles and set out clear
 action plans, with specified success criteria, to consolidate and strengthen our performance. The
 exhaustive self-appraisal process identified areas in which we were performing well and areas in
 which there is room for improvement. For example, our inclusive culture promotes a strong
 sense of belonging and collegiality from all staff groups, and flexible working practices are
 embedded. At the same time, we have work to do in improving gender and ethnic balance in
 selected staffing areas. The many specific commitments made include ensuring: that staff
 recruitment strategies promoted a gender- and ethnic-balanced workplace (e.g., further
 diversifying selection panels); that staff undertake regular diversity training; and that there is
 greater diversity with respect to honorary appointments, seminar presenters, committee chairs,
 and other areas that provide visible role models.

 2.1.5 Career progression and promotion procedures

 All staff are formally appraised annually – professors by the Head of Department, and more
 junior staff members typically by the professors. Plans for career progression are always
 discussed in appraisals. At the beginning of each year, departmental leadership teams invite
 staff members interested in promotion to submit their CVs for feedback and advice, and
 proactively prompt eligible staff members who have not self-nominated. The environment
 created has been very successful: since 2014, 11 staff members have been promoted to
 Associate Professor (all in SCS, three of whom have subsequently left the Department) and four
 to Professor (2 in SCS; 2 in STEaPP).

 2.1.6 Early career researchers (ECRs)

 Senior staff members routinely publish with ECRs and provide guidance on career plans and
 strategies of knowledge transfer. New academic staff are allocated lighter teaching loads than
 existing staff for the first year of their appointment, and are initially given minor administrative
 roles, such as library liaison or the membership of committees, to help them to establish
 themselves as independent researchers. We have appointed ten lecturers from our pool of
 postdoctoral researchers, including two staff who won competitive ESRC/EPSRC early career
 fellowships.

 2.2 Research students

 2.2.1 Ethos

 Our aim is to deliver world-leading doctoral training programmes that produce future generations
 of scientists (physical and social), policy makers and intermediaries whose work impacts on
 social policy. All of our doctoral programmes are inherently interdisciplinary and we recruit
 students from a wide range of disciplines, including sociology, psychology, computer science,


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 political science, geography and mathematics. Students are required to have supervisors from
 different disciplinary backgrounds. All PhD programmes involve a taught component to ensure
 students receive a solid grounding in their discipline and the wider public policy (STEaPP) or
 crime and security context of their work (SCS). All doctoral candidates are encouraged to take
 on paid teaching assistant responsibilities (with capped hours) to build their teaching and
 administration skills. UCL training – completed by 64 students in the REF period – is provided to
 support this. PhD students are routinely employed to work on research projects (also with
 capped hours), which further enhances their experience including opportunities to work
 collaboratively and to publish. They are also encouraged to take UCL training in
 entrepreneurship (8 have), and public engagement (4 have).

 2.2.2 Doctoral programmes

 SCS launched the £7M UCL SECReT CDT in 2009. The initial EPSRC investment (2009-2018)
 provided the means to create a vibrant and competitive programme that continues to enrol
 around 15 students annually. There is a mix of self-funded students, international students who
 bring scholarships with them, and students who win a Dawes Centre (of which there are
 currently four annually, see Section 3.2.1) or other UCL scholarship. The first centre of its kind,
 SECReT offers a three-year and a comprehensive four-year integrated MRes/PhD (1+3)
 programme for students wishing to pursue multidisciplinary security or crime-related research.
 To date, 71 students have completed the Department's MRes in Security Science, and 79
 (including students supervised by staff in other REF UoAs) have been awarded their
 PhDs. Annual industry evenings bring together end-users, academic and public sector partners
 to meet the current student cohort, stimulating exchange between students and external
 agencies, facilitating access to data, lab facilities, internships, practitioner expertise and
 research problems, and encouraging career pathways. An additional £2.7M of studentship
 funding has been provided by industry, grants and UCL, while in-kind contributions from partners
 including the Home Office, the Defence Science Technology Laboratories, L3G, Selex,
 Rapiscan, AWE, the National Crime Agency, and various police forces have exceeded £4M.

 STEaPP's doctoral training programme started in 2015 and offers two routes. A traditional PhD
 and the less common (and unique to UCL) Doctor of Public Administration (DPA). All students
 undertake a taught component in their doctoral studies consisting of eight modules. This
 includes training on what policy is, how the policy process works and how research can be
 tailored to maximise policy impact. The DPA is a ‘doctorate on the job’ that can be undertaken
 full- or part-time, which enables those who cannot take a career break to take a research-driven
 approach to change policy. There have been 39 PhD students and five DPA students since
 2015, of whom four have graduated.

 The £5.4M EPSRC-funded CDT in Cybersecurity was launched in 2019 jointly by SCS,
 STEaPP and the Department of Computer Science. The integrated four-year programme trains
 students in the socio-technical skills necessary to understand and address the evolving
 cybercrime threat. There are currently 20 students enrolled. A unique aspect of the programme,
 that reflects our approach to research and impact, requires students to work in groups to
 conduct systematic reviews of the literature on topics nominated by stakeholders (e.g.,
 Department for Digital Culture Media and the Home Office). Students are subsequently
 encouraged to publish these and provided with support to do so.

 2.2.3 Selection, support and progression

 Programmes are widely advertised and applicants are shortlisted by PhD programme panels.
 Places are highly competitive with over 200 applications in 2020. Short-listed applicants are
 interviewed in accordance with UCL policies either in-person or online. UCL provides mandatory
 training for PhD supervisors, as well as courses to help them further develop their skills. All
 supervisors must see at least one student through to the completion of an MRes project as a
 second supervisor before being a first supervisor. Monitoring ensures that staff have

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 manageable supervisory loads and that opportunities and support are given to ECRs. Students
 and supervisors meet regularly and complete the UCL Graduate School log. Completed every 3
 months during their first year, and every 6 months thereafter, the log requires students to
 summarise their progress and plans, which are reviewed by their supervisors. All students are
 initially registered for an MPhil and to transfer to a PhD they are required to complete an
 upgrade assessment, usually in their second year. They submit a substantial report and
 complete an oral examination. Students receive substantial feedback as well as a pass/fail
 decision, and those who fail the upgrade can retake it within 6 months.

 All students are encouraged to present at international conferences and publish in peer-
 reviewed journals or conferences. There is a dedicated poster session for all students at the
 annual Crime Science conference. For students whose funding does not provide conference
 support, a ring-fenced budget of at least £3K is available.

 Dedicated teaching committees monitor the quality of the PhD and MRes programmes and
 consultative committees elicit student feedback to help continually evolve and improve the PhD
 experience. The SECReT society, run by and for PhD students, organises a mentor scheme for
 new students, pairing them with existing ones, and organises activities (seminars, breakout
 rooms, fund raisers) to enhance the PhD experience. The LACU provides additional social and
 academic support for the increasing number of PhD students from South and Central America.

 2.2.4 Student outcomes

 Since REF2014, our PhD graduates have gained employment in universities (including
 Australian National University, Cambridge, UCL, Lancaster and Manchester), companies
 (including PWC, Aecom, Dyson, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, and Crest Advisory), and
 organisations (including NHS Trusts, the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, the
 Digital Catapult, and the United Nations).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 To provide a sustainable research environment and to anticipate future needs, the Unit has
 grown its research infrastructure since 2014. SCS has its own dedicated building and facilities,
 and has led the development of the only police-assured secure data lab located in a UK
 university. In 2019 STEaPP moved into a larger building to accommodate for growth, allowing
 STEaPP, some SCS staff and all PhD students from both departments to be housed together.
 Both departments have also grown their Professional Services research teams to provide all
 important support to turn research ideas into funded projects. The Engineering Faculty supports
 the Unit by match funding large scale investments, which provides a competitive advantage.

 3.1 Research funding

 The Unit has three main sources of research income – competitive grants (£23M awarded to
 UoA during the REF period), money earned through CPD (£1.8M) and consultancies (£2.2M).
 Excluding CDT funding, staff have submitted 75 successful competitive grant applications, with
 prestigious awards from UK research councils (e.g., EPSRC, ESRC), charitable trusts (e.g.,
 Leverhulme Trust, Lloyds Register Foundation), Government Departments (e.g., DFID, Home
 Office), industry and other funders (e.g., US Minerva). As shown, grants awarded varied in size
 – for 33, more than £200K came to the UoA (for 5 the amount exceeded £1M).




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Research centres

 Facilities, administration and other infrastructure to support the nine research priorities outlined
 above are provided via six research centres (four established during this REF period) that play a
 key role in the delivery of the Unit’s research agenda. The research priorities do not always sit
 neatly within one centre.

 The Jill Dando Institute for Security and Crime Science (JDI)

 Established in 2001 with £1.2M from a public appeal, the JDI remains the umbrella structure
 under which the other SCS centres sit. Wortley was director 2010-2020; Bowers is current
 director (2020-). With a broader remit than the specialist centres, it hosts projects that have a
 general crime and terrorism reduction focus, including the What Works Centre for Crime
 Reduction project.

 The Centre for Forensic Sciences (CFS)

 Established in 2010 with an initial £90K grant from the Provost’s Strategic Fund, this centre is
 directed by Morgan. The Centre has been successful in securing over £1m in cash and
 equipment from industry partners and through a crowd-sourcing appeal. A new JDI Forensic
 Science Lab will be completed in 2021.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Dawes Centre for Future Crime (DCFC)

 Directed by Johnson and established in 2017 with a £3.7M grant from the Dawes Trust
 (matched by UCL), the Centre focuses on finding pre-emptive solutions to emerging crime
 problems associated with technological and social changes. It funds four full PhD scholarships
 annually and research projects across UCL and other universities.

 The Institute for Global City Policing (IGCP)

 Established in 2017, under the directorship of Bradford, the Institute is a collaboration with the
 MOPAC and the London Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) who together provided £500K
 funding, matched by UCL. In addition, a researcher from the MOPAC research unit is seconded
 to the Institute. Both the MOPAC and MPS have ongoing involvement in the activities of the
 Institute. Money from the grant is used to fund seed projects and support post-doctoral
 researchers.

 PETRAS

 Led by Watson, PETRAS is the National Centre of Excellence for the Cybersecurity of the
 Internet of Things and associated systems at the ‘Edge’ of the internet. It connects over 100
 commercial (e.g., BT, Costain and Pinsent Masons) and government partners, 16 research
 institutions, and is linked to a £10M Innovate UK Demonstrator programme. Since 2019, the
 parent programme (SDTaP) has received £25M in funding from the UKRI Strategic Priorities
 Fund (£14M of the grant allocated to UCL). This provides academic funding and access to
 industrial partners and their facilities, with funding for other institutions administered through
 competitive calls.

 Research Institute for Sociotechnical Cyber Security (RISCS)

 RISCS, led by Carr, is the UK’s first Research Institute focusing specifically on sociotechnical
 aspects of cyber security (i.e., how people, processes, and other related factors influence the
 security of organisations). Financed by the EPSRC and the National Cybersecurity Security
 Centre (NCSC), as well conducting research it co-funds a portfolio of (£500K annually) research
 projects with partners including the EPSRC, Home Office and NCSC.

 3.2.2 Buildings and facilities

 SCS moved into its current premises on Tavistock Square in 2011. Until 2019, the building
 accommodated all staff, all PhD students whose primary supervision was undertaken within the
 Department, and any visiting academics. The building has a computer cluster room and a printer
 for student use, as well as a seminar room (capacity around 25) with AV facilities. The
 Department maintains a small, specialist library. Personal computers are typically replaced every
 three years.

 Following significant growth, a strategic decision was made to move all PhD students (including
 those belonging to the CDT in Cybersecurity) and research staff to co-locate with STEaPP in
 their newly-acquired premises (see below). This has created a vibrant PhD and research
 environment intended to stimulate multidisciplinary perspectives and research, and to capitalise
 on our shared missions. Splitting SCS in this way requires efforts to maintain departmental
 cohesiveness. To this end, two senior staff members (Professors Gill and Bradford) have
 offices at Shropshire House to provide leadership, and staff are encouraged to conduct some
 PhD supervision on site. Apart from relieving pressures at Tavistock, the premises at Shropshire
 are more spacious and up-to-date, and students have been overwhelmingly positive about them.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 STEaPP moved into Shropshire House in 2019. In addition to SCS staff and students, The
 Conversation (an online magazine which communicates science and research to the general
 public) shares this space and offers regular training to staff on writing for non-academic
 audiences. The office is fully equipped with meeting rooms, a board room and social space to
 enable casual interaction. Every member of staff and PhD students are supplied with appropriate
 ICT equipment.

 The DCFC has invested in Web Scraping and GPU Servers which provide State of the Art
 resources to enable open-source data collection, computational modelling, and machine learning
 on non-sensitive datasets. The servers are located in Tavistock Square, with back-up storage
 situated in Shropshire house.

 3.2.3 JDI Research Laboratory (JDIRL)

 JDIRL, directed by Bowers and then Sidebottom, is a secure data lab located on the UCL
 campus. Built with £1M funding secured from the Faculty, and in collaboration with the
 Department of Computer Science, the lab meets UK government standards for data security,
 and is formally accredited as a Police Secure Facility. Only the second of its kind in the world, it
 facilitates access to rich crime and other data that would normally be unavailable to university
 researchers. It is located in a highly secure space with controlled access, secure wiring, and
 high levels of electronic screening to prevent eavesdropping, and is managed by vetted
 technical staff. The lab houses a high-performance computing cluster. It has a separate
 visualisation suite; areas for secure working and document storage; and access to state-of-the-
 art computing and computational software. A secure tutorial room can be used by staff to teach
 MSc and PhD students, and departmental students can undertake dissertations and research
 projects on restricted data. It is difficult to overstate the value of this facility to the research
 activities of the Department and the full academic community in the UK generally.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
 economy and society
 4.1 Collaboration

 Collaboration occurs at all levels – within UCL, within the UK, and internationally – and involves
 both academic partners and external stakeholders in both funded and unfunded research.

 4.1.1 Collaboration across UCL

 With its commitment to interdisciplinarity the Unit has active collaborations across the Faculty
 and UCL more broadly. Much of this collaboration involves funded research projects. For
 example, the EPSRC-funded Crime, Policing and Citizenship project brought together
 researchers from the departments of SCS, Civil Engineering, Computer Science and
 Geography. At a structural level, the Unit’s research centres foster ongoing cross-departmental
 collaboration. For example, the DCFC has supported projects by researchers from departments
 including Civil Engineering, Medical Physics, Institute for Materials Discovery, and Biochemical
 Engineering. Collaboration extends to research training, of course, with the EPSRC CDT in
 Cybersecurity.




                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.2 Collaboration with other UK universities

                                                             As shown on the map, staff have
                                                             carried out more than 20 funded
                                                             collaborative funded research
                                                             projects with more than 30 UK
                                                             university partners to deliver
                                                             research aligned to our strategic
                                                             priorities. Notably, PETRAS (led by
                                                             Watson), is made up of 16
                                                             institutions: UCL, Imperial College
                                                             London, University of Oxford,
                                                             Lancaster University, University of
                                                             Warwick, University of
                                                             Southampton, Newcastle
                                                             University, University of
                                                             Nottingham, University of Bristol,
                                                             Cardiff University, University of
                                                             Edinburgh and University of Surrey,
                                                             Coventry University, Northumbria
                                                             University, Tate, and University of
                                                             Glasgow. In another example,
                                                             Laycock, led the ESRC funded
                                                             What Works in Crime Reduction
                                                             project that involved eight
                                                             institutions; UCL, Institute of
                                                             Education, London School of
                                                             Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,
                                                             Birkbeck College, University of
                                                             Cardiff, University of Dundee,
                                                             University of Surrey and University
                                                             of Southampton.



 4.1.3 Collaboration with international partners

 Our international reach is extensive, and staff have hundreds of international research
 collaborations. They have worked on funded projects with more than 50 international partners in
 more than 25 countries across all inhabited continents on research supported by the EU, the
 Australian, Dutch, French, Japanese and UK national research councils, the USA Minerva
 initiative, Public Safety Canada, US National Institute of Justice, CAPES-Brazil, FAPESP-Brazil,
 VERA Institute, British Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office, Inter-American
 Development Bank, Santander, and others. The map below shows locations where we have one
 or more research collaborations.




                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 We are also regularly asked to accommodate visiting scholars and have done so for periods of
 up to two years. In the REF period we have hosted and collaborated with 15 scholars from
 countries including Australia, China, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Poland, United States, Spain,
 Sweden, and New Zealand.

 4.1.4 Collaboration with external stakeholders and research end users

 Staff have active collaborations and long-term engagements with over 60 external stakeholders
 including police agencies (e.g., the National Crime Agency), government departments (e.g., the
 Home Office), industry (e.g., Facebook), the finance sector (e.g., PayPal), Non-Governmental
 Organisations and the charity sector (e.g., Lucy Faithfull Foundation). The extent and variety of
 some of these collaborations are illustrated in the Chord diagram below.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 4.2 Contribution to research base

 Staff make substantial contributions in terms knowledge creation and service to their disciplines.

 4.2.1 Recognition

Staff are widely recognised for the significance of their research. Evidence of esteem includes:

     Staff                                   Recognition
  Bradford       Winner, 2018 British Journal of Criminology Radzinowicz Prize
  Brass          BSI Standards Makers Award for Education about Standardisation
                 by the British Standards Institution (BSI) (2019)
  Carr           Appointed, World Economic Forum Global Commission on the IoT

                 Appointed, Norwegian Research Council Panel of Experts

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Chataway      BBSRC nominated member of the Academic.net network for
                Outstanding Female Academics
  Cosgrave      Women’s Engineering Society Top 50 Women in Engineering:
                Sustainability
  Johnson       Appointed, Scientific Advisory Board of the Max Planck Institute for
                the Study of Crime, Security and Law
  Morgan        World Economic Forum 21 Young Scientists 2019
  Mulgan        Knighthood for services to the Creative Economy (2020)

                Chair, World Economic Forum Council on Innovation and
                Entrepreneurship
  Mulugetta     Fellow, African Academy of Science
  Petersen      Elected member, Academia Europaea, the European Academy of
                Humanities, Letters and Sciences

                Elected fellow, Institution of Engineering and Technology
  Tilley        Co-recipient, ONS outstanding research award for the ESRC-
                funded project

                Home Office- sponsored awards for Problem Oriented Policing
                named in his honour.
  Tyler         Appointed Council of the Royal Anthropological Institute

                Appointed Polaris Council of the STAA in the GAO in the US
  Watson        Appointed Royal Academy of Engineering Trustee Board, 2019

                Chair Royal Academy of Engineering Policy Centre

                President Institution of Engineering and Technology (2016-17)
  UCL What      Recipients, Chief Constables Commendation
  Works team
  Wortley       Member of the Order of Australia (AM)


 4.2.2 Editorial roles

 Staff have/had more than 40 active journal editorial roles during the REF period, including:

 Editor

 Collective Intelligence (Mulgan)
 Crime Science (Laycock, Bowers and Wortley, in succession)
 Journal of Forensic Science International: Synergy (Europe) (Morgan)
 Zygon: Journal of Religion and Science (Petersen).

 Associate editor

 Climate & Development (Mulugetta)
 Climate Policy (Mulugetta)
 Frontiers in Political Science (Brass)
 Journal of Energy in Southern Africa (Mulugetta)
 Journal of Threat Assessment and Management (Gill)
 Legal and Criminological Psychology (Johnson)
 One Ecosystem (Washbourne)


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wires Energy and Environment (Mulugetta)

 Guest editor

 Applied Network Science (Davies)
 Energy Access and Sustainable Development (Mulugetta)
 European Journal of Applied Mathematics (Johnson)
 Frontiers in Psychology (Wortley)
 International Journal of Geo-Information (Chainey)
 Journal of Quantitative Criminology (Johnson)

 Editorial boards

 Brazilian Journal of Police Science (Chainey)
 British Journal of Criminology (Bradford)
 Crime Prevention and Community Safety (Tilley, Bowers)
 Crime Science (Ashby, Johnson, Laycock, Sidebottom, Tilley, Wortley)
 Criminal Justice Law and Society (Bowers)
 Dignity: A Journal of Sexual Exploitation and Violence (Cockbain)
 Earthscan Science in Society (Petersen)
 Earth System Governance (Petersen)
 Energy Efficiency (Cooper)
 Energy Research and Social Science (Cooper)
 International Centre for Counter-Terrorism publication series (Gill)
 International Criminal Justice review (Bowers)
 International Journal for Technology Management & Sustainable Development (Mugwagwa)
 International Journal of Forensic Science & Pathology (Gill)
 Journal of Quantitative Criminology (Bowers, Johnson)
 Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency (Johnson)
 Journal of Trafficking, Organized Crime and Security (Cockbain)
 Legal and Criminological Psychology (Bowers)
 Perspectives on Terrorism (Gill)
 Policing (Tilley)
 Science Policy and Governance and Frontiers (Mauduit)
 Security Journal (Wortley)
 Socio-Environmental Systems Modelling (Petersen)
 Terrorism and Political Violence (Gill)
 UCL Open Environment (Washbourne)

 4.2.3 Conferences

 Conference hosting

 Since 2007, SCS has organised the International Crime Science conference in London. The
 event showcases leading international research and responses to critical threats and brings
 together ~175 security and law enforcement practitioners, policy-makers, researchers and
 security industry professionals from around the world to promote interaction, and disseminate
 research. In 2019, the event was hosted at the Royal Society in collaboration with the police-run
 UK Society for Evidence-Based Policing.

 Conference committees

 Staff have served on organising committees for conferences including American Society of
 Criminology (Johnson); IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (Mariconti); IEEE
 Radar Conference (Chetty); INGSA bi-annual global conference (Tyler).


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited conference talks

 Staff have delivered more than 600 invited keynote and plenary talks, including 300 at
 international meetings in countries such as Abu Dhabi, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil,
 Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, France, Germany, Hong
 Kong, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Russia, South Africa, Spain,
 Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, USA, Zimbabwe.

 4.2.4 Service Activities

 Reviews

 Since REF2014, SCS staff have reviewed over 1,000 articles for over 80 journals, spanning the
 fields of criminology, psychology, computer science, geography, political science, public policy,
 management, and sustainable development. Since REF2014, STEaPP staff have reviewed
 hundreds of papers for dozens of journals, across fields of health, futures, energy, climate
 change, Science and Technology Studies, meteorology, citizen science, law, physics,
 engineering, religion, philosophy, development, public administration, political science,
 cybersecurity, internet of things, international relations.

 External PhD examining

 Staff have examined over 120 PhDs, 43 of which were from international institutions, including:
 University of Twente; Ghent University; University of Melbourne; Queensland University of
 Technology; National University of Ireland; Delft University of Technology; University of West
 Indies; University of Delaware; University of Pretoria; University of Technology, Estonia;
 University of Oslo; and United Nations University. UK PhDs examined were from institutions to
 include the University of Cambridge, Kings College London, University of Leeds, University of
 Manchester and the University of Oxford.

 4.3 Economic and societal impact

 As real-world impact is central to both departments’ mission, staff actively engage with research
 end users through expert advice and other knowledge transfer activities.

 4.3.1 Membership of expert boards and committees

 Staff members are routinely invited to contribute expertise to high level committees in the role of
 chair, member, or expert consultant/advisor, both in the UK and abroad. Examples include:

      Staff                                      Role
  Ashby             Member, EU-funded Pol-PRIMETT II expert panel on metal theft
  Bouhana           Expert consultant, UK Independent Commission for Countering
                    Extremism

                    Expert advisor, International Consensus Guidelines Committee
                    for the Prevention of Violent Radicalization and Extremist
                    Violence (UNESCO)
  Bradford          Research lead, London Policing Ethics Panel
  Brass             Chair, IoT-1 Technical Committee at BSI

                    Member, BSI Standards, Policy and Strategy Committee
  Chainey           Member, Chile Millennium Science Initiative

                    Member, Metropolitan Police Violent Crime Panel

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Chataway         Member, GO Science’s Areas of Research Interest Oversight
                   Board
  Cockbain         Member, Government’s Modern Slavery Strategy and
                   Implementation Prevent Sub-Group

                   Member, Commonwealth Parliamentary Association’s Modern
                   Slavery Expert Panel Global Initiative Against Transnational
                   Organized Crime
  Gill             Member, Europol’s European Counter Terrorism Centre,
                   Advisory Group on Online Terrorist Propaganda
  Johnson          Member, Home Office’s Scientific Advisory Council

                   Member, GO Science’s Areas of Research Interest Crime
                   Prevention Working group

                   Consultative Member, Government Office for Science Pandemic
                   Influenza Group on Behavioural Science Sub-group (Policing and
                   Security)
  Laycock          Member, Home Secretary’s Advisory Board on the Modern Crime
                   Prevention Strategy

                   Member, Home Affairs Select Committee; the UK Anti-Doping
                   Innovation Commission

                   Member, Board of the Women’s Security Society
  Morgan           Specialist Advisor, House of Lords Science and Technology
                   Committee inquiry into Forensic Science

                   Member, Home Office Search Technologies Academic Research
                   Team

                   Member, Inns of Court College of Advocacy working group on
                   expert evidence
  Mulgan           Member, Science Technology Options Assessment international
                   advisory board for the European Parliament
  Mulugetta        Member, Scientific Advisory Group for the UN Secretary
                   General’s Climate envoy

                   Member, Scientific Advisory Committee of the Climate and Clean
                   Air consortium

                   Chair, World Economic Forum Council on Innovation and
                   Entrepreneurship
  Tanczer          Advisor, Open Rights Group
  Wortley          Member, NPCC’s Child Abuse & Protection Academic Reference
                   Group


 4.3.2 Consultancies and other engagement

 Commercialisation of research and expertise is yet another way of achieving research impact,
 and UCL Consultants help facilitate this. Staff have been paid consultants to organisations
 including Facebook, various UK police forces, PSHE, CPNI, and the Home Office. Staff also
 provide, on an ad hoc basis, pro bono advice and research expertise to government, civil
 servants, industry, NGOs, and policy makers, both in the UK and internationally. Advice may be

                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivered via personal meetings, formal presentations, and written submissions. The list of
 recipients in the UK includes the Cabinet Office, the Parliamentary Office of Science and
 Technology, the Home Office, the College of Policing, MOPAC; and internationally, government
 agencies in Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, the UAE, and Uruguay.

 4.3.3 Media and public engagement

 The Unit shares UCL’s commitment to ‘open education and knowledge to the world’ and to that
 end we have undertaken a variety of public engagement activities.

 Public seminars

 Prior to the pandemic, the Institute for Global Cities Policing, Centre for Forensic Sciences and
 STEaPP ran evening seminar series and other events (e.g. the launch of the London Ethics
 Panel report on live facial recognition, the role of policy in reducing gender inequality in the
 workplace), with 3-4 events per term attracting 50-150 attendees each time on topics such as
 undercover policing, the investigation of rape, (mis)interpretation of forensic science evidence,
 and public responses to armed police. A series of webinars has been launched in 2021, and a
 “policing the pandemic” webinar held in November 2020 attracted 130 attendees.

 Science Lates

 In collaboration with the Home Office, SCS was invited to stage an exhibition entitled A Night of
 Crime in the Sciences Lates series at the Science Museum 2016, an event attracting 3,800
 visitors (http://bit.ly/3kJvSb2). In 2018, STEaPP contributed to the Science Museum Lates: Year
 of Engineering, organising and running an interactive workshop on Guerrilla Urbanism to engage
 the public on the work of the City Leadership Laboratory.

 TED talk

 Morgan delivered a TED talk on The Dangers of Misinterpreted Forensic Evidence, 2018
 (https://bit.ly/3rjdFno).

 Media engagement

 Cosgrave is the co-presenter of the radio programme My Perfect City which explores urban
 policy across the world and broadcast on the BBC world service which attracts a weekly
 audience of 300million listeners. She is also co-presenter on BBC’s Tomorrow’s World podcast.
 Most staff have been interviewed by/quoted in/written pieces for the media, some on a regular
 basis. Media outlets have included: Asian Affairs; Associated Press: Australian: BBC (TV &
 radio); CBS Radio; CNN; Daily Mail; De Volkskrant; Economist; Financial Times; France 24;
 Globe; Guardian; Huffington Post; Irish Examiner; Irish Independent; Irish Times; Japan Today;
 Mail; Nation; National Post; Newstalk; New Republic; New Scientist; New Statesman; New York
 Daily News; New York Times; New Zealand Herald; PBS; Physics; Reuters; Scientific American;
 Sri Lanka Guardian; Smithsonian Channel; Sunday Times; Telegraph; TV3; Vancouver Sun;
 Vice Magazine; Virginia Quarterly Review; Washington Post; and Wired.

 4.4 Concluding remarks

 Building deep and productive relationships across a diverse range of partners, stakeholders and
 end users goes to the very heart of the mission of both departments. Collectively, these
 engagements ensure that our research, and our approach to it, contributes to the wider research
 base, policy making and practice both nationally and globally.




                                                                                            Page 24
