Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 The staff base submitted to this Unit of Assessment (UoA) has grown almost four-fold (from 13.8
 FTE in REF2014 to 53 FTE in REF2021, 54 staff). This reflects a significant shift in the resources
 and energy invested to increase and enhance the quality of our research activity (Figure 1).




 Figure 1. Staff (FTE) submitted to REF2014 and REF2021 demonstrating the growth and
 increase in the staff base and research intensity in this unit.

 The Unit sits within the Department of Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation, which has three core
 discipline areas (Physiotherapy; Sport and Exercise Sciences; Sport Coaching, Development and
 Management). Following the results of REF2014, the Unit critically reviewed its performance and
 made a concerted effort to transform its direction and research priorities to increase our research
 power with concomitant quality. This has been made possible by our long term vision and
 strategies that have transformed an academic community with high quality teaching and pockets
 of research excellence into a Unit renowned for its distinctive, pervasive and exceptional research.


 Our research has three distinct themes that encapsulate the richness of the Unit. These inclusive
 themes recognise and support the breadth and depth of existing and emerging research
 excellence across all our disciplines. Importantly, these themes do not stand in isolation; whilst
 Unit staff might be more active in one theme, the overlap between themes encourages cross-
 boundary working (Figure 2).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. A graphical representation of our three core themes research themes. Satellite
 balloons represent areas of existing and emerging research excellence.

    •   Optimising Human Performance
 This theme, led by Professor Howatson, aims to improve our understanding of how the human
 body responds and adapts to the stress of exercise, and how we can manipulate exercise, diet
 and recovery strategies to optimise the exercise-recovery-adaptation process. The theme has
 developed an internationally respected reputation for: 1) the assessment of the neuromuscular
 system in response to different fatiguing exercise and other exercise training stimuli using
 sophisticated neurophysiological techniques; 2) the application of preventative and therapeutic
 interventions (including functional bioactives) to facilitate recovery from exercise; and 3) use of
 integrative physiology to understand sex differences to exercise and specifically female exercisers
 and older adults. The group has an excellent publication record of applied research, which has
 attracted significant interest with external end-users. Consequently, we established very strong
 relationships with elite sport partners, such as the English Institute of Sport (EIS), British Cycling,
 British Sailing, and British Gymnastics that have resulted in tangible impact (see REF3) and are
 continuing with additional projects (British Sailing and British Gymnastics).




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Promoting and Preserving Health and Wellbeing
 In line with our intentions articulated in REF2014, this theme, led by Professor Hettinga,
 addresses the importance that physical activity and nutrition play in improving health across the
 life-span (from child health to modified physical activity for the elderly) and the prevention and
 treatment of deconditioning (through ageing and physical inactivity), and long-term medical
 conditions. The theme takes numerous approaches including systematic reviews, qualitative,
 observational and experimental studies. There is a particular reputation for delivering high quality
 randomised controlled trials in clinical conditions (e.g. cancer survivors, Parkinson’s Disease,
 COPD, Crohn’s disease, Multiple Sclerosis and cardio-respiratory diseases).            Studies are
 informed by comprehensive patient and public involvement (PPI) to ensure that they are focused
 on outcomes of upmost importance to patients and their carers. This work is intrinsically linked to
 a University multidisciplinary research theme (MDRT) of Integrated Health and Social Care
 (see REF5a) which is led by Professor Vogiatzis. There are strong links with charitable trusts,
 health care trusts and harder to reach populations (such as those with learning difficulties), which
 has attracted substantial research funding (see Section 3).


    •   Informing Practice and Policy
 This emerging research group was formally established in 2017 following the appointment of its
 lead, Professor Potrac, who has been instrumental in providing staff direction and cohesion.
 Research in this theme critically examines the challenges and dilemmas associated with
 professional practice, the formulation and enactment of policy, and the well-being of those working
 and participating in sport and exercise. Researchers in this group draw upon and integrate theory
 and methods from a variety of academic disciplines (i.e., sociology, social psychology, education
 and management). They have developed its reputation for publishing high quality research on a
 variety of topics including the social, relational and emotional dimensions of sport coaching; the
 enactment of sport, physical education, and leisure policies; and supporting the well-being and
 development of sport participants. The group has developed a strong relationship with external
 partners internationally (e.g., the European Union of Football Associations), nationally (e.g., The
 Football Association, Power to Change, The Talented Athlete Support Scheme, and the Scottish
 National Outdoor Training Centre), and regionally (e.g., Newcastle Falcons, Newcastle United
 F.C., and the Sunderland A.F.C. Foundation of Light). The group’s research is being used to
 support organisational policy making and the development of groups and individuals (see REF 3).


 Our interconnected approach empowers staff to engage in cross-fertilisation of research ideas and
 expertise, and hence the opportunity for Unit interdisciplinarity and collaborations across other
 Units and external partners. Each theme leader supports this development through mentoring,
 coaching, organising CPD events and providing discipline-specific leadership and expertise. This
 has been particularly important for engaging colleagues who were historically not research active


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and also to enthuse newer staff and early career researchers (ECRs). We are now at a point
 where ~90% of staff (compared to ~35% in REF2014) are involved with research activity and
 have contributed to at least one research output; 76% (Fig. 1) having a significant responsibility
 for research (defined by the Code of Practice referred to in REF5a), with 9 further FTE engaging
 in doctoral studies.


 The growth in research activity has been accompanied by a marked increase in the quality, rigour
 and profile of our outputs (67% in upper quartile journals), and in the volume of research across
 the Unit, much of which has translational impact. For example, the work in neuromuscular
 regulation, exercise recovery and clinical exercise physiology has global reach and significance
 to benefit end-users. Consequently, this submission represents a Unit characterised by vitality and
 vibrancy, that has seen major growth in the last cycle thereby achieving our strategic aim of
 increasing research power with quality.


 Strategy and Leadership
 Changes in Unit leadership in 2014 led to establishing the Research and Enterprise Strategy
 Group (RESG). This group is responsible for the strategic research direction of the Unit with the
 aim to facilitate research excellence across all Unit themes. The increase in research leaders
 (from 1 Professor in REF2014 to 7 Professors and 3 Associate Professors in this cycle;
 Figure 3) illustrates our longer-term commitment to invest in the research agenda. An important
 role of the RESG was establishing the Unit’s Research and Innovation Strategy to significantly
 build on results from REF2014. The strategy provided structure, focus and cohesion to grow our
 existing research excellence, and provides direction for nurturing emerging research excellence.
 This action is supported by the University’s ‘Vision 2030’ and Strategic Outcomes (presented in
 REF5a) and aligned with University Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that aim to:

  1. increase proportion of staff with a significant responsibility for research by 60%
  2. increase the research quality - 80% of staff producing 3* and 4* research by 2023
  3. increase research and enterprise income (15% per annum to 2018 and 5% per annum
     to 2023)

 In the REF2014 submission, there were aspirations to expand the Unit’s research base by
 developing people and investing in estates and external engagement, which aligned firmly with
 the University’s ‘Vision 2030. Achieving this has been made possible by academic staff (on
 average in the unit) having 40% of their workload dedicated to research. The time and space
 available to pursue research is further maximised by identifying discipline-specific challenges and
 opportunities for more efficient working practices, providing relevant professional development
 (research and personal), raising aspirations of staff, targeting external funding opportunities, and
 other research investment (e.g., internal capital support).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 3. Unit growth in research leadership. At the time of submission, 10 staff (19%) are in
 research leadership positions compared to a single Professor in 2014.


  Evidence of research growth in this REF period:
  • The number of staff submitted to this Unit has increased from 13.8 FTE to 53 FTE
  • Funding applications have seen an 8-fold increase since REF2014 (bid value >£7.5M in
    2019/20) and the value of new research-related awards (n=61) in this REF cycle is >£4M
    (RGCI - £1.825M [July 2020], compared to £423K RGCI in REF2014).
  • An increase in doctoral completions from 9 in REF2014 to 50 in the current cycle
  • A total of 11 impact case studies are in development (5 selected for REF2021).


 This substantial progress has been made possible by delivering on strategy goals to develop a
 positive and inclusive research culture across the Unit, which actively engages, and is supported
 by, vibrant and energetic staff. In addition to making sufficient space and time to conduct research,
 opportunities are also provided to engage in grant writing workshops, training (such as paper
 writing), away days, mentoring systems, seminars and journal clubs to facilitate the research
 culture and collaboration through relationship building. Funding for external activities is made
 possible by quality research (QR) funding (detailed in Section 2 and 4).       Other developments
 since REF2014 include the expansion of bespoke laboratory spaces for neuroscience and clinical
 work to improve research relating to health and wellbeing (Section 3). Our suite of well-equipped
 laboratories has opened opportunities leading to numerous collaborations and high-quality outputs
 (i.e. published in upper-quartile journals) with world leading institutions (e.g., University of
 California, San Diego, University of Groningen, Imperial College London, KU Leuven, Monash
 University, University of Oxford, University of Zurich).


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research leadership team has emphasised a philosophy of continued improvement and
 academic excellence, which generates state-of-the-art research. Central to achieving the goals
 set out in the Unit’s strategy is developing a culture based on inclusivity (e.g., increasing staff
 research engagement across the department), excellence (produce high-quality outputs) and
 community engagement (the co-production and translation of research for social and economic
 good). This philosophy evolved from an ethos that high quality education and research have equal
 importance and should have relevance to the wider community. This has been achieved by:

   •    Increasing the number of doctoral-qualified staff with a significant responsibility for
        research (offering staff the opportunity for doctoral study and recruitment of doctoral-
        qualified staff)
   •    Increasing the quality and volume of research activity
   •    Increasing the number of doctoral students
   •    Increasing income generation from external sources
   •    Increasing the application of our work to the community (impact)


 Metrics for the above points have increased substantially (presented in subsequent sections) in
 this REF cycle and represent evidence of substantial Unit growth. This is made possible by
 increased Unit collegiality, national and international collaborations, and researcher autonomy to
 lead projects and increase income generation. This approach to research will ensure the
 sustainability of the Unit’s work beyond REF2021. Whilst a strong emphasis has been to develop
 research quality, we have been mindful to provide the opportunity for colleagues to have a clear
 sense of belonging and being engaged in a continuing process of development. Importantly, our
 research themes allow for discipline diversity to contribute to central themes, but concurrently
 engage in research that is stimulating on a personal and a discipline-specific level. Overall, we
 believe this strategic approach has been vital to the Unit’s growth in this REF cycle.


 In addition to the Unit-specific themes, the University has invested in six MDRT (REF5a). This
 initiative has directly benefited the Unit by bringing researchers together to address complex
 societal problems. One of these MDRT, Integrated Health and Social Care, has significant
 contributions from this Unit; it is led by Professor Vogiatzis and >20 Unit staff contribute to its
 activities.   Similarly, an interdisciplinary cross-University group with established expertise in
 different aspects of nutrition has integrated its activities to develop a nutritional trials unit
 (NUTRAN; https://www.northumbria.ac.uk/business-services/engage-with-us/research/nutran/). This
 group takes a molecules-to-man approach to develop interdisciplinary research relating to human
 health and performance and has substantial input from this Unit (6 staff).


 The Integrated Health and Social Care MDRT has been enabled by significant University
 investment of ~£500,000 per annum in this cycle and resulted in the recruitment of two research
 Professors, two Vice Chancellor’s Fellows, the setting-up of a cellular and molecular laboratory

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the purchase of instrumentation such as optoelectronic plethysmography that supports Unit-
 related work (Section 3). Since the initial investment, the Unit has established strong research
 links with NHS trusts in the North East, Yorkshire and Cumbria, with prestigious research funding
 agencies (e.g. National Institute of Health Research, NIHR), and with national and international
 institutions and scholars. This has facilitated collaborative research projects and increased funding
 applications and success. For example:
 •   Prestigious awards: NIHR Health Technology Assessment, £1.47M; European Union,
     Horizon 2020, €423K
 •   Increased research quality in clinically-related exercise science: rehabilitation, cancer
     survivorship, COPD, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s Disease, older adults, etc.
 •   Publication of high-quality research in world leading journals: The Lancet, European
     Respiratory Journal, European Urology, British Journal of Cancer, Journal of Physiology.


 Impact Strategy and Research Infrastructure
 Building from the strategy articulated at REF2014, the research conducted in this Unit has
 generated significant real-world applications and benefits. For example, stakeholder problems are
 addressed by delivering challenge-led research, where projects actively help to solve problems by
 directly applying the knowledge and evidence to impact the end user. In this REF cycle, a more
 focused and nuanced effort has been made to capture the impact of our research. The Unit staff
 have undergone substantial training, with support from research leaders and the University
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS), to embed and actively capture (intended and
 unintended) impact across the research lifecycle for wider socio-economic benefit beyond
 academia. For example, ongoing research collaborations with the English Institute of Sport and
 elite sport partners have led to several funded PhD studentships that are directly embedded within
 Olympic sports.     The knowledge generated is underpinned by a formal memorandum of
 understanding to work co-operatively that directly leads to new research knowledge to be directly
 embedded in the sports, where it can have a performance impact for competing athletes (see
 REF3, where two impact case studies exemplify this approach).


 All research is conducted in accordance with ethical standards that are underpinned by the Faculty
 and University research ethics procedures and, where necessary, IRAS for activity with clinical
 populations and the NHS. These ethical standards are supported by excellent standards of care
 and maintenance of our laboratories (as evidenced by British Association of Sport and
 Exercise Sciences [BASES] Laboratory Accreditation), which include established operating
 procedures and rigorous health and safety standards (endorsed by the HSE). In addition, many
 staff hold professional accreditations (e.g., BASES, UKSCA, BPS) and chartered or HCPC
 status (exercise scientists, physiotherapists and psychologists).



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Concordat to Support Research Integrity is made clear to all staff at an early stage of the
 research journey (new arrivals, ECRs and PGRs). Research integrity is an expectation for all staff
 and PGRs within the appropriate Code of Conduct. In addition, we adhere to the REF open access
 policy and the University’s Research Data Management policy that requires the retention of data
 for up to 10 years. There is a resource of ~£100K per annum for fees associated with Gold Open
 Access that is managed by the library and can be applied for with support from the Unit’s RESG.
 Research data can be stored on the University secured server and other University supported
 infrastructure (e.g. figshare) that will make these data accessible (unless otherwise restricted).
 The Unit also supports the accessibility of meta-data, and complies to the FAIR guidelines
 (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable; Reusable) for research data, particularly when it assists the
 content of a research output. Additionally, many protocols are publicly available through open
 access clinical trials registries, such as clinicaltrial.gov and ISRCTN. RIS and the University Library
 also provide a plethora of resources to help researchers to make judgements on data accessibility
 to increase transparency and reproducibility of information.


 Looking Forward
 Moving beyond REF2021, under the leadership of Professor Potrac, the emerging excellence of
 the Informing Practice and Policy theme will continue to grow in both the number of research
 active staff and the quality of the research that is produced.             Our Optimising Human
 Performance and Promoting and Preserving Health and Wellbeing themes will consolidate
 their position by continuing relationships with elite sport partners, charities and health care trusts
 that yield high quality work with direct application to the end users. Given the more recent
 appointments to the Unit, we envisage particularly strong additions to our current portfolio of work
 with clinical populations. Our current position has set the strong platform for further growth that
 will afford greater sustainability with vitality of research beyond ‘Vision 2030’ (REF5a).


 We will increase funding applications across our staff base targeted to RCUK, charities, defence
 and industry partners. The continued growth of the PGR community is vital to our future success.
 This will be facilitated through a combination of internal awards and, increasingly, through
 externally funded, collaborative, self-funded and joint-award PhDs. Collectively, we will continue
 to grow our research power with quality and use this research to benefit the regional, national and
 international community. The planned growth (summarised below) will provide new opportunities
 for our students, research-informed teaching, increase expertise in those research topics, and
 ultimately generate new knowledge and beneficial impact beyond academia.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Strategy – Building for the Future:
  • To ensure sustainable growth of existing and emerging research excellence. This will be
     achieved by supporting and mentoring ECRs and more established colleagues; increase the
     number of post-doctoral researchers from external funding sources; further collaboration
     with internal and external partners
  • To establish our themes as field leaders in the relevant disciplines. This will be achieved by
     working collaboratively with internal and external stakeholders to address complex issues
     that have reach and significance beyond academia. A good platform is now set for further
     growth in Practice and Policy and Promoting & Preserving Health and Wellbeing, in particular
  • To grow income generation from external sources (RCUK, charity, industry NGBs) that
     support basic and applied research activity that can be translated to achieve impact
  • To maintain the number of doctoral researchers through external and University
     collaborative (joint-funded) initiatives and self-funding PGRs
  • Increase the opportunities for staff to complete research-related sabbaticals
  • Maintaining a balanced portfolio for all staff to engage enthusiastically in the research
     agenda in an energetic manner that explores new knowledge in mechanistic, applied and
     translational research for the benefit of end-users.



 Summary
 Collectively, this vibrant Unit has substantially grown research power with quality. Our research
 has gained international recognition across all our themes, particularly in the exercise sciences,
 coaching science and in clinical populations. This has been made possible by the development
 of our existing staff base, investment in estates and equipment, recruitment of high performing
 research-active staff, retention of existing high-quality staff, and support from our research
 leadership team. As a result, we have a robust, sustainable foundation that produces research
 excellence across all facets of the Unit. Central to the achievement of our ambitious research
 goals is a culture based on inclusivity, quality and community engagement.



 2. People

 Overview of Staffing Strategy
 This Unit has 54 staff (53 FTE) that is comprised of 4 Vice Chancellors Fellow, 38 Lecturers and
 Senior Lecturers, 5 Associate Professors/Principal Lecturers and 7 Professors; 19 (35%) of these
 staff are ECRs. Approximately 40% (22) of the staff base has changed during the course of the
 cycle, which is attributable to Unit growth, retirement, geographical moves and voluntary
 severance. All new appointees have been selected for their positive influence on our research
 environment. Of particular note is the increase in the research leadership, where the Professoriate
 has grown from a single Professor in REF2014 to seven in the current submission. The increase
 in senior staff has been an integral part of the research journey by providing direction, leadership
 and mentoring across the Unit’s diverse activities.      The rise in senior research leaders is




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attributable to new arrivals following central investment (Hettinga, Potrac, Saxton, Vogiatzis,
 Wagner) or promotion from within the existing staff base (Caplan, Howatson).

  Professoriate-enabled opportunities that were not previously available:
 • Co-supervision of PhD students - particularly with high profile partners (e.g., Multiple
    Sclerosis Society, GSK, Sunderland AFC - Foundation of Light, GB Cycling, EIS, British
    Gymnastics, British Sailing, QPR Football Club)
 • Co-investigator roles on grant applications in different areas of exercise, health and
    sport (e.g., NIHR; Cherry Marketing Institute; Naturex and other prestigious health charity
    funding streams)
 • Introductions leading to new relationships with external partners for research and
    knowledge exchange (e.g., The RFU, The FA; GSK, NHS Trusts (regional and national),
    EIS, Ministry of Defence)


 These senior appointments have increased the appetite and energy for research and innovation
 within the Unit, to the point where it is part-and-parcel of academic life. Collectively, the recruitment
 of high quality, research-active staff and the development of existing colleagues through
 mentoring, doctoral study and research inclusivity have driven our expansion. The return on this
 investment is evident in that our teams have produced >950 research outputs (FWCI: 1.42) in
 this cycle, compared to 192 (FWCI: 1.14) in the previous cycle. Importantly there has been a
 concomitant rise of research with quality; 567 (67%) of all papers appeared in upper quartile
 journals. Further, 55% of all papers were co-authored with international collaborators, as
 opposed to 26% in REF2014.


 Growth has been made possible by refreshing the staff base through a natural turnover, reducing
 the staff-student ratio, increasing research investment from internal and external sources, and
 increasing time to engage in research. When recruiting new staff, a strong emphasis has been
 placed on recruiting doctoral-qualified, higher-performing researchers, and talented ECRs.
 Appointment decisions are strategic and based on synergy with the existing research portfolio and
 hence align with our strategy and themes, and importantly our culture of vitality and vibrancy.


 Post-doctoral Staff
 The increase in external income generation coupled with central University investment has
 allowed this Unit to employ significantly more post-doctoral researchers (15 across this REF cycle
 compared to 1 in REF2014), who are important in contributing to the Unit’s ambitions of growth
 and research culture. Over the course of the REF cycle, six of these post-doctoral positions are
 Vice Chancellor’s Fellows. These highly competitive 3-year posts attract high-calibre candidates
 because of the very light teaching and administration loads that allow researchers to rapidly gain
 research independence and progress to a full-time, permanent academic post.




                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff Development
 The spirit of the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers is central to the cultural
 principles of the Unit’s leadership in order for the researcher to flourish. All new staff have a
 research induction overseen by a relevant senior research leader, where detailed discussions and
 actionable plans are initiated in collaboration with the line manager. All research-related targets
 such as outputs, PGR supervision and funding applications feed into the individual’s probationary
 plan and subsequent annual appraisal, which is the process to support all Unit staff to deliver
 research and impact. Research support infrastructure and opportunities are signposted, and
 research mentors are sought and assigned. In addition, the research leadership teams identify
 existing research synergies to support colleagues in making links with internal and external
 collaborators.


 New staff have a reduced administration and teaching load for their probation period, which is
 designed to help gain momentum in meeting research ambitions.               New and existing staff,
 particularly ECRs, are very well supported in establishing their research careers (see Researcher
 Support), which leads to greater Unit sustainability. As recruitment is designed to have strong
 alignment with existing and emerging research excellence, newer staff can be readily aligned with
 more senior colleagues. These actions support our collegiate approach for research productivity,
 PGR supervision support, and strengthens our ECRs position to becoming independent
 researchers that can contribute to research excellence.


 Researcher Support
 The Research and Innovation Service (RIS) supports Northumbria University’s research
 community. The focus of an individual’s research is identified with RIS funding managers, who
 inform on appropriate funding streams, set up alerts with platforms such as Research Professional
 and identify expertise that might lead to collaborative funding applications. RIS provides further
 support services such as training staff in grant costings and approvals, report writing, and financial
 management from pre-award through to post-award and completion.               There is a dedicated
 research impact team that has grown 4-fold in the last REF cycle to support staff on how to develop
 reach and significance and collate evidence to best show-case impact material. For ECRs, there
 is the added benefit of the ECR Forum that hosts career level-specific conferences, additional
 training and development sessions, guest lectures, and funding opportunities. For those looking
 to become leaders within the institution, the University organises a Future Leaders Course and a
 Next Generation of Large Award Holders Programme.


 The Unit offers away days, a seminar series, ECR representation on the Faculty R&I committee,
 and promotion of opportunities for working parents, those in career breaks and staff with protected
 characteristics. The Unit has a dedicated individual (Peart) responsible for identifying staff CPD


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 needs, who in collaboration with the RESG, deliver solutions to address those needs, such as
 one-to-one mentoring, external training, attendance at conference, seminars and workshops.


 To support our research aspirations, we aim to achieve (on average) a 40:40:20 ratio of activity
 relating to research and scholarly activity, teaching and learning, and administration, respectively.
 The Unit achieved this split in 2020/21, in comparison to 28% research time in 2013/14. The
 Unit has further supported staff to maximise this time by managing their workloads to generate
 blocks of time to engage in research. For example, staff might have a busier teaching semester
 or part of the week, which gives greater freedom at other times. Fractional and fixed term staff
 also have the same research allocation within their workload and are fully integrated in the day-
 to-day business of the Unit (meetings, away days, resource allocation, for example).


 We strongly promote collegiality, which is achieved in several ways. Firstly, we have a transparent
 system of workload, so all staff are aware of the indicative work associated with each staff
 member. This gives colleagues a greater understanding of the “bigger picture” beyond teaching
 and consequently staff are supportive of colleagues. Openness and transparency regarding the
 goals, aspirations and challenges facing the sector, and specific to the University, are
 communicated regularly along with the contributions the Unit can make in achieving these
 ambitions. Post-doctoral researchers, research fellows, ECRs and technical staff are integrated to
 all activities the Unit offers that include training, workshops, access to resources, facilities and
 social activities. Technical staff also have the opportunity to have 30% allocation of time dedicated
 to part-time doctoral study, currently two technical staff are enrolled in part-time PhD programmes.


 The activities of the RESG are instrumental in providing strategic direction for team efforts. In
 addition to QR-supported monthly seminar events with invited speakers, there are regular MDRT
 seminars, theme-specific journal clubs and social events. The Unit’s QR (~£57K per academic
 year) supports conference travel and other research-related activities (consumables, for example).
 QR also supports each research theme to have up three away-days per annum, which is
 complemented by a whole Unit away-day where staff, PGRs and technical staff are invited to
 attend broader themed activities (funding, communication, and supervision, for example).


 Beyond the Unit-specific and RIS supported activity, there is an extensive suite of staff research
 training and CPD opportunities run by the Faculty and the wider University. These include paper
 writing workshops, writing retreats, ECR forum activity, hosting conferences, training, and
 development sessions, guest lectures and ECR-specific funding opportunities, impact case study
 workshops, media training, fund specific forums and sand-pit events, and PGR supervision
 workshops. We have a strong focus on supporting ECRs and mid-career staff re-engaging or
 starting their research journey, which is critical in meeting the ambitions of our Unit.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Progression/Promotion and Sabbaticals
 Staff are key to achieving our vision to be recognised as a research-rich, business-focussed,
 professional University with a global reputation for academic excellence. The aforementioned staff
 development opportunities allow researchers to progress their careers to a point where they can
 apply for academic progression to Associate Professor or Professor. The academic promotion
 opportunities are annual, and not based on a quota system, but rather recognition of academic
 achievement and research excellence. The threshold for promotion is high and the criteria are
 intended to identify the increasing standards of academic excellence over a sustained period. In
 the last REF cycle 7 staff (13%) have successfully transitioned to Associate Professor or
 Professor. These opportunities, along with the recruitment strategy, are central to the succession
 planning that is building our next generation of research leaders and provide greater sustainability
 for the Unit’s future. Furthermore, the introduction of a three-band Professorial progression
 scheme enables the recruitment and retention of outstanding researchers (including three level 2
 Professors in this Unit).


 All staff are informed of the annual opportunity to apply for sabbatical leave (one can be taken
 every 6 semesters), where a period of defined research/impact activity (that would not otherwise
 be possible) can be completed. Only one sabbatical period was taken in the previous REF period
 whereas 13 staff have taken research sabbaticals in this cycle. Examples of the work that has
 been achieved during sabbaticals include the setting-up and/or delivery of large scale, multi-site
 projects (Caplan, Saxton, Tew), development of international collaborations (Howatson;
 Jyvaskyla University, Monash University, Michigan State University), completion of substantial
 research projects (Baker, Naisby, Findlay-King), develop research output following extended
 periods immersed in teaching activity (Scott-Bell, Partington) and collating impact case study
 material (Hall). Prospectively, the Unit has produced a rolling 5-year sabbatical plan to manage
 staff/areas for prioritisation, ensure equitability and encourage participation with the aim of
 doubling sabbaticals in the next REF cycle.


 Postgraduate Doctoral Researchers (PGRs)
 The PGR community is highly valued in this Unit and there has been significant growth since
 REF2014, with 50 completions (n=4; 8% international) compared to 9 at REF2014.


 Year-by-year cumulative doctoral completions (*indicates one Professional Doctorate that year)

           2013/4      2014/5     2015/6       2016/7     2017/8     2018/9      2019/20
            10*          14         17           27        29*         37          50


 The University supports internally funded (fees and stipend) doctoral studentships through the
 Research Development Fund (REF5a). This Unit has received 26 of these studentships in this

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF cycle (equating to >£1.5M central investment). In addition, the University offers a matched
 funded (up to £10.5K per annum) collaborative PhD studentship programme with an external
 partner. We have been particularly successful in securing PGRs through this initiative, having
 received 22 studentships during this REF cycle (representing an investment of ~£1.3M). The
 scheme provides a low-cost, low-risk investment in research with external partners that can embed
 new knowledge to directly impact the end-users (section 4) and improve day-to-day working
 practices. Projects of this nature enhance our institutional reputation and hence we have seen an
 increase in self-funded PGRs (n=15) in this cycle, compared to zero in REF2014.


 The combined increase in PGR opportunities and Unit reputation attracts high calibre doctoral
 candidates, selected from very competitive pools of applicants, across all research themes. Many
 of these high performing PGRs are involved in adjunct research that is enabled by our collegiate
 approach. This results in PGRs gaining additional training, greater experience and the potential to
 graduate with more publications, which increases employability. Our PGRs produce excellent
 outputs (for example, American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, British Journal of Sports
 Medicine, Journal of Physiology, Sociology of Sport Journal) and complete in a timely fashion
 (100% timely completion rate). Our PGRs secure excellent employment (in academia, elite sport
 and industry). According to the latest Postgraduate Research Student Experience Survey,
 Northumbria was rated at 84% for overall satisfaction, comparing favourably to the Global mean
 and Russell Group Universities (82% and 71%, respectively). Furthermore, staff not previously
 qualified to doctoral level have the opportunity to engage with in-service doctoral study. Currently
 8 staff have completed in-service doctoral training and are submitted in this Unit; overall, 100%
 of submitted staff are qualified to doctorate level. A further 9 staff are enrolled in doctoral study
 and so do not yet have significant responsibility for independent research (and so are not
 submitted, as defined by our Code of Practice), although they are expected to enhance the pool
 of research staff in the next REF period. Likewise, two ‘Graduate Tutors’ (teaching staff on
 ‘tenure track’ for appointment as lecturers) are enrolled as part-time PGR and are expected to
 become independent researchers in the next REF period.


 Yearly growth of doctoral students enrolled for full or part-time study in this REF cycle
            2013/4      2014/5      2015/6     2016/7      2017/8      2018/9     2019/20
              44          48          50         54          48          60         53

 Doctoral students are provided with their own office space with individual IT provision and the
 relevant bespoke software. This is coupled with ‘hot-desk’ spaces for those predominantly based
 off-campus (non-staff, part time and externally-based PhD students). In addition, there is a
 dedicated space in the library Research Commons that is available 24 hours a day for PGR study,
 meetings rooms and academic-related gatherings.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Graduate School deals with all aspects of doctoral degree governance and provides
 supervisors with mandatory postgraduate supervision training every three years. We ensure
 multiple staff members are included on supervisory teams (minimum of 2, and where possible,
 ECRs) to promote collaboration, project resilience and breadth of expertise. This is supported by
 an online platform that records monthly meetings, progression points and training throughout the
 course of study. There is an allocated staff member in the Graduate School that works closely with
 Unit doctoral students and supervision teams to ensure the right support is provided for timely
 thesis submissions.

  Unit investment in the development of doctoral students by:
     • Providing supervisory teams that combine experience and subject expertise
     • Providing extended support via the Graduate School to provide mandatory and elective
         CPD and training activities such as ethics, health and safety, viva preparation
     • Providing teaching training that can lead to HEA associate membership
     • Facilitating co-supervision of UG and PGT students by PGRs


 Doctoral candidates are actively encouraged to present their work at internal and external
 conferences, which can be financially supported by grants from the Graduate School, external
 awards or other resources at the disposal of the supervisor. Participation in the Unit’s monthly
 seminar series and journal clubs, as well as a seminar series run by the MDRT, are strongly
 encouraged and are well attended. These are valuable platforms for PGRs to share their work,
 receive critical evaluation and critically evaluate peers and staff in a supportive environment.


 The PGR Programme Leader (Barry) and relevant research leads from RESG hold monthly
 meetings with doctoral students as an additional training opportunity. These “PG Tips” sessions
 are a forum where students are able to engage with peers and research leaders about areas of
 interest or concern, for example: conducting peer reviews; preparing manuscripts; viva
 preparation; dealing with difficult participants; mental health; grant applications; discuss and share
 challenges; shared experiences from previous PGR students.


 In addition, PGR students are encouraged to be involved with UG and PGT teaching activity (when
 the requisite support training is completed) e.g. as demonstrators or leading specific sessions
 where they have subject expertise. This is a vital component of the PGR experience to increase
 confidence, communication skills and teaching experience that can lead to Associate Fellowship
 of the HEA and hence increase employability.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Building on our Code of Practice and the mandatory core training for all colleagues, the Unit is
 committed to advancing equality of opportunity and eliminating all forms of discrimination. We

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognise the significant EDI challenges facing UoA24 nationally and the wider HE sector.
 Consequently, under the leadership of the Director of EDI, we have striven to integrate the EDI
 into all that we do. For example, we actively promote gender equity in our Unit culture through
 language choice such as ‘parent’ instead of mother/father, ‘Equity’ as well as ‘Equality’ & ‘They’
 instead of ‘He/She’.


 The EDI Group and RESG consist of a diverse staff make-up that includes balanced gender, age
 and representation from varying career stages (including post-graduate students, early- and mid-
 career researchers, and Professors). Reflecting our commitment to EDI, the Department recently
 applied (December 2020) for the Advance HE Athena SWAN Bronze Award. As part of the staff
 survey to understand working conditions, 88% agreed or strongly agreed that it is a good place to
 work for women and men. All Unit staff complete institutional professional training and
 development related to EDI annually. Furthermore, all line managers and Unit leaders complete
 non-mandatory unconscious bias training and across the last two years, 9 female and 12 male
 staff have been supported through internal researcher development courses.               The Unit is
 committed to promoting equality of opportunity and hence the principles of the Athena Swan
 Charter are embedded in the promotion policy such that, any special circumstances affecting an
 individual are considered whilst ensuring the required quality and impact of achievements are
 demonstrable.


 Every effort is made to attract staff from groups with protected characteristics, who are typically
 underrepresented in discipline areas linked to our Unit. For example, compared to sector
 benchmarks in Sports Science and Leisure, we have a higher proportion of female staff (40%).
 Research leadership in the Unit is provided by seven professors (three with protected
 characteristics), which is a higher proportion compared to data from the most recent Advance HE
 Staff Statistical Report. Since REF2014, 8 female and 10 male permanent staff, and 6 female and
 8 male fixed-term staff have joined the Unit. We have increased the number of female staff
 submitted ~5-fold from 4 (25%) in REF2014 to 19 (35%) in the current cycle. Importantly
 female staff make significant leadership contributions to the Unit leadership (6 females and 4
 males).


 The Unit strives to achieve a positive work-life balance through workload management, so that
 individual wellbeing is maintained to support the Unit’s culture of vitality and energy for delivering
 sustainable research. For example, we have enabled 10 Unit staff to share the raising of children
 more equally. Wherever possible, we hold team meetings between the hours of 10AM and 3PM
 to enable staff to accommodate family commitments. All meeting minutes are uploaded to a
 secured online SharePoint site; relevant meetings during the COVID-19 restrictions are recorded
 so staff with responsibilities in the home can review their content at a time convenient for them.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Four male and six female colleagues have been supported through parental leave since 2014,
 and additional staff have been supported through shared parental leave.


 The EDI Director facilitates activities (e.g., wellbeing training days, mental health first aid) to help
 maintain a vibrant, productive and contented community. Staff are actively encouraged to make
 use of the University’s flexible working policy and where necessary, to discuss workload concerns
 with line managers where pragmatic solutions can be explored. Staff work with line managers (6
 female and 4 male, grade 8/9) and mentors through the annual appraisal process to set actionable
 work plans that reflect their career aspirations. Those staff with underlying conditions or declared
 disability (5 FTE; ~10%) have reasonable adjustments made to the workload to allow them to
 balance personal challenges and work demands.


 We are proud to celebrate an inclusive, equitable and diverse Unit, including the achievements of
 colleagues from groups with protected characteristics who are recognised as role models. For
 example, Dr Hicks was named by The Chronicle as a Rising Star for females in STEM subjects
 in the North East. We also have a wide international influence that enriches the Unit’s research,
 where ~24% of Unit-submitted staff originate from countries outside of the UK (Figure 4),
 including: Brazil (Cucato, Wilhelm-Neto); Canada (Temesi); China (Zheng); France (Avner);
 Greece (Vogiatzis); Hong Kong (Ling); Ireland (Keane); Italy (Angius, De Martino); Netherlands
 (Hettinga); Russia (Batuev); USA (Wagner).




 Figure 4. Number of
 international (24%) staff in
 this REF period; NB: 4
 international staff have
 joint nationality.




 Research by staff in this Unit (Allin; Ansdell; Avner; Boocock; Durbaba; Findlay-King;
 Goodall; Hall; Hicks; Howatson; Potrac; Scott-Bell; Thomas) is concerned with
 understanding, and positively impacting, the experiences of those from groups with protected
 characteristics. This underlines our continuing commitment to addressing societal equality and
 includes research outputs submitted regarding sex differences in fatigue and performance; gender

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inequalities and older adults; women’s leadership in Outdoor Education and Adventure Sport;
 Intellectual Disability and Equal Opportunities for Active and Long-term participation in Sport
 (Erasmus PLUS); coaching in elite female sport teams. Our monthly research forums include
 topics that intersect with themes of EDI that help highlight and educate staff on these issues, such
 as presentations addressing older adults and harder-to-reach populations (socially deprived,
 mental and physical impairment), sex differences in performance, clinical populations and
 disability physical activity.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The Unit’s external research-related awards for this REF period is £4.1M (£1.85M RGCI), which
 represents ~10-fold increase from the previous REF cycle (£423K). For example, 72 applications
 for >£100K have led to 12 large awards in this REF cycle. This income has come from a variety
 of sources, including the Research Councils, industry and charities, that we will increasingly target
 in the future. This success is the result of an increase in high quality applications (193 in total),
 with a total application value in 2019-2020 of >£7.5M. Examples of major prestigious awards
 include two from the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme:
 •    £1.47M for The Gentle Years Yoga Trial; a multi-centre randomised controlled trial assessing
      the effectiveness of yoga for improving quality of life in older adults with multimorbidity. This is
      the UK’s largest ever trial of yoga, and it will help to inform if yoga should be used routinely in
      the NHS. (Principal Investigator: Tew)
 •    £1.9M for the PREPARE-ABC trial; a multi-centre randomised controlled trial assessing the
      effectiveness of pre- and post-operative exercise training on post-operative morbidities and
      quality of life in people with colorectal cancer. This is the UK’s largest ever trial of pre-
      habilitation and will inform policy and practice in the NHS (Co-Principal Investigator: Saxton)

     Other major awards include:
        • Research England (£361K; Vogiatzis)
        • GlaxoSmithKline (£158K; Howatson)
        • UK Space Agency (£283K; Caplan)
        • European Space Agency (£171K; Caplan)
        • Naturex (£144K; Howatson)
        • PepsiCo (£108K; Stevenson)
        • Yorkshire Cancer Research (£238K; Saxton)
        • MS Society (£100K; Saxton)


 The substantial increase in research income has allowed realisation of the Unit’s research strategy
 (outlined in Section 1) and hence increased capacity through the growth of research staff (PGR
 students, post-docs and other RAs), resources for research (such as equipment and



                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consumables), further expansion of working partnerships, and staff development from project
 involvement and dissemination of the work to the scientific and wider communities. Furthermore,
 the Unit has received £650K of in-kind payments to directly support research activity; for
 example, these in-kind payments allowed work with the UK and European Space Agency (ESA)
 to access the ESA bed rest study and Zero-G aviation flights to test exercise intervention in
 microgravity and prolonged deconditioning paradigms. Activities and initiatives that supported the
 success of external income generation include:
 •   Setting ambitious individual application targets (to achieve a year-on-year increase in income
     across the Unit of 15% per annum)
 •   Regular and frank communication of targets and expectations to Unit staff
 •   Ensuring protected time for research in all academic workloads
 •   Providing training and support for grant writing (e.g., targeted funding courses, research
     mentoring, internal peer review of draft applications)
 •   Pump-priming of preliminary studies that inform grant applications (e.g., via QR budget)
 •   Ensuring that all new staff appointments have a track record or the potential to generate
     external income
 •   The growth in research leadership, alongside the above activities, have been critical to
     providing staff with confidence to be ambitious and apply more widely and more frequently.


 The research income from this period has enabled the generation of many high-quality research
 outputs and meaningful impact beyond academia. For example, funded research from the
 European Space Agency (Caplan) examining postural control and rehabilitation in micro-gravity
 has been published in the Journal of Applied Physiology. In Optimising Human Performance,
 two funded PhD studentships (with EIS) embedded in elite sport directly explored performance-
 related questions to improve peak power output in elite sprint track cyclists; this work has now
 been applied to enhance the performance of the Great Britain Olympic Track Cycling Team (see
 impact case study). Similarly, the Informing Practice and Policy theme secured an award with
 Sunderland A.F.C Foundation of Light charity to fund a PhD studentship to assess the influence
 of various community sport interventions aimed at overcoming social isolation, reducing crime,
 and re-engaging people in education or further training. In Health and Wellbeing, externally-funded
 research (Tew) has led to the development of novel NHS-based services in the North East of
 England that improved patients’ readiness for major surgery (e.g., PREP-WELL; see impact case
 study). Collectively, these examples provide evidence that funding application success has
 strengthened our research reputation, increased excellent outputs, and had impact beyond
 academia. Importantly for the future, the change in culture around funding applications will support
 sustainability and growth of research into the next REF cycle.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Infrastructure
 Institutional-level services that support the Unit’s research and impact activities include RIS,
 Business & Enterprise Services, Library Services and IT Services (REF5a). Since 2014, there has
 been >£330K investment in books and access to journals and databases specific to this Unit,
 which also benefits from wider multidisciplinary resources (e.g. Web of Science; journals such as
 Nature, Science), with a total investment >£6.4M across the REF cycle.


 Since 2014, the development of a structured research strategy within the Unit (Section 1) has
 improved research cohesion and function to allow greater access and cross-fertilisation of
 knowledge and resource across the Unit and wider University, particularly with colleagues in UoA3
 (Applied Health Professions) and UoA4 (Psychology). The inception of the Integrated Health
 and Social Care MDRT, led by Prof Vogiatzis, has complemented our research strategy and
 encompasses areas of mutual research interest, expertise and excellence. For example, the
 nutritional influence of polyphenol-rich fruit juice on human health has been studied using multiple
 methodologies from a range of disciplines, including metabolomics, vascular physiology,
 biochemistry, cognition and exercise capacity. This has resulted in high quality publications e.g.
 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition and European Journal of Nutrition.


 There are annual opportunities for staff to request capital equipment and estates development
 where prioritisation of ECR and new appointees is made to gain research momentum. The Unit
 has successfully secured ~£630K in this REF cycle; examples include £96K for DEXA; £35K, laser
 Doppler; £108K, performance analysis instruments; £56K, optoelectronic plethysmography;
 £110K, cardiorespiratory monitoring; £56K, wireless EMG and high density EMG; £23K,
 biochemistry equipment; £57K, optoelectric plethysmography. This is coupled with a QR annual
 budget of ~£57K to help staff with research-related costs such as consumables, travel and
 dissemination of research.


 In addition to the support outlined in Sections 1, 2 and in REF5a, the Unit is well supported by
 seven technical staff. The technical team supports all aspects of laboratory-based and field-based
 activity within the Unit (e.g. health screening, analytical chemistry, physiological and
 biomechanical assessments). The Unit also has access to a wider technical and academic team
 within the Faculty that has expertise to facilitate specialist analytical procedures such as high-
 performance liquid and gas chromatography, mass spectroscopy, molecular biology, cell culture,
 metabolomics, proteomics and meta-genomics. These resources and methodologies help provide
 mechanistic insight to our work; collectively, this enables ambitious collaborative projects across
 the Faculty (colleagues in UoA3 and UoA4, including cognition and sleep research) that lead to
 higher-quality research outputs across multiple Units.


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Facilities
 The Unit benefits from having large and well-equipped laboratories for conducting research in
 sport, exercise and rehabilitation that compare very favourably with other internationally
 competitive facilities. This is the result of significant and sustained investment from both the
 University and from externally funded grants. The Unit’s research facilities are based at two areas
 of the University’s City Campus, notably Sport Central and Northumberland Building. These
 laboratory spaces have been accredited by BASES since 2009, which represents the gold
 standard in quality assurance in this field. In addition, all staff have dedicated office spaces that
 are equipped with the appropriate hardware and specialised software such as Matlab, R and
 Spike2. Our facilities are supported by an Estates service that delivers IT, maintenance, technical
 and non-technical support.


 Completed in 2010, Sport Central is a £30M state-of-the-art facility that incorporates a range of
 Unit-specific laboratories and research suites. These include:
  •   50 metre running track (force plate configurations along its length)
  •   Strength and Conditioning suite (extensive resistance training equipment)
  •   Gait Laboratory (Cybex isokinetic dynamometry, 5 floor-embedded force plates, EMG)
  •   Biomechanics Laboratory (14 camera Vicon system, 5 floor-embedded force plates)
  •   Performance Analysis Suite (16 station bespoke performance analysis software)
  •   Metabolic Nutrition Laboratory (food preparation and analysis)
  •   Physiology Laboratory (treadmills, cycle ergometry, online gas analysis, blood sampling)
  •   Integrated Performance Laboratory (6 independent stations, each with cycle ergometry, gas
      collection and analysis, cardiorespiratory and electrophysiological monitoring)
  •   Laboratory preparation areas


 Other parts of Sport Central that are used to support research include a sports arena, sports hall,
 swimming pool, squash courts, climbing wall, fitness suite and meeting rooms. The research
 potential of this facility was not fully realised at REF2014, but it has since allowed the Unit to evolve
 and maximise its research capacity.


 Ten research-specific laboratories located in Northumberland Building house a broad range of
 activities, such as biochemistry, exercise testing and measurement of cardiorespiratory function.
 Specialised laboratories are dedicated to an environmental chamber [heat, cold and hypoxia],
 biochemistry analytics, cell culture work, body composition (DEXA), metabolic nutrition,
 neurophysiology     and    sleep   science    (a   fully   equipped    two-bedroom      apartment     for
 polysomnography analysis). The biochemistry laboratories allow the processing of cellular and



                                                                                                  Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 acellular human material (adipose tissue, blood, faeces, muscle, saliva, sweat, tears), which are
 stored in a Human Tissue Bank under licence from the Human Tissue Authority. The investment
 in these facilities and their supporting infrastructure has established a sustainable foundation for
 innovative and impactful research at Northumbria for many years to come. Importantly for the
 Unit, it has enabled extensive collaboration and access to research infrastructure from elsewhere
 in the University, the UK and internationally (Section 4).


 International: More than 20 visiting researchers (e.g. California, Groningen, Jyväskylä, Monash,
 Nuremberg, Saskatchewan, Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma) have spent
 time working on collaborative research projects. Examples include:
 •   Kidgell and Frazer, who visited for 1 month from Monash University, Australia and worked
     with Unit colleagues (Ansdell, Goodall, Howatson, Thomas).                  Neurophysiological
     techniques were shared between colleagues during the visit, and the group collected data that
     examined alterations to the neural system following resistance training that has subsequently
     been published (Experimental Physiology, Sports Medicine, European Journal of Applied
     Physiology). As a direct result of this relationship, we have been able to contribute to work at
     Monash University and hence expand the facilities the Unit can access for mutual benefit that
     makes a positive contribution to the field.
 •   Professor Hortobagyi and PhD candidates Zult, Menting, Liutkute, Kuhdair from University
     of Groningen have collectively visited for >2 years. These visitors worked on projects with
     Unit colleagues Goodall, Hettinga, Howatson and Thomas) to examine the use of mirror
     training to enhance strength adaptations and the influence of pacing manipulation to improve
     cycling performance. Outputs from these collaborations include publications in Sports
     Medicine, Medicine and Science in Sports Exercise, Journal of Neurophysiology.


 National: collaboration with NHS Trusts has expanded the Unit’s capabilities in terms of exercise
 training and testing with clinical populations (e.g. Vogiatzis with Prof Stephen Bourke and
 Northumbria NHS Trust to assess COPD patients with co-morbidities in a clinical space that can
 support testing of vulnerable populations). Our extensive collaborations with industry partners and
 sports teams (Section 4) have also permitted access to special populations and facilities (such as
 MRI scanners and bespoke exercise instruments). Several individuals have also worked with the
 UKCRC Registered Clinical Trials Units (e.g. Newcastle, York, Norwich, Sheffield) to support the
 running of clinical trials (e.g. NIHR-funded projects of Tew and Saxton).


 Internal: collaborations with colleagues in UoA3,            UoA4, and UoA20 have widened our
 engagement in interdisciplinary work, which is partly made possible through the Integrated Health
 and Social Care MDRT. For example, our interventional research projects have incorporated
 analytical techniques such as metabolomics, HPLC, flow cytometry and cell culture (e.g. to assess


                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the influence of nutritional interventions), whilst concurrently assessing cognitive function with
 colleagues in the Brain Performance and Nutrition Research Centre (UoA4; Goodall, Howatson,
 Keane, Peart, Walshe).


 Enabling impact
 The infrastructure, facilities and expertise of this Unit have allowed a broad portfolio of challenge-
 led research to be developed in collaboration with industry partners and other stakeholders.
 Specifically, we direct research efforts to have an impact on human performance, improving health
 and wellbeing in clinical and the wider population through physical activity and by using sport and
 exercise to impact the psychosocial aspects of elite sport, exercise and physical activity
 participation.   By its nature, such research is geared towards generating impacts beyond
 academia. For example, based on our specialist facilities and equipment, coupled with expertise,
 a global natural ingredient company (Naturex; £144K) collaborated with the Unit to investigate the
 efficacy of a food extract on exercise performance and recovery. Data from these studies has
 contributed to portfolios of evidence used to make European Food Standards Agency claims.


 The researchers are the primary drivers of research impact, but there is significant infrastructure
 and assistance to support impact generation. Funding is available to support academic staff
 increase the reach and realise the significance of their work. One example is where Hall was
 granted a semester-long sabbatical to develop research impact by delivering CPD material to
 hundreds of coaches in the UK and across the world (see impact case study material); this would
 not have been possible in the normal allocated workload.

  Other examples where infrastructure, facilities and expertise support impact:
     • Appropriate planning of staff workloads to ensure time is protected for such activities
     • At least two staff collaborate on impact material to ensure continuity and sustainability
         of impacts
     • Impact Officers and Managers from RIS provide support around generating and
         measuring impact (one Impact Officer is specifically allocated to UoA24)
     • Impact training courses and individual and group workshops delivered by RIS and
         Professor Mark Reed (Fast Track Impact)
     • The Unit-run bi-monthly ‘Impact College’ co-ordinated by the impact lead (Goodall)
         where staff share impact related challenges, successes and ideas
     • Internal funding to support reach and develop the significance of impact to stakeholders
     • Staff delivery of consultancy and CPD services
     • Public engagement through exhibits and public lectures (see Section 4)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations – A Global Network to Deliver Excellent Research
 Academic staff from this Unit have established collaborations with academic and industry partners
 at an international, national and regional level, as demonstrated by co-authored research outputs

                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (55% co-authored with international collaborators) and funding applications (n=193).           Our
 integrated research themes promote multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research that combine
 our expertise with that of our partners for the benefit of specific projects.


 International Collaborations
 In this REF cycle our staff have collaborated with academic colleagues worldwide, including: Africa
 (South Africa, Zambia, Congo); Asia (China, Russia, Hong Kong); North America (United States,
 Canada); Europe (France, Greece, Netherlands, Sweden); Oceania (Australia); and South
 America (Brazil).
   Specific examples include:
   • Africa (North West University, University of Johannesburg)
   • Asia (Hong Kong University, Hong Kong Baptist University, National Taiwan University)
   • Europe (University of Athens, University of Ghent, University of Groningen, The Hague
      University, Jyvaskyla University, Karolinska Institute, KU Leuven, Palacky University,
      Politecnico di Milano, Vrije Universiteit, University of Zurich).
   • North America (University of British Columbia, University of California, Harvard University,
      New York University, Saskatchewan and University of Utah)
   • Oceania (Deakin, Edith Cowan University, Griffith University, James Cook University, La
      Trobe University, Monash University, University of Queensland, University of Sydney)
   • South America (University of São Paulo, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul
      Universidade Federal do Amazonas


 Collaborators from these universities have played an important role in the growth and development
 of our own research by increasing expertise on specific projects to allow for: 1) greater depth and
 breadth of expertise across and between disciplines to be established; 2) bi-lateral visits to
 facilitate knowledge sharing and training opportunities; 3) publication of higher quality research;
 3) collaborative PhD studentships; 4) the formal development of Memoranda of Understanding
 (Jyvaskyla University, Monash University, Palacky University, North West University, University of
 Michigan) to work across research and enterprise activity.


 Other projects with external partners include those with Danone, European Space Agency GSK,
 Naturex, NHS Trusts, PepsiCo, The FA, UEFA and prestigious charities, such as the Cancer
 Research, Movember, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Yorkshire Prostate Cancer Charity.
 Notable examples are a European Union funded project (Horizon 2020 – MOBILISE-D) to the
 value of €43m comprising 34 international partners and 8 pharmaceutical companies
 (Vogiatzis, €423K to Northumbria), which connects digital mobility assessment to clinical
 outcomes for regulatory and clinical endorsement in five clinical populations. This work utilises
 expertise from physiology, nutrition, public health, information technology, health economy,
 epidemiology and psychology. In another example, work led by Caplan secured UK Space
 Agency funding (£283K) to investigate microgravity countermeasures on the ZERO-G “vomit
 comet”. This work was supported by the European Space Agency (ESA), who subsequently


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 selected and funded (£171K) work to be included in the ESA and NASA Bed Rest Study to use
 exercise countermeasures in microgravity.


 An important part of our collaborative efforts has been the investment in the aforementioned
 (Section 2) Collaborative Doctoral Studentship Programme.            The scheme has enabled the
 establishment of international and national partnerships that directly inform the end-users. This is
 direct evidence that our staff have a trusted reputation to attract, and work with, high profile
 external partners.
    Examples of collaborative studentships include:
       • European Space Agency
       • Freeman Hospital Heart and Lung Transplant Association
       • MS Society
       • EIS x3
       • GlaxoSmithKline x2
       • Cherry Marketing Institute x2
       • Newcastle United Football Club x2
       • British Sailing
       • British Gymnastics
       • Queens Park Rangers Football Club
       • Sunderland A.F.C Foundation of Light
 Looking forward, we envisage 1) making greater use of the collaborative studentship resource, 2)
 work with colleagues across the university for interdisciplinary Doctoral training though
 Leverhulme and other schemes; and 3) will exploit opportunities for joint Doctoral awards with
 international collaborators.


 National and Regional
 Staff within this Unit collaborate with colleagues from over 30 institutions throughout the UK (for
 example, Bath, Durham, East Anglia, Edinburgh, Essex, Exeter, Imperial College,
 Loughborough, Newcastle, Oxford, Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam, Stirling, Surrey, York) and
 with colleagues across 12 different departments in all four faculties of the University. Evidence of
 this is given in Section 3, where this Unit has led nationwide, multi-site, exercise interventions with
 clinical populations and older adults (Saxton, £1.9M; Tew, £1.47M, respectively). We also have
 substantial relationships with commercial (Newcastle Clinic, Glenmore Lodge in Aviemore;
 industry (GSK, Naturex); elite sport partners (Newcastle United FC, Queens Park Rangers FC,
 AFC Sunderland, British Cycling, British Sailing, British Gymnastics) and non-government
 agencies (EIS, UK Space Agency).


 Academic Exchanges
 As further evidence of collaboration to enhance the local research environment, the University
 makes honorary appointments (Visiting Fellow and Professor).            These appointments are to


                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support academics and industry partners to contribute to research activity in the Unit. In this REF
 cycle there have been 12 such appointments including Prof Peter Wagner (University of
 California, San Diego); Prof Tibor Hortobagyi (University of Groningen); Prof Malachy McHugh
 (Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma, New York, USA); Prof Deiary Kader
 (South West London Elective Orthopaedic Centre, UK); Prof Simon Evetts (Blue Abyss, UK); and
 Prof Ken van Someren (GSK). These individuals, along with others, contribute to the research
 culture across many areas. One stand-out example is Prof Wagner, who has visited us annually
 for 1 week at a time over the last 4 years and supported Unit research leaders in delivering
 research workshops, peer reviewing grants applications and shaping papers in preparation. This
 has supported ECRs and PGR students, as well as more experienced researchers to develop
 research skills and knowledge. His substantial contribution to the Unit (during both his visits and
 remotely throughout the year) has culminated in his appointment as 0.2 FTE staff, which will shape
 the future development of the Unit in the next REF cycle.


 During this cycle our collaborators have exchanged students and staff to conduct research in our
 laboratories or travel abroad. In addition to those given in Section 3, examples of visiting scholars
 to conduct research include Drs Dawson Kidgell and Ashlyn Frazer (Monash University,
 Australia); Prof Malachy McHugh and Susan Kwiecien (Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine
 and Athletic Trauma, USA); Dr Alessandro Del Vecchio (Imperial College, London); Dr Simon
 Walker and PhD candidate Gomez-Guerrero (Jyvaskula, Finland); Dr Cas Fuchs (Maastricht,
 The Netherlands); Dr Jakob Skarabot (Loughborough).


 Esteem Indicators
 The international reputation of the Unit has advanced greatly since REF2014, reflecting the
 strength of our new appointments and the fruition of projects led by established staff, such that
 our staff are recognised as leaders in their fields. Many Unit staff have served on grant committees
 (eg. Saxton, Cancer Research UK, Yorkshire Cancer Trust, MS Society; Tew, Dunhill
 Medical Trust; Moore Stuart, NIHR; Morris, Parkinson’s Diseases UK). Potrac was appointed
 as a Full Visiting Professor at University College Dublin in 2017 and Howatson has been a Visiting
 Professor at North West University, South Africa since 2015. Many staff contribute to the discipline
 through scholarly society committees (see Beyond Northumbria below) and in 2020 Howatson
 was appointed as a Sub-panel member for UoA 24 in REF2021. Furthermore, our Unit staff were
 invited as external examiners for 69 doctoral degrees (27 abroad, e.g. Australia, Finland, France,
 New Zealand, South Africa Sweden), which demonstrates the valued expertise of our staff by
 peers internationally.


 All staff members actively engage in peer review for journals and edited books that contribute to
 the field. Thirteen staff hold editorial positions on 23 high profile journals (e.g., Dixon and Hayton,


                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Managing Sport Leisure; Hettinga, Int J Sports Physiol and Perf; Howatson, Scand J Med Sci
 Sports; Goodall, Med Sci Sports Exerc; Potrac, Sports Coaching Review; Stuart, Gait & Posture;
 Thomas, Eur J Sports Sci; Vogiatzis, J Appl Physiol and Resp Physiol & Neurobiol; Wilkinson,
 J Sports Sci).


 Staff in this Unit have given >100 invited international keynote/plenary/symposia sessions and
 contributed to >300 other conference presentations in the UK and internationally throughout this
 REF cycle at American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM), European College of Sports Sciences
 (ECSS), BASES, European Respiratory Society and Physiological Society.                One such
 presentation won the ECSS Young Investigator Award (Ansdell) for outstanding work as an ECR
 and was also awarded the Experimental Physiology Inaugural Review Prize (2020 by the
 Physiological Society. In addition, several staff have been awarded Fellowships of learned bodies
 and societies for their contributions to the relevant fields (BASES: Saxton, Howatson, Tew;
 ACSM: Howatson, Hettinga; ECSS: Hettinga; European Respiratory Society: Vogiatzis). Many
 staff members have also contributed to other scholarly outputs in the form of 85 narrative and
 systematic reviews (including Q1 journals such as Cochrane Reviews, European Respiratory
 Review, Sociology of Sport, Sports Medicine, Sport Management Review), 72 book chapters, 6
 monographs and 5 edited books.


 Beyond Northumbria
 Staff in this Unit make significant contributions beyond Northumbria. Evidence of contributions
 further afield is demonstrated through active membership of advisory panels, learned societies,
 international and national committees, honorary positions in other institutions and secondment.

   Notable examples of wider contributions:
      • World Health Organisation, Development Group for the Rehabilitation Programme;
         British Thoracic Society (Vogiatzis)
      • Independent Advisory Panel for British Army; GSK Scientific Advisor; EIS Research
         & Innovation; The Football Association; BASES Lab Accreditation Chair (Howatson)
      • UK Space Agency Life - Biomedical Sciences Association and UK Space
         Environments Working Group; European Space Agency (Caplan)
      • National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Cancer and Nutrition collaboration:
         Population Health: Cancer Prevention and Early Detection Committee; National
         Cancer Research Institute (NCRI); Yorkshire Cancer Trust (Saxton)
      • Dunhill Medical Trust Research Grant Committee; Older Adults Expert Working
         Group for the 2019 UK Physical Activity Guideline Update (Tew)
      • Secondment to the Swedish Ski Federation for 9 months to conduct applied research
         and data analysis on world class winter sport athletes (Jones)
      • World Rugby Science Network and UK Coaching Talent Research Hub (Hall)
      • Physiological Society Early Career Research Theme Lead (Ansdell)

 Other advisory roles include: Active Edge Nutrition, Danone, England Rugby, EIS, For Goodness
 Shakes, GSK, Ministry of Defence, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Naturex, Newcastle United FC,

                                                                                          Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NIHR, PepsiCo, Sunderland AFC, Yorkshire Cancer Trust. Many of these relationships have
 informed practice and future direction in the fields of these organisations; some have led to
 securing the aforementioned research-related funding.


 Northumbria as a Hub
 The Unit hosted the International Sport and Exercise Nutrition Conference (2014, 2015), the
 International Sports Science and Sports Medicine Conference (2014, 2015), the BASES Student
 Conference (2018), and the World Transplant Games (2019). The dissemination of our research
 to the wider population has been achieved in numerous ways; one recent example is the
 contribution to BBC Television series “The Truth About…” series where Unit staff (Goodall,
 Howatson, Keane) provided examples of how various interventions can be used to improve
 recovery following exercise. In addition, public exhibitions at the Centre for Life (Newcastle), public
 lectures and engagement with younger adults have been delivered. For example, based on our
 UK and European Space Agency funded research examining the spinal health of astronauts,
 Caplan, Winnard and De Martino have developed a permanent exhibition within the “Space
 Zone” at the Centre for Life showcasing an interactive astronaut rehabilitation area.


 Based on our research expertise, other Unit staff routinely contribute to professional development
 activities for professional sporting bodies. Examples include, Avner, Boocock, Hall, Potrac
 involved with instructor/coach education in adventure training activities, Rugby, Kayaking and
 Football. Others (Goodall, Hicks, Howatson, Thomas) deliver workshops and seminars to the
 EIS, The FA and Newcastle United FC.


 Another example area of outreach has been the IDEAL ErasmusPlus project (“Intellectual
 Disability, and Equal opportunities for Active and Long-term participation in Sport”), which bring
 our scientific knowledge into practice in hard-to-reach communities. Organisations like The
 International Paralympic Committee, Special Olympics and World Intellectually Impairment Sport,
 along    with    European      collaborators,   have     developed      a    series   of    resources
 (https://www.idealproject.org/) and organised events in different countries to promote inclusivity to
 those with intellectual disabilities. To further maximise reach, we translate our work to Polish,
 Swedish, Icelandic, German, Dutch and Spanish to make the content accessible to international
 audiences, such as those in the coaching field.




                                                                                                Page 28
