Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment:
 26B
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Celtic & Gaelic in the University of Glasgow [C&G] embraces strength in breadth. One of the
 largest cohorts of Celtic researchers internationally, we lead in key areas of Celtic Studies
 research, and have spearheaded new initiatives in doctoral provision across the UK. We are
 distinct in combining research strengths in both pre-modern and modern Gaelic language and
 literature; embracing the full discipline of Celtic Studies, linking linguistic, literary and
 historical/cultural research, encompassing both branches of the Celtic language family, across
 the full timespan, ancient to modern; acting as a hub for inter-disciplinary collaborations. We are
 engaged with contemporary Gaelic, providing underpinning research and resources for its future.
 C&G embraces UofG’s wider civic mission, working widely in public settings, with a dedicated
 remit to foster Gaelic-speaking communities in Scotland and beyond.

 Structure
 C&G belongs to School of Humanities/Sgoil nan Daonnachdan with Classics, Information
 Studies, Philosophy, and, importantly, Archaeology and History with whom we have long-
 standing research, supervision and teaching relationships. C&G is one of the founding units of
 the University’s Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies. These structures derive from and
 accentuate our inter-disciplinarity, benefitting our research culture. Our distinctive institutional
 location, and our internal cohesion and research vitality, have prompted our separate
 submission to REF as a stand-alone UoA.

 C&G currently has 11 Category-A staff members, 3 of them part-time. One is in a joint post with
 English Language and Linguistics [ELL]; another joint with History, though both are submitted to
 REF with C&G. The unit also contains both teaching-only and research-only staff, including a
 large number of research assistants (currently 10, previously as many as 25) on several
 projects. It currently hosts 13 research students and co-supervises 7 in other subject areas.

 Within this profile, we combine key research expertise and leadership in three main areas of
 Celtic Studies, with strong inter-disciplinary linkages beyond.

 Literature: We work across the entire history of Gaelic literature, with international leadership in
    a number of sub-fields (fiannaigheacht (Fenian tales); nineteenth-century Scottish Gaelic
    literature), underlined by recent conferences, projects, publications and editorships.

 Language:
 1) Ground-breaking research on Gaelic historical linguistics, dialectology and language variation,
    leading projects relating to Scottish Gaelic, especially corpus linguistics. The Digital Archive
    of Scottish Gaelic (DASG) and Corpas na Gàidhlig, are critical foundational projects in
    partnership with Faclair na Gàidhlig [Faclair], the project to create a Historical Dictionary of
    Scottish Gaelic.
 2) Glasgow is the leading institution for onomastic research in Scotland; the UoA directs the
    Survey of Scottish Place-Names.
 3) Research on Gaelic within universities and professional contexts prompting a number of
    ground-breaking initiatives: formation of a Scotland-wide Gaelic Language Advisory


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Committee; a Gaelic Immersion year, funded by the Scottish Funding Council [SFC], and
    based in the UoA.

 History and Culture: Research in historical aspects of Celtic languages and cultures, including
    material culture (epigraphy, carved stones), maintain Glasgow’s central contribution to
    thinking on Gaelic history and culture, especially in Scotland.

 Strategic Objectives
 Since 2014, we have fulfilled our stated strategic objectives by:
    1) expanding and deepening understanding of and access to Gaelic literature;
    2) engaging in innovative research on Gaelic language, both in its historical aspects and its
        current practical application, including expanding use of Gaelic within professional and
        academic settings;
    3) bolstering new research on the Celtic dimensions of Scottish history and culture,
        promoting these to the public.

 Progress on 2014 objectives
 We have supported our researchers in delivering ground-breaking research, strategically
 employing research leave and lighter teaching periods, deploying internal and external funding.
 Our 2014 strategy prioritised major monographs, with 5 submitted here, including benchmark
 publications on early modern Gaelic history and 19th-century Gaelic literature, and 2 county
 place-name surveys.

 We have developed our successful income generation strategy, increasing the number of staff
 holding grants and involved in grant capture, and expanding our range of funding sources.
 Overall grant income remains good against Modern Languages benchmarks; and several recent
 grants awarded just before or shortly after the census date (in excess of £1million combined)
 confirm the sustainability of this approach.

 We have developed our staff profile, increasing our numbers and securing promotions; and
 enhanced the development of doctoral and early career researchers. Six staff members
 were promoted, including all who were ECRs in 2014; we have welcomed a British Academy
 Post-Doctoral Fellow [BA Fellow], and a Glasgow-funded Lord Kelvin/Adam Smith Research
 Fellow [LKAS Fellow]. Glasgow has invested nationally in the future of Celtic Studies through
 Directorship of the AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Celtic Languages [CDT Celtic].

 We have supported and developed public engagement and impact activities, embedding
 impact throughout our research activities. The Impact activity captured in REF2014 led to new
 collaborations on place-names, landscape and community and on carved stones. Fruitful work
 on Gaelic in Glasgow and on Corpus linguistics led to two distinct new impact case studies. We
 have been in the forefront of units pressing to embed Gaelic further into HEIs, and developed
 Gaelic in UofG as a resource for the city. We led projects under the auspices of Soillse, the inter-
 HEI research network created to enhance research on Scottish Gaelic, spurring activity towards
 much-needed nationally based language support and policy.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                             Hardy delegates from ICCS XV in the rain.

 As a first strategic step in our objective to extend our global reach via further international
 collaborations Glasgow, for the first time, hosted the International Congress of Celtic Studies
 [ICCS XV] in 2015, the discipline’s premiere international conference. Other conferences
 furthered this goal (see Section 4). Staff held international visiting fellowships and participated in
 funded projects with international reach (details in Section 4). Doctoral supervision has been a
 conduit to further international connections (with Switzerland and New Zealand), including the
 appointment of our BA Fellow.

 Future Strategy
 Over the next five years we will progress all our key research areas through:
    1) Gaelic literature: new editions (e.g. Mairearad Ghriogarach); digitisation and textual
        capture (e.g., Book of the Dean of Lismore); collaborative projects (e.g. McLagan
        Manuscripts); monographs (e.g. on Acallam na Senórach); professional service (e.g.
        Scottish Gaelic Texts Society). We anticipate new initiatives on Gaelic song culture and
        drama.
    2) Gaelic language: an increased focus on analysis of and resources to support spoken
        traditional Gaelic (DASG), with new corpus linguistics projects (e.g. LEACAN, 2020-23,
        £105k from Bòrd na Gàidhlig), expanding Gaelic linguistic guidance in collaboration with
        the language community; advancing the Faclair through DASG/Corpas na Gàidhlig;
        individual research on dialectology, language variation and the historical development of
        Scottish Gaelic. In onomastics, place-name projects in Galloway, Ayrshire, Iona and Mull
        will lead to further Survey volumes and community engagement.
    3) History and culture: major monographs on Gaelic history and the social history of the
        Gaelic language.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These strategies will be underpinned by strategic practical developments to consolidate
 sustainability and enhance the vitality of these activities: coordinating and facilitating grant
 development and grant capture; building on our recently launched Open Access [OA]
 publishing initiative to develop the profile and accessibility of our current and previous research;
 developing our international profile through further conferences (e.g. Columba and Iona,
 December 2021) and collaborations; and bolstering our commitment to the future health of the
 discipline through CDT Celtic’s engagement with the Scottish Graduate School for the Arts and
 Humanities [SGSAH] and its AHRC-funded Doctoral Training Partnership.

 Impact
 The UoA’s commitment to the sustainability of Gaelic underpins our approach to engaging
 audiences with and in our research. All staff are active in KE, encouraged to embed impact at
 the initial planning stages of research projects, and maintain C&G’s prominent and active
 connections with external bodies and local communities. We employ social media and website
 platforms to disseminate our research and datasets beyond academia (for example, DASG; the
 McLagan Manuscript project’s social media campaign; the Place-Names of the Galloway Glens
 website and blogs), further enhanced by our recent development of an OA platform.

 We benefit from a variety of funding streams and support for Impact activity, at School, College
 and University level. Research leave can be directed towards Impact activities, and KE/Impact
 feeds into promotions. A dedicated College team provide training on enhancing public
 engagement and measuring impact. Staff are encouraged to apply to the Glasgow Knowledge
 Exchange [GKE] fund (£16k in UofG funding for C&G since 2014). Successful applicants mentor
 new ones, fostering follow-on projects. KE/Impact projects have been career-building for ECRs
 who have progressed from interns to their own projects and academic careers (Sgeul na
 Gàidhlig; Eòlas nan Naomh are two examples).

 Both Impact Case Studies support Gaelic language revitalisation and maintenance, one via
 direct influence on policy, the other through cultural networks; they help build competence and
 confidence in the use of Gaelic, and Gaelic’s place within contemporary society. In both, we
 worked closely with external partners to help them meet their own policy objectives, drawing on
 newly commissioned and existing research by UoA staff. A prominent thread is their inter-
 disciplinarity, involving arts, natural heritage, and museum sector organisations and both involve
 multiple staff members. As well as UofG GKE, the work drew on funding from e.g., Bòrd na
 Gàidhlig, MG Alba, Gaelic Books Council, GlasgowLife, and Fèis Ghàidhlig Ghlaschu.

 Interdisciplinarity
 C&G has striven to embody an interdisciplinary vision of Celtic Studies research since the first
 current staff members were appointed in 1995-6. It is one of the founding units of UofG’s Centre
 for Scottish and Celtic Studies, which, through research support, seminars and reading groups,
 gives such interdisciplinarity local institutional shape.

 The UoA benefits from exceptionally strong collaborations in particular with:
    • Archaeology: One UoA member’s work crosses into the disciplines of archaeology/art
       history, joining several other staff with close research relationships with Archaeology.
       UoA members have co-supervised 4 PhDs with Archaeology since 2014
    • English Language and Linguistics [ELL]: Fruitful collaboration (including a joint post)
       has driven forward Glasgow’s claim to lead the study of onomastics in Scotland,
       encompassing shared funded projects (c.£400k between both units since 2014); co-


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        supervision of PhDs (6 on onomastics since 2014, as well as 4 other linguistic theses);
        and professional support for name studies in Scotland.
    •   History: Cross-currents with History run deep, extending to our joint lectureship in Celtic
        History. Many UoA staff publish on historical topics / in history journals. We have co-
        supervised 6 PhDs with History since 2014.
    •   Scottish Literature: C&G series editorship, volume editorship and contributions to the
        International Companions to Scottish Literature have promoted Gaelic literature within
        mainstream Scottish literary history and criticism; there has been recent close
        engagement with Theatre studies.

 Open Research Environment
 The UoA has demonstrated a major commitment to Open Access research. This includes long-
 term support and augmentation of major resources: DASG/Corpas na Gàidhlig; and the evolving
 Scottish place-names database which has been employed in a variety of projects discussed
 below. We have made current research publicly available using OA platforms, e.g. Sgeul na
 Gàidhlig (presenting ground-breaking research on the presence of Gaelic and contribution of
 Gaelic-speakers in the University of Glasgow since 1451), and Eòlas nan Naomh: Early
 Christianity in Uist. We contributed to national OA research iniatives, e.g. the Scottish
 Archaeological Research Framework (ScARF).

 Over 2020, the UoA worked to launch its OA publishing initiative making past and new research
 freely available online (Clò Gàidhlig Oilthigh Ghlaschu/CLOG). This includes taking over the
 publishing of an existing OA journal (The Journal of Scottish Name Studies) and converting the
 in-house print journal Aiste to a Gold OA online journal (from 2021). It also makes the UoA’s out-
 of-print monographs and essay collections available, with new ones planned, increasing the
 accessibility of our scholarship; and highlights C&G PhD and research masters theses, since all
 are now digitally available through UofG policy.

 DASG/Corpas na Gàidhlig, providing searchable digitised Scottish Gaelic texts (over 340 texts;
 30 million words), fieldwork materials with unique lexical materials, and audio recordings of
 spoken Gaelic from Scotland and Canada, have transformed how academics, language
 teachers and advanced learners access material for research, normative spellings and linguistic
 usage. In Onomastics, we have made major contributions towards the national objective of an
 OA place-names database for all of Scotland. The ‘Commemorations of Saints in Scottish Place-
 Names’ web resource covers one class of names for the entire country. Three contributions are
 of regional scope, relating to Fife; Kirkcudbrightshire; and Berwickshire (with ELL). ‘Future
 Thinking on Carved Stones’, a Scottish Archaeological Research Framework represents a major
 OA resource for academics, heritage practitioners and the public alike. The current McLagan
 Manuscripts project has prompted a full programme of conservation and digitization of this vital
 18th-century Gaelic corpus (260+ items). Research has been disseminated through well-used
 external public resources; e.g., the learner proficiency scales (related to the Common European
 Framework of Reference [CEFR]) devised by the Comasan Labhairt ann an Gàidhlig [ClaG]
 project through LearnGaelic.scot.

 Research Integrity
 C&G operates within a robust environment of Research Integrity, facilitated by the College. All
 PGRs receive research integrity training, through the College Graduate School and SGSAH;
 CDT Celtic has also provided residential training events. Our projects consistently provide
 constituent PGRs and ECRs their rightful place as authors and co-editors on outputs; with co-
 authorship one strategy to foster ECRs’ careers. Research projects involving intellectual

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 property or the traditions and information of living persons (e.g. DASG), have robust frameworks
 for pursuing permissions and copyright. Clear ethical frameworks for interacting with subjects
 and permissions for use of data pertain elsewhere, e.g., CLaG, overseen by a College of Arts
 Ethics Policy and Committee.

 2. People

 Celtic & Gaelic has 11 Category-A staff (9.2 FTEs), alongside a variety of Learning, Teaching
 and Scholarship staff, RAs, and others, including UofG’s Gaelic Development Manager and her
 staff. Our current Category-A staff profile is 2:1 male: female (but by FTE, 5.7:3.5). Gender and
 seniority are relatively evenly spread across the unit, especially when Forsyth’s promotion to
 Professor (after the census date), is taken into account:

  Grade 7: 1F/1M          Grade 8: 3M      Grade 9: 2F/1M            Grade 10: 1F/2M


 Additionally, a significant number of Category-A staff identify as LGBT+ (explored below). There
 is diversity of nationality (2 Irish, 1 Swiss, 1 USA, the rest Scottish); lack of racial diversity
 pertains to virtually the whole field of Celtic Studies internationally, including at UG and PG level.
 There is an E&D dimension to the place of Scottish Gaelic in the UoA: as a minoritised
 language, Gaelic is subject to prejudice in commentary and attitudes, and although these
 attitudes are shifting, prolonged stigma regarding Gaelic speaking in previous generations casts
 its shadow over both research and teaching. Through our research and practice, we create
 policies and environments where Gaelic is protected and promoted within the UoA, in UofG and
 in wider society.

 Staffing Strategy
 Since 2014 we have grown by c.20% (7.7>9.2 FTE; 9>11 headcount) through recruitment of
 postdoctoral fellows and UofG investment in posts. Ó Maolalaigh was appointed VP/Head of the
 College of Arts in 2015, having already been Head of the School of Humanities, remaining
 research active. We successfully preserved key specialisms across two transitions. The
 emigration of a shared Celtic & Gaelic/History lecturer allowed the strategic creation of a Celtic
 History lectureship, expanding into later medieval and early modern Highland History. We
 successfully pursued one of UofG’s highly competitive LKAS Fellowships to offset a staff
 member in Onomastics tapering towards retirement. Envisaged, long-term, as a succession
 post, our LKAS Fellow in Celtic Onomastics (the only full-time academic post dedicated to
 Onomastics in Scotland) started in Autumn 2019. We were successful in supporting our BA
 Fellow, whose presence has been invigorating for the UoA in terms of balance (gender and
 age), and research specialism (Memory Studies). Aside from the two Research Fellows, all other
 Category-A staff are on open-ended contracts.

 Staff Development
 All C&G staff are well-supported towards assessing and attaining research and career ambitions
 through the integrated mechanisms and strategies of the UoA, School of Humanities [School]
 and College of Arts [College].

 All staff participate in an annual Performance & Development Review [P&DR] including research
 outputs, income, supervision and KE/Impact. The resulting monitoring, advice, intervention and
 support have been instrumental for many UoA members in advancing their careers. Meetings
 with the UoA’s Research Convener are used to formulate annual individual research strategies,
 and to anticipate funding applications; the Research Convener’s input is augmented by the

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advice and mentoring of senior colleagues regarding College-level promotions processes, or
 research grant opportunities (see Section 3 below).

 Three colleagues are participating in UofG’s flagship Early Career Development Programme
 [ECDP] whose structured programme of training, mentoring and target-setting is designed to
 support career development, aiming at promotion to SL within 8 years of appointment.

 Mentorship through ECDP is particularly influential for formulating individual research strategies,
 with further opportunities beyond. The School/College funded one staff member on the Aurora
 Initiative for Women in Leadership in Higher Education in 2016-17. Recently, both School and
 College have begun initiatives for more senior staff members to be mentored. Gender-equality
 initiatives have led the way here, providing female staff in particular with mentoring and peer
 networks aiding advancement. Evidence of the success of all these processes may be seen in
 our promotions during the cycle (6, from 6 applications; and all part-time colleagues have been
 promoted).

 UofG upholds the 2019 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and has
 been engaged in a University-wide initiative to widen understanding and implementation of it. A
 key support here is the College-level ArtsLab (described below), with dedicated workshops and
 bespoke advice directed towards various grades of researchers and needs.

 Post-Doctoral Researchers
 We build Post-Doctoral Researchers’ skills and career goals throughout the time of employment.
 ArtsLab hosts frequent workshops for research-only staff on project contracts; and a recent
 initiative by the University’s Research and Innovation has placed emphasis on the wellbeing and
 career development of project researchers, guided by the Concordat. Collaborations between
 postdoctoral researchers and staff members feature in our submission, in outputs, new projects,
 and impact case studies. We have successfully supported project-based ECRs in promotion,
 retention of promoted grades into new projects, and co-creation of follow-on projects.

 Research Leave Policy
 C&G employs research leave as a dynamic part of our overall research strategy. Since 2014 all
 Category-A staff, aside from the two Research Fellows, have benefitted from research leave. We
 also deploy research income towards lighter teaching periods to advance important outputs,
 grant applications, and impact activities. We have successfully obtained internal research
 support towards outputs and applications, and externally from writers’ grants, e.g. Gaelic Books
 Council [GBC] and the Scottish Gaelic Texts Society [SGTS].

 C&G upholds the UofG policy of all R&T staff having a semester’s research leave normally after
 6 worked semesters and manages leave through a regular rota to mitigate against gender or
 seniority bias, employing the same system for part-time staff. The School approves and monitors
 the leave process. C&G operates within the UofG policy on maternity leave and academic
 returners; neither has been relevant in the UoA since 2014.

 Links beyond academia
 C&G supports staff to maintain good links with the world outside academia. We have since 2014
 built Impact dynamically into staff development (detailed in Section 1). Staff members have very
 close links with, and in some cases leadership roles on, community groups and other public
 sector associations (detailed in Section 4). We interact closely with third-sector bodies in relation
 to Corpus planning, in particular with Bòrd na Gàidhlig and the Scottish Funding Council [SFC].

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Students
 We have had marked success in increasing our PhD numbers: in REF2014, we recorded 5.5
 doctoral degrees awarded (by supervisory load); since 2014, this has tripled to 15.5 (21 PhDs in
 all). PGRs/FTE currently sit at the Modern Languages Russell Group median (1/FTE), but have
 been higher than the 90th centile (1.7/FTE) during the cycle. We host a vibrant PGR community,
 with 25 C&G-based doctoral students since 2014, as well as c.10 Research Masters. We have
 co-supervised c.18 PhDs based in other UoAs (Archaeology, Education, ELL, English Literature,
 History, and Modern Languages). Whilst the bulk of our research students have been from the
 UK, we have attracted an international cohort from the EU (Croatia, Finland, France, Germany,
 Hungary, Ireland, Sweden), Canada, Singapore and USA.

 In an increasingly competitive environment, we have sought to maximise the progress of
 research-minded UofG students from Honours through Masters to PhD. This progression route
 has given us a solid foundation of PGRs, though many of our PhD students are recruited from
 elsewhere (11 during REF period). Crucial to our success has been the deployment of several
 endowments (2 of them new since 2014) to support Masters students, with 6 students supported
 by these endowments progressing to PhDs here, and others abroad (Harvard, Singapore). Staff
 closely support the development of PhD projects and applications, aiding our success in AHRC
 and Carnegie Trust competitions. Since 2014 we have supervised PhDs funded by:
 AHRC/CDT/SGSAH (8); Carnegie Trust (1, and another co-supervised in History); National
 University of Ireland Travelling Scholarship (1); Soillse (1); as well as the highly competitive
 internal UofG College studentships (6, and another co-supervised in Archaeology).

 C&G has taken a leadership role in doctoral provision in Celtic throughout the UK. The key
 initiative was the establishment of the AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Celtic Languages
 [CDT Celtic] (total budget of £1.8 million), which began operating at the outset of this
 assessment period. This unparalleled initiative, spearheaded by C&G at application stage and
 directed by it since, brings together 12 HEIs, and has funded 6 cohort-years of new PhD
 students (35 studentships); we have had 3 CDT students in C&G. CDT Celtic supports the
 individual research and training of AHRC-funded students, and creates new training initiatives,
 events and opportunities often shared beyond CDT students, benefitting the discipline as a
 whole. It allows cross-institutional supervision: we have external supervisors for CDT students
 from the Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies, Aberdeen and Edinburgh, and act as
 supervisors in Aberdeen (x2). Our Directorship of the CDT has driven the scheme, giving C&G
 involvement in the welfare of doctoral students across the UK. This was particularly evident in
 2020 in CDT leadership’s work regarding the effects of the pandemic on CDT students,
 negotiating with the AHRC on deadlines and extensions, and redirecting CDT funding for student
 support where possible. In common with all AHRC CDT schemes, it ceased taking new recruits
 in 2018/19; but C&G is now included in SGSAH, a very successful initiative now embracing all
 Scottish HEIs. The CDT Director serves as Catalyst+ Discipline lead for Celtic Studies in
 SGSAH, and has fostered collaboration between SGSAH and UK-wide Celtic Studies, including
 UK-wide Celtic participation in SGSAH’s Summer School, and CDT-oriented training for the
 whole of SGSAH.

 All UofG PGRs participate in an Annual Progress Review process to monitor and support their
 development, which C&G supplements with a six-monthly review. The College Graduate School
 provides both mandatory and optional training courses for PGRs; these are supplemented by
 training events run by the CDT and SGSAH. Our PGRs have considerable opportunity to build
 towards academic careers through teaching, including at PG level. The Centre for Scottish and

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Celtic Studies sponsors cohort-building reading groups and seminars, providing productive
 platforms for students and staff alike to air research-in-progress and discuss approaches and
 methodology.

 Equality and Diversity
 Celtic & Gaelic is an open and inclusive research unit, supporting UofG’s commitment to
 promote ‘equality in all its activities […] and to provide a work, learning, research and teaching
 environment free from discrimination and unfair treatment.’ All staff are required to partake of
 University level E&D and unconscious bias training. We aim for awareness of structural and
 systemic challenges and where possible help alleviate them, adopting flexible working practices
 to accommodate part-time staff and those with a variety of caring responsibilities; and adjusting
 working environments for members of staff and PGRs with disabilities. We took the initiative
 within our building to create gender-neutral toilet facilities to ensure an open environment for
 non-binary PGRs. A significant number of Category-A staff members identify as LGBT+, and
 have noted the contribution to their well-being arising from our open and inclusive environment,
 highlighting their sense of support from across the UoA. The VP/Head of the College of Arts, a
 UoA member, is the University’s LGBT+ Equality Champion, and chairs the University’s LGBT+
 Equality Group.

 We have progressed E&D issues at School level, as well as reforming and refining our own
 internal workings. The School’s Bronze Athena Swan award, which several C&G members were
 actively involved in achieving, illustrates current status and future ambition; and we are closely
 involved in School planning towards an Athena Swan Silver application. Our staff have
 contributed to School policy and practice, leading a work/life-balance committee and helping
 establish a gender-equality committee. Wellbeing is a constant item for UoA meetings,
 supported by School, College and University level initiatives.

 In C&G, we try to ensure gender balance where possible in everything from recruitment
 committees to research seminar series. Conscious of imbalances in the discipline, we took
 advantage of hosting of ICCS XV in 2015 to help influence the discipline in regard to balances of
 gender and seniority. One UoA member has been particularly proactive in this respect in the
 wider sphere of Celtic Studies, constructing an influential CDT-sponsored ‘Women in academia’
 session at ICCS XVI in Bangor. She regularly tweets under #WomenInCeltic, highlighting
 diversity within the discipline, leading to an invited podcast for the Association of Celtic Students
 in Ireland and Britain. We have been proactive in bringing E&D issues into teaching and
 research: supervising new work on gender and sexuality; teaching queer theory in PG training
 seminars; exploring colonialism; highlighting Scotland’s multicultural past; revising in-house
 journal style-sheets (to address unconscious occlusion of women’s scholarship).

 Research leave is discussed above. Committees awarding research support at School and
 Centre attend to gender balance in their make-up. For REF2021, output scoring and selection
 decisions have been overseen by a UoA committee balanced 2:1 female:male. All scorers
 undertook unconscious bias training. Selection decisions were based solely on estimated
 quality. After selection, statistics on gender and grade were reviewed; the proportion of outputs
 showed a close fit with the gender balance and staff-grade ratios in the UoA; slightly
 disproportionate ECR outputs (13% outputs v. 18% staff) submitted can be explained by the very
 recent appointment of one staff member.

 C&G is committed to language equality. Gaelic-speaking has been acknowledged in recent legal
 judgements as a protected characteristic. We have worked to normalise use of Gaelic in the

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA, and sought to raise its profile within the University; staff are mainstays of the UofG’s Gaelic
 Language Committee. We maintain a bilingual policy, striving to make the UoA a Gaelic-friendly
 environment. This extends to the School, where all units have bilingual identity and exterior
 signage. We support the Gaelic Development Manager and the Gàidhlig@Oilthigh Ghlaschu
 initiative in the evolution and promotion of a series of institution-wide Gaelic Language Plans,
 most recently for 2018-21. Where possible we provide Gaelic-medium supervision; and our
 advocacy led to Gaelic being recognised in UofG alongside English as an official language for
 submitting PhD theses.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 C&G maintained our strong record of research income, while expanding the number of staff
 holding grants and diversifying funders. Our income in REF2014 represented a considerable
 high-water mark (£1.17million, or £152k/FTE). We have maintained a good level of grant
 capture. This successful trajectory is set to continue into the next period owing to e.g. a new
 award from AHRC (£932k) awarded in the period although starting after the census date for
 income.

  Sum of UofG Research Income by HESA Year
         2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17                 2017/18     2018/19    2019/20      Total
  Total   £158,680 £41,901  £67,928  £83,250             £122,548    £151,337   £159,854    £793,628
  for
  UoA

 We have built on previous success in creating ambitious research bids and expanding the
 number of grant-holders. All but 3 Category-A staff have held HESA-tracked grant income this
 period. Of those 3: one holds a competitive LKAS Fellowship, and is Co-I on a major AHRC
 grant awarded just before the census date; another held internal KE funding and attracted
 external Impact support (not HESA-tracked) and is Co-I on the new AHRC grant. The third held
 a funded visiting research fellowship (£2k) at the University of Rennes which was unable to be
 HESA-tracked. Thus, all Category-A staff have been engaged in grant-capture and grant-holding
 across the REF period. Despite fluctuation, across the period the gender balance of grant-
 holding is roughly equal. We have also diversified our funders: previously primarily AHRC,
 Leverhulme and Bòrd na Gàidhlig, but now also RSE, MHRA, Wellcome, Heritage Lottery Fund,
 Historic Environment Scotland [HES], SGTS, GBC and others.

 Strategically, our focus has been on key projects with overarching national objectives: 1)
 DASG/Corpas na Gàidhlig which exist in a symbiotic relationship with the inter-HEI Faclair
 (funding described below); 2) the Survey of Scottish Place-Names, into which various projects
 feed. Onomastic projects have brought in c.£250k over this period; two new funded projects,
 submitted this cycle and starting after census date, continue the success of this research strand.
 Vitality and sustainability in both these spheres have allowed expansion into other areas.

 The British Academy supports DASG as one of its long-term projects, on competitive 5-year
 funding tranches (£5k/year), greatly commending it in its most recent quinquennial review
 (2020). This secure continuity has built DASG into a major resource for use in linguistic, literary
 and folklore studies alike. Its partner project, the inter-HEI Faclair, secured £2.5million of
 Scottish Government SFC, and UKRI funding for the period 2018-23, to continue building a


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 historical dictionary of Scottish Gaelic. As Chair of the Advisory Board, Ó Maolalaigh played a
 key role in securing this funding. Of that, some £800k funds staff at UofG over the same period,
 primarily systems developers and Corpas assistants. The finance structure of the Faclair means
 this funding is not HESA-tracked as UofG income. What is clear is the sustainability of the UoA’s
 contribution on this front, owing to incremental build and reinvestment. For example, the
 research tools produced by DASG/Corpas, building on an earlier project, Dlùth is Inneach
 (2014), underpin the Bòrd na Gàidhlig-funded Leasachadh Corpais na Gàidhlig (LEACAG)
 project on Gaelic corpus development (£88k), research which underlies one of our ICSs; there is
 a follow-on project planned (LEACAN, see Section 1, Future Strategy).

 Two AHRC-funded place-name projects from the previous REF period were grown into a
 successor project funded by the Leverhulme Trust under the auspices of ELL (UoA27); we
 contributed to the application process, and a UoA member was Co-I on the project. Two major
 place-name projects received funding in the past two years: Place-Names of Mull and Ulva
 (2019-22/24), funded by the UofG’s LKAS Fellowship; and the AHRC-funded ‘Iona’s
 Namescape: Place-Names and their dynamics in Iona and its environs’ (2020-23, £930k).

 Major place-name projects have provided the platform for contributions to community-based
 research initiatives: so the Place-Names of the Galloway Glens project (2018-21, £31k), for the
 Heritage Lottery-funded Galloway Glens Landscape Partnership, grew out of previous place-
 name survey projects and interactions with Heritage Landscape Partnerships; so too the recently
 begun project with Coalfield Communities Landscape Partnership (2020-23, £30k) in East
 Ayrshire. Eòlas nan Naomh (2018-19, £9k), funded by Bòrd na Gàidhlig for Ceòlas Uibhist, grew
 out of the earlier Saints in Scottish Place-Names project. We have managed to seed new
 projects from old, propelling the sustainability of this research area. Importantly, these projects
 have also resulted in major published outputs.

 Local resources and smaller-scale funding have also underpinned projects which spawn further
 projects. An example is Sgeul na Gàidhlig (2013-14), a project on the history of Gaelic in the
 University of Glasgow, funded by the Chancellor’s Fund at UofG and Soillse, which then led to
 further work with GlasgowLife, the outcome of which was the Glaschu initiative which underpins
 one of our ICSs. UoA members have secured authors’/editors’ grants for monograph projects
 from SGTS and the GBC towards completing outputs. We have also successfully grown
 relationships with postdoctoral researchers into funded research, e.g., a UofG graduate who is
 now our LKAS Fellow; and a Zürich graduate supervised by a UoA member, now our BA Fellow.

 A key current and future project relates to the McLagan Manuscripts, held in Glasgow University
 Library. This unique and important collection of 18th-century manuscripts contains a wide range
 of Gaelic literature, modern and medieval, including early copies of well-known songs still in the
 current canon of traditional singers and Gaelic choirs. A long-term objective to better understand
 these manuscripts and their background, and to make them more accessible to scholars and the
 public alike has been built in increments from pilot phase conference supported by the MHRA
 and SGTS, through an RSE-funded Network (c.£15k); to plans for an ambitious future project in
 the next cycle. It has been led by staff members new to grant-holding, bringing together
 conference and colloquium contributions from most other UoA members, making it a unique full-
 UoA project. Cross-investment from DASG/Corpas na Gàidhlig funded the digitisation of the
 manuscripts, anticipating the role these will play in Gaelic language research.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Infrastructure and Support
 Our strategy is empowered by a highly supportive College research infrastructure, significantly
 augmented since 2014, enabling efficient creation and processing of research grants. This
 includes KE/Impact, with advice on the integration of impact into funding applications at the
 earliest stages, and specialist one-to-one support for developing, maximising and evaluating
 impact on projects (see Section 1). ArtsLab, a College unit designed to facilitate, encourage, and
 support research activity, spearheads energetic programmes of training and information
 sessions, research development and grants support. Its Application Development Service peer-
 reviews major grants as they move forward. C&G has been improved by these processes and
 provided its own expertise and experience. Comparable support from School and College has
 also been available for other competitive bids, e.g. postdoctoral fellowships; and there is internal
 scrutiny and peer review for doctoral funding applications. ArtsLab has developed College-wide
 research clusters to which UoA members contribute, and from which new projects are emerging.

 The Centre for Scottish and Celtic Studies provides financial support, but more importantly an
 intellectual home for the UoA’s research activities, from its weekly seminar for which we have
 been both host and strong contributor over the period; to its support for reading groups
 (Onomastics, Highland History), where our staff and PGRs are core participants. Connections
 made at such sessions have helped to build grant applications, PhD topics and supervisory
 teams.

 Considerable internal funding is available for research support, ranging from conference
 attendance to teaching-buyout in respect of major outputs or applications. Except where
 explicitly tied to project funding, research support is generally distributed via internal competition
 at UoA, Centre, School and College level. Research funding panels take cognisance of E&D in
 the constitution of their panels (e.g. ensuring gender balance where possible), and the way
 decision-making is implemented.

 Resources
 Funded projects have benefitted from the presence in DASG of technical staff, who have helped
 build its bespoke online resources. Systems Developers in Schools and College have made
 signal contributions towards grant applications and funded projects and our OA initiative
 described in Section 1. Good working relations among Systems Developers in DASG, College
 and ELL have been vital to the maturing of the Scottish place-name database over several
 different projects.

 We have created new digital collections from existing archives, and from newly acquired ones,
 such as the collection of the poet Tormod MacLeod, Am Bàrd Bochd, supported on DASG’s
 Cluas ri Claisneachd audio archive. DASG has attracted increasing numbers of donated field
 researcher archives. We have worked with Glasgow University Library [GUL] on various projects
 over the period, including exhibitions of Celtic holdings for the Finn Cycle conference in 2014,
 and the 50th anniversary of the GBC. The McLagan Project works closely with GUL, since the
 manuscripts are some of its chief Gaelic treasures, including the recent DASG-funded
 digitisation of these and other manuscripts.

 The Faclair has enabled the sharing of resources across the HEIs linked to it. While funding is
 administered and tracked through UHI (the Faclair’s host research organisation) all HEIs
 involved have benefited from it. Also based at UHI is Soillse: we led two key projects under the
 auspices of Soillse which have had significant impact, CLaG (with Aberdeen), and LEACAG
 (with UHI and Edinburgh).

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Celtic & Gaelic demonstrates considerable reach through collaborations, leadership and
 contributions to the discipline and wider society.

 Collaborations, Networks, Partnerships
 We played foundational and steering roles in key continuing national inter-HEI initiatives during
 the period: Faclair na Gàidhlig (Vice-Chair of Steering Committee; Chair of Advisory Committee),
 the Survey of Scottish Place Names (Director, General Editor), and Soillse (C&G collaborations
 with Aberdeen, UHI and Edinburgh under Soillse’s auspices are described in Section 3 above).
 Faclair and CDT Celtic (Director; see Section 2) in particular have involved bringing together
 distinct units for common purpose.

 We have close relationships with major national Scottish organisations, working responsively
 with Bòrd na Gàidhlig (the Scottish-government funded body for the maintenance of Gaelic)
 through tenders, and providing important commissioned research, highlighted in our ICS. The
 SFC was instrumental in the evolution, as well as the funding, of our innovative Gaelic
 Immersion Year, and support for the Faclair.

 We have been invited participants in a variety of inter-HEI and inter-disciplinary projects, across
 Scotland and internationally. We joined colleagues in ELL in running a series of linked onomastic
 projects with Copenhagen, including PG training courses and the RSE-funded Cognitive
 Toponymy network (2014-15). We were invited participants in the British Council-funded joint
 Glasgow-Kolkata symposia on early charters and panegyric (2015-17); in Léamh, at University
 of Connecticut, on early modern Irish language and literature; in an EU-funded project on
 Ancient European Languages and Writings (Gran Canaria); and in Early Christian Churches and
 Landscapes, an AHRC-funded Network based in Chester (2017-18). DASG participates in
 ‘Language in Lyrics’, a partnership project on Nova Scotia Gaelic song with Cape Breton
 University, funded by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (2018).
 Several projects have seen partnerships between ourselves and Ceòlas Uibhist, the Gaelic
 community organisation in Uist.

 The McLagan Manuscripts project (MHRA-funded conference; RSE-funded network) involves an
 international network of scholars and collaboration with a number of major libraries: GUL, the
 National Library of Scotland, and the Royal Irish Academy. The UoA worked alongside the
 Gaelic media organisation MGAlba and An Comunn Gàidhealach to host a conference at the
 start of the annual Mòd (a Gaelic song and cultural festival held every year in October).

 Contribution to Research Base
 Our research contributes greatly towards building the research base for Celtic Studies.
 Examples already mentioned include DASG/Corpas which lays the groundwork not only for the
 Faclair, but also for evidence-based Gaelic grammar and usage as seen in LEACAG; and other
 research, e.g., Edinburgh’s Gaelic speech recognition project. Future Thinking on Carved
 Stones sets the agenda for research in archaeology and art history: during 2016-19 it was the
 most consulted of all the ScARFs produced under the auspices of the Society of Antiquaries of
 Scotland and remains heavily used. The several iterations of the Scottish place-name database
 employed in projects across the period, in Berwickshire, Kirkcudbrightshire and now Ayrshire,
 Mull and Iona, have each been steps on the way toward realising a national database.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our contribution and standing within the discipline have been recognised through a large
 number of plenary, named and invited lectures, involving all submitted members, stretching
 internationally from Canada to India. Plenaries include ICCS XVI Bangor; Rannsachadh na
 Gàidhlig, Edinburgh; World Congress of Scottish Literatures, Vancouver; Irish Studies Alliance,
 UConnecticut; Comhdháil ar Litríocht agus ar Chultúr na Gaeilge, Galway; Association of Celtic
 Students of Ireland and Britain, Edinburgh; named lectures include the Parry-Williams Lecture,
 Aberystwyth; Matheson Lecture, Glasgow; Canna Lecture and John MacLeod Lecture,
 Edinburgh. Other invited academic lectures and seminars took place in Kolkata, Toronto,
 Harvard, UConnecticut, Notre Dame; Helsinki, Paris, Rennes, and many locations throughout
 Britain and Ireland.

 Contribution to the Discipline and other Disciplines
 We took a lead role in the discipline through hosting [ICCS XV] (2015), making notable changes
 of format and organisation. Its platform of plenary speakers balanced gender and mixed
 established and emerging voices, as well as restoring coverage of some sub- and sister
 disciplines. We highlighted the importance of international scholars (from Ireland, Germany and
 the USA) in collecting and analysing often now-extinct dialects of Gaelic, presenting four
 Honorary Degrees. It was the first Congress at which social media was a dominant component,
 and was widely commended for its inclusive and forward-thinking approach. We advised the
 successor ICCS team for Bangor 2019. We further led international conferences within Celtic
 Studies and beyond: two conferences on the Finn Cycle (in Glasgow 2014 and Sabhal Mòr
 Ostaig, Skye 2018, the latter co-organised with colleagues in other HEIs); the 8th International
 Insular Art Conference (2017).

 We changed the landscape of doctoral studies in the discipline, as the instigator and lead for the
 creation of the CDT Celtic (see Section 2). At present, the CDT is the only active UK-wide
 organisation for Celtic Studies, and its committees have allowed for much valued collaboration
 across the four nations. The VP/Head of the College of Arts, a member of the UoA, is Co-Chair
 of SGSAH, which manages AHRC-funded doctoral studentships, and provides training and
 resources for PGRs throughout Scotland. CDT Celtic has supported SGSAH in taking on a UK-
 wide responsibility for Celtic Studies, organising joint training events and advising on Gaelic.

 We have played our part in other aspects of postgraduate and postdoctoral research in Britain,
 Ireland and beyond, serving as External Examiners for PhDs (Edinburgh, Cambridge, CAWCS,
 Belfast, Cork, UCDublin, NUIGalway, Oslo, Lausanne); and other degrees (Aberdeen, UHI,
 NUIGalway, Cambridge); as External Assessors for research or for postgraduate programmes
 (Cork, NUIGalway, UWTSD); on doctoral and postdoctoral Grants Committees (CDT Celtic;
 SGSAH; Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland; Irish Research Council; Junior
 Research Fellowships in Cambridge; the Gates Scholarship); as well as the AHRC and Carnegie
 Trust Peer Review Colleges. UoA members have also refereed for recruitment and promotion for
 a wide variety of HEIs in Britain and Ireland. Within the wider discipline of Modern Languages,
 one UoA member has served on the AHRC Modern Languages Advisory Group; another on the
 Advisory Board of eDIL.

 We have provided leadership in key initiatives within the discipline. We have close involvement
 with SGTS, providing its Chair since 2016, its Supervisory Editor since 2019 and council
 members. This period has seen SGTS recover from a period of crisis; it now produces regular
 and consistent high-quality publications. Similarly, we provided the founding Director and
 General Editor of the Survey of Scottish Place-Names, overseeing two volumes in the Survey
 series, and laid the groundwork for the next five; and the Chair of the Society for Scottish

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medieval and Renaissance Studies (2018-21), the interdisciplinary organisation for medieval
 Scottish studies.

 Edited peer-reviewed journals and essay collections are the life-blood of the research
 community. We have made a major contribution on this front, through editorship of journals
 (Aiste: Studies in Gaelic Literature (2 vols since 2014); Journal of Scottish Name Studies (7 vols
 since 2014); Steall the Gaelic literary journal (2 issues); guest editorship of International Journal
 of Scottish Theatre, 2016); and co-editorship of a major book series (the International
 Companions to Scottish Literature, 6 vols since 2014). We have edited 3 scholarly essay
 collections in the period, with a further 3 due in 2021. We serve on the Editorial Boards for many
 journals: e.g., Scottish Gaelic Studies, Éigse, Peritia, The North American Journal of Celtic
 Studies, The Innes Review; Ainm, and peer-review widely within and beyond the discipline.

 Contribution to Society
 We contribute strongly beyond academia, in steering capacities and on-the-ground activity, often
 deeply embedded in the activities of local groups, especially regarding Gaelic. We have been
 sought out as speakers (and singers) at community events and local societies throughout the
 period, in Scotland and beyond, disseminating research, building lasting links and prompting
 new projects. Our interactions range across schools, local councils, national organisations,
 community groups, heritage bodies, arts organisations, individual artists, and the media.

 We have been influential in the Gaelic Arts, particularly through two Gold-medal award-winning
 Gaelic singers who are staff. One member was until recently Chair of An Lòchran, the Glasgow
 Gaelic arts organisation; others have served on the council of Theatre gu Leòr (the only Gaelic-
 language theatre group in Scotland); the LKAS Fellow was seconded in 2019-20 to Theatre Gu
 Leòr for writing and performing. Members have served on the board of the Gaelic Books
 Council; and been present in various capacities at film and literary festivals such as STANZA
 (the St Andrews Poetry Festival), where one of our doctoral students was poet in residence.
 Another member served as an adviser to musicians on cultural content: e.g., for Mary Ann
 Kennedy on the album Glaschu (2019). Richard Ingham cited one member’s work as a major
 source for his jazz quintet suite, Music for the Book of Deer (premiered 2014, released 2020).

 We have been consultants on museum exhibitions, e.g. the British Museum and National
 Museum of Scotland’s ‘Celts: Art and Identity’ exhibitions in London (2014) and Edinburgh
 (2015), featuring as ‘talking heads’ in the display; advised the Hunterian Museum for its GUGA:
 Slighe gu Gàidhlig exhibition in 2019, and the EMOTIVE Digital Storytelling project. One
 member has acted as an adviser to visual artists and designers, including sculptural work for the
 Commonwealth Games in 2014; ogham logos for rugby teams and distilleries; and artwork
 featuring ogham for new-build primary schools in Aberdeenshire in 2016.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




      Pupils of Kemnay Midmill Primary School against wall featuring ogham alphabet designs

 Our place-name research also has a large footprint beyond academia. We have served on the
 steering committee of Ainmean Àite na h-Alba, the national advisory partnership for Gaelic
 place-names in Scotland, responsible for official forms of Gaelic place-names for signage and
 government materials. Members have served on the committee and as Vice-Convener of the
 Scottish Place-Name Society, a Scotland-wide body mixing academic and non-academic
 participants, hosting conferences twice yearly and supporting a range of other activities among
 local groups. We have been frequent speakers at local history societies, and brought onomastics
 to the public through the European Night of Research Explorathon. Our work with Landscape
 Partnerships has led to close interaction with local initiatives, particularly in Galloway and Mull.

 We contribute strongly to the Gaelic-speaking community. Our research has underpinned aspects
 of the online language hub, LearnGaelic.net, the go-to place for all aspects of Gaelic online; DASG
 was nominated for the ‘Best Contribution to Gaelic’ in the Bòrd na Gàidhlig Gaelic Awards; one
 UoA member has a running series of programmes about Gaelic grammar on BBC Alba/Radio nan
 Gàidheal. We have been prominent in many other respects on Gaelic media, both television and
 radio (including TV and radio programmes about the UoA), as well as on the Irish-language
 television channel. Our strong links with GlasgowLife, the cultural services division of Glasgow
 City Council, have been of mutual benefit (see our ICS). Our research-led understanding of the
 needs of Gaelic-speaking professionals and students within universities has led to many initiatives
 under the banner of Gàidhlig@Oilthigh Ghlaschu, with the UoA’s advice being sought for Gaelic
 Language Plans. Most recently, this approach has prompted the award of a 3-year pilot project for
 an SFC-funded Immersion year in Gaelic at UofG to serve the needs of professionals, teachers
 and advanced students in developing fluency, launched in 2020. Our recommendations shaped
 Bòrd na Gàidhlig’s Gaelic for Adults strategy via a special working group. Our LKAS Fellow was
 named Gaelic Ambassador of the Year in 2019, a role he continues through 2021; also chairing
 the Mull and Iona Gaelic Partnership; and the Mull and Iona Glasgow Association; another UoA
 member is long-serving Secretary of the Gaelic Society of Glasgow. We have given advice to
 commercial organisations regarding Gaelic, for instance, to Glenmorangie, and the Tennent’s
 Brewery visitor centre. Our work with Gaelic-speaking communities, e.g. in Uist, have aimed to
 address issues of isolation and insularity, as well as employment and sustainability.




                                                                                             Page 16
