Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: C23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure of the Unit

 Educational research at the Open University sits within The Centre for Research in Education
 and Educational Technology (CREET). In REF 2014, CREET sat within the Faculty of Education
 and Language Studies (FELS). During the current REF period, FELS merged with the Faculty of
 Health and Social Care to become the Faculty of Wellbeing, Education and Language Studies
 (WELS) and as a result CREET is now managed by WELS. CREET researchers are located in
 three administrative units: The Faculty of Wellbeing, Education and Language Studies (70.41
 FTE); The Faculty of Science, Engineering, Technology and Mathematics (7.0 FTE) and The
 Institute for Educational Technology (28.51 FTE). CREET has an international reputation for
 field-leading research that coheres around four substantive research clusters: Childhood, Youth
 and Sports; Education Futures; Language and Literacies, and Technology Enhanced Learning.
 Each cluster generates agenda setting programmes of impactful research through original
 theorising, methodological innovation, and sustained, creative partnerships with a diverse range
 of users. Researchers within these four clusters also contribute to two connected research
 centres, two research groups and two university wide interdisciplinary Strategic Research Areas
 (SRAs).

 Research Clusters

 During the current REF period the research of CREET has cohered around the same four
 substantive interdisciplinary research clusters areas as in REF 2014: in some cases the focus of
 their work has expanded.

 Research in Education Futures investigates teaching and learning in order to shape more
 equitable and innovative learning opportunities. Signature strengths of the cluster are the
 development and implementation of innovative and scalable methods for co-production.
 Researchers collaborate across two integral research groups Pedagogy and Learning (PaL) and
 Research into International Teacher Education and Sustainable Development (RITES).
 Research within PaL is underpinned by a socio-cultural understanding of learning and
 investigates pedagogy, learning, curriculum, policy, and assessment across a range of formal
 and informal learning contexts. Projects focus on creativity and creative teaching and learning,
 teachers and students’ literacies, identities and practices, issues of inclusion and the use of new
 technologies. RITES’ major interests include approaches for teacher education in international
 contexts and at mass scale; the use of digital technologies and open educational resources
 (OER) in teacher professional development.

 Childhood Studies has expanded to become Childhood, Youth and Sports. Research in this
 cluster employs a wide range of quantitative and qualitative research methodologies to examine
 children’s, young people’s and sportspersons’ lived experiences, education, and
 development. The cluster has particular expertise in conducting interdisciplinary research
 underpinned by a commitment to social justice and well-being. Research therefore addresses
 real-world problems of disadvantage, discrimination, ill-health and disability in order to gain new
 insights and develop effective interventions.

 The Language and Literacies cluster has coalesced under a broader theme of Language and
 Applied Linguistics. Researchers in this cluster contribute to two integral research groups:
 Open Languages (OLRG) and Applied Linguistics and Literacies (ALLRG). OLRG focuses on
 research into the learning and teaching of languages and cultures in technology-mediated
 contexts and language education policy and practice. It has developed an International
 reputation for leading research into intercultural communicative competence and digital literacies

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development. ALLRG focuses on the social, cultural, and political dimensions of spoken and
 written language in a variety of contexts, including education.

 Research in the Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) Cluster has an international reputation
 for leading the development of new disciplines within the field such as Learning Analytics and
 leading new fields of inquiry such Open Education Practices. Across the cluster research in this
 REF period has focused on five themes: Learning Design and Learning Analytics, Learning
 Futures, Learning in an Open World, Professional and Digital Learning, and Performance
 Augmentation. Learning Design and Learning Analytics research seeks to address questions
 such the usefulness of learning analytics and learning design data for teachers and students,
 and how teachers and organisations can be effectively supported. Drawing on research in
 mobile and ubiquitous learning, citizen engagement, informal language learning and Massive
 Open Online Courses (MOOCs), Learning Futures research examines how best to respond to
 the needs of large numbers of dispersed and disadvantaged learners. Learning in an Open
 World explores the impact of Open practices on learners and educators alike. The Professional
 and Digital Learning research programme is working with partners in multinational companies,
 professional bodies, academic institutions, and civil society organisations to improve the ways
 people and organisations learn in response to global challenges. Performance Augmentation
 research is exploring augmented and virtual reality for learning.

 Research Centres and Groups

 In order to facilitate growth and innovations, we have supported, through the creation of two
 Centres and two Groups, research activity that draws on the expertise of researchers both within
 and outside of the research clusters. These centres and groups have flexible membership
 boundaries that extend beyond the Faculty and University.

 Established in 2004 the Children’s Research Centre (CRC) was unique in being the first
 university-based centre anywhere in the world to train and support children and young people to
 undertake their own research. This enables children and young people to have a research voice
 in society and to make valuable contributions to knowledge from their insider perspectives. The
 CRC work with diverse groups of children and young people in schools and community settings,
 to provide them with age-tailored research training and then support them to undertake original
 research of their choosing. Recently, membership of the Centre has expanded to include
 research-engaged practitioners.

 As part of our initial work to develop cross-faculty interdisciplinary research that builds on the
 strengths of the newly formed Faculty, we have established the Body Mind and Media Centre
 for Children and Young People’s Wellbeing. The aim of the Centre is to understand children
 and young people’s experiences and worlds, to improve policy and practice in media, health,
 and medical care. Taking a children’s rights stance, children, parents, and others are invited to
 share their views and experiences in these domains. Projects include ‘The Science of
 Persuasion’, where in collaboration with UNICEF UK Rights Respecting Schools, materials were
 co-created with young people to examine the science of persuasive design in digital media and
 how the advertising ecosystem works to influence their food behaviour.

 Founded in 1978, The Computer Aided Learning Research Group (CALRG) focuses on the use
 of technologies in education. Membership consists of students and staff located with the Institute
 of Educational Technology (IET) as well as students and staff from maths and computing, health
 and social care, arts, social science, and business. CALRG is an active and supportive
 community that runs weekly events including seminars from external and internal speakers; and
 ‘communicating research’ sessions. CALRG also organises an annual research conference
 every summer and a key feature is that students and early career researchers are heavily
 involved in its organisation (e.g. Iniesto, Murphy) giving them valuable leadership experience.
 The RUMPUS Research Group is a multi-disciplinary group that examines the role of fun in
 learning. The group has secured a Faculty funded postdoc (Okada) and has collaborative
 projects in Nepal, Indonesia, and Brazil. For example, working in partnership with five Brazilian

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Universities, the OLAF project is refining and validating an instrument designed to capture
 students’ views about fun and distance education.

 Approach to Interdisciplinary research

 Our interdisciplinary work focuses on key challenges related to understanding how people can
 be enabled to realise their potential, lead healthy, fulfilling lives, create inclusive societies, and
 thrive in the context of change and uncertainty. Our approach to interdisciplinary research within
 the assessment period has focused on contributing to and leading cross-faculty initiatives (e.g.
 CALRG and The Body Mind and Media Centre for Children and Young People’s Wellbeing) and
 cross-university initiatives. With respect to cross-university initiatives, we have received
 significant investment from the university in order to engage in two interdisciplinary initiatives
 that are of strategic international importance: OpenTEL and International Development and
 Inclusive Innovation. The aims of these two strategic research areas (SRAs) are to develop
 interdisciplinary research collaborations that address the global challenge of bringing about
 systemic transformation in order to address exclusion, increase participation and promote
 equitable approaches for individual learners.

 The OpenTEL SRA investigates how innovative technologies can help people learn in different
 places and how these technologies can enhance learning and empower learners. This SRA is
 led by Scanlon and the Institute for Educational Technology (IET), which provides expertise in
 researching TEL to encourage the development of TEL research across the OU. This is
 achieved through events, such as termly ‘Show & TEL’ seminars, bidding workshops as well as
 the development and support of five Special Interest Groups focusing on Artificial Intelligence in
 Education, Citizen Science, Accessibility and Inclusion, Assessment and Interdisciplinarity. An
 example OpenTEL project is the ARCLIGHT project, funded by the British Academy in which
 CREET researcher Gaved, is using his expertise in participatory digital technologies to work with
 researchers in mental health (Mitchell) and international development (Berardi) to develop,
 implement and evaluate a capacity building and intervention programme for addressing the
 challenges of mental health in Guyana. The SRA also provides a supportive community for the
 development of interdisciplinary doctoral projects through the support of a number of PhD
 students with supervisory teams drawn from all four faculties of the university. In 2017, the
 OpenTEL SRA was the recipient of the 2017 Open Education Consortium award for Open
 Research.

 The International Development and Inclusive Innovation SRA seeks to understand how
 innovations in pedagogy, technology and conceptions of language and culture can be used to
 increase participation in learning. Wolfenden and Buckler have served on the steering
 committee of the SRA and have contributed to cross-faculty reviews of bids. An example project
 is the research on transformation of the education workforce for the Education Commission
 conducted by Wolfenden and Buckler (with Santos from Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences).
 One of the recommendations from this research was that education workforce design draw on
 the concept of ‘social capital’ to design learning teams. This has informed country level work in
 Ghana where new education workforce design will integrate elements of a learning team
 approach such as greater differentiation in the role of the teacher.

 Approach to developing an open research environment

 The role that Open Education Resources and Open Educational Practices play in professional
 development and pedagogy is a key focus of research taking place across CREET. As well as
 researching ‘open-ness’, our researchers are committed to modelling good practice in terms of
 making the tools, data, and processes that they develop open to the wider community. For
 example, The EU-funded ERASMUS project ExplOERer project (Comas-Quinn, Pulker)
 analysed current practice in the use and sustainability of OER and drew on the results of this
 analysis to develop an Open MOOC called ‘Learning to (Re) Use Open Educational Resources,
 which won an award for excellence in 2016 from the Open Education Consortium.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to placing research data and papers in institutional publication (ORO) and data
 repositories (ORDO) researchers in our unit of assessment also publish in Open Journals and
 with Open Book publishers such as Ubiquity Press. Examples of open journals that our
 researchers routinely publish in are the Journal of Interactive Media in Education (edited by
 Weller and Jones), Journal of Learning for Development, Open Praxis, European Journal of
 Open, Distance and E-Learning, Journal of Learning Analytics, Open and Interdisciplinary
 Journal of Technology, Culture and Education, Frontiers in Psychology: Cognition, The Eurocall
 Review, Journal of Universal Computer Science, Frontiers in Education (Scanlon is Speciality
 Chief Editor for Digital Innovation) and International Review of Research in Open and Distance
 Learning. Funding for gold access publishing is available to researchers from both institutional
 funds (e.g. library) and Faculty funds (Associate Dean for Research budget and Education REF
 budget).

 How the unit supports a culture of research integrity

 The Associate Dean for Research, the Cluster Directors and the Chair of the Education REF
 panel formally induct all new research and academic staff into the research culture and practices
 of the unit and the OU. This induction includes information about the University’s Code of
 Practice for Research, the University’s Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) and the OU
 Research Data Management Policy. Prior to submission all research bids are required to gain
 outline ethical approval from HREC. In addition to guidance from HREC the ethical practices of
 our researchers are informed by guidance from the British Educational Research Association
 (BERA) and the British Psychological Society (BPS). Through internal seminars and workshops
 our researchers are supported to critically appraise the potential of ethical frameworks
 developed by colleagues within the unit of assessment. Examples include the CERD
 (consequential, ecological, relational and deontological) ethical appraisal framework
 (Stutchbury & Fox); the work by Ferguson highlighting the ethical challenges and goals for
 learning analytics research and practice; and the work by Fox and Charitonos examining
 ethical approaches to studying displaced peoples.

 1.2 Strategic aims for research during the assessment period

 Our REF 2014 submission stated that we would place the distinctive clusters of excellence at the
 core of our future strategy, seeking to develop and enrich them in order to increase the
 excellence of our research and contribution to the wider research and discipline base. In order to
 achieve these aims, within the four clusters we have made strategic appointments and
 promotions to secure leadership, developed partnerships with external partners (academic and
 non-academic), and developed applications for large-scale (250K+) funding and interdisciplinary
 initiatives.

 Strategic appointments and promotions to secure leadership

 Since REF 2014 we have appointed 39.11 (FTE) new staff and promoted 31 staff (see section
 2.1 for more details). Examples of how this strategy has secured leadership and contributed to
 the conduct of excellent research include:
 • The appointment of Hempel-Jorgensen has been made permanent and she was promoted
     from Research Associate to Research Fellow. Funded by the British Academy, Hempel-
     Jorgensen (with Cremin) led a project which aimed to understand boys’ disengagement with
     reading for pleasure. One of the resulting papers from this project ‘Pedagogy for reading for
     pleasure in low socio-economic primary schools: beyond ‘pedagogy of poverty?’, published
     in the journal, Literacy, was shortlisted for the Wiley Blackwell research paper of the year
     award 2019.
 • The appointment of Buckler has been made permanent, and she was promoted from
     Research Associate to Senior Research Fellow. Buckler has led several funded projects
     including a recent award from the AHRC to develop and lead a network of expert and early
     career researchers focusing on storytelling approaches for understanding learning
     exclusions in urban schools in Sub-Saharan Africa (the iBali Network).

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Wolfenden was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Professor and through the TESS-Africa
     and TESS-India projects has led on award winning programmes of research that have
     sought to facilitate the integration of Open Education Resources into teaching practice
     through the accommodation of local cultural and institutional practices. In 2015, TESS-India
     won the Bond Innovation award and in March 2017, TESS-India was awarded the
     prestigious Guardian University Award 2017 in the ‘International Projects’ category.
 •   The strategic appointments of Herodotou and Aristeidou, to work alongside Scanlon and
     Sharples on participatory forms of inquiry learning have enabled the TEL cluster to engage in
     a range of collaborative projects. Examples include LEARN CitSci which is a four-year
     international collaborative research project that aims to understand how young people
     develop Environmental Science agency through their participation in Citizen Science
     programs at Natural History Museums. Funded by the National Science Foundation,
     Wellcome and ESRC the project is a collaboration between Citizen Science practitioners at
     two prestigious Natural History museums and the California Academy of Sciences in San
     Francisco, and Educational Researchers from UC Davis and the University of Oxford.
 •   The strategic appointment of Rienties as Reader (and later promotion to Professor) has
     enabled the TEL cluster to develop a reputation as a world-leader in learning analytics
     research. Rienties, (with Ferguson and Ullman) contributed to two EU funded projects on
     Learning Analytics: LAEP and LACE. The objectives of the Learning Analytics Community
     Exchange (LACE) project were to promote the creation and exchange of knowledge, to build
     the knowledge base, to help guide the development of the field and to build consensus on
     interoperability and data sharing. A key outcome of this work was the LACE Evidence Hub
     which brings together positive, negative, and neutral evidence and presents it in searchable
     form. LACE has also investigated possible futures for learning analytics and has used this
     work to inform research and policy agendas.

 Long-term strategic partnerships with external partners (academic and non-academic)

 Our commitment to engaged research (see section 1.4) has enabled us to develop a wide range
 of successful partnerships with both academic and non-academic partners. Examples include
 the following:

 •   In order to demonstrate the learning gains that can be achieved through the mainstreaming
     of ‘virtual exchanges between university students in different countries a strategic
     partnership with European Universities, European Ministries of Education and NGOs was
     developed by researchers in the OLRG and TEL clusters. In the first collaborative project
     EVALUATE (Evaluating and Upscaling Telecollaborative Teacher Education), Hauck, Lewis
     and Rienties were part of a consortium of five European public authorities and seven
     European universities that worked on a European Policy Experiment Project funded by
     Erasmus+ Key Action 3. Between 2017-2018, the project consortium trained teacher trainers
     and organised virtual exchanges which involved over 1,000 student teachers at initial teacher
     education institutions. This entailed students interacting and collaborating with partner
     classes from other countries as an integral part of one of their courses. The research team
     then analysed the learning gains from these exchanges. They also worked with
     representatives from European ministries of education to understand how virtual exchange
     could be upscaled in teacher education across Europe. Building on the success of this
     collaborative project, Hauck, Lewis and Wilton-Godberfforde were part of a follow-up
     project 2018-2020) called EVOLVE (Evidence Validated Online Learning through Virtual
     Exchange) in which they collaborated with seven European Universities and two not- for-
     profit organisations to mainstream Virtual Exchange (VE) as an innovative form of
     collaborative international learning across disciplines in Higher Education (HE) institutions in
     Europe.
 •   In order to co-produce, implement and evaluate an approach to inclusive teaching in
     Indonesia Sheehy formed a long-term partnership with researchers from the State University
     of Surabaya, Indonesia and the Indonesian Ministry of Special Education. The outcome was
     a unique, culturally sensitive keyword signing approach for inclusive classrooms called
     SignAlong Indonesia This has transformed the inclusive practices and beliefs of nearly 6,000

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     teachers and their pupils (See impact case study ‘Signalong Indonesia: a new tool for
     inclusion’).
 •   In order to improve English language teaching and learning in primary and secondary
     schools across Bangladesh, Power, Woodward and Shrestha worked with international
     partners BMB Mott McDonald and BBC Media Action, as well as local NGOs on the English
     in Action project to develop an approach that involved using i) material delivered by mobile
     technologies; ii) teacher development activities in the workplace and iii) peer support
     opportunities. In 2017 the scale and quality of impacts achieved by the EIA project were
     recognised through two awards: the THES award for International Impact (November 2017)
     and the Pie-oneer Award for Progressive Education Delivery in H.E (September 2017).

 Applications for large-scale funding and interdisciplinary initiatives

 In Section 3.1 we provide details of successful applications for large-scale funding. Examples of
 our success in securing prestigious funding for interdisciplinary initiatives include:

 •   Rix (with Seale and Sheehy) led the research component of the European H2020 funded
     ARCHES project (£451k). ARCHES (Accessible Resources for Cultural Heritage
     EcoSystems) was a collaborative project involving six world-renowned museums and five
     technology companies from across Europe that used participatory methods to develop a
     range of innovative technologies that enabled people with learning and sensory impairments
     to access museums. ARCHES was described by the EU’s independent project monitors as
     going “beyond the state of the art” and in September 2020 it was shortlisted for the Horizon
     Impact Award.
 •   Drawing on well-established partnerships with three local authorities Leedham and Twiner
     contributed to the interdisciplinary ESRC funded Writing in Social Work project which used a
     text-oriented ethnographic approach to build a rich picture of what it means to write and
     record in contemporary social work practice (£250k). They interviewed 50 social workers,
     conducted 10 weeks of observation; gathered activity logs covering 1000 social worker days
     and built a one-million-word corpus of written texts. The results and implications for social
     work training have been shared with the Chair of Social Work England and disseminated in
     three high quality journal articles.
 •   Astruc, Alvarez and Fuertes Gutierrez (in partnership with researchers in Kings College
     London, Queen Mary University of London and University of Westminster) led one strand of
     the AHRC funded flagship project, Language Acts and Worldmaking, focusing on Diasporic
     identities and the politics of language teaching (£523k). The researchers worked with
     language teachers to understand how they see themselves in their role as mediators
     between languages and cultures and how they perform this role in their teaching practice.
     Academic outcomes of this project so far include 5 journal articles and two reports published
     with the University Council of Modern Languages.

 1.3 Future strategic aims and goals for research

 Over the next 5-7 years our overall aims are to continue developing and nurturing: i) world-
 leading, impactful research both in existing sustainable areas of excellence and emerging areas
 of excellence and ii) creative, inclusive, and vibrant research communities. We will achieve these
 through the following four key initiatives.

 Creating new research centres

  We will maintain our four existing substantive research clusters whilst allowing emerging areas
 of excellence to cohere in new interdisciplinary Centres where appropriate. For example, we
 have already begun to implement plans to create two new Centres to showcase our expertise in
 literacies and international development research.

 The Literacies for Social Justice Centre will be led by Cremin. Its development is being
 supported through the appointment of a Research Associate. This Centre will advance research

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and influence policy and practice in order to address inequalities in children’s literacy
 experiences. It will seek solutions to current challenges, build collaborative capacity in teachers,
 schools, and homes to further social justice for young readers and writers. We have also
 invested in the appointment of a Professor of Reading and Children’s Development (Kucirkova)
 in order to expand our existing literacy focus into the realm of digital literacy.

 The Centre of Research for International Development (CRID) will be led by Akyeampong and
 we have invested in the appointment of a Research Associate (Ebubedike). CRID aims to
 expand our already successful funding base in this field. It will have an interdisciplinary focus
 and contribute to international and national debates on the effects of health, nutrition, livelihood,
 and well-being on learning.

 Increasing the size and diversity of research grants

 In order to maintain our reputation for innovative interdisciplinary, collaborative, and participatory
 research we will continue to manage a large and diverse portfolio of research funding sources.
 Within this context, however, we will place greater emphasis on the pursuit and acquisition of
 higher value, longer term research funding awards (which will vary in magnitude according to
 discipline context) both led by our researchers and in collaboration with partners. We will also
 seek further diversification of funding sources, for instance, from charitable funders, international
 development agencies and the commercial/business sector. Support for the development of
 funding bids will continue to be offered by the research cluster leads and will be complemented
 by monthly research grant surgeries designed to support the development of funding
 applications as well as a rigorous process of research bid peer evaluation. Appraisal processes
 will be used to plan and review the bidding activity of individual research-active academics who
 will be encouraged to bring in external income commensurate with their position. Bids in the
 pipeline include an application to the Spencer Foundation to undertake a narrative enquiry into
 how academic selection has impacted upon life histories, a UKRI Fellowship bid to investigate
 storytelling for inclusion and an outline bid to EC to examine the role of intergenerational open
 schooling in sustainable STEM education.

 Maintaining a commitment to academic renewal

 Our staffing strategy will have clear priorities for academic renewal that are sensitive to
 anticipated retirements, current research capacity, and priorities for recruitment. In particular we
 aim to appoint new staff who can research at the intersections of our research clusters by
 examining for example the impact of globalisation on transnational childhoods, children’s in-
 school language practices and the representation of identity in children’s literature.

 Increasing funding streams for doctoral students

 It is crucial that we continue investing in doctoral students who represent the next generation of
 researchers who will play a critical role in meeting society’s challenges. We will therefore explore
 in conjunction with the Graduate School how to increase the number of externally funded
 students and seek to improve our success rate in obtaining additional studentships through the
 ESRC (Grand Union) Doctoral Training Partnership. One example is scoping the potential for
 developing a formal co-funding programme with members of our extensive network of NGO
 partners. This year we have also embarked on a partnership with Beijing Foreign Studies
 University whereby 5 of their lecturers have joined our EdD Programme.

 1.4 Strategic aims for impact during the assessment period

 During the assessment period, there have been three main components of our impact strategy:
 embedding impact in the culture of the unit of assessment, building on our strengths in
 conducting ‘Engaged Research’, and developing processes and structures to support effective
 and sustainable impact practices.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Embedding impact in the culture of the unit

 We have sought to embed impact into our practice by conceptualising impact in terms of the
 OU’s core mission regarding social justice and openness, therefore linking impact to what our
 academics already do. With respect to Social Justice, in order to bring about change for the
 excluded and disadvantaged we are committed to ensuring that ‘what’ we research is
 meaningful to our partners in the contexts in which they are living and working. This contributes
 to our ability to sustain impactful relationships with research beneficiaries. One example of this is
 our work on Ubiquitous learning and smart city approaches for migrants and refugees. Funded
 by the EU Social Inclusion Programme and MK Smart/HEIF respectively the MASELTOV
 (Kukulska-Hulme, Jones, Scanlon) and SALSA (Gaved) projects engaged with groups of
 migrants across Europe to investigate how mobile technologies can support migrants and
 facilitate language learning as part of daily experience. The SALSA project explored how a
 Bluetooth beacon system could be used to trigger language activities on smartphones for
 language learners travelling around Milton Keynes. In a follow-up EU funded project (MAZI), this
 was re-purposed and used by a community partner in London to explore the potential for
 triggering local stories related to a local waterway, using bridges as focal points. Another
 example is the In-the-Picture project (Rix and Parry), which has developed an innovative
 approach to supporting communication between adults (parents and early years practitioners)
 and very young children with learning disabilities. Funded by the Department for Education
 (through the National Portage Association) training in this niche area has been delivered to over
 400 home visitors, impacting on the lives of the families of disabled children they support.
 Evidence of the success of our strategy to align impact with Social Justice can be seen in our
 impact case studies ‘Transforming English Language Teaching across Bangladesh’; which
 aimed to improve English language teaching and learning in primary and secondary schools
 across Bangladesh and ‘Signalong Indonesia: a new tool for inclusion’ which developed a
 context sensitive keyword signing system designed to improve communication methods within
 inclusive classrooms.

 In the context of the OU, Openness is understood as being Open to people, places, methods
 and ideas. In the context of developing pathways to impact, we have applied open education
 research methods and principles in order to reduce barriers to engaging with us and our
 research. For example, making our educational ‘interventions’ openly available to our publics
 through freely available online open courses (e.g. Open Learn). Evidence of the success of our
 strategy can be seen in our impact case studies: ‘Transforming professional teacher
 development in India’ and Transforming Education through Open Practices’. At the core of
 the TESS-India approach was an Open Educational Resources toolkit comprising text and video
 materials in multiple formats to support the professional practice-based learning of primary and
 secondary teachers of literacy, maths, english, and science. The OER Hub has exercised
 leadership in Open Practice by seeking to model open education practices through making
 openly available: 1) their research tools, datasets, and 2) courses aimed at informing and
 transforming open education practices. The importance of this dual role in supporting the
 development of a community of OER practitioners has been widely recognised. For example, In
 February 2015, the Hub won a RCUK/OU Engaging Research Award with judges commenting
 on how “publics were engaged meaningfully in this densely participative research”.

 Building on our strengths in conducting Engaged Research

 We have built on our strengths in conducting ‘Engaged Research’ by using participatory,
 inclusive, and other methods to engage our partners in all aspects of the research from
 identification of research questions, through to analysis and communication of findings.
 Examples of this include the European H2020 ARCHES project (See Section 1.2) and the UKRI
 funded School-University Partnership Initiative (SUPI). SUPI was a partnership between OU
 researchers (Holliman, Scanlon, Adams, Collins) and the Denbigh School Teaching Alliance
 in Milton Keynes (See Section 4.2 for more details).



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Two of our impact case studies illustrate the success of our ‘Engaged Research’ strategy. For the
 ‘Supporting language teachers in Europe to teach online’ case study, practitioners from 25
 European countries were brought together to undertake a needs-analysis survey and contribute
 to the establishment of a ranked list of ten useful ICT tools for language teaching. Training
 activities were then created for these tools, trialled with 56 language teachers, and then adapted
 following feedback. For the ‘Developing Effective Reading for Pleasure practices in primary
 schools’ case study, a key pathway to impact was an interactive website. Advised by a
 reference group of current teachers, the website hosts accessible resources which engage
 teachers with the OU research-informed approach to effective Reading for Pleasure practice.
 These include summaries of each research finding, materials for CPD meetings and tools such
 as children’s reading surveys. Users can upload ‘Examples of Practice’ explicitly linking change
 in their Reading for Pleasure practice to the research.

 Developing processes and structures to support effective and sustainable impact
 practice

 We have focused on four main areas of work in order to strategically support the development of
 effective and sustainable impact practice across the unit of assessment: Impact Leadership;
 Capacity-Building; Resourcing and Workload Allocation.

 With regards to Impact Leadership we have put in place a team of five ‘Impact Champions’:
 Seale (leader of the OU education unit of assessment and REF 2014 Education panel member),
 Rix, Reeve, Holliman (Professor of Engaged Research) and Adams (Professor of Engaged
 Practice and Research). The role of the team has been two-fold: to provide targeted support for
 potential REF impact case studies and to build capacity for impact across the whole unit of
 assessment. The five impact champions have delivered impact focused workshops to staff at all
 levels across the unit of assessment including early career researchers, Impact Case Study
 Leads and doctoral students. They have also provided extensive one-to-one mentoring which
 has been supplemented with input from external consultants such Professors Mark Reed (Fast
 Track Impact) and Professors Cathy Nutbrown and Judy Sebba (REF 2014 Education panel
 members).

 In terms of Resourcing, we have invested £100k+ in supporting the implementation of creative
 and innovative pathways to impact (for example, the production of 6 animations designed to
 raise awareness of how digital marketing of unhealthy foods targets children and young people
 which are now freely available via the OU Open Learn platform), teaching buy-out for impact
 case study leads, capacity-building initiatives and advice and guidance resources. We have
 also employed two Research Associates to assist in the capture of impact evidence and
 resourced impact work by negotiating with line managers for potential impact case study team
 members to be allocated up to 15 days a year for impact activities in their annual workload
 allocations.

 1.5 Future strategic aims for impact

 Our plans for enhancing our impact practices post REF 2021 focus on: i) extending the impact
 leadership team i) leveraging more external funding for pathways to impact and iii) developing
 stronger links between our knowledge exchange and impact activities.

 With regards to extending the impact leadership team we plan to work with Heads of School and
 the Faculty Executive Team in order to embed the role of impact champion within the leadership
 structures of each of the research clusters (four champions), research centres (four champions)
 and strategic areas (two champions). Examples of leveraging external funding for pathways to
 impact in the current assessment period include: the ‘Innovative methods for supporting
 professional development and organisational learning’ impact case study, where Adams
 received an Impact Accelerator Award from Oxford University to work with the PGCE Science
 Team at Oxford University in order to explore the value of the Tricky Topics Process in helping
 trainee teachers identify and address stumbling blocks to learning in the classroom. In the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 context of the ‘Developing Effective Reading for Pleasure practices in primary schools’
 impact case study books have been donated by the UKLA and commercial publishers for
 Teachers Reading Groups (local CPD-focused groups run by volunteer leaders). Building on the
 experience gained from these two initiatives, we aim to increase the level of external funding for
 impact work with the support of our recently appointed Senior Manager for Research and
 Enterprise by: i) increasing engagement with the Oxford University led Impact Accelerator
 Programme; ii) encouraging and targeting applications to the Higher Education Innovation Fund;
 iii) encouraging and targeting applications to the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (where
 possible proposing new collaboration themes in line with our core competencies) and iv)
 enabling our impact leaders to confidently negotiate with research partners and beneficiaries
 regarding the extent to which they might contribute to the resourcing of pathways to impact.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy and evidence of its effectiveness

 We are returning 105.92 (FTE) staff in this submission period. Of these 5.21 (FTE) are on short-
 term contracts and 14.2 (FTE) are Early Career Researchers.

  Role                       FTE
  Lecturer/Staff Tutor       29.80
  Research Associate         4.20
  Senior Lecturer            45.90
  Research Fellow            2.00
  Reader/Professor           20.02
  Senior Research Fellow     4.00

 Our senior career researchers are heavily involved in current management of research activity:
 Rix (Education Futures), Sheehy (Childhood, Youth and Sports), Angermuller (Language and
 Literacies) and Scanlon (Technology Enhanced Learning) are cluster leads. Cremin, Buckler,
 Weller, Rienties, Adams and Kukulska-Hulme lead research themes or groups within these
 clusters. Seale leads the education REF submission and Hampel is Associate Dean for
 Research. In addition, several of our mid-career and early career researchers are also taking on
 leadership roles within the unit. For example, Chamberlain and Collins co-lead The Children’s
 Research Centre, Tatlow-Golden co-leads the Body Mind and Media Centre for Children and
 Young People’s Wellbeing; Reeve is an impact champion; Langdown leads the sports research
 activities, Fuertes Gutierrez leads OLRG and Jones and Gaved lead CALRG.

 In order to ensure a steady pipeline of researchers capable of conducting and leading excellent
 research across our four clusters our staffing and recruitment strategy during this REF period
 has been to: i) to recruit researchers across all three career levels ii) to develop and maintain
 opportunities for our PGR students to start their research careers with us and iii) to invest in an
 extensive capacity-building programme in order to support internal promotions to leadership
 positions and benefit from ‘home-grown talent’

 Recruiting researchers across all three career levels

 Since REF 2014 we have appointed 39.11(FTE) new staff. New appointments to senior career
 positions include Akyeampong, Angermuller, Payler, Kucirkova, Rienties, Seale and Wild.
 These new staff have made significant contributions to the vitality and leadership of research in
 the unit. For example, Payler has led the Children’s Research Centre and contributed to
 research within CYS, for instance researching workforce composition and qualifications in
 English Montessori early childhood education and care settings. Rienties has contributed to
 several externally funded Learning Analytics projects which have produced many high-quality
 publications and helped to make the OU a world-leader in the field of Learning Analytics.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Appointments to mid-career positions include Astruc, Fuertes-Gutierrez, Fox, Forsythe,
 Langdown, Owton, Smith, & Twitchen. These new staff have made significant contributions to
 their fields, particularly in relation to knowledge exchange and engaging publics. For example,
 Astruc and Fuertes-Gutiérrez have both contributed to the AHRC funded flagship project,
 Language Acts and Worldmaking, including a two-year partnership with Counterpoints Arts
 culminating in a week-long migration exhibition at the Tate Modern, where researchers
 presented two interactive installations. Fox has helped to foster school-based research through
 a range of partnership activities and has recently launched the open access online journal
 ‘Research4&BYteachers’, as a vehicle for sharing the knowledge gained from such research
 with other practitioners, setting up an editorial team which spans school and University
 representatives. Smith and Forsythe work closely with schools and colleges via the government
 funded Maths Hubs. Smith also serves on the Expert Advisory Group of the EEF Centre for
 Excellence in Mathematics. Heaney, Langdown, Owton and Twitchen have made a significant
 contribution to raising the profile of sports related research at the OU through the organisation of
 a series of conferences. For example, in 2019, they brought together world-renowned
 researchers in the field of youth development in sport with coaches, parents and teachers to
 examine contemporary issues such as parental support for talented athletes and coaching
 considerations when working with children.

 Appointments to early-career positions include: Aristeidou, Charitonos and Fensham-Smith.
 Aristeidou is currently leading a COST funded project in. collaboration with the Leibniz Institute
 for Science and Mathematics which aims to develop and pilot a methodology for applying diary
 studies in citizen science as a way of capturing citizen engagement. Charitonos has been a PI
 and CI on a range of externally funded projects including the AHRC GCRF funded Network
 ‘Mobile Arts for Peace’ (2020-2024). Fensham-Smith is currently convenor of the BERA
 Alternative Education Special Interest Group and submitted evidence to the ‘Home Education’
 Inquiry of the UK Parliaments’ Education Committee (November 2020).

 PGR and ECR Pipeline

 Our commitment to developing and maintaining a vibrant PGR community has enabled us to
 identify and recruit a range of Early Career Researchers who have undertaken their doctoral
 studies with us. Examples include: Aristeidou, Bektik, Chamberlain, Charitonos, Dawadi,
 Iniesto, Kucirkova, Murphy, Rodriguez-Leon, and Twiner. Aristeidou was awarded a PhD in
 2016, following on from this (initially funded by the OpenTEL SRA) she was employed as a
 Postdoctoral Research Associate. Charitonos was awarded a PhD at the OU in 2015, appointed
 as a lecturer in 2017 and promoted to senior lecturer in 2020. Following the award of an
 OpenTEL PhD studentship, Murphy was awarded an OpenTEL post-doctoral post and was
 supported in 2020 to successfully apply for an ESRC funded Grand Union DTP Fellowship.

 Capacity building to support Internal promotions.

 In section 2.3 we outline our investment in building the research capacity of our staff. One key
 outcome of this investment is that since 2014 we have promoted 7 people to Professor, 20 to
 Senior Lecturer, 3 to Senior Research Fellow and 1 to Research Fellow.

 2.2 Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and business,
 industry or public or third sector bodies

 We facilitate exchanges between our research staff and external organisations through a range
 of mechanisms including secondments and Visiting Fellowships. Examples of secondments
 include Wolfenden who was recently seconded to act as Education Director of the Girls
 Education Challenge (GEC), a large DFID funded programme supporting the learning of over
 1.3M marginalised girls in 17 countries. Between 2014-2016, Hauck was seconded to act as
 Professional Development Lead at the Center for Collaborative Online International Learning
 (COIL)/State University of New York (SUNY), USA. Her research influenced the design of over


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 200 non-accredited COIL modules. Hauck would draw on this experience in two subsequent EU
 funded projects which aimed to promote telecollaboration in Europe (EVALUATE and EVOLVE).
 One innovative example of facilitated exchanges is the OER Hub Fellowship Scheme. Funded
 by the Hewlett Foundation, these fellowships involved a researcher in the OER Hub Team
 (Weller, Pitt, Farrow) working with an Open Education related organisation and an individual
 from that organisation visiting the Open University for an extended period. The OER Hub
 developed the research skills of the individual and collaborated with them to address a specific
 research question that the organisation wished to pursue. In each case the collaborations
 produced evidence that helped shape the future development of the organisation. Evidence of
 the success of this scheme can be found in our impact case study ‘Transforming Education
 through Open Practices’.

 2.3 Staff Development

 We support the professional development of all researchers throughout their careers and
 promote a vibrant, interdisciplinary research culture and community. All academic staff on
 contracts of two years or more are allocated ring-fenced 35 days research time and 44 days of
 study leave per annum (pro rata) which is a contractual entitlement. Every member of staff has a
 Research and Scholarship Development Planning conversation with a senior research academic
 at least once a year to help them plan and develop their research profile. This feeds into the
 annual cycle of Career Development and Staff Appraisal (CDSA) which provides opportunities to
 identify and put measures in place (including access to funding) to support their career
 development. Cluster Directors and other professors provide research career guidance and
 leadership, mentoring for early and mid-career researchers and peer mentoring for senior
 academics. Staff can access financial support for attendance at UK and overseas conferences
 and financial support/facilities for pump-priming projects. At cluster level, engagement with
 research is also fostered through annual programmes of colloquia, reading groups, research
 conversations, writing workshops, annual conferences, research methods training and work-in-
 progress seminars.

 Designed to complement these cluster activities we have also implemented a unit wide ‘Inspiring
 Excellence’ programme, which aims to support colleagues to foster excellence in their work
 through a focus on the development of strong, theorised research contributions. This programme
 intends to both enrich the research environment and accomplish academic renewal through
 supporting colleagues to develop field-leading research contributions rooted in their distinctive
 research strengths and expertise. Activities within this programme have focused on academic
 writing for publication, research bidding, and research career development.

 We have offered a range of activities to support academic writing for publication. Mentoring has
 been provided to enable staff to obtain feedback on early drafts of papers prior to submission. A
 total of 14 writing retreats for 167 participants have been organised in order to create and model
 effective writing cultures and practices. Alongside this, an online peer resource has been
 developed which includes annotated examples of ‘3 star’ and ‘4 star’ papers.

 We run monthly Research Funding Application Surgeries that afford opportunities for staff to
 discuss the development of applications for research funding. The specific focus has been on
 developing the ‘Case for Support’; ensuring that the case for research excellence (not just
 research activity) is clearly articulated.

 With regards to career development, we have implemented three professional development
 opportunities. An Envisioning your Research Future initiative comprises one-day workshops and
 one-to-one follow-up sessions designed to encourage participants to characterise their
 distinctive 'intellectual footprint'. This is then used as a basis for considering the ways in which
 participants can build on their signature strengths to develop ambitious visions for their future
 research (and, where appropriate, that of their teams) that are rooted in excellence. Our Mid-
 career research development programme has focused on transitioning away from undertaking
 research activities that are often not part of an overall design, to planning a more focused

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribution to research. Evidence of our success in supporting mid-career researchers includes
 the British Academy mid-career fellowship awarded in 2017 to Herodotou and the UKRI Future
 Leaders award in 2020 to Hultgren. We have run two-day CREET Academies for 25 Early
 Career Researchers. The overall aims of the Academy are to support newcomers to the
 education research community to build research capacity and confidence and to enable them to
 make informed and meaningful decisions regarding their future research projects and careers.
 Participants are provided one-to-one mentoring and access to a ring-fenced pot of funding
 aimed at pump-priming initial research and impact ideas.

 2.4 Research students

 Most of our PhD students follow a full-time programme of study, whilst our recently updated and
 approved EdD is a programme of part-time study explicitly designed for senior professionals in
 education, and related areas, to extend and deepen their knowledge and understanding of
 contemporary educational issues. In this submission period there have been 152 successful
 completions (compared to 136 in REF 2014).

  Academic Year            PhD EdD Totals
  1 Aug 2013 – 31 July’14   19  10   29
  1 Aug 2014 – 31 July’15   26   4   30
  1 Aug 2015 – 31 July’16    9   6   15
  1 Aug 2016 – 31 July’17   12   5   17
  1 Aug 2017 – 31 July’18   10   5   15
  1 Aug 2018 – 31 July’19   13   2   15
  1 Aug 2019 – 31 July’ 20 16   15   31
  Totals                   105  47  152

 Recruitment and funding

 Applications from all sections of the community are explicitly encouraged in our PGR recruitment
 literature. A key strategic imperative has been to invest internal funding in our research degrees
 programme. Since 2014 we have fully funded 29 CREET studentships and 5 OpenTEL
 studentships. We have also granted an additional 3 fee waivers for part-time study. Prestigious
 external funding includes The Leverhulme Trust Open World Learning (OWL) Programme which
 has funded 18 PhD studentships. In 2016 our OWL programme of studentships received the
 2016 Award for Open Education Excellence at the Open Global 2016 conference. We have also
 secured funding for PhD studentships from 2 other external organisations: Globe Education
 (£33k over 3 years) and World Vision (£18,822K over 3 years).

 Support mechanisms

 The postgraduate team, led by the Director of Postgraduate Research Studies, is responsible for
 the PhD and EdD programmes and the administration and pastoral support of PGR students.
 They report to the WELS Research Management Group and work closely with the University’s
 Graduate School. Students can access career services and dedicated personalised Library
 support. The induction programme, regular formal reporting, and a Year 1 probationary
 assessment ensure doctoral student progress.

 Full-time PhD students have their own personal desk space and a £1000 annual research
 training grant which supports conference attendance and bespoke training. Additional resource
 is available to support overseas fieldwork. Part-time PhD students interact with full-time students
 at induction sessions, research days and seminars. Support for part-time PhD and EdD students
 is tailored personally. It typically comprises attendance of events/supervisions at the OU, as well
 as phone, letter, internet, and email support. There are also opportunities for students to work
 together through cluster-related activities and showcase events (e.g. The Educational Futures
 and CALRG annual conferences). Students are also supported to apply for grants that enable
 valuable knowledge exchange experiences. For example, Iniesto (with supervisor Coughlan)

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has developed a sustained collaboration with UNED in Spain focusing on access to open
 education for disabled students. This has been facilitated in part, by a Santander Mobility grant.
 Outcomes of this collaboration include YourMOOC4All, a course recommender system for
 disabled students.

 Training and supervision of PGR students

 All research students have at least two supervisors and have access to an independent third
 party for additional mentoring and guidance. All supervisors and mentors receive initial and
 ongoing training through the University’s Graduate School and within the Faculty.

 Training is designed to equip students with the skills and knowledge needed to plan, conduct,
 evaluate, and disseminate their research while confidently engaging publics and ensuring impact
 beyond the academy. Such training also supports the development of employability skills.

 There are three major training sources for our PGR students: The Graduate School, The ESRC
 funded Grand Union Doctorial Training Partnership (between Oxford University, Brunel
 University and the Open University) and the Faculty/unit of assessment. Within the Grand Union
 Doctoral Training Partnership, examples of support include the regular bi-weekly Advanced
 Research Methods seminar led by Stickler, which are presented in dual mode (online and face
 to face) to students across the university. Within the Faculty/unit of assessment examples of
 support include:

 •   The Education Futures cluster supports students to both present at and organise reading
     groups and seminars. They are also offered funded opportunities to work on staff research
     projects.
 •   CALRG offers weekly seminars which includes work in progress seminars and talks from
     alumni.
 •   OpenTEL funded students are included in bid preparation workshops and shadow staff who
     are preparing funding bids.
 •   Leverhulme and OpenTEL funded students are offered an annual 5-day writing camp which
     gives them the opportunity to come together with their supervisors to share good practice,
     discuss innovative research ideas, and explore possibilities for crossing interdisciplinary
     boundaries.
 •   In 2020 we launched a programme offering students opportunities to be involved in a range
     of teaching activities across the WELS Faculty.

 2.5 Promoting equality and diversity

 Given the OU’s widening participation and social justice mission; the strategy for recruitment
 within the Unit is to recruit, retain and develop the careers of a diverse pool of staff, therefore
 applications from underrepresented groups are explicitly encouraged in our recruitment
 literature. In addition, this academic year we have set up an initiative whereby staff from minority
 groups can volunteer to be added to a ‘Panel Diversity Database’ and thus help diversify the
 composition of recruitment panels. The diversity of our staff is evidenced by 74.77% of staff
 submitted to the education unit of assessment identifying as female, 7.69% are categorised as
 BAME and 2.7% having declared a disability. Furthermore, 74% of those promoted within this
 current REF period were female and 9.6% were identified as BAME.

 Our approach to promoting equality and diversity within the Unit is twofold: firstly, to proactively
 embed a variety of mechanisms that support our researchers irrespective of their individual
 circumstances and secondly to offer individualised reactive support for specific circumstances
 when needs arise. Examples of the former include:

 •   remote working is a common practice which many staff take advantage of in order to suit
     their caring arrangements or health circumstances. All staff who work remotely are given a
     laptop which is connected to university systems such as library and shared folders.

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   all researchers are offered support with writing, bidding, and career development (see
     Section 2.3).
 •   all researchers are encouraged and entitled to bid for funding for conference attendance,
     equipment or pilot work from annual Faculty, REF, or cluster budgets.

 Examples of support tailored for more specific circumstances include:

 •   supporting a researcher with dyslexia by peer reviewing draft publications for grammar and
     spelling.
 •   paying for overnight accommodation for a researcher with physical disabilities who finds it
     painful to travel to campus on consecutive days.
 •   enabling staff returning from maternity cover or ill health to renegotiate their workload in
     order to prioritise the achievement of research goals (e.g. completing doctoral studies).

 We recognise too that equitable outcomes require more than equality of opportunity. Therefore,
 as part of our working culture we seek to ensure a diverse mix across research management
 roles and encourage people with protected characteristics to apply for key roles. For example,
 Education Futures has eight people who are gaining management experience by organising the
 programme of activities across the year; two of these are disabled people, one person is
 identified as BAME, six are women and three are early career researchers.

 In the construction of our REF submission we have paid attention to equality and diversity issues
 by ensuring that membership of the Education REF strategy group (which makes decisions on
 unit size and make-up) reflects the diversity of the unit as a whole and requiring all members of
 the REF strategy group, publication reading panel and impact case study review panel to attend
 unconscious bias training.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 In this assessment period we have secured £10,039,668 of grant income, an increase compared
 to REF2014. This income comprises 166 external grants from 84 different funders. Our income
 has increased by 183% for grants from EU based charities/other; by 138% for grants from UK-
 based charities; by 71% for UK central government body grants and by 92% for grants from EU
 government bodies. Our ability to sustain a large amount of research income has enabled us to:
 i) make significant investments in the recruitment of new staff (39.11FTE); ii) strengthen and
 expand our research clusters, centres and groups and iii) resource a comprehensive capacity-
 building and impact development programme (£435k).

 Major and prestigious grant awards made by external bodies on a competitive basis

 Five of our largest awards have funded research that underpins three of our impact case
 studies. Funding for research that underpins the Transforming Education through Open
 Practices impact case study includes £583,922 from the Hewlett Foundation for the Open
 Education Hub, £339,352 from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation for Phase 2 of the GO-
 GN Network and £223,624 from the from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation for UK Open
 Textbook Network. Funding for research that underpins the Transforming English Language
 Teaching across Bangladesh impact case study includes a grant for £445,572 from DFID for
 the English in Action project. Funding for research that underpins the ‘Innovative methods for
 supporting professional development and organisational learning’ impact case study
 includes a grant for £367k from the EU FP7 programme for the Juxtalearn project.

 RCUK awards include £250,440 from ESRC for the project ‘Writing in professional Social work
 Practice in a changing communicative landscape (WiSP); £522,552 from the AHRC for
 Language Acts and World Making project, £34,720 from AHRC for the iBALI Network and


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £9,258 from EPSRC for the Fair and Equitable Research project. Charitable grants gained in
 open competition include £112,300 for an international network (Ed-ICT), and £94,298 from the
 Wellcome Trust for the Examining Learning Processes project.

 Strategies for generating income

 In order to maintain and expand our portfolio of interdisciplinary, collaborative, and participatory
 research our strategy has been to manage a large and diverse portfolio of research funding
 sources and to adopt a targeted approach to bidding for strategically aligned research grant
 funding. We have prioritised an overall increase in research grant income, and the further
 diversification of funding sources, for instance, from charitable funders, international
 development, and the commercial/business sector. Support for the development of funding bids
 is provided by research clusters, complemented by monthly research grant surgeries designed
 to support the development of funding applications (See Section 2.3) and a rigorous process of
 research bid peer review. Interdisciplinary and cross-faculty bidding is supported through the
 activities of the OpenTEL SRA and the International Development and Inclusive Innovation (IDII)
 SRA.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Organisational infrastructure

 The overall research of CREET is overseen by the WELS Research Management Group
 (WRMG). WRMG is chaired by the Associate for Dean for Research and membership includes
 the Deputy Associate Dean for Research, Directors of the four Clusters and the Strategic/Priority
 Areas, the Director of the International Development Office, the Director of Postgraduate
 Research Studies, the Chair of the Education REF panel, Representatives of the PhD and EdD
 student community, a Senior Manager of Research Planning and Operations and a Senior
 Manager for Research and Enterprise. The Chair of WRMG is a member of the Open
 University’s Research Committee ensuring alignment with, and contribution to, the strategic
 objectives and research targets of the university. The role of WRMG is to i) develop overall
 research strategy, ii) ensure appropriate support and resources are in place to enable the
 implementation of strategy across the unit and iii) to monitor opportunities for growth and
 investment.

 At a cluster level, research and impact activity is co-ordinated by an overall Cluster Director,
 supported by leaders of sub-groups or themes within each Cluster. The Childhood Youth and
 Sports Cluster is led by Sheehy, supported by Langdown who leads sports and fitness
 research activities. The Education Futures Cluster is led by Rix, supported by Buckler who
 leads the Research into International Teacher Education and Sustainable Development group
 and Cremin who leads the Pedagogy and Learning Group. The Language and Literacies Cluster
 is led by Angermuller and supported by Fuertes-Gutierrez who leads the Open Languages
 Group. The Technology Enhanced Learning Cluster is led Scanlon and supported by Rienties
 who leads the Learning Design and Learning Analytics theme, Kukulska-Hulme who leads the
 Learning Futures theme, Adams who leads the Professional and Digital Learning theme, Weller
 who leads the Learning in an Open World Theme and Wild who leads the Performance
 Augmentation theme.

 Operational infrastructure

 The research of our staff is facilitated by two research support teams located within the WELS
 Faculty and IET. Within WELS the senior management team comprises: Associate Dean and
 Deputy Associate Dean for Research; Director of Postgraduate Research Studies; Professor of
 Education with responsibility for leading capacity-building, REF Unit of Assessment Panel Chair;
 Director of the OpenTEL Strategic Research Area, a Senior Manager for Research Planning and
 Operations and a Senior Manager for Research Enterprise. They are supported by three
 Research Managers (including a REF co-ordinator) and four research administrators. Research

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in IET is supported by an Associate Director Research and Innovation, an Associate Director for
 Knowledge Exchange, a senior Research Manager, a research manager responsible for
 OpenTEL and two research administrators.

 The International Development Office (IDO) has recently joined the WELS Faculty. IDO
 provides support to our researchers by brokering and facilitating partnerships with governments,
 NGOs, and private organisations in order to harness the OU’s world class expertise in Open and
 Distance Learning to deliver innovative, responsive, and scalable development projects. Two
 highly successful projects supported by IDO and led by researchers in our unit are English in
 Action and TESS-India. As part of a Faculty vision to secure increased external funding for
 research and knowledge exchange and increase impact on society, plans are currently
 underway to integrate IDO with WELS research support teams.

 Facilities

 All our researchers have access to the world-class OU library including the world’s largest
 collection of open access full texts. Researchers in the TEL research cluster and the OpenTEL
 SRA have access to the Jennie Lee Research Laboratory housed within IET to carry out key
 research in usability, accessibility, and developmental testing of online materials.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations with academic colleagues and relationships with key
 research users, beneficiaries, or audiences

 Research collaborations with academic and non-academic partners are supported through a
 range of measures including support to undertake secondments; funding through cluster
 budgets to support attendance at conferences, network meetings and sand-pit events; support to
 apply for mobility grants and seed-funding to identify potential collaborators and initiate early
 discussions with them regarding collaborative grant proposals. In section 1.2 we provided some
 examples of long-term strategic partnerships with external partners. Other examples of
 successful collaborations with academic partners include:

 •   Hempel-Jorgensen collaborated with academics from The University of Lancaster and UCL
     on the Society for Educational Studies funded project ‘New Purposes, New Practices, New
     Pedagogy’. This project explored the digital practices that children engage with outside
     school and the extent to which these are influencing teachers’ pedagogy inside classrooms.
     This collaborative research resulted in a Digital Practice Framework, a series of
     recommendations for policy makers, teachers, school leaders and researchers; a detailed
     research report and joint conference presentations at AERA and the World Conference on
     Computers in Education.
 •   For the DOTS project, funded by the European Centre for Modern Languages (ECML) in the
     previous REF period; Hampel and Stickler collaborated with academics from Universitat
     Oberta de Catalunya, Spain, University of Zagreb, Croatia and University of Ottawa, Canada
     to research and develop a pedagogical framework to help language teachers teach online.
     This collaboration has been sustained into this current REF period through follow-on funding
     from ECML for the ICT-REV workshop training initiative These collaborative activities have
     resulted in a range of publications including a 2015 edited book, the recent setting up of an
     Association Internationale de Linguistique Applique (AILA) Research Network and the
     organisation of a symposium at the AILA 2021 conference.

 Other examples of successful collaborations with research users include:

 •   Langdown has worked with the Professional Golfers Association (>8000 members in 80
     countries) who as a consequence of engaging in his research into shot type, golf-swing
     variability and warm-up protocols have reshaped their undergraduate coach education
     curriculum.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   With funding from the BBC/OU partnership, Herodotou and Scanlon have redesigned the
     citizen science platform, nQuire. This well-developed relationship with the BBC has provided
     opportunities for wide dissemination of research activities through BBC audiences and the
     ability to implement large-scale citizen science investigations. Examples include an
     investigation run in partnership with the BBC GardenWatch series and the British Trust for
     Ornithology in which over 200,000 members of the public participated. In 2020, nQuire won
     the Guardian research impact prize.

 A key feature of our collaborations is the bringing together of external academic partners with
 non-academic partners. Examples include:

 •   In partnership with the charity Arvon and researchers from the University of Exeter, Cremin
     contributed to a project funded by EEF and RSA investigating the effect of a residential
     writing experience for teachers at Arvon, where teachers work with professional writers
     learning about writing and being a writer.
 •   For the EU H2020-funded TeSLA project, Whitelock (with Okada, Cross and Edwards)
     collaborated with seven universities in the UK and Europe and TELECOM Sud Paris to
     develop a suite of tools to automatically and robustly authenticate student authorship in high-
     stakes e-assessments.

 4.2 Wider contributions to the research base, economy, and society

 Contribution to policy discourse and development

 Researchers in the unit contribute to policy discourse and development by submitting evidence
 to government consultation exercises, engaging with parliamentary committees and serving on
 expert groups that advise government. Examples include:

 •   In 2019 Tatlow-Golden drew on her research into digital marketing and children’s rights to
     make a joint submission to a government consultation exercise regarding restricting food
     marketing to children. This resulted in an invitation to meet government representatives to
     discuss the evidence and contributed to a change in government policy regarding the 9pm
     watershed for advertising unhealthy foods to children and young people (See ‘Tackling the
     negative effects of digital food marketing to children’ impact case study).
 •   Cremin was asked by the Department for Education to Chair their Reading for Pleasure
     subcommittee and to serve as one of three ‘reading experts’ on the English Hubs Council
     programme. Through such appointments Cremin has made a significant contribution to the
     national Reading for Pleasure initiative including the initiation and launch of the first National
     Reading Together Day in July 2020 (See ‘Developing effective Reading for Pleasure
     practices in primary schools’ impact case study).
 •   In 2017 Kukulska-Hulme was interviewed for the UK All Parliamentary Group on Social
     Integration regarding her research into the role that mobile technologies can play in the
     integration of migrants. This informed the ensuing public report: ‘Integration not
     Demonisation’.

 Contribution to knowledge exchange & public engagement

 In Section 1.4 we highlighted how our impact strategy built on our strengths in conducting
 ‘Engaged Research’ by using participatory, inclusive, and other methods to engage our partners
 in all aspects of the research from identification of research question, through to analysis and
 communication of findings. In addition to the projects described in earlier sections, other
 examples include:

 •   Fox led a schools' debate of teachers and pupils about the value and challenges of using
     social media for education at the National Space Centre as part of the ESRC Festival of
     Social Science (2014) which led to a schools' charter for social media use.


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The UKRI funded School-University Partnership Initiative was a partnership between OU
     researchers (led by Holliman) and the Denbigh School Teaching Alliance in Milton Keynes.
     The project directly engaged with 11 schools and more than 6,577 people within Milton
     Keynes. It offered opportunities to participate in mutual learning and develop relevant and
     useful skills and competencies in how to access, assess, analyse, and respond to
     contemporary research. Key outcomes from the partnership included: sharing learning with
     STFC and NERC as they produced fresh strategies for public engagement; support for an
     STFC Working Group that explored the attitudes, culture and ethos of physical science
     researchers in relation to public engagement; written evidence submitted to the House of
     Commons Select Committee Inquiry on Science Communication, and to the HEFCE
     Consultation about REF 2021.
 •   Between 2015 and 2017 Adams served as the Associate Director for knowledge
     exchange and technology pathways in 'The National Centre for Policing Research and
     Professional Development'. This project was funded by a grant from the Home Office and the
     Higher Education Funding Council for England and managed by the College of Policing. In
     this role, Adams collaborated with key stakeholders to develop the Evidence Café Method as
     a tool for facilitating the sharing of knowledge between those working in the police service
     and academics. This has had a significant impact on professional development and
     organisation learning within UK policing (See ‘Innovative methods for supporting
     professional development and organisational learning’ impact case study).

 4.3 Evidence of the unit’s support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research and
 responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives.

 Exemplars of interdisciplinary research

 In section 1.1 we outlined, with exemplars, our strategy for promoting interdisciplinary research
 through the development of cross-Faculty and cross university initiatives. Other ways in which
 interdisciplinary research is facilitated is through our collaborations with external partners who
 operate in non-educational contexts. For example:

 •   Cooper and Payler collaborated with the charity, Hope Support Services, to conduct
     research exploring children and young people’s lived experiences of a family health crisis.
     The final research report was launched at the House of Parliament in March 2018. It made
     recommendations for local and national policy makers including the need to train education,
     health and social care professionals with regards to understanding the needs and
     experiences of children and young people living through a family health crisis.
 •   In 2019 Hultgren collaborated with political scientists in Denmark to embark on a £1.4
     million UKRI-funded interdisciplinary project that brings together linguistics and political
     science to understand how specific forms of academic governance have been leading to a
     shift towards English as a Medium of Instruction in European universities.

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 Much of our research in the international development field responds to UN Sustainable
 Development Goals and GCRF challenges. Examples include:

 •   The Supporting Adolescent Girls into Education (SAGE) project which addresses SDG 4
     (Quality Education) and SDG 5 (Gender Equality). Led by Buckler and Chamberlain the
     project is a collaboration between the OU and Plan International (an independent
     development and humanitarian organisation). Working with Plan International as co-
     researchers, this research is using a storytelling approach to map girls' aspirations as they
     participate in a community education programme in Zimbabwe. The career aspirations that
     the girls shared have also been embedded into module materials and have fed directly into
     wider programme developments.
 •   The AHRC funded iBALi Network addressed the GCRF challenge relating to inclusive and
     equitable quality education. Led by Buckler this project created a network of expert and

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     early career researchers (ECRs) and practitioners. Their work coalesced around using
     participatory storytelling to tackle social issues relating to inclusive and equitable quality
     education, sustainable cities and communities, poverty, inequality and gender. Through a
     focus on in-school youth and storytelling, the iBali Network integrated international, scholarly,
     and indigenous narratives and helped surface and give value to different forms of
     knowledge.
 •   The Migration for Inclusive African Growth (MIAG) Project (Adams) was funded by ESRC
     under the GCRF- Inclusive Societies Initiative. This project brought together migration
     stakeholders in four of Africa’s largest and fastest growing economies. It mapped and
     compared knowledge regarding the flow of migrants and their population sizes, motivations,
     organisation, and impacts.
 •   The AHRC GCRF funded Network ‘Mobile Arts for Peace’ project (CI Charitonos) is a
     collaborative project between universities, cultural artists, and civil society organisations. It
     seeks to provide a comparative approach to the use of interdisciplinary arts-based practices
     for peacebuilding in Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia and Nepal. One component of this work
     is an examination of the co-design, delivery and evaluation of peace-building curricula.

 More recently, our research has informed responses to the covid-19 pandemic. Examples
 include:

 •   Cremin was invited by the Department of Education to collaborate with the BBC on its BBC
     BiteSize videos aimed at supporting parents to home school. Her research into reading for
     pleasure informed the literacy element of programming.
 •   In May/June 2020, the DOTS / ICT-REV team, led by Stickler collaborated with the
     European Centre for Modern Language to run a series of free webinars for language
     teachers in English, French, and German aimed at helping them take their teaching online.
     The content of these webinars drew on their research regarding the basic competencies of
     online language teaching and how best to help teachers apply these to their own practice.
 •   Hendry was awarded a HEIF grant to convene an intersectional knowledge exchange
     involving a range of stakeholders including UNESCO, DFID, World Vision and UNICEF. It
     focuses on developing low resource, at scale training for early childhood development
     practitioners.
 •   Buckler, Power, Stickler and Ebubedike received funding from the FCDO’s EdTech Hub to
     research community mobilisation for children’s learning during school closures in Zimbabwe.

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contribution to and recognition by the research base

 Journal editorships and editorial board membership

 Our researchers have edited 24 journals that span the interests of the four research clusters.
 Examples include: Montgomery, Editor in Chief of Childhood Studies and Co-editor for Children
 and Society; Owton, Editor of Chief of Qualitative Methods in Psychology Bulletin and Assistant
 Editor of Psychology of Women’s Section Review; Tatlow-Golden, Associate Editor of Irish
 Journal of Psychology; Cremin, Co-editor of Thinking Skills and Creativity; Fletcher-Campbell,
 Co-editor Educational Research; Smith, Editor of Teaching Mathematics and its Applications;
 Kucirkova- co-editor of Literacy, Associate Editor International Journal of Child-Computer;
 Hauck, Associate Editor of CALL; Shrestha, Editor in Chief of the Journal of the Nepal English
 Language Teachers’ Association and Founding Editor of Journal of Language and Education;
 Astruc, Co-editor of System; Márquez-Reiter, associate Editor of Pragmatics and founding Editor
 of Spanish in Context; Goshtasbpour, Associate Editor, Journal of Interactive Media in
 Education; Whitelock, Co-editor of The Journal of Open, Distance and E-learning; Kucirkova, co-
 editor of Literacy, Associate Editor International Journal of Child-Computer Interaction and BMC
 Psychology and Research for All; and Wild Associate Editor of Frontiers in AI (AI for Human
 Learning and Behaviour Change).

 Our researchers have acted as guest editors for 13 journal special editions including: Journal of
 Interactive Media in Education (Iniesto); International Journal of Educational Research (Rix);

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Journal of Research and Method in Education (Seale); International Journal of the
 Sociology of Language (Márquez-Reiter); London Review of Education (Kucirkova); and Journal
 of Universal Computer Science (Wild).

 Researchers in our unit also serve on the editorial boards of 46 journals including: Compare
 (Wolfenden) ReCALL (Hampel, Kukulska-Hulme); Text & Talk (Angermuller); Distance and
 Mediation of Knowledge (Pulker); Literacy (Chamberlain); JALTCALL (Stickler); Computers &
 Education (Rienties); System (Kukulska-Hulme) International Arab Journal of English for Specific
 Purposes (Márquez-Reiter) Journal of Early Childhood Literacy (Kucirkova) and Journal of
 English Medium Instruction (Hultgren).

 Refereeing academic publications

 Researchers in our unit have reviewed for 124 academic journals that span the interests of the
 four research clusters. Examples include: British Journal of Education Psychology (Sheehy);
 Child Development (Tatlow-Golden); Childhood and Society (Montgomery); Early Years
 Education (Montgomery); Journal of European Early Childhood Education (Canning); British
 Education Research Journal (Smith); Educational Research Review (Fox); Journal of Curriculum
 Studies (Farrow); Review of Educational Research (Rix); Teaching and Teacher Education
 (Hampel, Fox, Rix); Discourse (Rix); Journal of Research Into Reading (Sheehy, Chamberlain),
 Journal of English for Academic Purposes (Shrestha, Leedham, Hultgren); Journal of
 Multilingual and Multicultural development (Hultgren); TESOL Quarterly (Shrestha); British
 Journal of Educational Technology (Whitelock, Herodotou, Farrow); Internet & Higher Education
 (Herodotou); Journal of Computer Assisted Learning (Whitelock, Scanlon, Herodotou, Hultgren);
 Comparative Education Review and International Journal of Educational Development
 (Akyeampong); and Studies in Higher Education (Angermuller, Whitelock, Hultgren).

 In addition, our researchers have reviewed for a range of interdisciplinary journals including:
 Inquiry: An interdisciplinary journal of philosophy (Farrow); Medical Anthropology Quarterly
 (Montgomery); Philosophy and Technology (Farrow); Social Science and Medicine (Tatlow-
 Golden, Montgomery) and QWERTY - Open and Interdisciplinary Journal of Technology, Culture
 and Education (Fox).

 Refereeing research proposals and participation on grant committees

 Researchers in our unit have reviewed grant proposals for a range of funders. Examples include:

 •   UK research Councils: ESRC (Scanlon, Seale, Rix, Shrestha, Rix, Leedham, Hultgren), MRC
     (Scanlon), EPSRC (Scanlon, Adams) and British Academy (Hultgren)
 •   The EU: (Whitelock)
 •   International Research Councils and Foundations: Social Sciences and Humanities
     Research Council of Canada (Fox, Whitelock, Kukulska-Hulme), Dutch Research Council
     (Adams, Sheehy, Seale), Research Council of Norway (Kukulska-Hulme), National Science
     Centre Poland Kukulska-Hulme), Israel Ministry of Science, Technology and Space
     (Kukulska-Hulme), Austrian Science Fund (Hubscher-Davidson), National Research Council
     of Estonia (Hultgren), National Council for Special Education Ireland (Rix), Swiss National
     Foundation (Rienties, Marquez-Reiter), Spanish Ministry of Science Technology and
     Innovation ( Marquez-Reiter), Kazakhstan National Centre of Science and Technology
     Evaluation (Rix, Sheehy), Czech Science Foundation (Sheehy), Luxembourg National
     Research Fund (Fox), Mauritius Research Council (Sheehy) and European Science
     Foundation (Seale)
 •   Prestigious charities: Leverhulme (Whitelock) and Wellcome (Scanlon).

 In addition, Rix chairs the RTR Foundation which funds research focused on people with
 learning disabilities. Seale served as a member of the ESRC panel convened to assess
 submissions to the 2020 Research Methods Development Grant call.


                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowships, Prizes and Awards

 Cremin is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, the Royal Society of Arts and the
 English Association; Scanlon is Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences; Herodotou is a
 Fellow of the British Academy and Hultgren was a member of the Young Academy of Denmark
 (The Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters); Kucirkova is a Fellow of the Royal
 Society of Arts and in 2020 received a Jacobs Foundation Fellowship in recognition of her
 research into the impact of multimedia personalised stories made by and aimed at young
 children.

 Research leaders within our unit have been awarded a range of prizes: Adams won the 2017
 WISE Tech Innovation Award which recognises the outstanding contribution of women in STEM;
 Chamberlain was shortlisted for the UKLA/Wiley Literacy Award in 2019 and 2020; Owton
 received the ‘Qualitative Methods in Psychology ‘Citation For Excellence award (British
 Psychological Society) in 2015 in recognition of her innovative research; Scanlon (as CI on the
 Open Science Laboratory project) won the THES award for ICT development of the year and in
 2017 an OER Global Research Award for OpenTEL. In 2016 she was awarded the OBE for
 services to education.

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees

 Whitelock has served as Panel Member for the EPSRC ICT (Information and Communication
 Technologies) Prioritisation Panel. She has also acted as an Expert Advisor to the ESRC/NRF
 Higher Education in South Africa Call. Scanlon was External appointed member, Excellence
 Research Australia, Human Sciences Panel (2018-2019) and external appointed member for the
 Swiss National Research Council initiative on Digital Transformation (2019-2020). Holliman is a
 member of the Science and Technology Facilities Council Advisory Panel for Public
 Engagement. Kukulska-Hulme has acted as an expert advisor for the Institute for Prospective
 Technological Studies (European Commission). Weller holds a Chair in OER from the
 International Council for Open and Distance Education and is a member of a network of The
 ICDE Chairs in OER that works in collaboration with UNESCO Chairs in OER. Akyeampong is
 a member of the Global Education Evidence Advisory Panel co-hosted by the Foreign,
 Commonwealth and Development Office and the World bank, which provides guidance to
 education policy makers in low and middle-income countries.

 Invited keynotes, lectures, conference chair roles and conference organisation

 Our researchers have been invited to give over 50 keynote speeches at UK and international
 Conferences including: Hauck, for the International CALL Research Conference at the
 Education University of Hong Kong in 2017; Hampel for the IELT International Congress on
 Didactics, in Colombia in 2019; Rix at the STAPED Conference in Oslo 2016; Rienties at the
 EARLI 2017 conference; Kukulska-Hulme for the Ministry of Education WSA-EC Forum in
 Singapore 2018; Adams at the Congress International for Educational Resource Innovation,
 Spain 2017 and Hultgren for the ESRC funded conference on the Linguistic Landscape in
 Higher Education, UCL 2016.

 Researchers in our unit have also contributed to the convening and organisation of 18 national
 and international conferences including: 1st and 2nd International Conference on Mathematical
 Resilience (Lee); British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics conference 2019
 (Forsythe); 1st International Virtual Exchange Conference 2019 (Hauck); International
 Conference on MOOCs Language Learning and Mobility 2019 (Fuertes Gutierrez) and
 International Conference on Mobile Applications for Empowerment and Social Inclusion of
 Immigrants 2015 (Kukulska-Hulme).




                                                                                          Page 22
