Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newman University

 Unit of Assessment: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Social Work and Social Policy UoA was established in 2012 to provide an inclusive,
 supportive and developmental space for colleagues at Newman whose research and scholarly
 activity was focused on aspects of social policy and/or social work (in its broadest sense). The
 Unit meets quarterly and has grown in size and strength significantly since its inception. The
 Unit’s aim is to cultivate and produce critical research under the umbrella theme of social justice.
 We seek to impact on a range of real-world issues from education to health, youth issues and
 crime, with a focus on informing professional practice in these areas and enhancing the volume
 and quality of knowledge exchange and transfer into both the professional and public
 community.

 Unit members are grouped in seven, sometimes overlapping, research clusters that each seek
 to influence aspects of social policy in a number of separate, but related fields.

       Criminology, Criminal Justice and Law
       Work with Children, Young People and Families
       Youth and Community Work, Youth Studies and Informal Education
       Critical Pedagogy
       Early Years and Multi-Professional Practice
       Health and Social Care
       Educational Policy

 The unit includes researchers working under two of the university’s research centres: The
 Children, Young Persons and Families Research Centre and the Romero Freire Research
 Institute.
 https://www.newman.ac.uk/research/research-centres/children-young-people-family-research-
 centre/
 https://www.newman.ac.uk/research/research-centres/romero-freire-institute/.

 The Unit is provided with a clear direction via Newman’s Research, Scholarship and Enterprise
 Strategy 2014-2020 which oversees all postgraduate research students and the research
 activities of academic staff. The University sees the SWSP Unit of Assessment as a key internal
 body which can help build institutional strengths in a subject area that reflects Newman’s wider
 commitment to social justice, whilst also providing a developmental space within which
 colleagues working in this area can be nurtured from early career researchers and developed
 into roles such as postgraduate supervisors. The University has allocated resources strategically
 to support staff development in the Unit and help to grow the Unit’s research income streams.
 This has included supporting staff to develop funding applications for conference attendance,
 convene symposiums and to run internal seminar series. This institutional commitment continues
 and is seen as central to ensuring the environment and culture necessary for the university to
 progress towards a number of its stated goals, including the successful establishment of a
 mature, self-sustaining research base at the University and the gaining of Research Degree
 Awarding Powers.

 Originally conceived and convened by Dr Mike Seal, Dr Pete Harris and Allison Tatton,
 Governance of the unit rests with the Graduate School and is led by Professor Mairtin Mac an
 Ghaill (returned in the Education UoA) and Dr Mike Seal. Academic staff involved in the unit
 have, in the relatively short period since its establishment, built up a diverse and robust body of
 research outputs and outcomes that, with the support of the University’s Research Centres,
 builds on areas of proven research strength. Unit outputs include journal articles, books and
 reports focusing on a range of theoretical, methodological, ethical, practice and pedagogical
 issues as applied to social work and social policy, with specific focus on areas of youth and

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community work, health and social care, most levels and aspects of education, social work, and
 crime and justice policy, whilst also making links to a number of related disciplines such as
 human geography and law.

 Our vision for research is underpinned by the University’s core values and its mission to make a
 positive difference to individuals and communities through the contribution of its staff, students,
 and graduates. The University’s Research Strategy has focused investment funds on Units
 submitting to the Research Excellence Framework, whilst enabling early-career researchers to
 develop their capacity. The University encourages partnership and collaborative research with
 public and third-sector bodies, as well as fellow academics, on a range of real-world issues
 including education and well-being, heritage and culture, community and professional
 development. Newman additionally advocates research-informed professional practice across all
 subject areas, enhancing the volume and quality of international research and encouraging
 knowledge transfer into the regional community. While different areas have a research or
 practice focus, the University encourages and expects all academic staff to engage in advanced
 scholarship. At Newman, this means that scholarship is purposeful, well-founded and
 appropriately conducted; it produces meaningful results which are communicated effectively. It
 may involve knowledge creation, integration, sharing or application, as well as the development
 of ways of knowing in others. Such scholarship may issue in research publication but equally
 may find expression in other disseminated outputs and forms of public engagement. Research
 seminars are held throughout the year, some organized centrally or by Research Centres and
 some within subject areas and Faculties. Contributors to these seminars are a mix of University
 staff, research students, and invited speakers from other institutions. The University’s Research
 Committee takes as its remit a strategic role in all aspects of developing and sustaining a
 successful research culture and research performance. The Committee’s major function is to
 ensure that the University’s areas of research strength and comparative advantage are
 protected and enhanced, that research potential is nurtured and that resources are strategically
 targeted to build an externally recognised research presence.

 For the coming five-year period 2021-2025, Newman’s institutional research strategy, and in turn
 the UoA’s, will build on the current research plan while focusing on specific areas of
 implementation: an attainment of Research Degree Awarding Powers, research integrity, Open
 Research compliance, and the equal promotion of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary, and
 interdisciplinary research. The implementation of the UoA’s and the University’s research
 strategy is underpinned by the support provided by the Research Office and Graduate School,
 including: the maintenance of a University-wide repository and research data base; the
 preparation and provision for the Research Committee of up-to-date information on research
 performance in the University; coordination of all matters relating to postgraduate research
 students; oversight of the establishment and operation of the University’s research centres;
 organization of a seminar programme bringing together researchers with internal and external
 speakers to debate research findings, discuss methodologies, and share academic insights;
 coordination of the University’s links with relevant research networks; support for the
 administration of the University’s forthcoming submission for Research Degree Awarding
 Powers.

 Mirroring Newman university’s distinctive commitment to transformational impact for social
 justice, the Unit also seeks to support and produce research/scholarship that makes a positive
 difference not only to society more broadly to the local community too. Working in partnership
 with students and public sector and third sector institutions, the unit has already developed (and
 intends to broaden) its relationship with local agencies and the community via innovative
 community projects such as the ReachOut youth and community project, and the Community
 Criminology project.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s stated remit is to:

       Via cultivation of consultancy and employer engagement, create further opportunities and
        funding for research, emphasising social enterprise as a means to enable staff and
        students to work collaboratively to tackle social problems and improve communities.
       Support the Children and Young Person and Family and Romero Freire Research
        Centres through support of funding applications.
       Seek to increase externally-funded research and evaluation projects, independently and
        in collaboration with partners in the UK and overseas, using community-based projects
        such as the Community Criminology and ReachOut project .
       Co-ordinate and prepare submission for periodic research exercises in the area of Social
        Work and Social Policy.
       Support members in developing outputs for the REF and more generally in developing
        their research interests and in producing publications.
       Act as a conduit for developing ideas for collaborative research and for dissemination of
        research through seminars and conferences via the Young People, Children and
        Families and Romero Freire Research Centres.
       To act as a link for the SWSP research area to the University Research Committee.

 Fundamental to the University’s Strategic Plan as a University with a Catholic Foundation is its
 commitment to the formation of staff and students. This is expressed in Newman’s People
 Strategy 2015-20, which states the University’s values and principles of organizational
 development: ‘The University is committed to advancing equality of opportunity and eliminating
 unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, to foster good relations between people
 from different groups which embraces and celebrates diversity in line with our values and
 principles’ The University’s research environment, community, and culture is supported by the
 Graduate School which has the primary responsibility for postgraduate research student training
 and social and intellectual integration while playing a key role alongside Faculties, Subject
 Areas, and Programmes in developing career pathways for successful research students.
 Institutional development and support for research students is provided by the Graduate School,
 while pastoral support and mentoring is provided by the Postgraduate Research Co-ordinators.
 In addition to attracting self-funding students, the University occasionally offers research
 studentships through a competitive bidding process, funded at the level of Research Council
 stipends. The University offers training to PGR students preparing for a career in teaching in
 Higher Education and opportunity is available wherever possible for students to gain in-class
 teaching experience.

 Our commitment to formation includes the community of our research students and our
 approach to supervision is characterised by individual support as well as high-quality supervisory
 teams. We aim to create an environment that develops our supervisory capacity and enables our
 doctoral and MPhil students to reach their goals and realise their potential as early career
 researchers. Working with partners, as individuals or external supervisors, we aim to work within
 the Researcher Development Framework to enable our researchers successfully to make their
 own significant contribution to knowledge and to advance their own professional and career
 opportunities.

 Research student training is provided locally and centrally. The central programme is overseen
 by the Graduate School and the postgraduate research coordinators. All research students have
 access to a dedicated PGR room for facilities on-campus and to help build community cohesion.
 All students are able to apply for an annual financial contribution to research training activities,
 printing is free, and supervision talks place in teams to ensure a range of expertise and
 continuity. Through our relationship with our research-degree awarding partner, research
 students also have access to the facilities, virtual and physical, available at Liverpool Hope
 University.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 A significant proportion of full-time academic staff in the unit are active contributors to subject
 associations, learned societies and relevant professional bodies (see list below). The unit’s
 ongoing strategic objectives include the facilitation of an environment where all members of the
 unit and other academic staff can develop a research profile, embark on and/or successfully
 complete doctoral study, connect with subject associations, deliver seminar/conference papers,
 and collaborate with researchers both within and beyond Newman, publishing and disseminating
 the results of research or advanced scholarship. All have some recent personal experience of
 research activity, acting as external examiners for research degrees, serving as
 validation/review panel members, and having contributed to collaborative projects with external
 organisations.

 The unit regularly contributes to the PGR training programme delivered in partnership with
 Liverpool Hope University. All research students have access to a dedicated PGR room for on-
 campus study and socialising, which helps to foster community cohesion and build relationships
 across disciplines. Printing and photocopying facilities are available free of charge to all research
 students, and they have an annual allowance of up to 20 free inter-library loans. In addition,
 each student is eligible to apply for financial support of up to £150p.a. for research activities,
 including conference attendance, travel to libraries/archives, books and equipment. In addition,
 through our formal partnership with Liverpool Hope University, Newman research students have
 access to their facilities, both virtual and physical. Institutional membership of CREST also
 provides further opportunities for collaboration and networking with a wider PGR community, and
 for bidding for funding to support training and conference attendance.

 All staff in the unit are engaged in research or other forms of advanced scholarship and are able
 to demonstrate achievements that are recognised by the wider academic community to be of
 national and/or international standing. The Unit is also committed to building a community of
 research students and high-quality supervisory teams. This includes developing supervisory
 capacity in the Unit that will attract doctoral and MPhil students. Going forward, the unit will focus
 investment on developing academic staff who are not currently engaged in research, practice, or
 other forms of advanced scholarship, and especially those from underrepresented groups in
 H.E.

 Our specific staffing strategy for the Unit in the next 5 years will be to:

        Attract and grow new postgraduate researchers from the student body and target support
         in the shape of mentoring early-career researchers, recognising a wide range of research
         achievements;
        Support staff and students to develop successful research, social ventures and
         enterprises in partnership with others

 The strategy includes a commitment to support and promote equality and diversity. As such the
 Unit also has a stated objective to:

        Grow the proportion of staff returned (especially those from underrepresented and BAME
         groups) to the next Research Excellence Framework;
        Target support at staff from underrepresented and BAME groups, especially those
         embarking on or completing doctoral study and those seeking promotion to academic
         leadership as Readers and Professors.

 Newman University is a member of the GuildHE Research Consortium, previously the
 Consortium of Research Excellence, Support, and Training (CREST), and thus works in a
 network of over two dozen small and specialist institutions who collaborate in the provision of
 postgraduate resources, including an annual summer school, a shared repository, and close
 collaboration over a shared agenda with respect to research policy and practice.
 https://research.guildhe.ac.uk/about/. Newman is also a member of the Cathedrals Group

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 association of fifteen universities, nearly all ex-teacher training colleges, all of whom share a
 common mission of service that includes a commitment to research which is of societal benefit
 and contributes to the public good https://www.cathedralsgroup.ac.uk/


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Integral to the operation of the unit is a well-developed institutional infrastructure which oversees
 the research activities including the University Research Committee, the Research Degrees
 Subcommittee, and the Research Ethics Committee. These committees play a decisive role in
 all aspects of sustaining a successful and ethical research culture and environment, ensuring
 that the strength and capacity of the SWSP UoA is enhanced. The Unit’s convenors have
 developed an infrastructure that stresses participatory decision making, collegiality and co-
 production, with an emphasis on support for early career researchers. This has led to a
 professional culture where staff and student potential to develop into active and reputable
 researchers is recognised and nurtured alongside the activity of more established and
 experienced researchers in the Unit.

 This infrastructure is underpinned by the practical support provided by the Research Office and
 Graduate School, including a number of facilities pertaining to the Unit’s research and research
 impact. The Research Office and Graduate School provides research administration and
 postgraduate coordination. The Research Office organises and runs the central Research
 Committee, research degrees committee and research ethics subcommittee. With
 representation from researchers across the Faculties and UoAs, the committees provide an
 infrastructure for disbursement and delegation of funds, research strategy and policy
 coordination, oversight of the PGR environment, as well as policies for, among other aspects,
 ethics, open access, and research integrity. The Office provides support for the administration of
 the Unit’s submission to the Research Excellence Framework; maintaining a Unit research data
 base; and administrative support with the organization of seminar programmes and
 symposiums. The Unit has now supported multiple events (see below) that bring the Unit’s
 researchers together with students and internal and external speakers. The Unit has also
 provided practical and financial assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications,
 providing advice on meeting funding eligibility criteria, supplemented with the help of the
 University Finance department for advice on costing and pricing,

 Research support activity was also underpinned by a research bid writer funded by the
 University from 2014 to 2018. From 2018, research funding support was outsourced on a
 consultancy basis. This has provided information on grants and support for external funding
 opportunities as well as assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications,
 including advice on costing and pricing, meeting funding eligibility criteria, and submission of
 bids. The university has at times subscribed to Research Professional, Grantfinder, and other
 tools to support bidding and grant acquisition. Bid writing is supported equally by the Finance
 Department and the Graduate School to provide a system for full-economic costing, review and
 quality control, authorization, and submission. To seed-fund basic research and impact, the
 University’s Research Committee has operated a number of grant schemes during the REF
 period. A good proportion of QR monies has been devolved down to Units of Assessment to
 support research eligible for the REF and this is managed by researchers in their individual
 UoAs. The University has additionally operated a scheme of negotiated sabbatical support for
 staff, who must identify clear and measurable targets to be achieved at the end of the sabbatical
 period. This has been supplemented by a Small Grants scheme; a conference support scheme;
 support for regular research seminars, research training workshops and inaugural-professorial
 lectures, and financial support for staff undertaking research degrees.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit provides a fertile developmental space for research collaboration and the development
 of networks between teaching staff across several subject areas at Newman (Working with
 Children Young People and Families, Youth and Community Work, Education Studies, Law,
 Criminology and Early Childhood Education, Health and Social Care) as well as staff working in
 the strategic roles within the Directorate of Learning Teaching and Scholarship. Members of the
 unit have written, edited, and published journal articles, books, book chapters and reports that
 reflect this broad, cross-disciplinary research focus. These outputs provide a rich resource for a
 diverse audience: students, practitioners and policy makers working in a number of fields related
 to Social Policy and Social Work. For example, book publications include:

       Working with Vulnerable Children and Families.
       Responding to Youth Violence through Youth Work.
       Philosophy in Youth and Community Work.
       Participatory Pedagogic Impact Research: Co-production with Community Partners in
        Action.
       The Interruption of Heteronormativity in Higher Education: Critical Queer Pedagogies.
       Supporting children and young people in schools: a guide for foundation degree
        students.
       Nurturing Healthy Diversity in Church Schools.

 As well as this diverse publishing activity, the Unit has supported several symposiums and
 seminars that seek to transfer knowledge to the local, national and international wider
 community. One entitled, “Religious Belief, Identity and Desistance” in January 2018 was
 attended by over 70 delegates and brought together academics, religious leaders, students,
 youth workers, chaplains and ex-offenders to consider the relationship between religious belief,
 identity and offender desistance. Speakers included high profile researchers working in fields
 cognate to one of more the UoA’s research specialisms, such as Professor Ross Deuchar
 author of the book "Gangs and Spirituality: Global Perspectives” (2018, Palgrave MacMillan),
 which was featured on the BBC Radio 4 ‘Thinking Allowed’ programme in the summer of 2018.
 This seminar has now been developed into a book proposal.

 As well as regularly contributing to internal events and conferences members of the Unit have
 attended and delivered papers at a wide range of national and international conferences, such
 as: BERA, Advance UK, the Foundation Years Network, The Professional Association of Youth
 and Community Work Lecturers, SEDA, Conference of International Youth Work Transitions and
 General Federation of Trade Unions Annual Conference. The Youth and Community Work team,
 supported by the unit, hosted an international seminar on Teaching Youth Work in Higher
 Education including the Launch of the ‘Sage Handbook of Youth Work Practice’ which members
 of the unit then contributed to. The seminar was a result of a two-year international Erasmus +
 funded strategic partnership between HE Institutions in Estonia, Finland and Newman
 University. The seminar focused on sharing chapters and working methods and identifying
 inspirational moments in teaching youth work via a world café structure.

 Other conference presentations include:

       Silencing Stereotypes about Weight: Bias, the female African Caribbean Body and the
        clinical encounter. BSA Medical Sociology Conference. Aston University, 2014
        (Andrews).
       Research in the Liminal: Research methods to engage seldom heard communities. BSA
        Medical Sociology Group Event, ‘Under-served’ or ‘hard to reach’?: Community and
        participatory approaches in health research. Coventry University (Andrews)
       Learning from the Liminal: Researching on health with African Caribbean communities.
        Blackness in Britain Conference, Newman University.2013 (Andrews)



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Raising the Issue of Obesity with Patients of Improving the Uptake of Weight
        management Clinics. Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care
        Birmingham and Black Country Dissemination Event. University of Birmingham.2013
        (Andrews)
       Strong, female and Black: African Caribbean women’s understanding of body size and
        health. Weight Stigma Conference. University of Birmingham.2013 (Andrews)
       Tuned In: Using talk radio as site for health research. British Sociological Association
        Medical Sociology Conference. University of York.2013 (Andrews)
       The International Conference on Critical Education, Wroclaw, Poland (Seal)
       The 2nd International Conference on Critical Pedagogies and Philosophies of Education:
        Liverpool Hope University (Seal)
       Youth Violence, ESRC Seminar series, Brunel University, 22nd May 2015 (Seal and
        Harris)
       International Conference of Outreach Workers, Denmark (Harris)
       2nd European Convention of Youth Work Brussels Centre for Youth Ministry’s Annual
        Conference, Birmingham (Bardy)
       Royal Geographical Society, Annual International Conference (Adekunle)
       4th International Conference in Children and Young People’s Geography (Adekunle)
       European Youth and Generation Research Network Mid Term Conference (Adekunle)
        ‘Human Rights for Looked After Children’, International Days, Thomas More University
        College, Geel, Belgium, 2017 (Cronin)
        ‘Care Leavers: Rhetoric & Reality’, Hidden Truths: Understanding Vulnerability in 21st
        century Britain. Newman University, 2013(Cronin)
       He’s shown me the road”? A psychosocial interrogation of the male youth worker as role
        model to young men involved in violence. A Youth Studies perspective on the discourse
        of youth violence: BERA. Nottingham Trent University 24/6/19 (Harris)
       “Engaging with young people in violent subcultures” Gozo Youth Conference, Malta
        14/4/18 (Harris)
       “’Down with the kids’: On-road youth worker identities and pathways to desistance”
        Gender,Violence and Antisocial Personalities, University of Manchester, October
        2016(Harris)
       “‘Down with the kids’? ‘On-road’ youth worker identities, and pathways to desistance.
        British Society for Criminology Conference, Nottingham, 8th July 2016 (Harris)
       “‘Down with the kids’? ‘On-road’ youth worker identities, identification, recognition and
        pathways to desistance”. Doctoral Conference, Newman University, July 7th 2016
        (Harris)
       “Prepared to be unprepared? The Participatory-Action-Researcher as Jazz-Improviser”.
        Troubling Research, Birmingham, 8th July 2016 (Harris)
       “Responding Meaningfully to Youth Violence through Youth Work” International
        Conference for Outreach Workers, Oslo, April 2014(Harris)
       Birth children of foster carers: adult birth children’s perspectives, CoramBAAF, London,
        Feb 2018 (Tatton).
       Do we want to hear? Impact of fostering of the birth children of foster carers. –
        Presentation at University of Bristol, June 2017 (Tatton)
       Being brought up in a foster family: adult birth children’s perspectives – Festival of
        Doctoral Research, Newman University (Tatton)
       Sons and daughters of foster carers: how they support looked after young people –
        Poster Presentation at Rees Centre, Oxford University, Jan 2014 (Tatton)

 As well as the impact case studies detailed in this submission, members of the Unit have
 engaged directly in a wide range of impactful activities in the local community such as:

       The ReachOut Project https://www.newman.ac.uk/about-us/student-recruitment-and-
        outreach/reachout/ is Newman University’s outreach Youth and Community work project.
        Funded through the Aim Higher plus initiative (whose overarching objective is to increase
        levels of participation in H.E. from disadvantaged areas) ReachOut is configured into 2

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        broad streams of activity: Detached (street based) work in public spaces in surrounding
        wards and school-based outreach work. It involves a team of 2 youth workers and
        Newman University students engaging with some of the most socially excluded young
        people aged 13-19 in the local community.
       The Community Criminology project http://www.communitycriminologyproject.co.uk
       Measuring the Demographics of Service Users – Lozells Methodist Centre – a small
        participatory research project, examining the users of this centre and the impact that the
        service was having on the community.
       A partnership between Newman and the Centre for Chaplaincy in Education (CCE). The
        partnership is part of a new wider initiative to support and develop chaplaincy within
        schools, colleges and sixth forms, with a vision for every school and college to have a
        chaplain. The aim of the partnership is to research and design a nationally available
        programme of induction, support and continuing professional development (CPD) for
        chaplains in education. With this in mind, Newman University was identified as an
        appropriate educational partner as the University already offers an existing chaplaincy
        programme and therefore has the relevant skills and expertise to partner with the CCE
        and help the charity achieve its goals. The CCE has commissioned Newman University
        to complete research into the roles and skills of Chaplains and to work out the needs of
        Chaplains within education.
       Commissioning Together (2014-16). A two-year research project with Revolving Doors
        funded through Barking and Dagenham and Wandsworth Council. Training and
        supporting peer researchers to engage with and change the commissioning process.
       Detached youth work training and development of guidelines and policy for the
        Lithuanian Youth Ministry – helping the Lithuanian government develop guidelines for
        detached work, a service that has not historically existed in the area.
       The Voice of the Child in Care: A research partnership with Birmingham City Council with
        children and young people looked after by the city supporting a practitioner group, made
        up of practising social workers and trainee social workers.

 Members of the Unit have also facilitated or participated in a range of other collaborative
 activities, including:

       An annual staff and student exchange with a Folk High School in Stockholm, Sweden
        (Harris)
       Writing of qualifications in Youth Ministry for Maryvale Institute, Birmingham (Bardy)
       An International study visit to Norway with Newman Youth Work students (Grace)
       Youth Work supervisors Training Course on Advocacy and Participation, Lithuania
        (Grace)
       Mapping of Youth Work Training event, Zagreb, Croatia (Grace)
       Capturing the Narratives of Youth Work Practice Rotterdam, Holland (Grace)
       Understanding how to promote Erasmus + Projects – Dublin (Grace)
       Reviewing and launching the new European Youth Work Portfolio – Brussels (Grace)

 Unit members also belong to a wide range of professional associations and networks
 membership, including

       National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Services & Delivery Research
        Programme (Commissioned) Panel (McDonald)
       POYWE, Professional Open Youth Work in Europe (Grace)
       Christian Youth Work Consortium Executive (Bardy)
       National Citizens UK Council (Seal)
       Groundswell UK (Seal)
       Kenelm Trust (Bardy)
       Professional Association of Lecturers in Youth and Community Work (Grace, Bardy)
       Regional Youth Work Unit Working Party (Grace)
       Birmingham Voluntary Youth Service Council (Seal)

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       National Youth Agency (Grace)

 Unit members are currently external examiners at Leeds Metropolitan University, Bolton
 University, De Montfort University, Oasis College London and the YMCA George Williams
 College.

 Future direction

 The Unit now has plans to move forward with a repositioned and re-badged Children, Young
 People and Families Research Centre. This Centre will provide logistic and collegiate support to
 the growing cohort of active researchers working in fields related to Social Policy, Social Work
 and Social Justice at the University.




                                                                                            Page 9
