Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 25: Area Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview:
 The study of Europe has rarely been as intellectually challenging and politically important as in
 recent years. Indeed, as the present document has evolved over the last 18 months, such
 observations have acquired dramatic new meaning. The emergence of Covid-19 has sparked
 far-reaching changes in European politics, economy and society, following a long period of
 turmoil and uncertainty. All the issues so central to Europe and the European Union in the
 2010s – the legacy of austerity, eurozone stability, the role of technocracy, the rise of
 nationalism and populism, social inequalities, and the mixed fortunes of democracy – are
 present with heightened urgency. In parallel, the UK continues to reset its relations with the rest
 of Europe. Years of Brexit campaigning and negotiating have sharply increased the salience of
 matters European, shaping the course and significance of the most recent crisis.
          At the European Institute (EI) we have sought to use these unfolding events as the
 springboard to an investigation of all things European. Our research aims to understand what
 Europe is, how it works, and what it does, and these crisis years have been highly revealing. Our
 status as an interdisciplinary institute enables us to address diverse questions of societal
 relevance rarely answered satisfactorily within a single discipline. From the governance of the
 European economy to the nature of EU decision-making, from questions surrounding
 immigration to the effects of Brexit, our researchers address issues at the heart of the
 intensifying debate about Europe’s future, in and beyond its crises. The EI has sought to
 maintain its leading position by addressing these challenges through focused research clusters
 and engagement with leading practitioners.
          The EI was established in 1991 to integrate and develop LSE’s research on the politics,
 economics and societies of Europe. Its staff are drawn from various disciplines, including
 political economy, economics, political science, international relations, anthropology, geography,
 history, philosophy and social policy. Its current staff body comprises 17 academics (assistant,
 associate or full professors), 1 emeritus professor, 1 professorial research fellow and (until 2020)
 an assistant professorial research fellow. Of the 17, 16 are full-time, 1 part-time; 3 are joint posts
 across two departments; 3 are Endowed Chairs. The EI also includes 8 Research Officers, 3
 Research Fellows (funded entirely or partially by the Leverhulme Trust, ESRC, Marie Curie,
 etc.), and, at any given moment, c. 5 Research Assistants and several blog editors. The PhD
 community is around 20+ researchers.
          Research at the EI is focused on four themes: Political Economy, Politics & Policy,
 Culture & Society, and Migration. Each supports an interdisciplinary approach. Staff in Political
 Economy examine such topics as monetary integration (Begg, De Grauwe, Hancke, Schelkle),
 labour markets (Hancke, Monastiriotis), social policy, regional policy and welfare states (Barr,
 Begg, Innes, Monastiriotis, Schelkle), and international political economy (Basedow, Martelli).
 Staff in Politics & Policy focus on national and EU politics (Anderson, Economides,
 Featherstone, Hagemann, Kleine, White), Europeanisation processes (Featherstone, Kleine,
 Economides), Brexit (Hagemann, Kleine, Featherstone, White), and public opinion (Anderson).
 Topics in the Culture & Society stream include identity politics, minorities and multiculturalism
 (Ozyurek, Jackson-Preece, Glendinning, Kostovicova), post-conflict resolution and transitional
 justice (Kostovicova), religion and secularism (Glendininning, Ozyurek), and the philosophy of
 peoplehood, nationhood and Europe (Glendinning, White). The Migration stream, our most

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recent addition, studies the causes and economics of migration (Zaun, Thielemann, Martelli),
 national and EU migration and asylum policies (Zaun, Thielemann), and societal responses
 ranging from nationalism to racism (Jackson-Preece, Ozyurek). Additionally, the EI houses
 several regionally-focused research units, each with its own projects and programmes: the
 Hellenic Observatory, LSEE-Research on South Eastern Europe, and the Contemporary Turkish
 Studies Programme. The EI’s doctoral community, one of the largest anywhere in European
 Studies, spans all these research areas.

 Research Strategy:
 The EI’s research strategy is focused on maintaining and strengthening its position as a leading
 centre for high-quality, multidisciplinary research on Europe. In REF 2014, the EI was ranked
 first in Area Studies. Our objectives were to strengthen our collaborative research within and
 across our research clusters, to encourage individual researchers and clusters to attract external
 resources, and to establish international links to strengthen research excellence and
 collaboration. The following explains how we have addressed these objectives.
           To consolidate our international research profile, we have introduced new initiatives
 addressing the most important topics of the day. A key one has been Brexit, to which we have
 dedicated significant resources and expertise, drawing on all our research clusters. Over a five-
 year period, the EI has coordinated a substantial body of activities under the Brexit Programme.
 The Programme incorporates public events, teaching (for internal and external audiences), a
 Brexit blog, outreach activities (UK and non-UK), two teaching video series, plus lectures for the
 Civil Service (see section 4). Before the 2016 referendum, colleagues ran an extensive EI-wide
 programme called the LSE Commission for the Future of Britain in Europe, with hearings with
 leading academics and practitioners resulting in eleven public reports and an overview. Though
 primarily bringing our research to a broad audience, these activities also fed back into new
 research: a special section of Political Quarterly (88 (2)) coordinated by Schelkle featured
 articles by EI colleagues involved in Commission hearings (Corbett, Coulter, Hancké and
 Thielemann).
           To study another major issue of recent years, and to complement our existing research
 streams with a cross-cutting theme, we established the research cluster on Migration. Our
 recruitment strategy has involved the appointment of a new Assistant Professor (Zaun, 2017).
 Research builds on the activities of the LSE Migration Studies Unit and the London Migration
 Research Group. Again, we have sought to address the world beyond academia, and our
 decision to prioritise this research field is reflected in our migration-based Impact Case Study
 (ICS) led by Thielemann. Further collaborative activities include a 2018 special issue on ‘EU
 Refugee Policies and Politics in Times of Crisis’ in the Journal of Common Market Studies. The
 Migration research stream replaces our earlier stream on ‘Europe beyond the EU’, offering a
 more focused agenda.
           We have also consolidated our international reputation within our existing research
 clusters of Political Economy, Politics & Policy, and Culture & Society. In addition to our outputs
 and ICS, we have made successful applications for external resources (details below). Our
 recruitment strategy has involved new Assistant Professor hires (Basedow – Political Economy,
 2017; Martelli - Political Economy, 2019) and a Professorial hire (Anderson – Politics and Policy,
 2019); we also welcomed a colleague to the EI from the LSE Government Department
 (Kostovicova – Culture & Society, 2018).
           We have enriched our clusters with common activities. De Grauwe and Martelli, for
 instance, organised two ESRC-funded conferences on ‘Structural reforms and European
 Integration’ in 2017 and 2018, whose proceedings were published by Oxford UP and Cambridge

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UP. To enhance cross-cluster collaboration, we have organised events on cross-cutting themes.
 Amongst many one may highlight: a workshop organised by Schelkle, co-funded by EI seed
 money and the European University Institute, on ‘The Political Economy of Finance and
 Financialisation’ (May 2018), bringing EI colleagues together with those from International
 Relations and Government, leading to a special issue of the Review of International Political
 Economy; a workshop on ‘Unpacking Populism’ co-organised by White and Hancke in March
 2017; and a new EI reading group on ‘Critical Studies on Race, Religion, Gender, and Memory
 in Europe’, led by Ozyurek since 2019. The Dahrendorf Forum – a collaboration with the Hertie
 School of Berlin – has generated cross-cutting research activities.
          In this and other ways, we have also developed our links with cognate LSE departments,
 enriching the research of colleagues and postgraduate students. Highlights include: the
 Comparative Politics / Comparative Political Economy research seminar series co-organised
 with the Departments of Government and International Development, which includes eminent
 guest speakers from leading US and European universities, and which concludes each year with
 a one-day PhD student workshop; the Professional Development Day for PhD students from the
 Politics Group Departments (EI, Government, International Development and International
 Relations); and a number of one-off joint events such as a May 2016 EI / Government joint
 workshop on ‘Transnational Partisanship’. Our PhD students have also organised inter-
 departmental and inter-disciplinary events, including a 2017 graduate conference on populism
 co-organised with the Geography and Environment department (see section 2). We have
 encouraged colleagues to apply to the LSE’s research environment fund to develop further
 collaborative activities: a workshop on the “Political Economy of Turkey” scheduled for April /
 May 2020 (postponed due to Covid-19) was one beneficiary, building on a successful event co-
 hosted in 2018 by the EI and LSE’s Systemic Risk Centre.
          A considerable strength of the EI is our programme of high-profile public events, lectures,
 seminars, and related research publications. We have maintained and developed this, drawing
 on the expertise of EI staff, doctoral students and distinguished national and international
 scholars. The Europe@LSE series – our fortnightly lunchtime seminar series – promotes the
 exchange of ideas between staff and students in a relaxed setting, with doctoral students taking
 the lead on chairing and having the opportunity for follow-up informal discussion with the
 speaker. We have also consolidated the channels by which our research reaches a wider
 public. Our LSE ‘Europe in Question’ discussion paper series (LEQS), launched in 2009, has
 published 160+ research articles on Europe and the EU. LEQS organises annual lectures and
 panel events with distinguished speakers, both external (Danny Dorling, Harold James, Colin
 Crouch, Fritz Scharpf) and at LSE (Sara Hobolt, Mike Savage, Michael Cox, Jonathan Hopkin).
 Crucially for our wider impact, we also maintain some very well-read blogs – the EUROPP blog
 (2,500+ posts and 10.3m+ page views by 3.24m visitors); the Brexit blog (1,900+ articles and
 4.5m+ page views by 2.98m visitors) – to which staff regularly contribute. The EI has a
 dedicated Research Manager to support research administration, and an Events and
 Communications Manager, supported by an Events Administrator, responsible for organising
 and promoting our events.
          We have taken various measures to enhance our PhD programme, including Summer-
 term workshops on the peer-review process and how to publish a thesis as a book. In May
 2019, we consolidated these as a Professional Development Day for PhD students from the
 Politics Group Departments. We have maintained our two-day June workshop known as the
 Post-Upgrade Progress Panel (PUPP), where all third-year doctoral students present their
 research to EI staff. And since 2018 we have co-organised a doctoral-student alumni meeting
 every other year where former PhD students present their work, from think-tank papers to fully-

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fledged articles, and maintain links with existing students. The last event was in 2018; the next
 will be in 2021, Covid-19 permitting. All our PhD-related activities, including the weekly research
 seminar EU550, are strongly interdisciplinary (each student presentation has a relate and a
 remote commentator), bringing together researchers from each of our research streams.
          The EI has also expanded its knowledge exchange activities. In 2019 we launched a new
 research website to highlight better our projects and activities; we have also refreshed our
 monthly newsletter to highlight major awards, grants and projects. We have produced a
 promotional video highlighting EI research, and have increased our outreach on social media.
 Our Brexit Programme has its own video series, with contributions drawn from experts across
 LSE. The EI is also investing in annual public events held in cities across continental Europe. In
 2019 we hosted an event on ‘Social Media and the Politicization of European Politics’ in Berlin,
 with a panel featuring figures from academia, journalism and politics. With the onset of the
 Coronavirus pandemic, a number of events were postponed, but we held online equivalents,
 including webinars and online workshops with Sciences Po (Schelkle) and the Hertie School of
 Berlin as part of the CIVICA network (White, Schelkle).
          The EI has worked closely with LSE’s Research & Innovation Division to identify grant
 opportunities and to work with EI colleagues with the relevant research profile. In 2014 we
 established a new position of External Research Funding Coordinator to facilitate successful
 funding applications by EI staff. The focus is on external funding from public agencies (EU
 Horizon 2020, ESRC, ERC etc.), and we have sought to bring more externally-funded post-
 doctoral fellows to the EI. We have seen a sharp increase in funding applications by EI staff, and
 the successful award of grants as outlined in section 3. The EI further supports colleagues
 through the departmental Seed Fund, overseen by the EI Research Committee, which makes
 funding available to support publications and impact activities.
          In terms of research ethics, the EI follows the LSE’s guidelines at both academic and
 PhD level, with forms completed for all research with human participants, and approval sought
 from the School’s Research Ethics Committee for sensitive research. The departmental
 Research Committee oversees the application of these standards. The EI also allocates senior
 staff as mentors to junior staff (see section 2), creating a venue in which such questions are
 discussed.
          Finally, the EI has made significant progress on open research. Of colleagues’ entries
 on LSE Research Online, 79% now include full text (up 23% from 2014), and 56% are open
 access (up 4% from 2014). Our two working paper series (GreeSE and LEQS) release open-
 access papers, often in advance of publication in journals. Colleagues have deposited data for
 externally funded research projects in trusted repositories such as the UK Data Archive: an
 example is Ivor Sokolic’s dataset for the AHRC funded project ‘Art and Reconciliation: Conflict,
 Culture and Community’. Research data from the same project were also used to create an art
 installation conveying the project’s findings.

 Impact strategy:
 Our research covers a diversity of fields. Amongst the principal beneficiaries have been
 governments, other executive agencies (e.g. the European Commission), parliaments and
 parliamentary committees. This is illustrated by our chosen ICS: Barr’s ICS on reform of the
 Swedish pension system, Thielemann’s ICS on EU asylum-seeker policy, and Monastiriotis’ ICS
 on the Greek minimum wage.
        As these case studies suggest, the surest way to influence public policy is first to conduct
 high-quality research that draws acclaim within the academic community. Barr and Diamond’s
 2008 book generated the peer recognition which ultimately led to their being invited to advise the

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Swedish government; writing op-eds for a large public was a way to reinforce the arguments.
 Likewise, Thielemann’s policy influence began with a number of notable research publications,
 picked up by officials in the European Commission and European Parliament. Equally, it was two
 well-cited academic publications that led to the appointment of Monastiriotis to the Independent
 Experts Committee advising the Greek government on the minimum wage. Maintaining
 excellence in research thus has been, and remains, the core of our strategy.
          In addition to external funding sources as detailed in section 3, the EI has drawn on the
 LSE’s KEI funding stream, which aims to help staff identify and capitalise on opportunities for
 knowledge exchange. Major KEI-funded projects in this period at the EI include:
  - ‘Political Economy Knowledge Transfer: The European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC)
      and European Trade Union Institute (ETUI)’ (£133k): a five-year project in which EI
      colleagues helped ETUC develop long-term policy agendas, supported research at the
      ETUI, organised advanced policy seminars, and presented research and policy debates on
      a standalone LSE blog (the New European Trade Unions Forum).
  - ‘LSE Commission on the Future of Britain in Europe’ (see above) (£70k), a series of
      hearings with leading academics and practitioners, resulting in eleven public reports and an
      overview, covering various aspects of Britain’s relationship with the EU;
  - ‘LSE Programme on Brexit’ (see above) (£427k), a dedicated series to stimulate public
      debate and informed discussion about Brexit, comprising various activities including events,
      videos, and a blog targeting LSE staff and students, policy-makers, practitioners and
      professionals working on Brexit, and the general public.
  - ‘Generation Brexit’ (see below) (£103k), a pan-European public consultation of under-35s
      aimed at crowdsourcing a millennial vision for the future UK-EU relationship. Generation
      Brexit promoted debate via a public online forum, dedicated events, and the provision of
      teaching materials aimed at A-Level Politics students; it also offered an internship
      programme for A-Level and undergraduate students, giving them opportunities to participate
      as platform facilitators.

 The EI has also drawn on KEI funding to hire a Digital Communications Assistant to develop the
 Department’s research webpages (see below).
        Details on colleagues’ engagement with print and broadcast media are in section 4.

 Research and Impact Strategy (2020-25):
 For the upcoming assessment period, we aim to reinforce research excellence in our priority
 areas, consolidating our status as a hub that brings together research on Europe from across
 the LSE. The School is supporting our endeavours, and one development we shall take
 advantage of is our relocation to a building shared with the Departments of Government,
 International Relations and the School of Public Policy, enabling closer links to be forged. We
 aim to be at the forefront of LSE’s efforts to be ‘the world-leading social science institution with
 the greatest global impact’ by 2030, as outlined in the LSE 2030 agenda. We intend to continue
 harnessing our blogs, podcasts and public events programmes to promote our research beyond
 academia, and to build on our established strengths in shaping public policy as exemplified by
 our impact case studies.
          Clearly, Brexit and Covid-19 have introduced considerable uncertainties, however they
 ultimately pan out. Some European funding sources the EI has traditionally had success with,
 notably the European Research Council, may be lost to us, and with them some resources for
 achieving wider impact. UK higher education is undergoing rapid change. But for a department
 like the European Institute, these moments are also opportunities. Brexit has made EU matters
 more salient in British politics, while the pandemic has heightened interest in the experiences of
 our European neighbours and reaffirmed their status as comparators. We approach the coming

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 years with renewed conviction in our capacity to generate high-quality research of major societal
 relevance, and stand ready to seize the opportunities that emerge.

 Section 2. People

 i. Staffing strategy and staff development
 EI recruitment takes place via a global search, supported by the LSE Human Resources Division
 and involving all EI staff. Colleagues are invited to spread the word about vacancies and to
 encourage suitable individuals to apply. The recruitment process involves reading the selected
 work of short-listed candidates (available to all colleagues) and scholarly presentations by the
 candidates to all EI faculty (PhD students are also invited), followed by probing discussion.
 Excellence in research is the primary criterion for recruitment. Our strategy successfully attracts
 top-quality applicants: Anderson, our most recent professorial hire, is one of the most cited
 scholars in the field of European public opinion and political behaviour, and is a past winner of
 the American Political Science Association’s Heinz Eulau Award. Our younger hires (Basedow
 and Martelli) joined us from top-level doctoral and post-doctoral programmes (at the EUI and
 LSE), and bring experience of working at notable public institutions (the OECD, and World Bank
 and IMF, respectively). Gender diversity within the EI is good (8 women, 9 men); ethnic diversity
 is less so, although the department continues to monitor ways to improve this in support of
 LSE’s EDI objectives (see REF5a). We have established an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI) Committee which monitors department policies and processes, including recruitment.
           All members of staff are supported in their research and their integration into the EI’s
 research culture. Mentoring by a senior colleague is provided to all non-professorial members of
 staff. This involves regular meetings to provide informal guidance on issues such as publishing
 strategies, career progression, grant applications, and teaching performance. In addition, a
 formal Career Development Review (CDR) takes place annually for pre-Major Review staff and
 biannually for post-Major Review staff. In all cases, the meetings are intended to support staff in
 designing a strategy for research excellence that suits their career goals. The EI has several
 policies in place to support the career progression of early-career researchers, especially:
 colleagues pre-Major Review have only 80% of normal teaching loads, reduced administrative
 duties, and opportunities to supervise doctoral students alongside more senior members of staff.
 Junior colleagues also receive an additional £450 in research funds, with access to a larger
 departmental pot once their funds are exhausted. The EI follows the LSE’s Concordat and
 Action Plan.
           In line with LSE’s processes, the EI uses fair and transparent procedures for career
 progression. Clear and explicit promotion criteria and guidelines are made available annually to
 all staff. To facilitate equal opportunity in career progression, non-professorial staff are asked to
 submit CVs to an annual meeting of the Professoriate, which considers all staff for potential
 promotion, regardless of individual requests. Staff can also submit self-sponsored-promotion
 requests to the LSE. As an inter- and multidisciplinary department, the EI does not seek to
 establish specific “area study” criteria, but rather expects all members of staff to deliver
 outstanding research in terms of originality, significance and rigour, similar to the standards
 applied in LSE’s single-discipline departments, and to publish high-quality research in journals in
 their chosen area. In addition to publications in journals, the EI places value on monographs
 published with prestigious university presses, although quality of output rather than place of
 publication is regarded as a necessary condition for promotion. These expectations are clearly
 communicated to colleagues at mentoring and CDR meetings. We also incentivise staff by



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 celebrating successes, e.g. announcing major publications and impact activities in our
 departmental newsletter, and inviting individuals to communicate their research on our blogs.
          During the assessment period, all EI staff put forward for promotion have been
 successful. Three have been promoted to Associate Professor (Hagemann, Kleine, Komarek);
 three to full Professor (White; Ozyurek; Schelkle) – promotions which improve the gender
 balance of our professoriate. We have also made five new appointments, enhancing each of our
 research streams: Kostovicova (Culture and Society), Basedow (Political Economy), Martelli
 (Political Economy), Anderson (Politics and Policy), and Zaun (Migration). In addition to our
 success in promoting colleagues, evidence of the effectiveness of our recruitment strategy can
 be found in the success new colleagues have had in publishing in top journals (e.g. Martelli in
 World Politics, Zaun and Basedow in Journal of Common Market Studies) and bidding for
 funding (as below).
          The EI seeks to promote gender equality and diversity in our recruitment process,
 performance evaluations and promotion decisions. While only two of the eight EI full professors
 are women, they constitute the majority of senior promotions in the current REF cycle. We have
 recently added several female external experts to our list of assessors (Cini, Laffan, De Vries).
 The EI and its research units are also working hard to improve the gender balance of our public
 events programmes within a traditionally male-dominated academic and policy community. In
 the past two years, 41% of our guests have been women, against a 50% target. The EI's
 working environment is, as a matter of department policy, a family-friendly one: even before
 Covid-19, working from home and flexible hours were facilitated wherever possible, with tangible
 gains in productivity and staff satisfaction. There is a spread of ages at all levels of seniority in
 the department, ensuring viable succession planning for all major posts, including Deputy Head
 for Research. Amongst REF-submitted staff, all are on permanent contracts except Bryant and
 Cayli.
          In selecting outputs for our REF portfolio, we have sought to reflect EDI considerations,
 referring to them when choosing between outputs rated of similar standard in our internal
 evaluation process. We believe we have achieved a good balance in the portfolio, with a higher
 proportion of both female and BAME 4* outputs than both the Department’s baseline and 3*
 outputs.
          The EI’s research environment is further enriched by its post-doctoral researchers.
 During the assessment period, we have successfully attracted several externally-funded post-
 doctoral fellows, including a Leverhulme Fellow (Cayli), a Marie Curie Fellow (Kurt) and an
 ESRC LSE Postdoctoral Fellow (Cino-Pagliarello). Other post-docs are attached to colleagues’
 major grants, including those of Kostovicova (3 post-docs and 1 PhD until 2023), Schelkle (four
 post-docs until 2025) and De Grauwe (three post-docs: 2014-2019).
          As detailed in Section 4, we are the beneficiaries of a significant number of visiting
 fellows, crucial for an Institute that aims to connect research on Europe with practical expertise.
 Currently the EI has 22 visiting fellows/senior fellows, 1 visiting professor, 3 visiting professors in
 practice; the HO has 2 visiting professors, 1 visiting professor in practice; LSEE has 6 visiting
 fellows/senior fellows and 1 visiting professor; the Chair in Contemporary Turkish Studies has 2
 visiting fellows. Our visiting fellows include individuals of considerable experience in policy-
 making and analysis, amongst them Philippe Legrain (writer, ex-European Commission),
 Mujtaba Rahman (Eurasia Group), Mara Monti (Il Sole 24 Ore), Tito Boeri (Bocconi University),
 Mark Thatcher (LUISS), Anthony Teasdale (European Parliament) and Martin Westlake (ex-
 EESC). Their presence has facilitated exchanges between the EI and the wider academic
 community, also between academia and public institutions.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          All members of EI staff are supported in their pursuit of high-quality research and
 research collaboration. First, they benefit from an annual research fund of between £940 -
 £1,420 from the School, with an additional departmental top-up pot of £5,000 available, which
 provides funding for conferences, research assistance, purchasing research materials and the
 like. Staff can also apply to the EI Research Committee, which supports innovative and
 collaborative initiatives, as well as the departmental Seed Fund, which supports work in
 preparation for large grants. Second, support for individual researchers is provided by the Eden
 Centre for Educational Enhancement, which runs programmes to support staff in their writing,
 and the Research and Innovation Division, which provides extensive support for external grant
 applications and the management of research projects. Within the department, the Deputy Head
 of Department reviews funding applications and provides support and feedback; the EI also has
 dedicated administrative support in the form of a Research Manager. Finally, all full-time
 research staff on permanent contracts are entitled to one term’s sabbatical for every eight terms
 worked. The EI is fully supportive of research buy-out of teaching.
          The EI offers flexible working policies to all staff returning to work from parental leave or
 reducing their work for other reasons. Career and mentoring schemes are offered to staff who
 have had an interruption from academia, including the LSE’s New Parents and Parents-to-be
 Network that offers support and mentoring to new parents. The LSE continuously monitors to
 ensure its policies and practices are in line with the key principles of the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers. The Eden Centre has a specific programme for early-
 career researchers with access to a specialised careers adviser.

 ii. Research students
 Doctoral students are at the heart of our research culture. They are integrated into a wide range
 of EI activities, including seminars, workshops and committees. They are actively engaged in our
 departmental seminar series, Europe@LSE, acting as both chairs and discussants; they are also
 involved in the publishing and editing of our LEQS discussion paper series. We have a research-
 student member of our Research Committee, as well as research-student representatives on the
 Student and Staff Liaison Committee, one recruited from each year group. The EI also supports
 conferences and workshops organized for and by doctoral students, including the European
 Graduate Network annual conference (see below) and the 2017 populism conference (see
 below). Many doctoral researchers also work on projects as research assistants for EI members
 of staff and research units.
          The EI’s contingent of registered doctoral students has grown from 18 in 2002 to 20 in
 2020 (46 in total over the 2014-2019 period). The EI has excellent completion rates, with 38
 students completing their PhD during this assessment period (2014-2020). Students are
 admitted through a highly selective process, which involves shortlisting followed by face-to-face
 or online interviews. The EI has ESRC, AHRC and CASE recognition, and during this REF
 period, 7 of our students have held ESRC studentships, 8 have had RSS Awards, 2 Leverhulme
 scholarships, 1 ERC-funded scholarship, and 11 have held LSE Research Scholarships – high
 figures given the department’s size. Our Hellenic Observatory research unit offers its own
 externally-funded PhD Scholarship programme. Supplementary support is available for our
 students for conferences and fieldwork through the LSE Postgraduate Travel Fund, through an
 EI research-student travel fund for expenses not covered by the LSE centrally, and through
 mobility bursaries offered by the LSE and ESRC to support exchange scholarships abroad. In
 addition to general LSE facilities, the EI contains a dedicated EI doctoral space with 12 computer
 terminals, 6 laptop workstations, 18 desks, and a soft-seating breakout area. EI PhD students



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also have full access to staff facilities, including the Staff Common Room and the right to book
 the Departmental meeting room, which offers video-conferencing facilities.
          Academic support for doctoral students takes various forms. All students receive
 supervision by two members of staff. There is a minimum requirement of two meetings with
 supervisors per term. Research students must take courses on research methods during their
 first two years. All PhD students also participate in a weekly research workshop, which includes
 the presentation and discussion of thesis chapters and related work with other students and 2-3
 senior members of staff. Moreover, the EI organises, with the Government, International
 Relations and International Development Departments, a series of workshops for its doctoral
 students on topics such as ‘Publishing articles’, ‘Publishing your Thesis as a book’ and
 ‘Research Grant Opportunities', in collaboration with external publishers and the LSE Research
 & Innovation Division. A new initiative (first held in 2019; repeated online in May 2020 due to
 Covid-19, and attracting 50+ participants) is a cross-departmental Professional Training Day for
 PhD students, organised with International Relations, International Development and
 Government, allowing students in cognate disciplines to forge networks, acquire the skills
 essential for success in the job market, and to gain exposure to job and publication
 opportunities.
          Research training is also provided through a comprehensive development programme
 for PhD students run by the LSE. EI students take advantage of the many research methods
 courses offered by the Department of Methodology, as well as inter-departmental seminars for
 doctoral students and academic staff. Monitoring of progress is systematically recorded:
 students minute each meeting with supervisors and deposit these minutes in a central on-line
 system. Students undergo a formal upgrade process at the end their first year, decided by the
 Doctoral Programme Committee (DPC) on the recommendation of readers and an oral
 examination. The DPC is also responsible for the integration of students within the EI. Its remit
 covers the monitoring of supervision and questions of doctoral programme strategy. We also
 hold the annual Post-Upgrade Presentation Panel (PUPP), where third-year students present
 their work to the entire department to allow for feedback and cross-departmental discussion; the
 assessor for the first-year Upgrade typically acts as the respondent to the presentation.
          The EI furthermore supports its research students in organising events, offering a chance
 to present work and build networks. For example: in 2017, three EI PhD students (Bolet,
 Gopffarth and Lorimer) and one from Geography and Environment organised a graduate
 conference on ‘Populism: left, right and centre”, joint-funded by the EI and the PhD Academy.
 Graduate students from universities across Europe and the USA were invited to present their
 work in four thematic panels; attendees came i.a. from Harvard, Kings, QMUL, University of
 Vienna, EUI, Sciences Po, and Birmingham. Each panel was chaired by one of the organisers,
 and senior EI academics acted as discussants. In May-July 2020, to compensate for the
 cancellation of conferences due to Covid-19, a new weekly PhD seminar was set up, with
 members of staff and academics from outside acting as commentators.
          The success of our programme can be judged in part by the careers of our former
 students. EI doctoral students have gone on to a number of full-time academic appointments,
 including at universities such as Aarhus (Wolkenstein), Exeter (Herman) and University College
 London (Wratil). Others have gone on to receive competitive post-doctoral funding, including
 Max Weber fellowships (Diessner, Mushovel, Dobrescu) and Marie Curie fellowships (Downing,
 Avlijas). EI dissertations have received external recognition in various ways: Herman (2011-16)
 won the 2017 Political Studies Association McDougall Fund Prize for Best PhD Thesis, and
 Avlijas was the recipient of the 2018 EACES PhD Thesis Award. EI doctoral theses have been
 published as books in major university presses such as Cornell UP (Johnston) and Oxford UP

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Wolkenstein, Lokdam). Our students are also very successful in publishing their research in
 peer-reviewed journals, including the American Political Science Review (Herman; Wolkenstein),
 World Politics (Martelli), American Journal of Political Science (Wratil, Wolkenstein), Journal of
 European Public Policy (Lorimer, Wratil, Tuytens, Wolkenstein), Journal of Common Market
 Studies (Lokdam), European Journal of Political Research (Bolet, Wratil), West European
 Politics (Dreyer) and Socio-Economic Review (Diessner). Former students have also gone into
 research-related careers outside academia, including in the Home Office (Dreyer), Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office (Hoerner) and the government of Catalonia (Borrell).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In the current census period, the EI has received £7,987,151 in research grants from internal
 and external funders. Amongst the external awards have been the following:
  - Schelkle was awarded a ‘Synergy’ research grant from the European Research Council
      (FEC total 3.4m euros).
  - Kostovicova brought with her from the Government department an ERC grant (FEC total
      £1.9m). (Another ERC grant held by Hobolt is now administered by the Government
      Department following her transfer in 2018.)
  - Kostovicova also brought an Arts and Humanities Research Council (Partnership for
      Conflict, Crime and Security Research) Large Grant, for which she is Co-investigator
      (£799,406).
  - Begg received an ESRC grant (FEC total £162k) and European Commission grant (FEC
      total 308k).
  - De Grauwe was awarded an EU-grant “Seventh Framework Programme” (€408k)
  - De Grauwe was awarded an ESRC grant (FEC total £696k).
  - Hagemann was awarded an ESRC grant (FEC total £94k).
  - Bryant was awarded an ESRC grant (FEC total £309k).
  - Innes was awarded a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (FEC total £88k).
  - Ozyurek was awarded two British Academy grants, including a Mid-Career Fellowship (FEC
      £186k).
  - Colleagues have also received 10+ smaller grants.

 These awards have strengthened our core research areas and helped us develop new ones.
 Although our submitted impact case studies were achieved largely without external funding,
 other examples of impact (e.g. Kostovicova’s work as detailed in Section 4) and of high-quality
 empirical fieldwork (e.g. Bryant’s) were closely tied to external funding. Colleagues who
 successfully obtain such funding are rewarded through the School’s RIIF and PFR policies,
 which allow for the remittance of a proportion of overheads to the department for use on
 research activities (RIIF) and for personal rewards that can take the form of buy-out, personal
 research accounts or additional salary (PFR). The EI has received £155K of RIIF funding in this
 period.
         The EI undertakes internal peer review, where all research proposals are given feedback
 by a colleague. Operationally, research activities are supported through an expanded EI
 professional services team, in particular a dedicated Research Manager. In addition, the LSE’s
 Research & Innovation Division offers advice on all areas of funded research activity, helping
 with the application process and day-to-day management of grants, with two grant application
 managers specifically assisting EI staff and specializing in European funding opportunities.
         Strategically, the EI seeks to make effective use of its resources to facilitate research
 excellence within its specialised units, research streams, and for individual staff projects.
 Internally the EI benefits from the research infrastructure of its associated research units,


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including LSEE, the Chair in Contemporary Turkish Studies, and the Hellenic Observatory.
 During the assessment period, significant and targeted investment of over £843k was acquired
 from public and private sources to develop LSEE and the Hellenic Observatory. These units now
 include three dedicated administrative staff, partly funded through external income, to support
 research and public dissemination.
          Both research units provide significant platforms on which to build high-quality,
 independent research and facilitate public dialogue, while disseminating information on the
 respective regions - Greece and Cyprus (Hellenic Observatory) and South East Europe (LSEE).
 Both units welcome academic exchange through visiting fellowships, providing successful
 applicants with allocated space and mentorship, involving them in the units’ activities, including
 events and joint publications. They have created their own communities of research associates
 and fellows, including the international Research Network on Social Cohesion in Southeast
 Europe operated by LSEE with 60+ members, and the Andreas Hadjiyiannis' Research
 Fellowship on Contemporary Cyprus (2012-2017). Within the assessment period, the Hellenic
 Observatory has launched a number of major research programmes, the most significant being
 the Hellenic Observatory Research Calls Programme, the A.G. Leventis Research Innovation
 Programme on Cyprus, and the National Bank of Greece Research Calls. LSEE, in cooperation
 with LSE Enterprise, took up a project with CEFTA producing original research on international
 trade in the Western Balkans as well as policy engagement (e.g. the CEFTA week in Sarajevo,
 involving academics and policy-makers). The units also support and encourage new scholars
 with specialist knowledge and post-graduate training. The Hellenic Observatory hosts two
 Visiting Research Students each year and appoints a Post-Doctoral Fellow.
           The EI has received £635k in KEI funding (2014-2019), with awards ranging from £4k
 (Millennials on Brexit) to £427k (the LSE programme on Brexit). Five out of six projects were
 Brexit-related; a sixth was on water technology and sustainability in Cyprus (an HO project).
 £10k of School KEI funding was used (2018-19) to hire a Digital Communications Assistant to
 help develop the Department’s research webpages, as well as staff and PhD profiles. The
 Assistant also produced a social media report, using analytics for Facebook and Twitter, which
 has fed into our audience engagement strategy. With the remaining funding, a video producer
 was hired to film and produce two videos - one on the EI’s research activities generally and one
 on its research students. Both were produced in long and short versions for use on the EI
 website, social media and mail-outs. The EI also benefits from School support for the
 appointment of editors to run the EUROPP, Brexit and EuroCrisis blogs.
          In terms of infrastructure, EI staff benefit from the LSE’s extensive library and IT facilities.
 The LSE Library provides outstanding facilities to support research, with over 4m printed
 volumes and 60,000 e-journals. It has been a European Documentation Centre since 1964 and
 provides research assistance and training, as required, for EI researchers. The Library provides
 specific facilities and support for doctoral students including study room space, training in
 research skills and one-to-one consultations. Moreover, it manages LSE Research Online and
 LSE Theses Online, the LSE’s institutional repositories which collect references and full-text of
 all research produced by LSE staff and LSE PhD Theses, making them freely available online to
 the public where possible. The EI is supported by a dedicated Academic Support Librarian as
 well as a Research Data Librarian.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As noted, the EI has expanded its extensive international links and collaborative projects during
 the assessment period, prioritizing various strategic ties with leading international academic


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institutions – including those part of the new CIVICA network of European universities, of which
 LSE is a member. In addition to our longstanding cooperation with Sciences Po (where, each
 year, we send around five EI colleagues to deliver stand-alone seminars), in 2019/20 we started
 a similar relationship with Bocconi and Fudan, with academics moving in both directions to give
 lectures at the partner institution (Featherstone and Glendinning were the opening speakers at
 Bocconi and Fudan respectively).
          We have also developed our international links by hosting leading researchers as visiting
 fellows and professors. Senior academic figures have included Tito Boeri (Bocconi), Daniel
 Innerarity (Bilbao) and Mark Thatcher (LUISS). Visits have produced tangible outcomes: the
 2015 ‘Bilbao European Encounters’ conference, co-organised by White and Innerarity, was
 developed on the back of Innerarity’s visiting fellowship in 2014, and the proceedings were
 published as an edited volume in 2018. Likewise, EI faculty have held visiting positions and
 fellowships at numerous overseas academic institutions, including: Stanford (White), Harvard
 (Monastiriotis, Schelkle), Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin (White), Hertie School Berlin (Kleine,
 White), Bergen (Glendinning) and the European University Institute (Featherstone). Alongside
 these formal interactions have been a wealth of informal collaborations: Anderson, for example,
 has been involved for several years in a research project on immigrant political participation in
 Europe with Aida Just of Bilkent University (Turkey), and one of the publications arising (Just &
 Anderson, ‘Dual Allegiances’, Journal of Politics) is included in our output portfolio. He is also
 part of a network of researchers based in Canada (Montreal, McGill) and France (Paris School
 of Economics, Toulouse School of Economics) collecting survey data on preference-formation in
 sporting contexts, leading to a recent publication in Perspectives on Politics.
          Our doctoral researchers participate in the Graduate Network Conference of 7 European
 universities, adding to the international reach of our programme and our research culture more
 generally. In 2019 the EI was the lead host of the Network’s annual conference, providing 40+
 doctoral students from top universities with opportunities to present their research projects,
 discuss methodologies, and practice presenting and discussing academic work. Additionally, we
 have participated in one-off events with other European universities, notably the European
 Parliamentary election night analysis hosted by Sciences Po (26th May 2019).
          In terms of wider contributions to economy and society, shaped by national and
 international priorities, one of our major initiatives in the latest REF cycle has been our Brexit
 Programme. As evidence of the programme’s reach, the Brexit blog has had (for its 1,900+
 articles) more than 4.5m page views by 2.98m visitors; its Twitter feed has 30k+ followers; there
 have been more than 394,700 podcast downloads for our Brexit events; and our Brexit videos
 have been downloaded more than 15,500 times. A summer-2020 event on ‘Negotiating our
 Post-Brexit Future’ was amongst LSE’s top three public online events, with 5k+ Youtube views
 and 50k+ podcast downloads. As noted, the Programme has also been responsible for an
 unrivalled series of private (breakfast) seminars involving high-level personnel from
 Westminster, Whitehall, the City, corporate sector and the media: write-ups of these have been
 made publicly available on a dedicated section of our Brexit blog. Looking forward, we have
 successfully bid to extend the Brexit programme in the form of a new ‘Brexit and Beyond’
 programme, looking at Britain and Europe post-Brexit. In parallel, Jackson-Preece has been
 leading the public-engagement project entitled ‘Generation Brexit’ (see above). The project
 empowers those under 35 to learn about, propose, debate and agree post-Brexit priorities: it is
 currently the only pan-European youth consultation on Brexit.
          EI staff also make significant contributions as individuals. Colleagues appear regularly
 in media outlets such as the BBC and ITV, as well as in major British and European
 newspapers. They contribute comment pieces to the international press (e.g. The Guardian,

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New Statesman, Frankfurter Allgemeine, Kathimerini), and to major online forums
 (OpenDemocracy, Boston Review, The Conversation); their opinions are also regularly quoted in
 major news outlets (e.g. the New York Times, Financial Times, the Economist, Bild Zeitung).
 Other forms of contribution include service as specialist advisers and appearances before public
 institutions, e.g. the House of Lords, UK Foreign Office, the European Parliament, the
 Committee of the Regions, the Portuguese parliament, the OECD, the Bank of England, the
 National Bank of Poland, and the World Bank. Staff – including Begg, Hancké, De Grauwe and
 Monastiriotis – have been involved in more than 30 consulting projects in this period, with clients
 including European institutions (Commission, European Parliament), foundations and private
 firms (Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, British Council, Voka Limburg, Kingsley Napley), and other
 bodies (HEFCE, CEFTA Secretariat, European Trade Union Institute). Hagemann, Basedow,
 De Grauwe, Barr, Begg, Kostovicova and Ker-Lindsay have also given evidence to, and had
 their research cited in, UK Parliamentary Committees. Begg is a member of the high-level
 Research Review Group of the International Labour Office; he also held a senior fellowship
 under the ESRC’s UK in a Changing Europe initiative.
          In addition to our submitted impact case studies, colleagues have had ongoing
 influence on a range of contemporary policy questions, notably Kostovicova’s work on post-
 conflict justice and the legacy of war crimes in the Balkans. Over several years, Kostovicova
 has helped shape the EU’s approach to post-conflict stabilisation and informed the views of UK
 policy-makers, as shown by the terms of the House of Lords International Relations Committee
 Western Balkans inquiry (July 2017), and a major UK government initiative, the July 2018
 Western Balkans Summit in London. She has contributed evidence to the House of Commons
 Foreign Affairs Committee (June 2018) and the House of Lords International Relations
 Committee (January 2018). Besides influencing public policy, her research has been drawn on
 by the Balkan civil society network RECOM for the establishment of a regional fact-finding
 commission.
          A number of one-off events bring EI research and researchers to a wider audience.
 These include public book launches, e.g. on Schelkle’s Political Economy of Monetary Solidarity,
 Bronk and Beckert’s Imagined Futures, White’s Politics of Last Resort (co-organised with the
 Hertie School of Berlin), or De Grauwe’s Limits of the Market (at the OECD). They also include
 participation in festivals exhibiting university research: e.g. the LSE Nuit des idées (26th January
 2017), the LSE Beveridge Festival (February 2018), for which Jackson-Preece was on the
 steering group; and the Dahrendorf Forum, for which Begg was an Academic Co-Director and
 Featherstone a Working Group Co-Chair. Colleagues have given real-time analysis of unfolding
 events (e.g. at the EI Brexit Referendum Night event (June 2016), and the above-mentioned
 European Parliament Elections event (May 2019)). The EI also scheduled a Symposium for
 March 2020 (postponed due to Covid-19), intended to highlight our research to a public
 audience.
          Many events have been designed specifically to engage policy-makers. A seminar
 series in 2014-15, “Towards a Genuine Economic and Monetary Union – the Euro area crisis in
 light of the UK experience”, organised by Schelkle, De Grauwe, Machiarelli and Monastiriotis,
 was supported by the European Commission representation to the UK. A one-day workshop on
 the “Political Economy of Turkey” was co-hosted in 2018 by the EI and the LSE’s Systemic Risk
 Centre; a second version was scheduled for April / May 2020 (postponed due to Covid-19). This
 series aims to provide a platform for researchers (including early-career) and policy-makers (e.g.
 from the Central Bank of Turkey, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and
 the OECD) to discuss new research on topics such as economic development, the economics of
 immigration, and income inequality in the Turkish context.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Wider contributions to public debate follow from our events programmes. The EI has
 hosted over 100 large public lectures in this period, in addition to many smaller events. High-
 profile speakers include: presidents and prime ministers (Nicos Anastasiades, Sergio Mattarella,
 Herman van Rompuy, Alexander Stubb, Gordon Brown, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Mario Monti,
 Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Emmanuel Macron), EU Commissioners (Pierre Moscovici, Paulo
 Gentiloni), MEPs (Johannes Hahn, Ursula von der Leyen, Margrethe Verstager, Martin Schultz,
 Guy Verhofstadt, Dimitris Avramopoulos) and high-profile academics (Dani Rodrik, Timothy
 Garton Ash, Mário Centeno, Catherine de Vries). Our ‘Europe in Practice’ weekly seminar
 series is another context in which we draw practitioners to the EI: high-profile speakers have
 included Catherine Ashton, Ken Clarke, Ryan Heath, Gina Miller and Joaquín Almunia. Annual
 figures for attendance at our events are in the region of 6000 (up from 4500 in 2016-17).
          All EI staff regularly organise and participate in international conferences, workshops
 and seminars. Significant examples include a workshop at the ECPR Joint Sessions in Mons in
 2019 (co-organised by Schelkle), and another at the ECPR Joint Sessions in Nicosia in 2018
 (co-organised by White), the former leading to a special issue of the Review of International
 Political Economy, the latter to a special issue of the Journal of European Public Policy and
 follow-up edited book. EI members of all levels of seniority gave keynote or invited lectures at
 universities and other institutions across the world in this period: to give just a few examples,
 Featherstone gave the 2018 Stein Rokkan Lecture at the Nicosia ECPR Joint Sessions;
 Anderson gave a keynote at the Conference on Sports, Data, and Journalism (2018) at the
 University of Zurich; De Grauwe gave a keynote at the OECD in 2019; Glendinning gave a
 keynote at an early-career conference at the University of Oxford (2017); Schelkle was invited to
 give a Max Weber Lecture at the European University Institute in April 2020 (replaced with a
 virtual Masterclass due to the lockdown), and White gave the keynote at the Nordic Conference
 on Rhetoric at Bergen in 2019. De Grauwe has also given invited lectures in this period at the
 European Commission, UK Treasury, European Central Bank, Central Bank of Hungary, Central
 Bank of Cyprus, Bank of Portugal and Central Bank of Slovakia.
          Also to be noted are the activities of our research units. LSEE runs a regular
 programme of public lectures, conferences and panel debates in London, and a Research
 Network on Social Cohesion in South Eastern Europe with 60+ members. Indicative of its
 activities was a June 2019 workshop on the “Economics of the Western Balkans”, supported
 with EI seed funding, and a series of workshops in 2018-2019 with joint participation by
 academics and policy-makers, two with the CEFTA Secretariat on trade policy in the Balkans
 and one with the EBRD on labour markets and social policy in the Balkans. LSEE has also run
 a collaborative programme of events with LSE’s IGA together with the Bank of Albania, and
 previous cooperation with the Bank of (North) Macedonia and the Bank of Bosnia and
 Herzegovina. The Chair in Contemporary Turkish Studies organizes research seminars, public
 lectures, panels and conferences (almost all open to the public) intended to lead critical debate
 on Turkey, including a new public-event series titled “Society, Culture, Economics”. Associates
 have been the recipients of Leverhulme and British Academy grants. The Hellenic Observatory
 (HO) conducts research and public outreach activities related to contemporary Greece and
 Cyprus, and has established itself as one of the field’s leading institutions for Hellenic research
 and discussion. Activities include conferences, public lectures, a Research Seminar Series,
 book launches, seminars, workshops and academic exchanges. The HO also runs public
 engagement activities in the region (including for the last six years the acclaimed Athens Lecture
 Series, supported initially by the Megaron Mousikis, later the National Bank of Greece), drawing
 a combined audience of around 20,000 attendees in the last five years. Since 2003, the HO has
 held a biannual PhD Symposium on Contemporary Greece and Cyprus, the ninth edition of

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which took place in June 2019, aimed at facilitating the exchange of knowledge between young
 scholars working on Greece and Cyprus. All applicants accepted to give papers are eligible for
 travel grants due to the support of the A.G. Leventis Foundation. The HO also has a Discussion
 Paper Series (GreeSE) releasing papers on a monthly basis. Finally, until 2018, we hosted the
 Forum for European Philosophy, with Glendinning as its director, which maintains an extensive
 programme of public events bringing philosophical matters to a broad public (e.g. a panel
 discussion on ‘the Haunting of Neoliberalism’, 28th February 2019). In addition to its regular
 activities, the Forum is a central part of the annual LSE Festival.
          EI staff also make a significant contribution to the sustainability of the field by editing
 special issues (e.g. in Review of International Political Economy on ‘European political economy
 of finance and financialization’, ed. Bohle and Schelkle; in Journal of European Public Policy on
 ‘Ideologies and the European Union’, ed. White and Invernizzi Accetti); serving on editorial
 boards (e.g. Begg for the Journal of Common Market Studies; also as an associate editor of the
 New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics); regularly reviewing for the major international journals
 and presses; and appearances on evaluation panels (e.g. Glendinning served on the SH5 Panel
 "Cultures and Cultural Production" of the ERC 2020 Starting Grant).
 Last but not least, several prizes and honours have been awarded to EI staff during this period,
 including the Political Studies Harrison Prize (White, 2015, for the article ‘Emergency Europe’);
 the British Academy Brian Barry Prize (White, 2017, for ‘The Ethics of Political Alliance’); and the
 Annual Montreal Political Theory Manuscript Workshop Award 2015 (White and Ypi, for The
 Meaning of Partisanship). White and Ypi’s Meaning of Partisanship was also a Finalist for the
 American Political Science Association (APSA) Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award 2017 for the
 ‘best book on government, politics, or international affairs’. De Grauwe’s book The Limits of the
 Market was selected by the Financial Times as among the ten best economics books of 2017.
 De Grauwe was also awarded honorary doctorates by Maastricht University (2016) and the
 University of Murcia (2020).




                                                                                             Page 15
