Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Overview
 1.1. Unit context and structure
 The School of Journalism, Media and Culture (JOMEC) analyses media policy, representations
 and practices, with a focus on current challenges. Our work includes examining journalism and
 democracy, the implications of developing technologies, and creative industry innovation.
 In this REF period, the School has built on strong foundations (our REF2014 impact and research
 environment statements scored 4*) by retaining and developing REF2014 staff (see 2.2) alongside
 creating 16 new T&R posts (15 permanent). We developed significant new partnerships and
 award-winning impact, produced 1,093 publications and won 73 research awards with a total value
 of over £13.7M (a 559% increase on REF2014).
 Staffing: Identified by Cardiff University as a priority for investment following REF2014, JOMEC
 now has 30 FTE Category A staff (drawn from 12 different countries). Bid successes during
 REF2021 mean we have also benefited from three Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships and
 employed 68 Research Assistants (resourcing major projects, developing ECRs and capacity-
 building, see 2.4). We also have a large cohort of practice-based staff (22.8 FTEs) who work
 alongside Category A staff, providing UG and PG journalism courses within Cardiff, as well as
 training for the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) and communities underserved by traditional
 media. These colleagues guide new research and industry initiatives (e.g. community journalism
 work discussed below) and develop journalism scholarships and events (e.g. the “Mapping the
 Magazine” conference series, held in Cardiff 2010-2014 and then in Sydney 2016, Chicago 2018,
 Lisbon 2020). All activities are facilitated by an excellent professional services team (see Section
 3).
 Research clusters: Our research is organised into three overlapping clusters supporting
 intellectual synergies, grant bids, and impact.

 1. Journalism and Democracy incorporates our REF2014 groups: “Journalism Studies”,
    “Mediatised Conflict”, “Race, Representation & Cultural Politics” and “Science & Health”. This
    cluster addresses a range of contemporary issues (including Brexit, elections, immigration,
    racism, war and science reporting) and researches across journalism/industry areas.
    Examples of recent monographs include: “The Media, the Public and the Great Financial
    Crisis” (Berry, 2019); “The Mediation of Poverty” (Redden, 2014); “Emotions, Media and
    Politics” (Wahl-Jorgensen, 2019); “Media and the Image of the Nation” (Jiménez-Martínez,
    2020) and “News and Politics” (Cushion, 2015). The cluster served as a seedbed for the
    Centre for Community Journalism (C4CJ), which was founded in 2013 in response to research
    identifying the decline of local media, implications for the democratic deficit and potential ways
    of addressing the problem e.g. “Hyperlocal Journalism: The decline of local newspapers and
    rise of online community news” (Harte, Howells, Williams, 2018). C4CJ has an action-
    research focus. It supports community news publishers (e.g. facilitating NUJ & BBC
    recognition for hyperlocals) and works alongside marginalised people to develop journalism
    skills. It also delivers online training (to 32,000 learners across 131 countries) and informs
    political strategy (e.g. prompting the Welsh Government to establish a £200,000 fund for
    hyperlocal start-ups). The Journalism and Democracy cluster also supports interdisciplinary
    work, notably, the Coma and Disorders of Consciousness Research Centre which not only
    examines media representation of ‘coma’, but collaborates with colleagues in law, medicine
    and neurosciences to address public understanding of consciousness and end-of-life choices;
    research which has informed news reporting and galvanised changes in clinical practice,
    communication and the law (see impact case study: Kitzinger).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. Digital Media and Society was highlighted as a new research group in REF2014 and, since
    then, has developed significantly, with new staff contributing additional expertise in all aspects
    of digital media. Research monographs from this cluster include: “Digital Citizenship in a
    Datafied society” (Hintz, Dencik, Wahl-Jorgensen, 2018); “The Digital Lives of Black Women
    in Britain” (Sobande, 2020); “Hybrid Media Activism” (Treré, 2018) and “Worker Resistance
    and Media” (Dencik and Wilkin, 2015). In 2017, this cluster launched the Data Justice Lab,
    focused on investigating relationships between datafication and social justice. The Lab is co-
    directed by four staff, all of whom joined the School relatively recently (Dencik and Hintz
    appointed in 2012; Redden in 2016; Treré in 2017). The Lab won investment (£1.5M) from the
    European Commission and the Open Society Foundation, enabling interventions in debates
    around data use in policing, management of refugees, and local government. The team work
    nationally and internationally (e.g. in Colombia and India) with academic partners and social
    justice networks, including trade unions/labour rights and migrant solidarity groups.

 3. Media, Culture and Creativity is a new cluster developed since REF2014. This brings
    together colleagues researching across the range of cultural forms (music, photography, film
    etc), often working in partnership with creative industry practitioners, organisations and policy
    makers. Recent monographs include: “Philippine Cinema and the Cultural Economy of
    Distribution” (Lim, 2019); “Producing British Television Drama” (Noonan and McElroy, 2019);
    “Photography, Reconstruction and the Cultural History of the Postwar European City”
    (Allbeson, 2020); “Museums in the New Mediascape” (Kidd, 2014) and “Critical Encounters
    with Immersive Storytelling” (Gröppel-Wegener and Kidd, 2019). This cluster was the seedbed
    for the Creative Economy Unit, established in 2014 in response to research identifying
    challenges for regional creative enterprise and freelancers. The Unit set up the “Creative
    Cardiff” network for creative industries; this now has a membership of 3631 and won a
    Community Engagement Award in 2016 and two Civic Mission Awards in 2019. The
    partnerships forged became the foundation for the subsequent successful bid (led by Lewis)
    for Clwstwr: an £8M initiative via AHRC’s Creative Industries Clusters Programme. Clwstwr is
    developing the concept and practice of R&D in the creative industries to make regional
    ecosystems more innovative and sustainable. JOMEC also helped establish the Creative
    Industries Policy & Evidence Centre (PEC) with Nesta, underwritten by the AHRC, designed
    to formulate policy and guidance to shape growth in UK creative industries. We lead the “Arts,
    culture and public service broadcasting” strand (PI, Allan).

 In addition to our clusters the School developed a joint research lab on Transforming Media in
 collaboration with the Centre for Media, Communication and Information Research at the
 University of Bremen. We also host the Tom Hopkinson Centre for Media History, incorporating
 six major journalism archives which are used by academics, media activists and practitioners; and
 the Centre has organised events such as the Aberfan anniversary conference (see Section 4.2).
 Cross-cluster and cross-School collaboration: The School’s structures support colleagues to
 pursue their own interests alongside offering multiple opportunities for collaboration in a diverse
 and inclusive environment (see Section 2.1). Evidence of cross-fertilisation includes junior and
 practice-based staff co-operating as Co-Investigators on flagship initiatives (“Clwstwr”: Brown and
 Dunkley; PEC: Kidd and Noonan) and practice-based staff being costed into major projects (e.g.
 our Google initiative). Practice-based and Category A staff develop action-research together and
 collaborate on books e.g. Sambrook and Mosdell bringing extensive practice and policy expertise
 to co-authoring with Cottle: “Reporting Dangerously: Journalist Killings, Intimidation and Security”
 (Palgrave, 2016). We also work together on edited volumes e.g. “The Future of Journalism”, Allan
 et al., (Routledge, 2020) was curated by a collective of nine colleagues. Teamwork is the hallmark
 of our activity: over half the outputs submitted for REF2021 are co-authored.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Research and impact strategy
 1.2. Delivery on strategic aims from REF2014
 Our aspirations outlined in REF2014 have been achieved and exceeded.
 Aim 1: Delivering on our pre-existing research portfolio included projects taking us forward
 from REF2014 such as: “Visitor-generated content in heritage institutions”; “Community and
 creative citizens” and “Creating a healthtalk online resource on disorders of consciousness”.
 Evidence of successful delivery includes publications and collaborations (e.g. Kidd’s books and
 her ongoing work with heritage institutions), follow-on funding (e.g. around creativity) and impact
 (e.g. the “healthtalk” project won the ESRC’s 2015 “Outstanding Impact on Society” award).
 Aim 2: Capitalising on cumulative work is amply illustrated by our impartiality research. This
 was the basis of a 4* REF2014 impact case study and has, during REF2021, expanded to include
 work on impartiality and reporting around devolution (BBC Trust, £79,269), statistics (BBC Trust,
 £70,285) and the 2017 General Election Campaign (ESRC, £45,533); as well as a review of BBC
 News and Current Affairs (£105,587, Ofcom commission). Cushion (who led all these projects)
 has ongoing funding to look at the rise of alternative online political media (ESRC, £420,932, 2019-
 2022) and countering disinformation and enhancing journalistic legitimacy (AHRC, £468,991,
 2020-2022). This cumulative work has built comparative and theoretical insights and impacted on
 BBC and commercial broadcast journalism (see impact case study: Cushion).
 Aim 3: Our continued development of action-research, engagements, and partnerships
 since REF2014 is well illustrated in the above examples but the increased intensity and diversity
 of such activity is exemplified by the establishment of our Centre for Community Journalism
 (involving partnerships with the BBC, Welsh Government and Google) and realising our ambition
 for a Creative Industries Hub and setting up Clwstwr (with £8M of funding through AHRC, Welsh
 Government, the BBC, Cardiff Council and Arts Council Wales) (see Section 3).
 New appointments contribute to delivery on strategic goals:
 •   Hiring Allan, Carney, Jiménez-Martínez, Miazhevich, Kyriakidou and Walsh strengthened
     Journalism and Democracy research, building theoretical and methodological capacity in
     areas such as global media, law and visual analysis.
 •   Investment in Media, Culture and Creativity via hiring Allbeson, Bennett, Brown, Hamad,
     Lim and Noonan introduced additional range (e.g. in creative co-working, feminist film
     analysis, and photojournalism).
 •   The Digital Media and Society cluster was enhanced through recruiting Redden, Sobande
     and Treré, facilitating the foundation and development of the Data Justice Lab.
 These new appointments expanded the diversity of staff (see Section 2.1) and introduced a wider
 range of expertise, including in relation to different parts of the world (e.g. Jiménez-Martínez on
 Chile and Brazil, Miazhevich on Russia and Lim on the Philippines). Strategic investment in all
 staff has led to a 147% increase in the number of publications compared to our REF2014
 submission. Outputs submitted for REF2021 represent just 7% of our publications.
 1.3. Future research strategy and objectives
 Over the next five years we will continue to broaden cross-School participation in our large-scale
 initiatives (e.g. PEC and Clwstwr) while continuing to support staff (via infrastructure, research
 leave, open bids for new centres etc) in developing new areas they are passionate about. We will
 also nurture developing researchers through our PGR programme and tailored mentoring system.
 We will optimise Institutional and School support for career progression, and internal capacity-
 building for grant capture and career development and build on existing clusters as follows:
 •   Journalism and Democracy will strengthen research on the evolving ecology of news, and
     investigations of emerging platforms and technologies (e.g. via Cushion’s £420,000 ESRC
     award on alternative online political media, 2019-2022). We will sustain engagement with
     pressing social issues (e.g. Garcia-Blanco on refugees; Berry and Walsh on austerity and
     financial crises; Carter on gender, children and citizenship). Our work will continue to span
     both local and global contexts (e.g. Moore on reporting poverty in Wales; Noonan’s work

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     comparing European small nations; Miazhevich on hetero-normativity in Eastern Europe;
     Jiménez-Martínez on nationalism in Latin America). We will also further develop research-
     driven leadership, supporting community and hyperlocal journalism through C4CJ alongside
     ongoing investment in Clwstwr’s work on news innovation.
 •   Digital Media and Society will build on the research programme and associated impact of the
     Data Justice Lab (e.g. through Dencik’s ERC £1M+ grant and Open Society Foundation
     projects), while strengthening expertise in digital research methods and expanding
     interdisciplinary collaborations.
 •   Media, Culture and Creativity will develop further work across a range of areas including
     feminist television studies (Hamad), film funding (Noonan) and how racialised people
     experience the creative and cultural industries (Sobande). This is alongside expanding our
     impact on cultural policy (via PEC), creative industries (particularly via Clwstwr) and the pursuit
     of further major initiatives e.g. The Creative Cardiff team’s developing work around innovation
     has made the final shortlist for a £22M UKRI “Strength in Places” Award, for which £28M has
     already been secured in matched funding (from partners including the BBC, Channel 4, and
     Welsh Government).
 1.4. Interdisciplinarity
 Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is illustrated by:
 •   employing staff from diverse disciplinary backgrounds: in REF2021 we have added staff from
     Law (Carney), Arts and Business Management (Lim), History (Allbeson) and Development
     Studies (Miazhevich). We have also incorporated posts from other disciplines in research
     projects, e.g. a computer scientist post on Dencik’s datafication project, a secondee from the
     School of Medicine to work with Kitzinger on death and dying.
 •   enrolling diverse disciplines in our research centres, e.g. Creative Cardiff collaborates with
     Cardiff Schools of Architecture, Business, English, Communication & Philosophy, and
     Geography & Planning.
 •   co-authoring with colleagues from other Schools; in this REF period this includes Health
     Sciences, Psychology, Sociology, Computer Sciences, Philosophy, Law, and Medicine.
 •   delivering impact in relation to our core disciplinary areas and beyond e.g. impacting on law
     and medicine (see impact case study: Kitzinger) and providing a further impact case study
     (developed by Kidd) to another UOA: History.
 •   co-applications: 10 grants awarded to JOMEC were jointly awarded with other Cardiff Schools.
     We also collaborate on grants led by other Schools, e.g. Psychology’s ESRC “Centre for
     Climate Change and Social Transformations”. Interdisciplinary collaborations with other
     Universities include Sobande working with the Management Research Unit, Dauphine
     University, Paris (as Co-PI on: “A Transdisciplinary Photovoice Project on Race and Markets”)
     and with Sociology at Warwick University (as Co-I on a grant to create a Black feminist
     activists’ network and archive of Black women’s organising and online content creation).
 1.5. Research integrity and ethics
 The School follows Cardiff University’s policy on research ethics, including compliance with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and online training for staff and PGRs (see Institutional
 Statement (REF5a, 2.1.2)). Within the School, our Research Ethics Officer provides intensive
 individual advice. The School ethics committee meets twice yearly, delegating authority to its Chair
 to authorise proposals presenting minimal risks but taking part in ongoing discussion on
 applications that require full review between meetings. Penultimate project information sheets and
 consent forms are reviewed by the committee where necessary and follow-up progress
 assessments done as the research unfolds.
 An explicit aim is to encourage innovation and creativity through close dialogue around ethics,
 facilitating more ‘risky’ initiatives (e.g. around sensitive issues) and development of hybrid
 research/activism (e.g. using filmed personal stories in public outputs, see impact case study:


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kitzinger). Our approval form builds in consideration of diversity and inclusion, through questions
 about research with marginalised populations and considering the diverse needs of researchers.
 1.6. Open research
 All Category A staff have ORCID IDs, and the full text of all journal articles and conference
 proceedings are uploaded to Cardiff’s open access digital repository within three months of
 acceptance. For The full text of other outputs (including books, chapters and similar material) is
 made available, copyright permitting, upon publication.
 We have encouraged and developed ways of data sharing for secondary analysis and
 interdisciplinary collaborations (Kitzinger) and championed open access publishing. In 2014,
 JOMEC staff (Lewis and Bowman) founded Cardiff University Press (chaired by Bowman),
 explicitly set up to provide diamond open access across its 12 journals (addressing the fact that
 publishing fees exclude researchers from poorer institutions). The press has also moved into book
 publishing, including releasing one of the first ever open access books in Welsh as well as English:
 Moore’s new book: “Reporting on Poverty” (2020).
 2. People
 2.1. Staffing and recruitment strategy
 The School’s expansion since REF2014 has bolstered capacity in priority areas and ensured
 robust succession planning, bringing in a mix of senior, early and mid-career researchers. To
 provide a secure environment, all T&R appointments in this REF period have been, with one
 exception, open-ended contracts (subject to probation where applicable). All T&R staff publish
 regularly, frequently in collaboration with practice-based colleagues, as well as PGR and
 undergraduate students (see REF2).
 EDI (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion) – Staff: EDI informs recruitment. Our 16 REF eligible
 additions to the School since REF2014 consist of: one woman as independent fellow, six women
 and four men as lecturers; three women and one man as senior lecturers and one man as a
 professor. We now have equal numbers of men and women Category A staff. In addition, the
 School currently employs four male and five female Category C researchers. Our new
 appointments have expanded staff internationalism (over a third come from outside the UK). We
 also have five T&S and T&R staff members from BAME backgrounds with two recent research-
 active staff hires. EDI informs assignment of School roles (e.g. the Director of Research
 Development and Director of Research Impact were both women for REF2021). Staff also work
 to promote EDI across the University: Carter served on the Cardiff Athena Swan Steering Group;
 Moore (with Carter) on the University’s Equality and Diversity Contacts Committee; and Hamad
 co-chaired the University’s BAME Staff network. Working more widely: Garcia-Blanco is a
 Stonewall Cymru role model; Allbeson works with the Council for At-risk Academics mentoring a
 Syrian researcher in exile; and Sobande is communications co-chair of the Race in the
 Marketplace Research Network, which brings together scholars and practitioners who are
 committed to tackling racism in marketplace contexts.
 EDI – Research, engagement and mentoring: A collective commitment to EDI runs through our
 research including, for example, on LGBT+ issues (Miazhevich); gender (Carter); disability rights
 (Kitzinger); racialised representations (Bowman and Hamad); poverty and class (Moore and
 Redden); BAME women’s experiences (Payson); and race, gender and cultural industries
 (Sobande).
 This commitment also informs our engagement work (e.g. taking events to care home residents,
 a population often excluded from ‘public engagement’ activities) and EDI is built in at project level
 (as well as School and Institution level). For example, Clwstwr has a R&D producer for EDI,
 supported by an EDI officer. This enabled rapid action when only 15% of participants in early
 workshops were women and successfully shifted this to ensure that at least 50% of participants
 are now regularly women.
 Our commitment to EDI also translates into practical initiatives via our work with community
 journalists, activists, and charities (see impact case study: Lewis/Williams). Additional enterprises
 include our collaboration with The Taylor Bennett Foundation to promote media mentoring

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities for BAME graduates and the Data Justice Lab’s collaboration with Go Wales to
 provide a six-month internship for student researchers who have faced barriers accessing
 education due to mental health problems.
 We have a decolonising the curriculum reading/action group and do work challenging theoretical
 and methodological hierarchies (e.g. Lim’s co-authored book addressing the lack of consideration
 of Asia in creative cities literature; Cottle’s work on the need to avoid ‘methodological nationalism’
 in order to address global interconnected crises; and Treré’s research critically examining the
 relation between Western and Latin American conceptual frameworks for understanding social
 movements).
 EDI – Structures and practices: The University runs mandatory online EDI and unconscious bias
 training and additional EDI skills enhancement for anyone involved in REF2021 or chairing
 recruitment panels. Cardiff has held an Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze award since 2009 and
 became a Global Stonewall Diversity Champion in 2019. It holds 10th place in the Top 100
 Employers List (and has been the top UK university in this list for four years running). Our Vice-
 Chancellor came out publicly as a member of the LGBT+ community, and each member of the
 University’s Executive Board serves as champion for a protected characteristic (see REF5a, 3.1).
 EDI considerations inform every aspect of what we do to support staff, such as access to
 mentoring, funds and training e.g. JOMEC staff have taken up tailored career development
 support for BAME staff and participated in University-wide workshops to support progression of
 women in the University (see Section 2.2-2.7). We followed Cardiff’s code of practice in putting
 together our REF return (REF5a, 3.6) and complemented this with reflective discussion of issues
 around quality and equality in self-auditing our processes and outcomes.
 JOMEC has always facilitated flexible working including by guaranteeing staff that at least one
 of their two-days per-week research time allocation will be completely teaching-free (and meeting-
 free), enabling sustained time for research and writing. Remote working facilitation has been
 valuable for the shifts necessary during the pandemic and a flexible approach has continued to
 support diverse needs in relation to Covid-19 (e.g. shielding or childcare). Institutionally, Cardiff
 has a policy of support for flexible working (e.g. adaptations to working hours) and staff are eligible
 to apply for career breaks between 6-36 months, with the right to return on the same salary and
 grade. We have implemented a Returners Support Scheme for staff returning following extended
 periods of absence (e.g. adoption or sick leave), offering reduced teaching and administrative
 loads and additional resources to enable re-establishing research.
 2.2. Succession planning, development and retention
 Staff development review meetings are held every quarter while on probation (appointments
 Grade 6 and below) and annually for other staff. These meetings support career development and
 guide colleagues towards opportunities e.g. staff have taken advantage of the University’s
 Research Team Leadership Programme and the Professorial Leadership Programme. We ensure
 timely and proactive guidance on promotions and encourage participation in diverse targeted
 opportunities to promote EDI in such processes (see Section 2.1).
 Sustainability and succession planning: New enterprises, such as the Data Justice Lab,
 developed by recently appointed colleagues, demonstrate both the quality of our recruitment and
 the supportive research environment and shows the School’s commitment to staff realising their
 vision to lead their own research programmes.
 The range of PhDs, RAs, postgraduate students and ECRs involved in JOMEC projects, and the
 support for their career advancement, is part of our strategy for sustainable development. We have
 also accessed the College’s ECR scheme which supported two appointments (Redden and
 Noonan) and provided them with extra funds and additional reduced teaching loads to accelerate
 research trajectories (e.g. supporting Noonan’s successful application for an AHRC ECR award).
 Succession planning is also underpinned by a policy of rewarding success through internal
 promotion. In this REF period, two colleagues have been promoted to chair, three to reader and
 nine to senior lecturer. (In August 2020, just outside the REF period, a third chair was awarded to
 Dencik, who originally joined us as a lecturer eight years ago).


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 JOMEC’s positive environment is evidenced by our retention record. In this REF period, no
 colleagues on open-ended contracts have left for appointments elsewhere. Staff satisfaction
 is also reflected in surveys; the 2017 Investors in People survey in the School showed 100% of
 research-active staff reported that their work was interesting, that they were treated with respect
 and felt supported by line managers.
 2.3. New staff and ECRs
 All new staff benefit from the University’s academic induction programme and, within JOMEC,
 everyone receives a ‘Welcome pack’ and in-house guides produced by a cross-School academic/
 technical/administrative team. Upon first arrival at JOMEC, all staff are invited to small group
 School inductions and our annual September away-day is timed to maximise the number of new
 staff who can be involved. From the outset, we encourage integration into research clusters, and
 our seminar series provides a weekly term-time forum featuring a mixture of speakers from
 JOMEC and invited national and international scholars showcasing both established and early-
 career colleagues.
 The School pays particular attention to early career researchers, providing access to all
 resources (outlined above and below), plus we have a policy of lowered teaching loads for ECRs
 and, since REF2014, have offered special assistance to access external funding opportunities
 for ECRs. Staff on externally funded fellowships within the School are also provided with additional
 dedicated mentoring. As a result of the inclusive research culture in JOMEC, combined with the
 quality of people we attract, ECRs have obtained significant external research funding (see
 Section 3) and feature strongly in the School’s selected outputs, accounting for 11% of our
 submission.
 2.4. Support for research-only staff
 In 2010, Cardiff became one of the first UK universities to receive the HR Excellence in
 Research Award, based on principles of good practice in treatment of researchers (an award to
 which the University recommitted in 2019). Cardiff University is also a signatory of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers. From 2019 onwards, Cardiff’s revised
 promotions scheme has enabled advancement to ‘Senior’, ‘Principal’ and then ‘Professorial’
 Research Fellow on research-only career pathways. Cardiff employs a full-time careers adviser
 for research staff and The Cardiff Researcher Programme (designed for staff on research-only
 contracts) provides workshops, online modules and one-to-one coaching in 65 topics (including
 grant writing and fellowship applications).
 Researchers joining the School on fixed-term projects are encouraged to take advantage of
 institutional provision and initiatives such as the Welsh Crucible, an award-winning programme of
 professional development for future research leaders in Wales. They are also fully integrated into
 the School’s research culture and mentored in finding further opportunities. The success of these
 practices is evidenced by onwards trajectories for RAs (e.g. Carey was inspired to do a PhD;
 Bennett joined us as a lecturer; and Kilby and Thomas both went on to secure posts at Swansea
 University).
 2.5. Promoting wellbeing
 In 2015, the University achieved a Gold Award in the Corporate Health Standard. The Staff
 Wellbeing Group was convened in January 2018 and Cardiff offers an Employee Assistance
 Programme, a ‘Wellbeing’ programme and a Staff Wellbeing Team providing bespoke events
 across the University. In JOMEC, the Chair of our EDI Committee also serves as our Wellbeing
 Officer, working alongside two Wellbeing Champions, and regularly circulates information about
 relevant events and services to all staff and PGRs, including opportunities for mutual support, now
 further prioritised and adapted for Covid-19 pandemic conditions.
 2.6. Support for research
 The School has a research mentoring scheme identified as exemplary within the University. All
 staff are assigned a more senior colleague to provide advice on everything from career planning
 to feedback on grant applications. In addition, the School runs a Research Development workshop
 series supporting PGRs and staff at all levels in areas, such as writing articles and academic

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networking. Senior staff in JOMEC also share their expertise by acting as mentors across Cardiff
 University, nationally and internationally: e.g. Lewis for Heads of School across Cardiff and
 Kitzinger and Allan for colleagues at other HEIs.
 Research time is built into the School workloads policy which dedicates 600 hours a year to
 research (40% working time i.e. two days a week). The School has research-led teaching
 allocations and staff run specialist modules and MAs closely aligned with their expertise, allowing
 positive synergies between teaching and research.
 Since REF2014, research-active staff are eligible to apply for study leave every four years.
 Accelerated leave is provided to strengthen development among staff identified as needing extra
 opportunities and in order to facilitate an inclusive environment where everyone is research-active.
 During this REF period,18 staff benefited from such School research leave, with additional
 opportunities taken up by others who were successful in bidding for institutional research leave.
 Up until the academic year 2018-2019, Cardiff’s research leave scheme enabled buy-out from
 teaching and £3,000 in research funding for successful applicants. The 2019-2020 Disglair
 scheme was designed to facilitate early career researcher development by providing posts for
 early career lecturers on a full-time basis to replace staff granted research leave. Research leave
 has enabled staff to develop grant applications and complete major monographs. Our Research
 Officer monitors research leave with respect to EDI, and all those eligible are individually
 encouraged to apply, and provided help to do so, well in advance of the deadline.
 JOMEC provides £1,500 annually for each staff member, including fixed-term externally funded
 researchers, for conferences, travel and other research expenses. Further money is available
 to enable grant development, workshops, and impact and engagement events. Such School
 funding has helped build capacity and confidence for ECRs (e.g. Sobande used a £500 award to
 seed fund a successful bid to the Open Society Foundation). It also supports rapid-response
 initiatives (e.g. £500 to Treré to develop a website addressing the pandemic experiences of people
 from the Global South, which also informed an academic article and edited book) (see Section
 4.3).
 2.7. Support for postgraduate research: recruitment, training, supervision, research culture
 and engagement/impact
 The School is home to a diverse cohort of PGR students benefiting from institutional support
 through the resources of the Doctoral Academy and PhD scholarships tailored to international
 students. Prospective students are guided through the application process by the PhD Programme
 Director and their potential supervisor. The School adopts an equal opportunities approach, e.g.
 taking professional/voluntary experience into consideration for applicants who have taken career
 breaks or diverse paths towards aspiring to study for a PhD.
 The PhD programme is very international e.g. the School’s current 72 PGR students (40 female,
 32 male) are from 16 different countries and include students from Africa, Asia, the Middle East,
 North America and mainland Europe. Since REF2014, 10 students have won ESRC Studentship
 (60-40 female/male split). We also obtained two KESS (Knowledge Exchange) scholarships, two
 PhD studentships as part of collaborative ESRC grants, two more as part of an ERC Starting Grant
 and in 2020 we won a Collaborative Doctoral Award with the Imperial War Museum. Many of our
 PGR students are sponsored from internationally competitive schemes (e.g. Commonwealth
 Scholarships) or through government or employer funding (e.g. Malaysian Ministry of Higher
 Education, Intellect Press, and the Faculty of Political Science, University of Zagreb). The School
 provided a tuition fee waiver for an outstanding Turkish student affected by political turmoil
 (Ataman) and PGRs have also benefited from University funded schemes (e.g. Westwater’s
 President’s Scholarship). Our PGR community enhances the global orientation and diversity of
 our research, with projects covering topics including female genital mutilation in Nigeria, political
 campaigning in Kenya, and Bollywood representations of conflict in Kashmir.
 To guide PGR student progression, there is a University-wide induction from the Doctoral
 Academy, a School induction and an initial three-month review for new PGR students or those
 returning to work after an interruption of study. All students then have six-month reviews with



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisors and, since REF2014, annual progress reviews with a staff member independent of
 the project. Our PGR administrator assists students and supervisors in progress monitoring.
 PGR students have weekly workshops across the academic year designed to support research
 development. Students are given guidance in evolving their research plans, using specific
 methods, and developing scholarly publications. They also receive assistance from a dedicated
 extenuating circumstances officer. Centrally, they benefit from access to Cardiff’s Doctoral
 Academy services directed towards professional development. Our strengthened provision has
 led to 45 completions for REF2021, compared to 32 completions in REF2014. The quality of
 JOMEC supervision is centrally recognised e.g. Treré won Cardiff’s 2019 Enriching Student Life
 Outstanding Doctoral Supervisor Award.
 PhD students are integrated into the common research culture; they present at our dedicated
 annual PhD students’ conference and participate in our seminar series and 'brown bag lunches'
 (in which staff and PGRs meet to discuss research progress and ideas). They are represented on
 decision-making bodies (e.g. the Research Committee). The cohesion of our PGR community is
 also facilitated through weekly intensive writing sessions using the Pomodoro method. Following
 on from an initial staff-led training session which generated a great deal of enthusiasm for this
 approach, PhD students have gone on to self-organise these sessions with School backing.
 Institutionally, PhD students benefit from Cardiff’s strategic alliances with leading universities
 around the world, including University of Bremen (where JOMEC is one of three selected priority
 Schools; see Section 1), KU Leuven, and Xiamen University. Examples include a PhD student
 visiting Leuven facilitated by funding to support dependents, and another visiting Xiamen, building
 relationships resulting in several publications.
 Our open-access JOMEC Journal is edited by a team of PhD students. A PhD student also serves
 on the Editorial Board of Cardiff University Press, providing valuable editorial experience and
 opportunities to contribute to scholarly debate. PhD students make wider contributions to the
 discipline, presenting their research at major conferences, such as the International
 Communication Association and the British Sociological Association, and presenting both across
 the UK and internationally (in this REF period: China, Denmark, Hong Kong, Macau, Poland,
 Sweden, Turkey, and the USA). PhD students have also been active in organising conferences
 (e.g. Matthews organised the Doctoral Academy “Breaking Boundaries Conference”, 2019).
 Where appropriate to their research, we encourage students to work as RAs on funded grants;
 this builds expertise and employability by offering experience of team projects and the opportunity
 to work alongside experienced academics and often co-author with them. All PhD students can
 apply for seminar tutoring opportunities on the BA programme to gain teaching experience,
 with anywhere between 16 and 26 having been employed in such a capacity across each year in
 this REF cycle.
 JOMEC encourages postgraduates to develop engagement/impact skills and PhD students
 have helped to gather data for impact case studies, worked as researchers for the Welsh
 Millennium Centre’s Festival of Voice, and mapped engagement with the Cardiff Civic Centre for
 the Cardiff Community Participatory Network. Our PhD students are also provided with training,
 mentoring and opportunities for building industry links in order to develop their impact profiles. For
 example, Howells (who had a Knowledge Exchange scholarship involving a School collaboration
 with the Media Standards Trust in 2015) not only co-authored a monograph with senior JOMEC
 colleagues but her findings informed subsequent NUJ policies. Similarly, Westwater worked
 extensively with Kidd evaluating the Wales for Peace project, working with the Temple of Peace
 to host a three-day conference that brought together international and Welsh artists to address
 women’s representation in the arts. In turn, this led to Westwater developing partnerships within
 academia and with arts organisations across the UK and contributed to her employment with
 Booktrust Cymru and Creative Cardiff.
 The strength of our PGR programme is highlighted by our graduates’ success in gaining academic
 posts: five continue to work in JOMEC as teachers or researchers (one successfully bringing in a
 Leverhulme Fellowship), 21 work in other HEIs in the UK, and others work in institutions across
 the world including Chiang Mai University and the Ghana Institute of Journalism.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Research income and investment
 Our supportive research environment and robust and sustainable trajectory is evidenced by the
 cumulative research portfolios developed in specific areas; the amount of investment we have
 attracted; our high bid success rate; our range of funding sources; the active involvement of staff
 at every grade; and funds already secured for the future.
 •   The School has sustained long-standing, high-impact programmes of research in this
     REF period (e.g. Kidd’s cumulative series of grants since 2014 underpinning work on
     museums in the digital age and Cushion et al’s portfolio of impartiality projects).
 •   We made 143 applications and won 73 awards (maintaining the high success rate already
     established in REF2014).
 •   The awards won in this REF period are worth £13.7M (a dramatic improvement on REF2014
     when we won just over £2M). In addition, we received significant income in kind (e.g. BBC
     Wales and Arts Council Wales have seconded two part-time staff to Clwstwr for the duration
     of the 4.5-year project).
 •   Just over half of our REF2021 grants come from research councils (£8M, 58%), with other
     funding sources including UK government (£2.7M), European Commission (1.6M): media
     industry (£545,000) and charities (£466,000).
 •   Income generation is spread across the School: 22 Category A staff have been grant holders
     (with women more likely to be grant PIs than men, 56% to 44%), and staff across career stages
     have attracted external funding e.g. 23% of grants were led by a lecturer as PI and 42% had
     a lecturer as a Co-Investigator.
 •   Major ongoing grants won in this REF cycle include the AHRC awards for Clwstwr and PEC,
     as well as Dencik’s ERC Starting Grant and Cushion’s ESRC and AHRC awards. Such grants
     contribute to securing the sustainability of research through large-scale ongoing
     investment with end dates in 2021 (Cushion’s AHRC award), 2022 (ERC and ESRC) and 2023
     (Clwstwr, PEC). We have 17 new and ongoing grants taking us into 2021 and beyond.
 Research income has led directly to (and from) outputs returned to REF, e.g. data from Hintz
 and colleagues’ ESRC grant on “Digital citizenship” was published in the monograph, “Digital
 Citizenship in a Datafied Society” and Noonan’s monograph “Producing Television Drama” was
 the theoretical basis for her successful AHRC bid on “Screen agencies and cultural
 intermediation”.
 The School has also used funding to maximise impact, winning 11 awards through the ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account (£162,052) during this REF cycle. It also won several GW4 initiator
 awards, e.g. one on “The Value of Death” (a collaboration with the Lancet Commission) (Kitzinger)
 and another to enable the establishment of the Media and Criminal Justice Studies Network
 (Garcia-Blanco). The funding for the Clwstwr project has impact at its core, curating over 60 R&D
 projects to date with Welsh creative companies, to create innovative products, services and
 experiences. Examples include developing remote working technology for post-production with
 Gorilla which enabled them to work seamlessly through the Covid-19 lockdown and a (sold out)
 2020 showcase of our work with Monnow Media (supported by BBC R&D) to develop more
 engaging forms of news narrative. This attracted participants from BBC, ITV, Reuters and the
 Washington Post.
 Grant income contributed to capacity-building through strengthening priority areas (e.g.
 Data Justice Lab, PEC and Clwstwr), expanding the scope of our research clusters, financing
 additional equipment/infrastructure, and cultivating research networks /interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Our success is underpinned by Cardiff’s institutional commitment to investment in
 research through internal funding schemes. Funding for research, collaboration, engagement and
 impact is available through College and University initiatives, and the School has enjoyed a high
 success rate in bids, organising major international conferences in priority areas, expanding
 impact, and enabling the development of large-scale funding applications. This has also fostered


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international collaboration through high-profile visitors (e.g. Cardiff Incoming Visiting Fellowship
 fund for Jesus Arroyave) and outgoing visiting fellowships (Cushion, Moore & Noonan in Australia;
 Lewis in New Zealand, Hintz in Iceland).
 Relatively small funds can boost staff research and a notable success story is the School’s use of
 the Cardiff Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (CUROP) (REF5a, 3.5). This
 provides bursaries for placements for students working on staff-defined and supervised projects.
 In this REF period, these awards provided 55 undergraduate students with the opportunity to work
 with JOMEC staff for two months each. The scheme benefited staff across career stages, with the
 opportunities identified as particularly vital for early career colleagues who used the scheme to
 build capacity in grant applications. CUROP research assistants have contributed research that
 has fed into seven monographs, three book chapters, and seven peer-reviewed journal articles,
 often co-authored with the students. The scheme enhanced employability and research
 development for undergraduates (e.g. Aprahamian winning an ESRC DTC Journalism and
 Democracy pathway PhD studentship in 2019; Brewer becoming Policy and Communications
 Officer for Cymorth Cymru; Mott becoming a TV Researcher for ITV and Warner Bros). JOMEC’s
 use of the scheme was highlighted as good practice and promoted within and beyond Cardiff,
 e.g. being presented to Russell Group Chief Executives in 2018.
 Flagship investments have also consolidated centres of expertise and innovation. Institutional
 investment, research development and success in attracting grants is evidenced by C4CJ and
 Clwstwr in particular.
 •   Clwstwr is founded on work conducted between 2000 and 2016, as the School’s researchers
     contributed to the emergence of a framework to evaluate and develop the UK creative
     economy. The researchers particularly focused on regional contexts (e.g. Lewis 2002, 2007;
     Hargreaves 2009, 2013), where independent small to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) need
     to compete with large integrated global companies. They identified opportunities for
     developing policy in Wales in new directions, but saw a lack of co-ordination and strategic
     leadership. The Creative Economy Unit proposed by Lewis and Hargreaves was established
     in 2014 and has since brought in five research awards, including the successful £8M of funding
     for Clwstwr.
 •   Similarly C4CJ, after initial investment by the School, was selected as one of three flagship
     engagement projects funded by the University from 2013 to 2022. This gave C4CJ two core
     posts to establish and evolve the Independent Community News Network representing over
     100 community news publishers across the UK, and resources to develop a web platform to
     facilitate engagement with an emerging community sector. This allowed researchers (Williams,
     with two PhD students) to create a symbiotic relationship between research, action and
     engagement. For example, our researchers worked with C4CJ to develop a clearer picture of
     the state of community or hyperlocal journalism in the UK. This allowed C4CJ to better identify
     and meet the sector’s needs, creating activity which altered the research landscape. C4CJ
     went on to win a series of grants, including a Google Innovation Award (£218,914).
 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
 In 2018, JOMEC moved into a custom-made building in Cardiff’s Central Square Development,
 situated alongside national broadcaster BBC Wales and Media Wales, and directly opposite
 Cardiff central station. The building is a key enabler of our development. It is equipped with the
 latest industry standard technology, with six newsrooms and four editing suites, two TV and two
 radio studios and an Innovation and Engagement lab to support digital development. The move to
 Central Square enhanced the synergies between research and practice essential to the School.
 Integration between JOMEC and BBC Wales is built into the fabric of the site, with fibre
 connections between the two buildings to facilitate collaboration for research and development.
 JOMEC’s 300-seater lecture theatre at the entrance makes the School an attractive site for major
 events, thereby strengthening our engagement activities, including the final 2019 Reith Lecture
 and the Royal Television Society Cymru Annual Lecture 2019. The building also houses the
 Centre for Community Journalism, facilitating the centre’s impact and engagement events,
 interfacing with community news producers and the media industry and government initiatives
 supporting them (see impact case study: Lewis/Williams). The building design was informed by

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 principles of equality, diversity and inclusion (e.g. accessibility, hearing loops, quiet room, ‘toilets
 for all’ and baby changing facilities).
 The new building offers a custom-built, centrally maintained library with 13,188 books across
 fields of journalism, media and cultural studies, 726 DVDs and circa 150 journal subscriptions (in
 addition to thousands of journals and books online). The library is also the pilot site for a self-
 service laptop loan scheme. The facilities of our on-site subject library are complemented by
 Cardiff’s main Arts and Social Studies Library (see REF5a, 4.3.2). In addition, the University
 Library Services special collections hosts the historically significant archives central to the Tom
 Hopkinson Centre research (e.g. the Hopkinson Archive of 20th century photojournalism and the
 Cudlipp Collection).
 Our success in securing large-scale grant income has driven the expansion of research space
 beyond the new building as achievements have already outstretched plans. The Clwstwr team
 worked in partnership with Cardiff Council to secure a base for the project’s work at the historic
 City Hall building in the civic centre as an in-kind contribution to the project from Cardiff Council.
 Our research benefits from administrative assistance from the School’s specialist Research
 Officer who supports all aspects of research development and management, as well as a School
 Manager (who won the 2019 ‘Exceptional Enhancement of the Staff Experience’ award from the
 University’s annual Celebrating Excellence awards). Staff also receive advice from central staff
 dedicated to the humanities and social sciences, who draw attention to relevant opportunities and
 help with grant applications including assisting with planning budgets and submitting applications
 (see REF5a).
 Technical administrators across the School, College and University (see REF5a) assist with
 research software, and impact and engagement events. A technical support team within the
 School ensures rapid problem solving. Research funding has also enabled the School to work with
 local companies (e.g. Hoffi, We Make Film Happen) to design and develop outward facing
 websites for projects like Creative Cardiff. In addition, a University communications officer works
 with the School 2.5 days per week, promoting our research to external stakeholders, producing
 press releases to both local and national press agencies and publicising our work via social media.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1. Research clusters - collaborations and contributions
 JOMEC advances research in journalism, media and culture through its relationships with the
 international scholarly community, as well as collaborations with creative industries, policy-making
 bodies, charities and civil society groups.
 •   In our research on Journalism and Democracy, for example, Carter was Wales Coordinator
     for the collaborative Global Media Monitoring Project 2015 and 2020, which examined gender
     representation in the news in over 120 countries. Moore’s work on representing poverty was
     sponsored by a consortium which included Christian Aid, the Muslim Council of Wales and
     Save the Children, and has helped develop strategies to improve how poverty is discussed in
     public discourse. We work with policy organisations such as the United Nations Human Rights
     Council (Berry, Garcia-Blanco and Moore’s project on coverage of refugees) to help shape
     public debate on media coverage of refugees and other vulnerable groups. Contributing to the
     economy and society is also central to the mission of C4CJ – which combines traditional
     research, action-research, training and outreach to develop new models of local news
     production. Recent projects include funding from Google for the “Value My News” project to
     work with community journalists to help them find new revenue streams through content
     aggregation; an ESRC project on “Embedding hyperlocal as part of the news ecology in the
     UK” and (with Welsh Government funding) supporting the development of Welsh-language
     digital media.
 •   In Digital Media and Society and the Data Justice Lab, we have collaborated with charities to
     better understand the impact of the datafied society (e.g. work on surveillance with the
     Helsingin Sanomat Foundation, as well as multiple projects funded by the Open Society
     Foundation), and we have worked with government and civil society groups to understand the
     ethical implications of data use (e.g. events for the “Data Scores as Governance” and “What’s

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Democratic Auditing” projects brought together academics, government representatives and
     civil society). Lab reports have informed campaigns for Amnesty International and Liberty and
     the team worked with the UN Special Rapporteur (as part of his investigation into the effects
     of austerity in the UK), producing a submission to inform a report to the UN General Assembly
     on Human Rights and participating in a UN organised event on Artificial Intelligence and Social
     Protection. The Lab’s work has also been taken up by organisations such as the Open Rights
     Group and Algorithm Watch and cited in key policy debate e.g. the House of Commons Select
     Committee on Science and Technology.
 •   In Media, Culture and Creativity, JOMEC leads the establishment of networks for research,
     innovation and impact, informed by collaboration across cultural and creative industries. For
     example, Kidd’s work on digital cultural heritage involves collaborations with National Museum
     Wales, Tate Britain, Imperial War Museum and Tower of London. Creative Cardiff (established
     in partnership with Cardiff Council, BBC Wales and Arts Council Wales) convenes the
     Coworking Collective (of creative coworking spaces across South Wales) and
     research/industry collaboration such as Immersive South Wales. It convened the first ever
     gathering of the UK’s creative city/regional networks in Autumn 2020. Work through PEC
     includes collaborations with the National Theatre Wales and yellobrick; Clwstwr, launched in
     2019, was set up to make South Wales a heartland for innovation in media production, digital
     technologies, business models and screen infrastructure. Clwstwr is led by Cardiff University
     in partnership with University of South Wales and Cardiff Metropolitan University, with main
     industry partners including BBC, Arts Council Wales, Welsh Government and Cardiff Council,
     with other industry partners Ffilm Cymru, Boom, Screen Alliance Wales, Alacrity Foundation
     and S4C.
 4.2. Roles and activities - collaborations and contributions
 We hold multiple roles on boards/advisory committees and industry/public bodies: e.g.
 Bennett is judge for Cardiff Music Awards and a jury member for the Welsh Music Prize; Carter is
 judge for the Gender Equity Award, Prix Jeunesse and serves on the Academic Advisory Board
 for the Children’s Media Foundation; Wahl-Jorgensen is Subject Chair in Language, Linguistics,
 Communication and a member of the Content Selection and Advisory Board for SCOPUS (the
 abstracting and indexing database), and is also a jury member for the SCOPUS Young
 Researcher Award in social sciences. Staff serve on a wide variety of advisory committees for
 major research grants and universities and take leadership roles in industry bodies e.g. Lewis is
 Chair of the Advisory Board for the Independent Community News Network and Hintz is member
 of the Non-Commercial User Constituency of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
 Numbers (ICANN).
 The School is proactive in creating and contributing to public and media debates, commenting
 on contemporary events including organising a Chatham House event on LGBT+ rights,
 contributing to Holocaust Memorial Day, Islamophobia Awareness Month, “BBC Digital” weeks,
 the AHRC’s “Being Human” festival and the ESRC’s “Festival of Social Science”. Other roles
 include acting as expert witness in court (Lewis for Extinction Rebellion).
 Our research has also been communicated in, and developed through, a wide variety of creative
 media collaborations – working with artists and designers, and co-production with research
 participants, leading to, for example, digital stories, theatre, poetry, visual art, and ‘immersive
 experiences’. We also work extensively with mass media formats (as producers and contributors).
 We have translated our research into radio programmes e.g. including experimental blending of
 specially commissioned music, narrative and interview materials (see impact case study:
 Kitzinger) and our work is extensively covered in diverse formats (e.g. Wahl-Jorgensen’s research
 forming the basis for an ABC broadcast of “The Minefield”.)
 In addition, our work attracts attention from mainstream news and current affairs outlets. For
 example, our research findings on impartiality generated headline news across the UK (on
 reporting statistics, 10 August 2016, and reporting devolution, 24 and 25 November 2016). Data
 Justice Lab research was reported in the Observer, New Statesman, Scientific American, a 15-
 minute feature on Sky News and a report from the Bureau of Investigative Journalism. The Coma
 and Disorders of Consciousness Research Centre contributed to over a dozen TV and radio

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes including the main evening TV news channels and programmes such as the Victoria
 Derbyshire show.
 The School contributes to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline through (in this REF
 period):
 •   Serving as chair/vice chairs of nine different professional/subject associations including
     the ICA, IAMCR and ECREA.
 •   Advising/supporting other universities nationally and internationally e.g. serving as
     external examiner for programmes at 27 universities, providing advice on research strategy,
     promotions and hiring for 53 UK institutions and 19 internationally, and examining PhDs at 87
     universities across Africa, Australasia, Europe and North and South America.
 •   Conferences: we hosted 40 conferences, including the biannual “Future of Journalism”
     Conference (2015, 2017, and 2019), the “Digital Citizenship and Surveillance Society”
     conference, and the “Data Justice” conferences (all attracting 200+ attendees). We have also
     organised public events around significant dates e.g. marking the 50th anniversary of the
     Aberfan disaster with a conference bringing together survivors, families, documentary-makers
     and photojournalists. School staff have also served as co-organisers of events internationally,
     ranging from the Fan Studies Network conference to a conference on Sexual Politics in Russia.
 •   We host regular secondments from other sectors which have expanded our cross-sector
     impact and synergies (e.g. ‘yello brick’ producer joining JOMEC to work on creating an
     immersive wayfinding experience for National Museum Wales and BBC Wales) and we run a
     visiting scholars programme. The latter initiative brought 56 scholars to JOMEC in this REF
     period from across the world, leading to the development of cross-cultural research, successful
     grant applications, and ongoing intellectual synergies. This includes Bowman’s work with Ma
     Xiujie around Martial Arts studies; Allan & Peters’ articles and forthcoming book on visual
     citizenship; and the development of Memorandum of Understandings with several Universities
     and ongoing hosting of their PhD students (e.g. MoU agreed with Shahzad Ali when visiting
     from Bahauddin Zakariya University, Pakistan, resulting in two of their PhD students joining us
     so far). Several visiting scholars have returned to JOMEC to do PhDs (e.g. Gursoy, Lecturer
     at Ankara University, is completing her doctoral studies with us on coverage of human rights
     in Turkey). In addition, visiting scholars help resource the rapid translation of research into
     timely impact (e.g. establishing a global hub on risk journalism and Covid-19) and
     embed research-industry–teaching synergies (e.g. O’Callaghan, former Head of News BBC
     Wales, now leads our postgraduate module “Reporters and Reported”).
 In addition, we have contributed to the field through drawing together emerging research and
 theory in 25 journal special issues and a dozen edited books addressing, for example, 24-hour
 news (Cushion and Sambrook, 2016); photojournalism (Allan, 2017) and citizen journalism (Allan
 and Thorsen, 2014). Additional edited volumes include: “Journalism, Gender and Power” (Carter
 et al 2019); “Critical Perspectives on Social Media and Protest” (Dencik, 2015); “Challenging
 History in the Museum” (Kidd et al., 2014); “Citizen Media and Practice” (Stephansen and Treré,
 2019); “Compromised Data” (Elemer, Langlois, Redden, 2015); “Humanitarianism,
 Communication and Change” (Cottle and Cooper, 2015); and “To Exist is to Resist: Black
 Feminism in Europe” (Emejulu and Sobande, 2019).
 We also collate key texts designed to inform research-led teaching (e.g. “Handbook of
 Journalism Studies” and “The Routledge Companion to Media and Gender”) and contribute to
 volumes such as the “SAGE Handbook of Digital Journalism”, “Routledge Companion to Digital
 Journalism Studies”, “International Encyclopedia of Journalism Studies”, and the Oxford Research
 Encyclopaedia series). Staff have also contributed to teaching development through funded
 projects (e.g. our HE project “Teaching and learning issues in the disciplines”).
 More broadly we contribute to developing research fields through serving as editor/co-editor for
 eight journals and sitting on the editorial boards (and refereeing) for another 72 and editing six
 book series e.g. Cottle is the series editor of “Global Crises and Media” (Peter Lang, more than
 30 volumes published so far). Staff have also refereed book proposals for 44 different academic
 publishers.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also referee grant bids, serving on the AHRC and ESRC peer review colleges and
 conducting reviews for another 40+ funding bodies, including the European Commission and the
 Leverhulme Foundation, as well as funders in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus,
 Denmark, France, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kazakhstan, Norway, Qatar, Spain,
 Switzerland and the USA.
 Our contributions to the discipline were recognised through 81 keynote addresses around the
 world in this REF period, including major subject association conferences. We have also held
 visiting/honorary appointments and fellowships in 16 different countries e.g. Honorary
 Professor at the Universities of Melbourne and Tasmania, and a Faculty Fellow of the Centre for
 Cultural Sociology at Yale (Cottle), Visiting Fellow at the University of Bremen (Kyriakidou;
 Dencik).
 Other recognition includes Wahl-Jorgensen receiving an honorary doctorate from Roskilde
 University, Denmark; she was also elected a Fellow of the International Communication
 Association. Kitzinger and Lewis were elected fellows of the Learned Society of Wales, and Kidd
 a fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts. Prizes/awards include: Treré’s Outstanding Book
 Award from the ICA Activism, Communication and Social Justice Interest Group; Lewis won the
 2019 Cardiff Life Civic Impact Award (with Creative Cardiff); Dencik was selected by the Hay
 Festival (2017) as one of the Hay 30 – a group of 30 young novelists, scientists, philosophers,
 performers and activists who ‘will help shape the world in the next 30 years’; Payson’s work won
 a Welsh Crucible Prize; and Kitzinger's work made Cardiff University joint runner-up for the
 Guardian’s project of the year award (2015), and won an ESRC impact prize (2015) and the British
 Medical Association’s (2015) award for ‘Information on Ethical Issues’.
 4.3. Covid-19 response – an example of collaborations and contributions
 The School’s commitment to socially engaged research, and our supportive research
 environment, has been amply demonstrated in our response to the pandemic. Within months of
 the first lockdown, we deployed seed funding, resource from existing projects, and our networks
 across the school and internationally to deliver new research including:
 •   an analysis of broadcast news and diary study of people’s understanding of Covid-19 (Cushion
     et al);
 •   a study of press coverage of the crisis for cultural and creative industries (Allan et al);
 •   a survey of 200+ creative freelancers to assess government policies for the self-employed
     (Lewis et al);
 •   contributing to a questionnaire study across 42 countries looking at children's media use in
     the pandemic (Carter et al);
 •   a survey exploring how Black people have been impacted (Sobande)
 •   We also won a British Academy grant to look at "The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on
     community journalism start-ups in the UK” (Wahl-Jorgensen).
 Alongside such research we delivered webinars on broadcasting in lockdown and toolkits for
 journalists reporting on Covid-19; briefed senior news editors on accuracy when covering diverse
 lockdown rules across the UK; set up initiatives to help community journalists; held a series of
 webinars with those in charge of creative industry support and collated information and advice for
 creative companies and freelancers.
 Additional initiatives included:
 •   contributing to a Welsh Parliamentary Committee report on the pandemic’s impact on
     journalism and local media;
 •   compiling evidence about data management and coronavirus contact tracing;
 •   delivering commissioned guidelines on media policy and communication for the Wales NHS
     confederation;
 •   initiating special issues on the pandemic (in “Digital Journalism” and “Journalism Studies”);

                                                                                                   Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   establishing a new blog platform dedicated to amplifying the voices of people from the Global
     South. The blog platform project has already generated a peer-reviewed journal article (“The
     rise of the data poor: the COVID-19 pandemic seen from the margins”, Treré & Milan, 2020,
     “Social Media and Society”) and a 2020 edited book (with 47 contributions by 75 authors in
     five languages).
 In summary, we have an empowering, agile and thriving research culture. Since the last REF, we
 have:
 •   increased our research income, with a focus on high impact projects and successful
     partnerships;
 •   invested in action-research initiatives which have become powerful agents for change;
 •   strengthened policies around EDI and become significantly more diverse than in REF2014;
 •   further improved our approach to PGRs and engaged increasing numbers of RAs attached to
     a wide range of funded projects;
 •   continued to research at local, UK-wide and international levels, with staff playing key
     leadership roles and making signification contributions to the discipline and to society.




                                                                                          Page 16
