Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 3 - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Health Sciences Unit in the Department of Life Sciences is a thriving community of 20
 (19.5FTE) researchers who seek to understand and promote the key factors that support healthy
 living and tackle health inequalities. We conduct research that addresses the whole individual,
 incorporating physical, mental and social well-being, and the environmental factors affecting
 health. We are invested in the study of homeostasis and both external (social) and internal
 (physiological) systems of regulation. Led by neuroscientist Opacka-Juffry until 2018 (1999-
 2020), the unit is now directed by psychoneuroimmunologist D’Acquisto (joined 2017), to expand
 an interdisciplinary programme of research on healthy living, bridging neuroscience, immunology
 and psychology. Our integrated research programmes focus on the body’s functions, the mind
 and behaviour across: cell biology and immunology; biomechanics and human morphology; and
 physiology, nutrition and metabolism. At the time of REF2014, the unit had sustained a focus on
 translational research, whilst expanding beyond neuroscience to include cell biology &
 microbiology, biomechanics, and the regulation of metabolism. Our strategic ambition was to
 continue to invest in these research areas to address urgent and important needs within society;
 to develop high quality internal and external collaborations; to further increase the involvement of
 the end users of our research; and to fully integrate research students into the research
 environment.

 Our strategic ambitions have been realised through sustained investment and increased
 translational capability, strengthening of our international cooperative outlook, and collaboration
 with academia and industry to address urgent health priorities in society. Our investment in staff
 is demonstrated by the 14 new staff recruited since 2013, resulting in the growth of the submission
 from 10FTE to 19.5FTE. This expansion has resulted in a four-fold increase in the total number of
 outputs (from 89 to 384 peer-reviewed publications compared to REF2014). We have also
 expanded our funded, formal partnerships with nine HEIs, and have collaborated with over 100
 HEIs across the UK, Europe, North America, Australia and Asia to produce research outputs. We
 have effectively engaged research users in the design of our projects, demonstrated by a wide
 range of knowledge exchange collaborations with private companies and governmental
 organisations, including nine industry collaborators and a further eight industry funders. We have
 successfully expanded and integrated our doctoral community into our research culture,
 increasing the number of completions since 2014 to 18 (a 98% increase when compared to
 REF2014) and a current cohort of 19 students. Our expansion, and the successful delivery of our
 research strategy, have been fuelled through, and recognised by, a concomitant growth in external
 investment in our research, which has increased three-fold since REF2014. Our investment in new
 staff has served to consolidate our expertise across the core areas of our research:

 Cell biology and immunology (D’Acquisto, Busch, Calle-Patino, Esposito, Opacka-Juffry)
 Our research into cell biology and immunology builds on the work of neuroscientist Opacka-Juffry
 and her investigation of experimental models of human brain disorders, and the neural effects of
 Novel Psychoactive Substances (NPS, formerly ‘legal highs’) since 2013. The addition of Busch
 (joined 2013), Esposito (2015) and Calle-Patino (2013) extended our expertise in molecular and
 cell biology in health and disease, by adding a focus on translational medicine, in particular
 molecular mechanisms of chemotherapy resistance, inflammation, cancer and autoimmune
 diseases. D’Acquisto (2017) has expanded the interdisciplinary scope of our health research,
 working across neuroscience, immunology and psychology.

 Biomechanics and human morphology (Betti, Diss, Greene, Mian, Strike, Tillin)
 Strike and Tillin’s long standing research into mechanisms controlling gait and movement has
 led to the design of novel approaches to limiting the damage imposed by a sedentary lifestyle. We
 have also invested in staff who focus on ways to maintain healthy living for the whole body over
 time and in different environmental conditions. Mian (joined 2016) and Greene (2016) were
 recruited to expand the work on injury and rehabilitation led by Strike and Tillin, and to investigate
 gait and movement patterns in clinical populations, building on long-term work by Diss

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigating age-based biomechanics. Betti’s (2014) research has added novel insights into
 skeletal morphology, and particularly the birth canal. In addition, her interdisciplinary research
 provides a unique perspective on the role of the environment in healthy living by exploring how
 climatic factors have historically influenced the way humans gather food for their survival.

 Physiology, nutrition and metabolism (Behrends, Corona, Costabile, Halsey, Hauge-Evans,
 Hurren, Mackenzie, Patterson, Trangmar, Tyler)
 Tyler’s research focuses on the environmental factors that influence brain and limb
 haemodynamics, and Trangmar (joined 2015) has broadened existing research into the
 physiological mechanisms of physical performance. To expand our research in the fields of
 physiology, nutrition, and metabolism we recruited Mackenzie (2015) for his expertise in muscle
 metabolism and insulin resistance; Hauge-Evans (2015) for her research on pancreatic beta-islets
 and their role in diabetes; and Hurren (2017) for his research on the role of adipose tissue in
 glucose metabolism. We recruited Corona (2014) because of her specific expertise in analytical
 biochemistry. Behrends (2014) and Costabile (2015) have widened the scope and impact of the
 whole group by exploring the role of both good and bad microbes, including gut microbiota, in the
 regulation of metabolism, neurogenesis, infection and immunity. Patterson’s expertise in appetite
 regulation has led to cross-unit (Strike) investigations into the prevalence of overweight/obesity in
 adults with lower limb amputations. Halsey’s research is interdisciplinary within the themes of
 behavioural-physiology and energy expenditure of humans and animal species.

 Interdisciplinary Research
 Interdisciplinary collaboration is at the heart of the Unit’s research culture and is developed through
 discussions at departmental meetings, research symposia, University-wide sandpit events, and
 the work of individual staff who see opportunities for collaboration. Interdisciplinary research is
 prioritised through the targeted deployment of internal seed-funding and development funds, and
 the consolidation of collaborations through cross-disciplinary supervision of research students,
 supported by VC’s scholarships. Our collaborations build on a successful track record of
 developing interdisciplinary research impact with the Centre for Dance Research at Roehampton
 on promoting health benefits for people with Parkinson’s Disease, an Impact Case Study in this
 Unit in REF2014, which has extended its reach to arts organisations, ballet and contemporary
 dance companies and independent dance artists internationally since then. Our proximity to
 colleagues in anthropology, psychology, and zoology has catalysed novel investigations of the
 influence of homeostatic thermoregulation on a wide range of physiological functions, from the
 immune response to infection through to the regulation of appetite and energy sources. For
 example, D’Acquisto and Halsey have collaborated on the effects of temperature on river
 ecosystems (Ecology: Perkins, Robertson; Animal behaviour, Psychology: Perna) and on
 metabolism and thermoregulation in wild Barbary macaques (Animal behaviour, Psychology:
 Semple). The results of these studies have expanded our understanding of temperature as a
 common tuner of evolutionarily conserved core mechanisms regulating health in diverse
 organisms. Similarly, investigations of gait and nutrition in humans have inspired collaborative
 research by Halsey and Strike on the mobility of lean vs fat king penguins, whilst Strike has also
 collaborated with colleagues (Psychology: Dyall and Gibson) to explore the impact of multinutrient
 supplementation on cognition and mobility in able older subjects.

 Approach to impact
 Since 2014, we have focused on engaging diverse research users to shape our research and
 guide our dissemination strategies. We have sought to inform public health and policy, engage in
 collaborative industry-led research, particularly with organisations that are invested in addressing
 health inequalities, and work with clinicians and practitioners to support improvements in health
 provision. Our impact has been supported through dedicated workload allowances, pump-priming
 resources, and sustained engagement with identified research users. We will continue to use
 these mechanisms to extend our impact, aligned to core research themes.

 We combine academic excellence with social awareness of health challenges, to produce
 research that has implications for public health and policy. Our Impact Case Study based on
 Opacka-Juffry's work on the interactions between NPS and their biological targets illustrates this,

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributing to reclassification of these drugs as regulated substances. Opacka-Juffry was
 awarded a Royal Society Pairing Grant to support a residency with the Home Office Drugs and
 Alcohol Unit for knowledge sharing with civil servants. Costabile, funded by Coeliac UK, the
 Nutrition Society and the British Dietetic Association, has investigated the accessibility of gluten-
 free food in terms of financial costs and in-store availability, research which has been used by
 professional bodies (British Dietetic Association, British Specialist Nutrition Association) to
 influence government policy. In 2018, the Department of Health and Social Care retained ‘GF
 breads and flour mixes’ on the prescribed foods list, such that these items remain available on
 prescription throughout England.

 We engage in a wide range of collaborative industry-led research with external companies that
 tackle health challenges and prioritise social impact. Our Impact Case Study based on Tyler’s
 work with the world’s largest sportswear company exemplifies this approach, underpinning the
 collaborative design of a cooling hood which safely optimises performance in environmentally
 challenging conditions. In the context of new technologies and emerging health issues, a
 collaborative project between Mackenzie, MediWiSe and King’s College London has led to the
 development of an innovative medical grade device designed to measure blood glucose non-
 invasively (GlucoWise). We are also actively exploring opportunities to commercialise our
 intellectual property in collaboration with industry partners, for example, by building industry
 collaboration around our first patent which was granted in November 2017 (UK Patent Number
 GB 2493313), for the use of Kissorphin peptides in providing therapy for neurodegenerative
 diseases such as Alzheimer’s and Creutzfeldt-Jakob's. We continue to actively seek industry
 collaborations with organisations that align with our social impact mission to develop commercial
 products that support healthy living.

 We strive to sustain a research culture where researchers, clinicians and practitioners are brought
 into dialogue to identify key research questions and research-led interventions in support of health
 outcomes. Collaborations include Strike and the Sport Surgery Clinic in Dublin, Ireland on the
 study of athletic groin pain, the results of which were published in the British Journal of Sports
 Medicine and disseminated through a podcast and a link to videos on how to perform the
 associated recommended exercises. Mackenzie works closely with NHS England’s National
 Diabetes Prevention Programme to improve our understanding of the differences in metabolism
 of pre-diabetes and overt type 2 diabetics, and to improve practice and reduce diabetic-related
 costs to the NHS. Costabile (with Jeanes and Reeves) collaborates with NHS consultants (Dr
 Muhammad Humayun, Professor Janusz Jankowski) on gluten-free diet as the treatment for
 coeliac disease and (with Jeanes, Reeves) with the NHS, funded by a Dr Schar International
 Nutrition Award, on research revealing that telephone clinics have a positive impact on dietary
 knowledge and adherence in adults with coeliac disease. Strike also collaborates with the charity
 Limbpower, on the translation of research to amputees through targeted communication and
 outreach activities to improve behaviours to support health.

 Open research
 The Unit has substantially increased our rates of open data provision, and of gold open access
 publishing. 51% of our submitted outputs are ‘gold’ open access, while 45% are ‘green’ open
 access. 59% of the submitted outputs are available as full texts through PubMed central, while the
 vast majority are cited in the PubMed database. Researchers follow the UK Policy Framework for
 Health and Social Care Research. Our studies are registered to platforms such as International
 Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number (ISRCTN); ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier (NCT
 number) and the European Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT). Examples include the Dietary
 Fibre and Chromium Picolinate (DFCP) efficacy in overweight and obese women trial (Clinical trial
 number NCT04250831) or the Vemiko VMK223 Study (Clinical Trial number NCT04267731). The
 results of studies are accompanied by open data where possible, as in the case of the 16S rRNA
 gene sequencing reads of a study on the impact of lignans in oilseed mix on the gut microbiome.
 Our IP policy encourages innovation and sharing of discoveries arising from research, for example
 in providing licensing for open-source models where there is a significant social impact.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our open research plans relate to samples, analytes, biometric measurements and other human
 data we collect. We are in the process of gaining a Human Tissue Authority license that will allow
 us to store, process and distribute tissue and cells collected from our studies, permitting us to
 establish our own biobank of samples that have been collected for research, which can be shared
 openly. Costabile is establishing a collection of DNA libraries of human and animal microbiota
 generated in her collaborative work on gluten intolerance and coeliac disease. Access to these
 samples will allow gastroenterologists and clinical nutritionists to better stratify and treat coeliac
 and gluten-intolerant patients based on their unique microbiome profile. Samples of serum, muscle
 and adipose tissue of young and old people subjected to aerobic exercise have been collected by
 MacKenzie and Hurren and will be used to identify age-dependent biomarkers of human physical
 fitness and resilience, a stepping-stone for the identification and testing of novel therapies that
 tackle ageing-related conditions such as fatigue and frailty.

 Research integrity
 The Unit is committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. The
 Department of Life Sciences operates a sub-committee of the University’s Health and Safety
 Committee, which oversees clinical trials and research activity that involves the public. In addition
 to Good Clinical Practice training, investigators must be trained and certified by the Health and
 Social Care Information Centre in information governance. All data are handled in accordance
 with the Caldicott Principles to safeguard confidentiality. All studies are approved by either the
 Research Integrity and Ethics Committee or National Health Research Ethics Committees across
 the UK to safeguard the rights, safety, dignity and well-being of research participants. In
 considering ethical issues surrounding research, we follow the guidelines of professional bodies
 or scientific societies, including the Declaration of Helsinki (7 th ed), British Association of Sport &
 Exercise Science, British Neuroscience Association, British Pharmacological Society, British
 Psychological Society and The Physiological Society. Conflicts of interest are identified and
 declared in ethical and participant documents, as well as in subsequent publications and
 presentations. Studies based on experimental animals are run under the guidelines of the Animals
 (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 and all the experimental procedures are authorised by licences
 granted by the Home Secretary. Staff are committed to the principle of the “3Rs” and abide by the
 rules set by the ARRIVE (Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments) guidelines. The
 University holds a Controlled Drug License to enable research utilising Schedule 1 drugs.

 Strategy and vision for the future
 Driven by the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy, our research in the
 coming period will seek to identify new ways to maintain homeostasis. We are particularly invested
 in interrogating how changes in behaviour and lifestyle can impact health at a cellular and
 molecular level. We aim to widen the scope of our investigations from the individual to
 communities, in particular through increased collaborations with colleagues in Arts, Social
 Sciences, Education, Law and Humanities, further fostering interdisciplinary investigations into
 healthy living. The integration of staff in the University’s new Nursing provision, and the
 development of their research capacity and culture, will be key to the future sustainable growth of
 the unit and will offer opportunities to consolidate our focus on health in the community. Our Local
 Authority engagement will create opportunities for the co-production of novel approaches to
 healthy living between researchers, public health practitioners and industry partners and we will
 proactively engage with companies and individuals involved in research associated with healthy
 living in order to increase and diversify external investment in our research. A specific focus here
 will be on developing an active portfolio of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and industry funding
 which builds on our established working practices, such as Costabile’s recent collaborative study
 with Optibiotix Health to test the anti-obesity effects of ‘SlimBiome’ - a pre-biotic that fosters the
 growth of beneficial microbes - in a collaboration which is currently producing a portfolio of
 innovative ideas that could help the company to achieve its goals. Finally, we will broaden the
 diversity of staff and postgraduates, in alignment with our already highly diverse undergraduate
 body, through targeted appointments, particularly through the creation of new ECR opportunities
 including Postdoctoral Fellowships and Lecturer roles, to support inclusive research cultures and
 participation in STEM. Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy was designed and
 launched prior to the effects of the global pandemic but we remain committed to its delivery, and

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we will take advantage of the opportunities afforded by new practices, such as virtual research
 seminars, developed during the period to extend the reach of our work.

 2. People

 Research support and staff development
 Our research strategy has been to maximise the opportunities available to all staff to realise their
 individual research potential, and to develop and disseminate research of the highest standard.
 This has been achieved through the protection of research time, the fostering of an inclusive and
 dynamic culture within which to build collaborations, and the provision of effective support and
 development systems.

 All staff returned to this Unit are on permanent contracts. Staff with a significant responsibility for
 research are allocated research time through a comprehensive workload model, with allowances
 of up to 40% for research, and additional allowances for the development of impact and large-
 scale bidding and grant capture. Further short-term, concentrated, research time is scheduled
 through timetabling for specific activities such as research collaboration visits. For all eligible staff,
 including those on part-time and fixed-term contracts, research allowances are enriched with a
 rostered sabbatical term, available every three years, which has supported the preparation of
 major publications or research grant applications (20 taken since 2014). ECRs also have a
 protected reduced workload for their first year and accelerated access to rostered sabbaticals.
 Our strategy ensures that all ECRs have access to research leave, allowing them time to work on
 current research and to develop future plans, whilst they can also participate in the Early Career
 Academic Network which runs seminars with themed sessions on areas such as publishing,
 bidding and impact.

 Staff development has been a central focus since 2014. Staff appraisals are carried out annually,
 with research plans for the upcoming year and more extended periods discussed and agreed. All
 staff have a research mentor (Reader or Professor), with whom they meet regularly. In addition to
 their line manager (PI), postdocs also have a research mentor allocated, to provide support
 independent of that work. Mentors identify training and other needs and facilitate staff
 development. In-house training is provided for a wide variety of research-related work, including
 bidding, project management, impact development and knowledge exchange. Provision is also
 made for bespoke training, funded through staff development monies. Successful competitive
 bidding for internal departmental funding provides support for a wide range of initial pilot studies,
 as well as seed-funding for impact related activities. Travel and conference attendance is
 supported by a stipend, with ECRs and new colleagues prioritised in the distribution of these funds,
 whilst workloads are managed flexibly to support conference attendance for those with caring
 responsibilities. Fixed-term and part-time staff are supported through the same mechanisms as
 all staff, and both workload and progression are facilitated on a pro-rata basis in terms of
 expectations.

 Our reward for research performance is primarily delivered through promotion, which is
 benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles. Our investment in staff development
 has enabled the promotion of colleagues internally since 2014, including Halsey to Professor,
 Costabile, Strike and Tyler to Reader, and ECRs Behrends, Corona, Greene and Trangmar to
 Senior Lecturer. We promote the exchange of staff between academia and appropriate
 professional contexts through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of
 individual posts, and the use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those
 entering higher education, through the provision of a year-long Professional Development
 Allowance, which can provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition
 to a research career.

 Staff recruitment
 The significant investment in staff recruitment (14 new staff since August 2013) has been pivotal
 in the success and growth of the Unit. Throughout the period we have focused investment
 predominantly at the early and mid-career levels, and on researchers with a proven track record

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of interdisciplinary work who complement our expanding portfolio of expertise. All new staff are
 supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in relation to research, and
 additional workload allocations to support their integration into the Unit. Meetings with research
 mentors and line managers support probation.

 We recruit new staff strategically, with a view to new research collaborations. For example,
 collaboration between Esposito and Calle-Patino has secured a John Goldman Fellowship and
 Cancer Research UK funding, respectively. Their collaboration and integration into the Unit has
 been encouraged through two institutionally-funded PhD studentships (Mariacristina Ciccoli and
 Antonella Di Mambro) which resulted in the development of a system for high-throughput
 screening and repositioning of clinically approved drugs for their therapeutic potential in the
 treatment of leukaemia. The team’s work has led to an early career grant award from the British
 Society of Haematology to Esposito for her collaborative research with Calle-Patino on the role
 of the tumour microenvironment in the progression of mixed lineage leukaemia. A similar success
 involves Hauge-Evans, who was awarded a Diabetes UK RD Lawrence Fellowship and the
 University provided her with a fully-funded PhD studentship (Nirun Hewawasam) for research on
 pancreatic beta cell and islet functions, to which Patterson has contributed his expertise in
 metabolic homeostasis. Hauge-Evans has worked with Corona and Costabile on the interactions
 between diet, gut microbiota and islet function in type 2 diabetes, a novel project which attracted
 further funding from Diabetes UK. This team has also collaborated with MacKenzie and Hurren
 to study tissue-to-tissue communication between muscle, liver and pancreas following feeding
 and/or exercise, in the context of diabetes.

 Training and supervision of Postgraduate Research Students
 Since 2014, we have been successful in growing a strong and vibrant PGR community that is well
 integrated within our research cultures. We currently support 19 continuing full and part-time PhD
 students, and our 18 successful completions during the period represent a 98% increase since
 REF2014. We have supported our PGR growth with 14 VC’s Scholarships, and have also
 benefitted from scholarships from Whitelands College (one), and the RUSH scheme (one) to
 support PGRs from ODA-recipient nations. PGR recruitment is facilitated through open
 competition for all funded opportunities, which conforms to University policies on Equality and
 Diversity. PGRs are able to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory
 teams, and are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy.

 Students’ research projects are funded by the BBSRC, Innovate UK, Society for Applied
 Microbiology, Royal Society, British Society of Haematology, Society for Endocrinology, a range
 of charities (Multiple Sclerosis Society, Diabetes UK, Coeliac UK, Cancer Research UK, Leuka),
 CNPq - the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development in Brazil - and the
 private sector (New Gluten World, Oxford Cannabinoids Technology, BioAtlantis, Wassen, GE
 Healthcare, MediWiSe). Our PGR research community is enriched by a healthy flow of visiting
 international research students; a total of 16 summer studentships have been supported by the
 Science Without Borders programme, three from Erasmus+, four from the RISE-DAAD and two
 by the Faro Fellowship.

 Each PGR is supervised by a Director of Studies, an experienced staff member who has previously
 supervised to completion, and at least one co-supervisor. Complementing University-wide training
 offered by the Graduate School is local-level training and subject-specific provision. The progress
 of all PGR students is monitored by a Departmental Research Degrees Convenor, who chairs the
 Life Sciences Research Student Review Board (RSRB). The RSRB oversees the monitoring and
 administration of research student progression, supporting timely completion of their studies. PGR
 students in the Unit are offered training across the Life Sciences, exposing them to techniques
 and research methodologies across disciplinary boundaries, consolidated through office and lab
 space shared with students from zoology, anthropology and psychology. PGRs are encouraged
 to attend events and participate in our research culture. PGRs also benefit from external
 supervisory collaborations which augment cross-institutional collaboration and research
 exchange. Since March 2020, we have added further levels of support for all PGRs to help them


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the pandemic, including funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral support when
 required, and the revision of research topics where necessary.

 PGR career development is assisted through extensive collaboration and co-authored
 publications, career mentoring, dedicated training, and professional networking opportunities,
 including provision for teaching and training in relevant professional skills. PGRs also develop
 professional skills through targeted events and activities such as presenting work at our research
 seminar series. All successful PGR completions have secured positions within one year of
 graduation, in both industry and academia. For example, Mariacristina Ciccioli and Natalia Bravo-
 Santano are Senior Scientists at ANGLE plc, Nakul Shah is working at LM Manufacturing as a
 Quality Control Specialist, Rabia Ahmad is a scientist at GE Healthcare, Naghmeh Nikkheslat is
 a postdoctoral fellow at King’s College London, Uta Drescher is a researcher psychologist in
 Germany, Muhammad Humayun is a consultant gastroenterologist for the NHS, and Simone
 Carneiro-Nascimento is a postdoctoral researcher at Harvard Medical School. In order to foster
 student innovation, the University ensures that IP created by students remains under their
 ownership, and PGRs are eligible to apply for start-up business support funds.

 Equality and diversity
 We embed equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in our staffing, research culture, and support
 mechanisms, implementing University policies and legislation relating to equality, diversity and
 anti-discrimination. Management, including Research and Knowledge Exchange Leads and
 Research Mentors, are trained in EDI and implement policies to ensure that recruitment,
 promotion, sabbatical, bidding and funding decisions are made equitably. Senior staff provide
 bespoke support on the allocation of duties, timing of work, relief of pressures from internal
 deadlines and appropriateness of workspaces while the distribution of internal research support
 funds is always made with EDI in mind, to ensure that individuals’ needs and circumstances are
 considered. PGR regulations now mirror staff support for parental leave. Staff returning from
 parental and other leave are supported through workload allocations, whilst research sabbaticals
 are accelerated, taking place in the year preceding, or immediately following a period of leave.
 Promotion criteria acknowledge periods of parental or caring leave or other personal
 circumstances through ‘pro-rata’ expectations for roles. Colleagues with individual circumstances
 are supported through flexible working (and, where feasible, remote working). We also have
 structured local rules to support full access to labs, including working out of hours and/or alone,
 based on rigorous risk assessments and consultation with the Life Sciences Health and Safety
 Sub-committee. Staff can seek the support of HR and Working Relationship Advisors, and PGRs
 are also supported by tailored University services (Graduate School, Staff Wellbeing, Student
 Wellbeing). All staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst
 dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on mental health.

 Our Unit actively promotes inclusive research practices, and this is reflected in the diversity of our
 staff and students. Our selection of outputs process was conducted alongside equality and
 diversity analyses to ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected
 characteristics. Out of the 49 submitted research outputs, 8% are authored by staff identifying as
 BAME and 39% by female staff, while no members of staff declared a disability or identify as
 LGBTQ+. We have strived to be representative across all career levels, with 49% of outputs
 attributed to Senior Lecturers, 16% to Readers, 12% to Professors and 8% to Lecturers. 40% of
 our current staff identify as female, 10% identify as BAME, whilst over half come from European
 countries. 72% of our completed PGRs identify as female and 39% as BAME. Of our current PGR
 community, 68% identify as female, 26% as BAME, and represent ten nationalities. 5% of both
 cohorts identify as LGBTQ+. We recognise that significant disparities remain between our PGR
 and staff communities and are committed to addressing systemic inequalities and diversity in the
 health sciences more broadly. We have policies in place to support the development of a more
 representative PGR body and we will create pathways to research for our richly diverse UG
 students, preparing students for Master’s study and beyond, and employing the University’s
 fellowship scheme to further support diversity in research careers. The Unit is also committed to
 supporting initiatives that promote inclusive research cultures. For example, Mrs Anne
 Obayiuwana was awarded a Faculty for the Future fellowship from the Schlumberger Foundation

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the academic year 2018/19, to work on a project on ‘Nigerian wholegrains and cardiovascular
 health’ under the supervision of Corona and Costabile, whilst in 2019 Dr Shannon Fowler was
 awarded a three-year £130,000 Daphne Jackson Trust Fellowship, which supports returners to
 research careers, under the supervision of Halsey.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Infrastructure
 Research is managed in the Unit by the Research Centre Director; research in the Department is
 overseen by a Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead who represents the Life Sciences at
 University level. Planning and daily support of our research activities are assisted by dedicated
 Research Development and Impact Officers, respectively, who offer discipline-specific support for
 the development of networks, partnerships and external collaborations, identify national and
 international funding opportunities, and support public engagement, impact and knowledge
 exchange activities. Our laboratories and facilities are supported by highly qualified technical staff
 (5.6 FTE), four of them holding postgraduate degrees (MScs and one PhD). All technical staff
 benefit from allocated time for further training in specific expertise. They are also integrated into
 the wider research culture, attending research seminars and internal public events, and are
 formally recognised in research publications to which they contribute as co-authors. Large-scale
 data storage needs are supported by the IT department, who facilitate storage in the cloud as
 required. Data sharing is governed by the University’s data protection policy and guidance for
 researchers provided by a Data Protection Officer and a Contracts Advisor who arranges data
 sharing agreements where required.

 Income
 We have made significant progress in expanding, diversifying and increasing sources of external
 funding since 2014. Total funding of £1,270,209 represents a three-fold increase since REF2014
 (£309,764 total income). Notably, in terms of sustainability and future trajectory, the Unit is
 supported by a range of open competitive charitable funding and by industry, including contract
 research. Our increased research income and diversity of sources has been attained through
 support structures that have increased the number and scale of funding applications, whilst
 focusing on improving their quality. Established infrastructures such as research workload
 weighting, sabbatical provision and targeted seed-funding have played a significant part in this
 development, but the assistance of a dedicated Life Sciences Research Development Officer has
 enabled greater advanced bid planning, strategic priorities and transparency. Bid quality has been
 improved through rigorous internal peer-review of application drafts by senior colleagues with
 grant attainment track records. Impact activities associated with received awards have been
 supported by the Life Sciences-dedicated Research Impact Officer, and collaborations and
 industry funding by dedicated legal services staff.

 The strength of our translational research that addresses society-relevant health issues through
 unique interdisciplinary projects has been central to our success. Examples demonstrating our
 breadth of funded research include Betti’s project on the impact of human pelvic shape on
 successful birth delivery (Sasakawa Foundation: £8,950, 2019; Primate Research Institute Kyoto
 University: £1,245, 2019). Projects funded by industry include the previously mentioned
 collaboration by Tyler with the world’s largest sportswear company (£29,505, 2016), the work of
 Costabile with Christian Hansen (£11,070, 2018) and Busch with Clasado Biosciences (£28,585,
 2016), and the study led by D’Acquisto on immunomodulatory natural cannabinoids for Oxford
 Cannabinoid Technologies (£600,287, 2018). Calle-Patino and Esposito have received funds to
 identify new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukaemia and Mixed-
 Lineage Leukaemia (Leuka: £118,902, 2017; British Society for Haematology: £10,000, 2018).
 Behrends and D’Acquisto’s research on novel host-directed antibacterial therapies has been
 supported by the Society for Applied Microbiology (£10,000, 2018), and the Wellcome Trust
 (£2,000, 2018). The investigation of antigen processing and presentation in autoimmune diseases
 by Busch has been supported by the Multiple Sclerosis Society (£30,250, 2016) and Arthritis
 Research UK (£53,991, 2014). Corona has received funding from BBSRC (£23,543, 2015) for a
 study on the pharmacological activity of oats on cardiovascular diseases. Hauge-Evans’ work on

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pancreatic islet function has been funded by Diabetes UK (£46,162, 2015). The comparative
 biology research on behaviour, movement and macro-physiology run by Halsey has been
 supported by the Leverhulme Trust (£87,000, 2015) and DEFRA Darwin Plus (£47,907, 2015).

 For successful substantial grant applications, match-funding support is provided by the University
 to employ a PhD student or a postdoctoral researcher. This policy has been central to expanding
 our research capacity since 2014, and to supporting successful grant capture. A total of £703,000
 has been invested in studentships, fee waivers and consumables for PGR research projects.
 Behrends’ study on new ways to foster a stronger host response to pathogens was funded by a
 New Lecturer Research Grant from the Society for Applied Microbiology. The University’s
 provision of a fully-funded PhD studentship (Natalia Bravo; completed in 2019 with four published
 papers) has helped the investigators to set up state-of-the-art screening technologies that allow
 identification of changes in the phosphoproteome and host metabolism following infection with
 clinically relevant nosocomial pathogens, including Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus
 (MRSA). The results of this work have led to the identification of potential new treatments for
 antibiotic resistance based on previously screened drugs (drug repurposing), as well as
 collaborations with several other academic specialists (Imperial College London and the Francis
 Crick Institute) and private sector biotech companies (Christian Hansen). Further successful
 examples of PhD studentships co-funded by the University and external partners are: Diana-Elena
 Motei (supervised by Mackenzie, Hurren and Behrends), who worked on a project sponsored by
 NHS England National Diabetes Prevention Programme, and Fulvia Draicchio, whose work on the
 non-invasive measurement of blood glucose was supervised by the same team and sponsored by
 MediWiSe.

 Facilities
 The Unit has benefitted from investments in state-of-the-art equipment and experimental setups
 to support our research. A series of investments to facilitate the work of newly appointed staff and
 to upgrade existing facilities have transformed our research capabilities since 2014. The Unit
 benefits from a wide range of specialist and basic facilities for biomedical research including four
 separate rooms with cell culturing equipment including eight safety cabinets, six cell incubators,
 five inverted microscopes, and a wide range of equipment for proteomics and genomics (LCMS,
 HPLC, PCR, DNA analysers, Nanodrop, sets for Western blotting) and cellular/biochemical
 analysis (Flow cytometer, microtomes, microplate readers, contrast and fluorescent microscopes).
 There is a 70 square meter lab dedicated to class II bacteriological work, which is fully equipped
 with incubators and fridge/freezers for the storage and growth of bacterial stocks. Our facilities
 comprise      specialist    well-equipped    research       suites    -    imaging,    radioactivity,
 metabolomic/lipidomic/proteomic, glass gastrointestinal model, human interventions and
 biomechanics - that serve the research needs of our staff. These facilities have allowed us to carry
 out studies both in vivo and in vitro, thus opening the doors to clinical trials and knowledge
 exchange collaborations with external academic partners and private companies:

 The Imaging Suite has been created to meet the demand of several new members of staff
 (Behrends, Costabile, D’Acquisto, Esposito, Hurren, Mackenzie). This holds a Leica-4 colour
 fluorescent image capture microscope paired with the Neurolucida MBF imaging system. To
 expand these analyses to live cells, we invested in a Nikon microscope with on-stage incubator
 and an Evos FL paired with an Ibidi stage heating system. These two systems allow the acquisition
 of live cell imaging (time-lapse) that can be used to address basic scientific questions and/or to
 run pre-clinical tests. The availability of this equipment has allowed Calle-Patino to gain funding
 for a drug-repurposing study sponsored by Cancer Research UK. The purchase of an Accuri C6
 cytofluorimeter and an Attune NXt from Thermofisher to perform phenotypic characterisation of
 both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells has been the catalyst for many of our successful funding
 applications and knowledge exchange collaborations.

 The Radioactivity Suite is a designated laboratory for work with radioactive isotopes including 3H,
 35S and 125I. It is equipped with a wide range of instruments and tools for radioactivity work with

 biological samples traced with radioisotopes and has been used in research on interactions
 between NPS and their biological targets in the brain, led by Opacka-Juffry. Perkin Elmer beta

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and gamma counters for receptor binding and hormone analysis expand the types of biomedical
 investigations that we can conduct. The investment in the gamma counter has enabled Hauge-
 Evans to gain funding from the Society of Endocrinology and Diabetes UK (early career grant in
 collaboration with Costabile and Corona). This sought-after research facility has also allowed
 Patterson and Opacka-Juffry to extend their collaboration with Professor Christopher Pryce at
 the University of Zurich on the neurobiological and metabolic effects of stress, and gain funding
 from the CNPq (the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development in Brazil) for a
 PhD studentship for Simone Carneiro Nascimento.

 The Metabolomic/Lipidomic/Proteomic suite is a new facility that supports interdisciplinary
 research. It is equipped with an ultra-high performance liquid chromatography triple quadrupole
 mass spectrometer (LCMS) LC-(TQ)-MS Waters Xevo TQ-S and a Gas Chromatograph with
 Flame Ionisation Detector. The facility has supported the work of Behrends, Busch, Calle-
 Patino, Corona, Costabile, Mackenzie and Tyler in a wide range of fields of research - from
 microbiology to nutrition and physiology, cell biology and drug discovery - supporting more than
 20 publications and helping attract external funds.

 The Gastrointestinal Glass Model suite is a designated area established by Costabile to study gut
 microbiota. The set-up represents anatomical areas of the large intestine and is a useful tool to
 monitor the microbiome in relation to different environmental conditions, dietary intervention and
 the administration of drugs. Thanks to this facility, Costabile has set up knowledge-exchange
 collaborations with OptiBiotix Health, BioAtlantis, VeMico, Clasado Bioscience, Friesland
 Campina Ingredients Innovation and Animal Health Innovation, and Christian Hansen.

 The Human Intervention and Biomechanics suite has been set up to facilitate research in the areas
 of physiology, nutrition and metabolism, and biomechanics. The human intervention suite includes
 a designated room used for a wide range of physiology measurements, blood collection and
 muscle biopsies. In addition to a phlebotomy chair, ECG recorder and electronic weighing and
 measuring stations, the lab hosts a Cortex Metabolic Analyser purchased to allow Hurren,
 Tragmar and Mackenzie to perform real-time measurement of human metabolism and substrate
 utilisation. In-depth investigations of human muscle biology and architecture have been made
 possible thanks to the acquisition of a Hitachi Noblus Ultrasound. An environmental chamber with
 devices for cooling the human body and measuring body temperature facilitates Trangmar and
 Tyler’s research on thermoregulation in physical performance. The biomechanics labs have a
 Vicon motion analysis system with infrared cameras, isokinetic dynamometers for strength testing,
 the Fastrak electromagnetic motion tracking system and a range of accelerometers, gyroscopes,
 and integrated sensing units for collecting and integrating biomechanical data by Diss, Greene,
 Mian, Strike and Tillin. The full MATLAB suite is available for computational analysis.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit’s strategy is to work collaboratively with research-users in the origination, design and
 application of our research. Addressing urgent health priorities in society, we work with patients,
 carers, academic researchers, healthcare professionals, industry, business, government,
 charities, educators and publics both nationally and internationally. We continue to cultivate and
 expand collaborations that support high-quality research, the co-production of research with
 industry, and community engagement to investigate healthy living and to address health
 inequalities in diverse communities. The Research Office supports our strategies for international
 and interdisciplinary collaboration, responding to national and international regulatory frameworks
 and providing dedicated bidding, financial and legal support. Academic staff have access to
 financial support to conduct research visits to institutions, industry and partners to develop
 networks and collaborations.

 Our proactive and increasing engagement with commercial companies is core to our long-term
 strategy. Building on the successful relationship between Tyler and the world’s leading sportswear
 company, we seek to identify and develop partnerships that deliver meaningful and sustained
 outcomes, and generate investment that enhances the student learning experience and
 progression towards future employment. Greene works with Crystal Palace Football Club

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing biomechanics support for female footballers, implementing targeted neuro-muscular
 injury reduction programmes and monitoring player workloads, whilst also creating opportunities
 for student placements and internships and pathways to research careers. We also seek to build
 innovative industry partnerships on a model of co-production, for example, Strike and Tillin’s work
 in collaboration with the UK-based company Blatchford Ltd, which informs the design and
 manufacture of prostheses, the work of prosthetists and the health of amputees. This relationship
 has been supported by a VC’s PhD studentship and another externally-funded (Gaelic Athletic
 Association) part-time PhD student.

 Extensions of user-based investigation for industry, health professionals and policymakers include
 the studies that D’Acquisto has set up with Prof Ali Boolani (Clarkson University, USA) and Prof
 Nick Bellissimo (Ryerson University, Canada) on a major unmet need to address fatigue in health
 research. The project, sponsored by The Hershey Company, trials how a chocolate-based drink
 impacts the gene expression profile of immune cells and its relevance to the fatigue-relieving
 effects of chocolate. Similarly, Costabile has been investigating gluten intolerance and a new
 technology that drastically reduces the immunogenicity of gluten without physically removing it
 from food. The research has been pivotal for the setting up of an academic SME (supported by
 H2020 innovation SME Instrument programme, New Gluten World [grant agreement No. 732640])
 that is now trialling other products such as gluten-friendly beer and snacks. Led by D’Acquisto,
 our partnership with the University of Oxford and a newly established pharma-biotech, Oxford
 Cannabinoid Technology, aims to identify novel cannabinoid molecules with potential therapeutic
 effects on the immune and inflammatory response. The results obtained to date have informed
 innovative anti-inflammatory therapies and also have implications for public health policy. We will
 continue to build on the policy links established by Opacka-Juffry and Davies’ (Psychology)
 extensive networks through the APPG for Prescribed Drug Dependence, to support the
 dissemination of this research to policymakers.

 We are committed to engaging diverse publics and increasing the literacy of health research. Since
 2013, we have had over 800 media engagements across national and international publications
 and broadcasters, including the Daily Mail, BBC Radio and TV, The Independent, The Daily
 Telegraph, Sky Sports News, The New York Times, South China Morning Post, BBC Online,
 Women’s Running Magazine, and CNN. We also work directly with research users and
 communities through public engagement. Opacka-Juffry has a long-standing partnership with the
 charity Humankind (formerly Blenheim CPD), benefitting people suffering from drug addiction
 through the development of an online module called Meet the Brain, which fosters awareness of
 the risks from psychoactive drug consumption, the success of which led to development of a
 further series of online modules on NPS called The Brain Toolkit. The Unit hosts biennial public
 research days to promote the impact of Health Science research at Roehampton, which are
 attended by existing and potential collaborators. Halsey has delivered multiple talks on energy
 and fitness at science events for public audiences, including New Scientist Live, and HumaNature
 at the Natural History Museum. We also prioritise public science initiatives in the local community
 in the Borough of Wandsworth, and particularly seek to promote access to STEM with the
 community of the local Alton Estate. We host Brain Awareness Week events annually, as part of
 the global initiative, and contribute to the Being Human national festival, in addition to initiatives
 such as the Whitelands College Science Festival for local schools (Busch and Opacka-Juffry).
 Since 2018, staff have contributed to the annual international series of public events, Pint of
 Science, delivering presentations in local pubs. Corona and Costabile have also run Nutrition
 Science events for local schools, and we contribute annually to school outreach and public science
 talks at the Wimbledon BookFest.

 All members of the Unit have extended their academic networks since 2014, collaborating with
 over 100 HEIs across the UK, Europe, North America, Australia and Asia. We build collaborative
 research through individual networks, invitations to collaborating researchers to deliver seminars
 and public lectures, and formal invitations to participate in our research cultures through honorary
 appointments (for example, Professors Pryce and Jankowski have been appointed as Honorary
 Professors). Significant collaborations with academic partners include those by Corona with the
 University of Reading to explore the benefits of phenolic acids for cardiovascular health. The

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 findings have led to a successful Knowledge Transfer Partnership with the University of Cagliari,
 Italy, to study the benefits of traditional Mediterranean diet for health and disease prevention.
 Busch’s expertise in new technologies for measuring the dynamics of HLA tissue antigens has
 led to collaborations with Dr Mike Deery at the Cambridge Centre for Proteomics and with
 Professor Mellins at Stanford Medical Center, to examine how HLA protein dynamics are affected
 by inflammation and nutritional factors, providing insights into gene/environment interactions in
 autoimmunity. Behrends has developed software that is currently being used by the
 Metabolomics platform of the Francis-Crick Institute. This specialist piece of data analysis software
 will be released publicly under a joint Roehampton-Crick banner. Patterson’s expertise in the
 neuroendocrine regulation of metabolism added a new direction to collaborative research on the
 effects of social stress on energy homeostasis with Professor Pryce (University of Zurich) and
 Opacka-Juffry. Patterson also contributes to Hauge-Evans' collaboration with King’s College
 London, on neuroendocrine regulation of pancreatic islets, and maintains productive research
 links with the Section of Investigative Medicine, Imperial College London.

 Unit members hold editorial board positions on 22 journals, including highly ranked
 multidisciplinary science publications (e.g., Scientific Reports, Royal Society Biology Letters) and
 more specialist research outlets (e.g., Biochemical Pharmacology, Frontiers in Immunology,
 Frontiers in Pharmacology, Frontiers in Nutrition, Frontiers in Microbiology). We are also
 represented on the editorial boards of top journals in our subject fields (for example, European
 Journal of Sport Medicine, Journal of Functional Food, Pharmacology and Therapeutics). We have
 contributed 60 presentations and six keynotes/plenaries since 2014, including to the Society for
 Experimental Biology Annual Meeting, the Extreme Medicine Conference, the International
 Scientific Association of Probiotics and Prebiotics Conference, the International Society of
 Biomechanics Conference, the Forum of European Neuroscience Societies conferences, and the
 British Society of Pharmacology Meetings. Our contribution to the international academic research
 base has been extended through our work as reviewers for the MRC, Wellcome Trust, BBSRC,
 ITMO Cancer of the French Alliance for Life Sciences, Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique –
 FNRS, and the Italian Ministry of Education.

 We are also committed to the reproducibility of research and are increasingly sharing with the
 scientific community the research tools we have generated. For example, newly generated
 genetically modified mice such as those designed by D’Acquisto have been made available
 through the MRC Harrell archive - the UK node for the European Mouse Mutant Archive.
 Monoclonal antibodies, bacteria and plasmid vectors are deposited at Ximbio - the world’s largest
 non-profit dedicated to life science research reagents. Where suitable, raw data are deposited in
 repositories like GEO (functional genomics data), Pride (mass spectrometry data), FlowRepository
 (flow Cytometry data), PDB (structure data) and Figshare (unstructured data). We have put in
 place routine procedures that minimise the risks of misidentified or contaminated biological
 research tools. For instance, the cell lines used in our in vitro translational work have all been
 purchased from the European Collection of Authenticated Cell Cultures and are regularly screened
 for mycoplasma contamination. Every other year, these cells are sent to Public Health England
 for authentication using their DNA barcoding authentication service. We are also committed to the
 dissemination of controversial results that can be challenging to publish, and we were the first to
 provide evidence for the potential health risks caused by the consumption of gluten free food, due
 to their lack of important macronutrients like calcium.




                                                                                              Page 12
