Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 21, Sociology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Summary of Context
Throughout its more than fifty-year history, Goldsmiths’ Department of Sociology has demonstrated
a commitment to making sociology matter within and beyond the academy. During this REF period,
we achieved this through research focused on six interdisciplinary and overlapping clusters
that address major issues of contemporary societies: politics, rights and justice; feminism and anti-
racism; cities, multicultures and migration; science, technologies and expertise; critical social and
cultural theory; and practice research and inventive methods. In various ways, each cluster
engages with an understanding of ‘live sociology’ advanced by the Department: expanding the
sociological imagination through the study of, and critical interventions in, contemporary social
issues and their historical legacies. We understand live sociology as founded on five values:
tackling issues of inequality, marginalization, and injustice; working in a way that cuts across
conventional disciplinary boundaries both within and beyond the academy; inventing and
experimenting with research methods that push the boundaries of knowledge and pedagogy;
reconsidering the conventional relation between theory and practice through practice-based
research; and, reaching beyond national frames via research that is transnational in scope.
Through the myriad ways that staff pursue these values, we have established an internationally
recognised research and teaching culture.

Sociology is a vibrant department and the largest within Goldsmiths with 44 Academic Staff (41.1
FTE) in 2019-20. This submission also includes four academic staff from the Law Department (4.0
FTE), which Sociology played a role in establishing in 2019. Whilst Law is included as a cognate
discipline, this Environment Statement focuses on Sociology. In addition to Academic Staff, in
2019/20 Sociology included five Postdoctoral Researchers, 12 Associate Lecturers and Graduate
Trainee Tutors, and five professional support staff. In the same year, we taught 308 undergraduate
students, plus 137 in joint programmes, 137 master’s students, plus 61 in joint programmes, and
55 PhD students. Beyond traditional research outputs, we produce policy reports, journalistic
articles, blogs, podcasts, exhibitions, catalogues, films and multi-media content. Moreover, our
research activities inform and shape our teaching and lead to impacts including policy advice to
national and international governments, public engagement activities and events with communities,
and academic and non-academic collaborations.

During this REF period, the Department’s research was supported by over 35 external grants with
a total spend of over £10.38 million (2013-20) awarded from across a wide range of national and
international funders. The Department leverages this experience to support other departments in
research capacity-building, mentoring and management. Our staff are internationally recognized
because of the reach and significance of their outputs; leadership of research teams and
programmes; keynotes at international events; and engagements with different publics,
policymakers, the third sector and creative arts. All these contributions have led to impacts not only
benefitting the discipline but the knowledge, policies, capacities, and practices of local, national,
and international beneficiaries, by which we mean users, partners, and publics. These
contributions have collectively fostered a lively, dynamic, collegial, open, and intensive research
environment.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Clusters
Our commitment to the values of live sociology is pursued through shared questions and issues
addressed under six dynamic interdisciplinary Research Clusters, which we periodically review to
align with contemporary social issues and changes in staff and their research foci. Each is
supported by one or more of four Research Centres and four Units hosted or co-hosted by the
Department (Section 3). Here we highlight the contributions of all members of staff to one of the
Research Clusters, recognising that their research often straddles two or more.

(1) Politics, rights, and justice
Research in this Cluster brings Sociology together with the disciplines of Law, Politics and
Criminology. Activities are supported by the Unit for Global Justice and the Centre for the Study of
Global Media and Democracy. One research strand is the study of post-conflict human rights and
humanitarian law: political violence, memory and archives in Latin America (BELL); justice for
conflict-related sexual violence in the former Yugoslavia (CAMPBELL); and how international law is
used by different actors involved in transitional justice in Kosovo, Sierra Leone and Sri Lanka
(GREWAL). That research is linked to work on gender, crime and law-breaking including on
women as drug mules (FLEETWOOD); on humanitarian organisations and how they select crises
(KRAUSE); the political sociology and cultural politics of human rights (NASH); the perpetrators of
human rights abuses including the effects of public confessions in Turkey (YILDIZ).The cluster
includes the work of Law colleagues: on the legal incidence of sustainable development in
international law (BARRAL); the prurient gaze of criminal justice (DYMOCK); cross-cultural studies
of human rights and criminal justice (GIANNOULOPOULOS); and the concepts of ‘foreignness’
and ‘race’ in the application of anti-discrimination protections (MYSLINSKA). Another strand
includes studies of neo-liberalism and social justice: in higher education (LOVEDAY); in the
Occupy movement (MATTHEWS); and in relation to new configurations of value and values
(SKEGGS). Research also includes the study of children as political actors (OSWELL) and
engaging with innovative methods in order to do so (NOLAS, VARVANTAKIS).

(2) Feminism and anti-racism
Social inequalities have long been a focus of research for many staff in the Department but are a
central concern of this Cluster, which brings Sociology into interdisciplinary conversations through
the study of Gender, Labour, Race and Ethnicity, Culture, and Religion. Activities are supported by
the Centre for Feminist Research (CFR). Research includes studies of gendered ethnic and faith
identities of Muslim families in Britain (AHMAD); the history of discourses of racism and
immigration with a focus on the US/Mexico border (ARAGON); the relationship between time and
social inequalities, including in digitally mediated societies (COLEMAN); the role and sociological
impact of women’s labour in churches and related communities (DAY); the complexity of
transnational dying and practices of ‘hospitality’ in communities across Europe (GUNARATNAM);
how creative practices challenge gender inequalities across the globe (GUNARATNAM and
PUWAR); anti-Semitism and left-wing politics (HIRSH); the history of feminism, liberation and
mobility as told through Victorian women’s cycle wear (JUNGNICKEL); and, the history of ‘racial
elimitivism’—the call to live ‘beyond race’ (ST LOUIS).

(3) Cities, multicultures and migration
Research in this Cluster brings Sociology together with the disciplines of Human Geography and
Anthropology and fields of Urban, Housing and Migration studies. Activities are supported by the
Centre for Urban and Community Research (CUCR). Migration-related research includes studies
of what the Brexit negotiations mean for Britons resident in the EU-27, and North American

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
migration to Panama (BENSON); Chinese migration to London, conceptualising globalisation
through everyday objects, and London’s plutocracy (KNOWLES); and the ‘femonationalism’ that
fuels forms of exploitation and domination of Muslim and female migrant labour (FARRIS). Studies
of cities and multi-culture include: multiculturalism, migration and London including the impact of
Jamaican (and Jamaican-influenced) music on British culture and the development of collaborative
methods with research participants (BACK); how analysis of a diverse population can be
conducted through the study of one site—a bowling alley in Finsbury Park, London (JACKSON);
‘lived’ aspects of urbanisation, securitisation and socio-political life through a focus on ‘irregular
settlements’ and insecurity in Karachi and Islamabad (KAKER); the interrelationships between
urban space, lawbreaking and social control focusing on graffiti and urban exploration (KINDYNIS);
the rhythm and registers by which public buildings, including those threatened by closure such as
libraries, matter within urban public space (ROBINSON); arts-led collaborations with local
communities on urban policy and regeneration (ROOKE); new forms of association and exclusion
mediated through the multisensory experience of urban space (RHYS-TAYLOR); the role of
cosmopolitanism in the production and consumption of art in biennales (SASSATELLI); and local
urban regeneration in Bellingham, Lewisham (STONEMAN and BACK).

(4) Critical social and cultural theory
The Research Cluster brings Sociology together with the disciplines of Philosophy, Politics and
Science and Technology Studies (STS). Activities are supported by the Centre for Philosophy and
Critical Thought (CPCT), co-hosted with the Department of English and Creative Writing, and The
Unit of Play (UoP). Research includes studies of: Marxist and post-Marxist conceptions of
democracy, emancipation and affect (BROMBERG); the very notion of the ‘word’, and the
implications of the sciences of animal cognition and behaviour for social science thinking and vice
versa (MOTAMEDI-FRASER); a Marxist ecofeminist approach to gender, finance capital and
advertising (ODIH); the development of a pluralistic philosophy of difference and the possibilities
created by divergent practices of thinking, knowing, and living with others (SAVRANSKY); and,
philosophy, capitalism, ‘real abstraction’, and tragedy as a political form (TOSCANO).

(5) Science, Technologies and Expertise
The Research Cluster brings Sociology together with STS. Activities of this Cluster are supported
by the Centre for Invention and Social Process (CISP). A particular focus concerns health and
medicine-related research including the implications of vitalist and process ontologies for the ethics
and politics of health and medicine (GRECO); HIV and other infectious diseases such as Ebola,
TB, and COVID-19 (ROSENGARTEN); and, drug-taking in the UK (DENNIS). Examples of other
forms of expertise researched include studies of ‘geek culture’ in the technosphere (ALLEYNE);
the relationship between environmental sensing technologies and citizen engagement (GABRYS);
how environmental experts produce the environment (GUGGENHEIM); the development of digital
methods to map and interrogate controversies (MARRES); the unintended consequences of
market solutionism and the privacy and surveillance implications of algorithmic technology
(NEYLAND); and, the digital and data practices of experts in the production of official statistics and
their implications for digital rights (RUPPERT).

(6) Practice research and inventive methods
The Research Cluster includes staff noted above but whose work also focuses on methodological
innovations that bring Sociology together with the disciplines and practices of Art, Design, Media,
Anthropology, and STS. It includes the development of sensory sociology, encompassing walking
methods (BACK, RHYS-TAYLOR), affective methods (COLEMAN, GUNARATNAM), digital, visual,

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
multi-media and multi-modal methods (ALLEYNE, DENNIS, JACKSON, MARRES, NOLAS), and
arts- and design-based methods (GABRYS, JUNGNICKEL, ROOKE). It also includes exhibitions
as a method of research, engagement and impact (BACK, BENSON, GUGGENHEIM,
MOTAMEDI-FRASER, NOLAS, PUWAR, RUPPERT, VARVANTAKIS). The Methods Lab supports
activities of this Cluster.

College-level Research Themes
Each Cluster is also connected to one or more of four interdisciplinary College Research Themes
that members of the Department participate in and/or lead: Social and Economic Justice (co-led by
BENSON and JACKSON); Technologies, Worlds, Politics (led by RUPPERT); Bodies, Minds and
Society (co-led by GRECO); and Invention, Creativity and Experience. The Themes support
interdisciplinarity by taking advantage of the College’s small and devolved structure while
facilitating collaborations across the humanities, arts, social sciences and computing.

Research and impact objectives achieved during the assessment period
The strategic research objectives described in REF2014 outlined aims for fostering a live sociology
through research committed to the sociological craft. We achieved these broad objectives through
six specific activities during this REF period:
• We increased Department-level support for grant applications (specified in Section 2),
    which contributed to a major growth in our research income since REF2014. Importantly, this
    led to twelve multi-year funded projects that enabled forms of impact that require long-term and
    sustained research and engagements with users, partners and publics nationally and
    internationally. Four of those projects make up our ICSs; however, the impacts they exemplify
    have also been realised in numerous other funded projects detailed in Section 4.
• We extended our international research, especially in the Global South. This is crucial to our
    commitment that sociology critically reflects upon postcolonial legacies and transnational
    relations. We achieved this through new appointments and supporting the development of
    externally funded projects for research in countries including Argentina, Burkina Faso, Chile,
    Colombia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Greece, India, Mexico, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa,
    Sri Lanka, Turkey, and the former Yugoslavia.
• Research and impact were supported by annually funding four Research Centres and four
    Research Units, which not only organised and hosted over 500 events open to different
    publics, but engaged with users, partners and publics through various mediums including
    films, podcasts, exhibitions, and practice research events.
• We expanded our research capacity in the substantive areas of our Research Clusters with
    key appointments in quantitative methods (STONEMAN), religion (AHMAD), criminology
    (ARAGON, FLEETWOOD, KINDYNIS), human rights (GREWAL) and social and cultural theory
    (BROMBERG, FARRIS, SAVRANSKY). As a result of external funding, we hired over 45
    Postdoctoral researchers from around the world (e.g., Argentina, Sweden, Netherlands, Bosnia
    and Herzegovina, France) who contributed to our expertise, capacity, and international
    research profile.
• We extended our interdisciplinary work by bringing sociology further into dialogue with
    philosophy and the theoretical humanities by supporting and co-hosting (with English and
    Creative Writing) a new Centre for Philosophy and Critical Thought. Along with the existing Unit
    of Play, it provides a space for approaching philosophy as a plural and critical activity for
    enlarging both scholarly and public imaginations.
• We promoted our critical interventions in two major contemporary social issues through a
    website (https://sites.gold.ac.uk/sociology/): publications on the social consequences of the

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   pandemic by BENSON, FARRIS, GRECO, GUNARATNAM, NOLAS, ROSENGARTEN,
   RUPPERT, and TOSCANO and research COLEMAN is co-leading on everyday life during a
   pandemic in collaboration with Mass Observation; and ARAGON, BACK, GUNARATNAM,
   PUWAR, and ST LOUIS’s organisation and/or participation in department-led virtual events
   involving staff and students on anti-racism following the murder of George Floyd and Black
   Lives Matter protests.

Research Strategy over the next five years
Our Research Strategy for supporting the vitality and sustainability of future research is to further
our values in the face of a volatile research and political landscape. The strategy was drafted by
the Department’s Research Committee (DRC) and ratified by the Department Board and the
College Research and Enterprise Committee. It includes commitments to:
• Foster and build an inclusive culture and research infrastructure that supports all research staff
    and challenges exclusions from participating in research:
        o Confront and challenge racism, sexism and all forms of discrimination in our department
            and wider research culture.
        o Support unfunded research through a sabbatical policy (Dedicated Research Time) that
            is available to all staff.
        o Establish additional practices of supporting grant bidding and management so that all
            staff are able to pursue externally funded research.
        o Support staff at all stages of their careers, with specific initiatives tailored to early career
            scholars (including Doctoral, Postdoctoral Researchers and Lecturers on permanent
            and fixed-term contracts).
        o Identify ways to support outputs beyond text (books and articles) such as digital media
            (audio, video, visualisations and film) and material artefacts (exhibitions, installations).
• Develop research that applies the sociological imagination to the innovation of interdisciplinary
    theoretical and methodological approaches to research and impact.
• Support research-led training of the next generation of Postdoctoral and Doctoral Researchers,
    post-graduates and undergraduates.
• Enable and build an outward-looking and internationally engaged department through
    substantive areas of research and collaborations with and contributions to international
    networks, projects and events.
• Convene new publics beyond the academy through research-led outreach, public engagement
    and impact activities that involve not only dissemination but various forms of practice research,
    collaboration and partnerships in co-producing research with non-academics and
    organisations.

Facilitating and sustaining impact
Our main goal is to do research that engages with non-academics, from local communities and
institutions, to governments, industry, and non-governmental organisations. We have, and will
continue to support, direct and sustained relations through several mechanisms: Departmental
funding of Research Centres and Units, and Research Development Funds for individual
researchers to pilot research and impact strategies. The College will also continue funding
research training events (e.g., media, public engagement, impact); impact and public engagement
activities; and, an annual public engagement award and event, of which four Sociology staff have
been recipients (FLEETWOOD, GABRYS, GUGGENHEIM, JUNGNICKEL).




                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We will specifically support and facilitate five research activities related to working with non-
academic partners and through which we have already demonstrated impacts detailed in Section
4:
• Encourage, develop, and support funding bids that involve co-producing research, with
   non-academic, external partners and which also build on and sustain existing successful
   partnerships and collaborations.
• Build on forms of collaboration and inventive methods that involve practice research, which
   engages with publics and partners not as research subjects but co-producers.
• Further support, develop and disseminate inventive methods through initiatives that cut
   across the Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
• Support staff to identify opportunities for providing advice and submissions to government
   and non-government organisations including taking up positions on advisory groups and
   task forces.
• Encourage and support communication and dissemination of research to academics and
   non-academics through various formats including publishing in or appearing on mainstream
   media (e.g., BBC) and non-traditional media (e.g., social media, openDemocracy, Discover
   Society), podcasts and blogs; films; and exhibitions.

Maintaining an open research environment
The Department meets the requirements of Green Open Access through the support of staff and
resources of the Goldsmiths Research Online repository. In addition to Green Open Access for all
outputs, we have published six books and over 40 journal articles Gold Open Access. Much of this
was made possible by ESRC Open Access block funds or ERC project Open Access funds. The
launch of Goldsmiths Press, a Green Open Access monograph publisher, in partnership with MIT
Press, now provides a platform for publishing innovative, cross-media scholarship from the
Department and College and beyond. Staff have to date published four monographs with the press
with several more in production.

Supporting a culture of research integrity
Our research and impact strategies—whether researching issues of inequality or facilitating
collaborations with non-academic partners—are supported by a commitment to an understanding
of research ethics and integrity as both procedural and processual. Procedurally, the Department
has a Research Ethics Officer (ROSENGARTEN), who reports to the Department Research
Committee and is also a member of the College’s Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-committee
(REISC). The Officer reviews and approves the research ethics proposal forms that all PhD and
Masters students must complete. Staff must submit their research ethics forms to REISC for
approval. Ethical clearance must be obtained before any research project begins. Ethical
considerations include the application of appropriate research protocols for projects (e.g.,
independence of researchers, no harm to human participants, integrity of research, fidelity to
verifiable knowledge, consent to research and use of data, rights to privacy, confidentiality and
anonymity) and the management of research staff. Beyond adhering to procedural ethics, the
Department encourages a processual understanding of ethics where reflexivity is central to and
embedded in all stages of research.

 2. People




                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Staffing strategy and staff development
Our staff strategy and development programme are underpinned by the Department’s commitment
to an inclusive and supportive research culture which enables all staff to pursue research activities,
impact and dissemination. During this REF period, our strategy focussed on sustaining and
developing research strengths across the six Research Clusters in the following ways:
• We made 18 appointments resulting in a net growth of seven staff and expansion of research
    capacity in the areas of criminology, human rights, religion, quantitative methods, and social
    and cultural theory. All new staff were appointed on Teaching and Research contracts (T&R)
    and given reduced teaching loads for their first two terms to support their research and writing.
• Supported staff in attaining externally funded projects that not only contributed to developing
    their careers, but also brought over 45 Postdoctoral Researchers to the Department, whose
    careers were, and continue to be, supported and mentored by staff on publishing, grant bidding
    and career development. Some continued as Visiting Researchers (e.g., GROMMÉ, USTEK-
    SPILDA) and many went on to fixed-term or permanent academic posts in the UK (e.g.,
    EHRENSTEIN, MILYAEVA, PRITCHARD, O’REILLY) and beyond (e.g., CAKICI, GROMMÉ,
    SCHEEL). We also hosted and mentored five Postdoctoral Researchers whose projects were
    externally funded (Section 3).
• Supported all Early Career Researchers including permanent staff (currently six, 13% of
    submitted staff FTE), postdoctoral researchers and staff on fixed-term T&R contracts in
    accordance with the Universities UK Concordat, to which Goldsmiths is signatory. Support
    included providing Department mentors, access to career development opportunities, personal
    development planning and workshops tailored to the needs of ECRs.
• Supported researcher development over the academic life course. All staff may choose to
    become a member of the Department’s Research Centres and Units; are eligible for
    Department conference funding and can apply for Research Development Funds; are
    encouraged to apply for College funding (e.g., research development, public engagement and
    impact, Global Challenges Research Fund, research theme funds). Each new member of staff
    is assigned a mentor on appointment and mentoring is available on request for staff at any
    career stage. Annual Personal Development Reviews are conducted by the HoD, which include
    forward-planning for research and promotion. In this REF period, there were 24 promotions:
    nine to Senior Lecturer; nine to Reader; and six to Professor.
• Provided the opportunity for all staff on T&R contracts to apply for one term of Dedicated
    Research Time (sabbatical) for every five teaching terms completed (four if the DRT is taken
    in the summer term). Eligibility is based on research activity plans for the DRT, time elapsed
    since the last DRT, and requests are approved by the HoD. Staff are required to report back on
    their research activities at the end of their DRT. During this REF period, 37 sabbatical terms
    were approved and taken.
• Allocated workload time to staff who take on strategic research roles necessary to support
    and sustain a vibrant research culture. This includes the Director of Research (DoR), Deputy
    Director of Research (DDoR), and Directors of the Research Centres and Units. Staff also sit
    on the College Research and Enterprise Committee (BENSON, RUPPERT). In 2019,
    RUPPERT was appointed and seconded (0.4 FTE) to the position of College Academic Lead
    for Research, which involves facilitating interdisciplinary research across Goldsmiths; and
    since 2015, OSWELL has served as Pro-Warden for Research, Enterprise & Knowledge
    Exchange. These College-level positions benefit the profile and research of the Department
    and its contribution to interdisciplinary research.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Identified opportunities and encouraged staff to apply for relevant grants through individual
    meetings with the DoR and DDoR, as well as the HoD and Academic Lead for Research. All
    staff are offered research funding and publication advisory sessions either on a one-to-one or
    small group basis. Research bid surgeries are made available to staff and provide feedback on
    the development of funding applications. However, we value all forms of research and
    recognize that not all requires or can attract external funding and thus this is also not a
    condition of career progression.
•   Provided research administrative support to all staff through the College Research Services
    office and departmental dedicated research administrators on bid development, costing and
    grant management (1.5 FTE). Research Administrators have expertise in budgeting,
    procurement, and serve as a liaison to central administrative offices such as Human
    Resources. They also provide administrative support to Research Centres and Units, event
    organisation and other research activities.
•   Promoted and supported research initiatives through a Department Research Committee
    (DRC), chaired by the DoR. This Committee is convened twice-termly and provides a forum for
    staff to discuss and review research-related issues and contribute to strategic decision making.
    While membership is formally all Readers, Professors and Directors of Centres and Units, it is
    open to all staff in the Department thereby making research activities and decisions
    transparent, addressing collective research issues, and encouraging reflexivity and knowledge-
    sharing. It reviews and develops the Department’s research strategy; annually reviews and
    approves Research Centre and Unit plans for funding activities, which are also tri-annually
    reviewed by College; and oversees the REF process.
•   Allocated funds to Research Development which are annually available on a competitive
    basis to individual members of staff seeking support for bid development or impact stemming
    from their research; these funds can also be accessed to support the development of
    departmental research culture, for example, skills capacity-building workshops. The DRC runs
    an annual Research Away Day designed to stimulate and sustain a collegiate and dynamic
    research environment.

Research students
An important part of the Department’s research culture is our large, diverse, and engaged
community of Postgraduate research students (PGRs), a significant proportion of whom (35%) are
international. We have PhD programmes in Sociology and Visual Sociology with 55 students, and
114 theses were successfully completed since the last REF, with 16 of them funded by
studentships (Section 3). We have been more selective in our admissions, focusing on ensuring a
higher proportion of completions within four years, which increased by 19% within this REF cycle,
while recognising that social inequalities impact on completion. In addition to the long-standing
PhD programme in Sociology, the Department pioneers sociological practice-based research
through its PhD in Visual Sociology, offering candidates opportunities to submit a portfolio of
practical work alongside a reduced written component. PGR students are actively involved in the
Department through their participation and leadership in organising international research
networks, conferences, and seminar series open to colleagues and research students at
Goldsmiths and beyond.

Most applicants approach the Department and prospective supervisors directly, based on the
reputation of our staff and research. After standard checks, applicants are typically interviewed by
prospective supervisors; a place is offered only where a good fit exists between the student's
proposed research and the supervisors' expertise. We encourage applications from BAME

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
students and from diverse backgrounds, as well as students with disabilities and provide
reasonable adjustments as needed.

The Department runs methods training courses specific to each PhD programme (two term-long
modules per programme), which first year students are required to pass as a condition of their
upgrade from MPhil to PhD. Training in the Visual Sociology programme is supported by the Visual
Sociology Lab, which provides access to an extensive range of technical resources for audio/visual
production (e.g., photo, video and sound recording and editing), managed by a skilled Technical
Adviser. In addition to mandatory training courses, students can participate in a range of
interdisciplinary professional development and research activities facilitated by the Graduate
School. The Department runs a more informal fortnightly series of research workshops where
students can focus on different aspects of professional practice (e.g., publishing a research paper;
engaging with the media; research ethics) in a discipline-specific, small group setting. Both
students and staff also present work-in-progress in a dedicated seminar series. As part of our
professional development provision, all PGR students can apply to teach on our undergraduate
courses as Graduate Trainee Tutors or (if they have recently completed) as Associate Lecturers. In
both cases, they can use this experience to work towards a PG Cert in the Management of
Learning and Teaching in HE.

In line with College-wide regulations and policy, all students are allocated two supervisors, who
may co-supervise on an equal basis or act as primary and second supervisor. Full-time students
meet with their supervisor(s) at least once a month on average, and records of supervision are
kept at both Department and College level. Supervisors are required to undertake research
supervision training provided by the Graduate School every three years. Each student’s progress is
formally reviewed annually by the Department Postgraduate Research Advisory Committee
(DPRAC), and appropriate action taken in cases that present a cause for concern. DPRAC meets
once per term with student representatives who are invited to provide feedback on our PhD
programmes.

We actively support BAME students through activities such as virtual events on anti-racism
involving staff and students (Section 1). PGR students are also active participants in Goldsmiths
Racialised Postgraduate Network (GRPN), which the Department helped establish and has
supported through dedicated office space and funding for their student-led journal: RESET: a
journal of social and academic transformation. Staff regularly meet with GPRN sociology student
representatives to identify and address concerns about racialised students' postgraduate
experience to ensure they are involved in the research culture of the Department, and to create
mechanisms through which their needs can be heard, as recommended in the British Sociological
Association (BSA) Race and Ethnicity in British Sociology report (2020). For example, the GRPN
proposed a research project that involves our Masters’ students in the development of a
methodology to decolonise curricula and encourage new collaborations; and our Anti-Racism
Officer (GUNARATNAM), along with the Graduate School, organised an event on Decolonising
Fictions, Thesis Peripheries and Disordering Whiteness (2020).

Since the last REF, we have been the Sociology pathway of the ESRC-accredited London Social
Science DTC, and then one of five institutions comprising the Sociology pathway of the South East
Network of Social Science DTP (SeNSS). We are also part of the Consortium for the Humanities
and Arts South-East England (CHASE). We hosted 16 externally funded studentships plus an
additional three funded by their home governments (Section 3).

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We support our students in developing their research and professional networks through
dedicated research funds that facilitate their attendance at conferences and the organisation of
collaborative research activities involving students and staff. Students can also apply for funds
through Department Research Centres and Units as well as the Graduate School. Highlights of
student-led activities during this REF period include the monthly series, Infrastructural
Explorations, hosted by CUCR, which addresses the relation between infrastructures and the
urban landscape; the development of an international research network (the Latin American Hub)
with a series of related events and conferences including the conference Connected Histories of
Neo-liberalisation (2016); the co-organisation (with students from LSE) and hosting of the 12 th
annual international conference of NyLon (2014), a transnational working group of PhD students
based in New York, Berlin and London.

Our postgraduates have moved on to careers and contributing to the discipline through teaching
and research in academic posts and other professional positions both nationally and
internationally. Appointments in Britain include Birkbeck, Cardiff, Glasgow, KCL, London College of
Fashion, Nottingham Business School, Open University, Oxford, Roehampton, Sheffield, UCL,
Warwick, Westminster, York, and Goldsmiths. Overseas appointments include: An-Najah
University, Nablus, West Bank; Brandenburg Medical School; Dutch Art Institute; Alberto Hurtado
University, Chile; Defensoria del Publico, Buenos Aires, and UBA, Argentina. The work of our
Postgraduate students has appeared in leading international journals including Sociology;
European Journal of Social Theory; Sexualities; BMJ Medical Humanities; International Journal of
Social Research Methodology; Theory, Culture and Society; Geoforum; Journal of Ethnic and
Migration Studies; and Feminist Review.

Equality and Diversity
Our commitment to staff equality in gender, sexuality, race and disability aspires to put into practice
the values of live sociology that we pursue: tackling issues of inequality, marginalization, and
social, economic and political justice within the academy. For example, the Department played a
significant role in Goldsmiths being awarded the Bronze Athena SWAN award in March 2020 for its
work addressing gender-related barriers to career progression. ROBINSON served as a member
on the Self-Assessment Team which wrote the submission which OSWELL chairs and ROBINSON
serves on the College Gender Equality Steering Group, which is now reviewing and assessing
progress on the implementation of the Athena SWAN action plan.

The Department fully supports College-wide commitments to anti-racist action adopted in
response to Goldsmiths Anti-Racist Action’s (GARA) protest. We agree that inaction on racial
injustice is complicity. We appointed GUNARATNAM in 2019 to serve as Department Anti-Racism
Officer (with allocated workload time) to monitor, support and advise on how we have, and can
improve upon, our commitments.

Existing commitments to equality and diversity and further plans for the next REF cycle include the
following:

Staff recruitment and advancement
• We are committed to equality in the recruitment, support, promotion and career advancement
   of all staff. Women make up 68% of Sociology’s Category A eligible staff and seven of our ten
   Professors. We need to do much more in our recruitment and the advancement of BAME and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    LGBTQ+ staff. We need to improve the representativeness of our staff promotions and
    appointments to management and leadership roles.
•   In addition to College-wide processes for auditing equalities data at regular intervals, we will
    conduct a biannual Department equalities audit that covers all staff (fixed-term and
    permanent) by race, sexuality, gender, and disability. The audit will include appointments,
    promotions, leadership and management roles, research centre and unit directorships,
    research grant applications and awards, and publication numbers.
•   We will identify equality initiatives such as workshops to support colleagues who usually do
    not apply for research grants; Research Away Days focused on publishing in a changing
    climate and discussion of, for example, rejections, Open Access publishing, and predatory
    publishing; and hold individual meetings with all staff to identify forms of support and mentoring
    in their production of outputs.
•   We have established a formal Anti-racism Working Group that meets once a term to discuss,
    develop and review our commitments and plans and to support the work of our Anti-Racism
    Officer (GUNARATNAM).
•   We disagree with the casualisation of academic labour and work hard to avoid fixed-term
    T&R contracts (89% of our Category A eligible staff are on permanent contracts). However,
    due to our success in attaining external grants, such positions have been necessary to cover
    the teaching responsibilities of PIs. Nevertheless, many of those who have been appointed to
    these temporary positions have gone on to permanent positions within the department (e.g.,
    ARAGON, BROMBERG, LOVEDAY, RHYS-TAYLOR, ROBINSON, SAVRANSKY) and we
    have supported others to gain employment elsewhere (e.g., REED) or to bid for and receive
    external funds (e.g., YILDIZ’s ESRC New Investigator Grant).
•   We have an equal and transparent workload allocation. All staff, regardless of position, are
    eligible for the same levels of support, such as sabbaticals, Research Development Funds, and
    conference funding. The Department’s workload allocations are based on transparent and
    agreed-to time apportionments, which aim to give all staff equal opportunity to do research.
•   We provide support to all staff and research students with caring responsibilities through, for
    example, flexible and remote working. Staff are supported in their career breaks (unpaid
    leave, sick leave, parental and maternity leave) by having access to Department and College
    research support and are fully supported on their return with adjusted working patterns and
    loads as appropriate. Staff can request and receive reduced fractional contracts as part of a
    phased retirement process.

Staff training
Goldsmiths has improved training and awareness of sexual harassment and violence supported by
a dedicated HR member of staff and a new on-line platform for reporting experiences of sexual
harassment and violence, which also provides support information for staff, students and visitors.
Staff are required to take mandatory training provided by the College on Sexual Violence and
Harassment. We fully support the College commitment to mandatory Race Awareness training and
will ensure all staff comply.

Research, Teaching and Departmental Practices
The Department is committed to eradicating racism and all forms of discrimination within our
research, teaching and departmental practices. To that end, we have or intend to adopt the
following seven commitments:




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1. Support and engage with Goldsmiths’ overhaul of the College curriculum. This will involve
   contributing to a race audit to be undertaken by a Racial Justice Action Group and fund a
   research project on decolonising reading lists (BACK AND GUNARATNAM).
2. Promote and uphold equality in our research by continuing to do research on all forms of
   inequality and ensuring that events organised by our Research Centres and Units include a
   diversity of speakers.
3. Seek to establish and fund a Research Centre on race critical studies co-hosted with other
   Departments.
4. Create a BAME student representative position on our Department Board.
5. Build on a College-wide report on racial justice (Insider-Outsider, 2019), to conduct specific
   research on Department staff and students' experiences of racism and its intersections such
   as a 2020 Department funded study being carried out by staff and PGR students on Sociology
   Students’ Experiences of Study (GREWAL AND GUNARATNAM).
6. Act on the findings and recommendations of the BSA’s recent report on Race and Ethnicity in
   British Sociology (2020).
7. Seek to identify and learn from other departments and colleagues about their creative modes of
   teaching, assessment, and retention to better understand and address attainment gaps.

Equality and Diversity and the REF Submission
Our equality and diversity commitments extend to the preparation of this REF submission. All parts
were prepared and written by sub-groups of the Department Research Committee and in line with
Goldsmiths’ Code of Practice. Outputs submitted by staff for potential inclusion were considered
equally and according to the REF criteria of quality (originality, significance, and rigour). Readers
and Professors (18 staff), as well as two external reviewers, contributed to this review and provided
quantitative scores and qualitative feedback. Alongside further discussions with staff as necessary,
this was the basis on which the final output submission was determined. A sub-group also oversaw
the selection of ICSs and provided support and feedback to authors and wrote this statement
which had input from all staff to ensure an inclusive and representative narrative.

In terms of EDI data, there are no significant differences between the profile of staff (population)
and the profile of total outputs submitted. The profile of staff submitted with 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 outputs
shows that more than half have one output. In relation to ethnicity, which is ‘not known’ for a
relatively large number of staff, most staff who identify as BAME have one or two outputs and most
staff with five outputs identify as White. In relation to this distribution, we note our commitment to
avoid casualisation and T&S contracts and thereby support the research of all staff through T&R
contracts. Furthermore, as a Department we continue to support a wide range of unconventional,
interdisciplinary, practice-based and public engagement work that does not fit the REF criteria and
so has not been included in our submission. At the same time, and prior to this analysis, we
enacted many initiatives to support staff research, such as workshops and mentoring tailored to
ECRs and Away Days on publishing in order to sustain our research culture (Staff Strategy and
Development section). We have also identified further equality initiatives to support the
advancement of BAME and LGBTQ+ staff (Staff Recruitment and Advancement section). The EDI
data provides us with the opportunity to further reflect on these initiatives and more generally how
our REF output profile, while only one measure of our research culture, can become more equally
distributed.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Income sources that support our research include Department, College and external funding
sources. Collectively, all sources facilitate and support research and impact activities and their
interrelations.

Research Centres and Units
The Department allocates £43,000 annually to Centres and Units to stimulate research
collaborations, grant capture, the exchange of ideas across and beyond Goldsmiths including the
dissemination of research to diverse users and publics through myriad events such as exhibitions
and films. Visiting and Postdoctoral Researchers, and PhD students participate and explicitly
contribute to the work of the Centres and Units. All externally funded projects (see below) and
research clusters (see Section 1) are connected to one or more Centre or Unit, which serve as a
focal point for scholarly exchange, support and the identification of new research initiatives, events,
and funding bids.

•   The Centre for Invention and Social Process (CISP), currently led by GUGGENHEIM and
    ROSENGARTEN (with WILKIE from Design), is a space that supports researchers in the
    Science, Technologies and Expertise Cluster. Founded in 2003, it is interdisciplinary and
    engages in the exploration and examination of the role of ‘invention’ – and related terms such
    as creativity, innovation, technology, discovery, change and novelty – in the making of the
    social. CISP organises and conducts conferences, reading groups, seminars, workshops as
    well as supports Doctoral and Postdoctoral researchers, who lead the CISP salon and blog.
•   The Centre for Urban and Community Research (CUCR) was established in 1994 and is a
    space that supports researchers in the Cities, Multicultures and Migration Research Cluster.
    Under the directorship of KNOWLES and then BACK, CUCR has continued its commitment to
    foster sociological knowledge and debates around community, crime, ecology, governance,
    migration, multiculture, sensory life, arts and media in contemporary cities around the world.
    CUCR is connected to and supports teaching in the MA Cities and Society MA. Its Streetsigns
    blog publishes regular contributions from members and Visiting Researchers and hosts events
    year-round and activities such as the ‘Infrastructures’ series of walking seminars, run by PhD
    students.
•   The Unit for Global Justice has been led by BELL, as well as CAMPBELL and GREWAL and
    is a space that supports researchers in the Politics, Rights, and Justice Cluster. Members study
    the challenges of contemporary global justice. It hosts or co-hosts events throughout the year,
    most recently on women’s activism in Sri Lanka and justice issues in relation to Guantanamo
    Bay, and hosts international visiting fellows.
•   The Centre for the Study of Global Media and Democracy, co-led by NASH and FENTON
    (Media, Communications and Cultural Studies (MCCS)) was established in 2007 and is a
    space that supports researchers in the Politics, Rights, and Justice Cluster. This
    interdisciplinary Centre brings together researchers from Departments of MCCS, Sociology and
    Politics. It hosts public lectures and debates, conferences (e.g., ‘Social Media Activism’, funded
    by The Sociological Review Foundation), film series, and mentors annual post-doctoral fellows.
•   The Centre for Feminist Research is a hub for feminist research that cuts across Goldsmiths’
    departments and is a space that supports researchers in the Feminism and Anti-racism
    Cluster. Initially launched in 2013, GUNARATNAM was co-director from 2016-2018 and
    PUWAR from 2020; many Sociology staff are active members. It is a hub for building and
    sharing research on intersectional and interdisciplinary feminist and queer studies. In addition
    to seminars, workshops, conferences, an annual lecture, film screenings and reading groups,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    the CFR also runs the Feminist Postgraduate Forum that brings together MA and doctoral
    students working on gender and sexuality and the Feminist Pedagogy Network that facilitates
    conversations on teaching and learning.
•   The Methods Lab, co-led by COLEMAN and JUNGNICKEL and previously by MOTAMEDI-
    FRASER and PUWAR, aims to make space for developing and experimenting with methods
    and practices that can enrich Sociology’s response to contemporary changing social worlds.
    The Lab supports researchers connected to the Practice Research and Inventive Methods
    Cluster. With links to the MA and PhD in Visual Sociology, it supports critical and
    creative practices through seminars, master classes, and practice-research workshops and
    hosts annual events such as lectures and exhibitions. In spring 2020, the Lab produced a
    webpage on resources for working with digital and online methods for conducting research
    during a pandemic.
•   The Centre for Philosophy and Critical Thought (CPCT), co-led by TOSCANO and NG
    (Department of English and Creative Writing), intervenes in and contributes to the changing
    landscape of philosophical research. CPCT supports researchers in the Critical Social and
    Cultural Theory Cluster. It runs an annual lecture and year-round seminars and workshops
    such as that organised by BROMBERG in 2017-18 on ‘Women on the Verge of a Philosophical
    Breakdown.’
•   The Unit of Play (UoP), led by SAVRANSKY, is a transdisciplinary unit dedicated to the
    exploration of new ideas, problems, and possibilities that demand creative, playful, and
    collaborative forms of experimentation. UoP is a space that supports researchers in the Critical
    Social and Cultural Theory Cluster. During this REF period, it organised a series of workshops
    (with CISP) on the question of ‘speculation’ in social and cultural research, hosted events on
    the concept of ‘problems’ and a symposium series in 2019 on ‘After Progress’ (co-led by
    SAVRANSKI with Craig Lundy (Nottingham Trent University)). This led to a three year
    public lecture series on ‘Pluralistic Variations’.

Research Development, Administration Funding and Facilities
The Department annually allocates £15,000 to a research development fund available to all staff to
cover costs associated with developing research projects and bids. An annual conference fund is
available to support all staff with up to £750 to attend conferences for the dissemination and
sharing of research. The Department also has dedicated funds for Research Administrators (1.5
FTE) who support staff pre- and post-award. College level funding is also annually provided to
support research development, bidding, training, impact development, public engagement, and
post-award management. The Department is principally housed across two buildings, which
accommodate staff, administrators, Visiting Researchers, Postdoctoral and PhD researchers
(including the Visual Sociology Lab), as well as seminar and meeting rooms. The Department also
has use of campus lecture, seminar and meeting rooms, the on-campus Curzon cinema for
screenings and the Kingsland corridor exhibition space of the Richard Hoggart Building.

Externally funded research: projects, fellowships, studentships
We increased our research income during this period from a total spend of £3.5 million (REF
2014) to over £10.38 million (2013-20). We have acquired grants during the last 18 months not yet
fully represented in this spending figure (over £2.2 million for projects led by BENSON,
JUNGNICKEL and YILDIZ). Funding both supported research and enabled forms of impact that
require long-term and sustained research and covered the cost of collaborations and engagements
with users, partners, and publics nationally and internationally. The funding enabled us to hire
additional staff (FTCs and Postdocs) and support other Department research and impact activities.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also diversified our external funding sources, which now includes programmes of AHRC,
ESRC, GCRF, NIHR, British Academy, Leverhulme, Wellcome Trust, ERC, Marie-Sklodowska
Curie, Horizon 2020 and numerous charitable foundations. Over half of staff in REF2014 held
grants at some point in the cycle; for REF2021, this increased to 65%.

EU Funding (£7 million)
Nine ERC funded projects (£6.9m) were led by PIs in the Department, which supported large scale
projects and sustained research over periods of five to seven years, with postdoctoral researchers
and in most cases multi-country studies: CAMPBELL’s Gender of Justice (ERC Starting; 2013-17),
and follow-on project, Transforming Gender Justice (ERC Proof of Concept, 2017-19) (see ICS);
GABRYS’s Citizen Sense (ERC Starting, 2013-2019); IMRIE’s Universal Design (ERC Advanced,
2014-17); JUNGNICKEL’s Politics of Patents: Re-imagining Citizenship via Clothing Inventions
1820-2020 (ERC Consolidator (2019-24); NEYLAND’s Market-Based Solutions to Techno-
Scientific Problems (MISTS, ERC Consolidator, 2013-18); NOLAS’s Connectors: An International
Study into the Development of Children’s Everyday Practices of Participation in Circuits of Social
Action (ERC Consolidator, 2016-19) and follow-on project, the Children’s Photography Archive
(ERC Proof of Concept, 2019-20); and, RUPPERT’s Peopling Europe: How Data Make a People
(ARITHMUS) (ERC Consolidator, 2014-20) (See ICS). Additionally, ROSENGARTEN was UK PI
on the EUROPACH project, Disentangling European HIV/AIDS Policies: Activism, Citizenship and
Health (EU HERA and numerous national funders including AHRC, 2016-19).

UKRI Funding, Charities, Foundations and Trusts (£3.38 million)
Twelve UKRI projects were led or co-led by staff: BACK Co-I on Bass Culture (AHRC); BELL led
Re-Emerging Pasts and Documentality & Display (ESRC and British Academy Sustainable
Development Programme) and with her Chilean Co-I, won the 2018 NEWTON Chair’s prize, extending
their research to Mexico; BENSON PI of BrExpats: Freedom of Movement, Citizenship and Brexit in
the Lives of Britons Resident in the EU-27 (ESRC); GUNARATNAM and PUWAR Co-Is on the
globalGRACE project (AHRC, PI JOHNSON, Anthropology) and GRECO Co-I of a multi-partner
clinical study trialling an intervention for patients with persistent physical symptoms (NIHR).
GREWAL PI on the Education in Conflict project (AHRC GCRF) and GUNARATNAM and
JACKSON Co-Is on the Mapping Immigration Controversy project (ESRC). JUNGNICKEL PI of the
Bikes and Bloomers project (ESRC) and KAKER PI of the Uncertainty and Insecurity of Tenure:
Developing Infrastructures of Care and Resistance in Islamabad, Pakistan (Goldsmiths GCRF).
Three projects were funded by the ESRC Future Research Leaders programme: BENSON’s Self-
Building; JACKSON’s The Choreography of Everyday Multiculture; and KRAUSE’s Triaging
Values.

Staff received prestigious fellowships, led projects and research events supported by a range of
non-governmental funders.

BA/Leverhulme and Wellcome (12): BENSON’s Britain and its Overseas Citizens from
Decolonisation to Brexit (BA Mid-Career Fellowship); BENSON and JACKSON’s Above Street
Level (BA/Leverhulme); COLEMAN’s Mediating Presents (Leverhulme Research Fellowship);
FARRIS’s Corporate Care and Migrant Workers in Times of Crisis and Austerity (Leverhulme
Research Fellowship); GRECO’s international workshops on Biopolitics and Psychosomatics
(Wellcome Trust and CRASSH); GREWAL’s Building Peaceful, Democratic Communities (British
Academy Sustainable Development Fund); GROMMÉ’s Valuing Life in Europe's Overseas
Territories (BA/Leverhulme); GUNARATNAM’s Cultures of Consent: Examining the Complexity of

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sexual Misconduct and Power within Universities (BA/Leverhulme); KNOWLES’s Serious Money:
a Mobile Investigation of Plutocratic London (Leverhulme Major Fellowship); LOVEDAY’s
Casualising the Academy (BA/Leverhulme); and ROSENGARTEN and SAVRANSKY’s work on
interdisciplinary modes of collaboration across the social and biosciences (BA/Leverhulme) and a
follow-up international event organised with NEYLAND (Brocher Foundation).
Non-governmental organisations, foundations and trusts (7): BACK and STONEMAN’s local
urban regeneration project in Bellingham, Lewisham with Phoenix Housing (Fellowship Inn,
Heritage Lottery); FLEETWOODS’s Crime & Control Ethnography Symposium (British Society of
Criminology); GUGGENHEIM's project Taste! (TU Berlin, DE); GUNARATNAM’s Cartographies of
Hospitality (Knut and Alice Wallenburg Foundation); SASSATELLI’s Cosmopolitanism in British
Representation at the Venice Art Biennale (Paul Mellon Fellowship); SAVRANSKY’S After
Progress symposium series (Sociological Review Foundation); and STONEMAN’s commissioned
research on LGBTQ+ peoples’ access to safe and affordable housing (Clarion Housing).

Postdoctoral Fellowships
The Department hosted and mentored five Postdoctoral Fellows whose projects were externally
funded: DENNIS in relation to CISP (Mildred Blaxter, Wellcome Trust Research Fellowship);
FARRIS (Marie Sklodowska Curie Fellowship), now a Senior Lecturer in the Department; HARRIS
in relation to the Methods Lab (ESRC SeNSS Postdoctoral Researcher), now a Leverhulme Early
Career Fellow, Birkbeck; ROTTENBERG (Marie Sklodowska Curie Fellow), now an Associate
Professor, University of Nottingham; and, UPTON (Mildred Blaxter).

Doctoral Studentships
The Department hosted and supervised eight ESRC studentships awarded through the DTC and
then DTP; four AHRC studentships (awarded through CHASE); two Wellcome Trust studentships
hosted by CISP; one British Council studentship (HESPAL - Higher Education Scholarship
Palestine scheme); and one funded through JUNGNICKEL’s ERC project. We supported
international students in their applications to funding bodies in their own countries, have hosted
students funded by CONICYT (Chilean Ministry of Education) and by the Turkish Ministry of
Education. The Department currently has no internally funded PhD studentships, but is constantly
exploring ways of enhancing available funding for our students such as including PhD positions in
grant proposals when possible.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Staff made major contributions to sustaining and developing the discipline and extending
Sociology’s interdisciplinary engagements, both within the UK and internationally. They did so by
maintaining relationships with a wide range of non-academic users, partners, and publics including:
civil society organisations; thinktanks; policy-makers, government experts and members of
parliament; industry and business; and digital, broadcast and print media. Staff are supported—
through training, time, and internal and external resources—to work with diverse groups to deliver
research that has impact, reach and significance. In the following ways, they demonstrate how
sociology makes a difference within and beyond the academy:

Engagements with research users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop impact
We engaged and developed relationships with different users, partners, and publics in sustained
and enduring ways, in many instances made possible by externally funded projects. Four of those
projects make up our Impact Case Studies (ICS), which addressed and intervened in major

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
issues facing contemporary societies such as Brexit. They achieved impact through multi-year and
multi-method research and sustained collaborations, which led to expert testimony and advice to
government departments, parliaments, and practitioners as well as professionals in the IT,
transport, and security industries.

The impacts exemplified in our ICSs were also realised in numerous other projects specifically
those that experiment with and further develop inventive and collaborative sociological
methods that achieve impact through engagements with users, partners, and publics. For
example:
• Connectors, led by NOLAS, uses multimodal ethnography and creative and visual methods
   that engage children across three global cities and led to the creation of the Children’s
   Photography Archive, which disseminates research to non-academics through creative
   outputs; GUGGENHEIM’S collaborative sandtables with artists, experts and publics; various
   projects on disasters (Turner Contemporary, Delphina Foundation); and JUNGNICKEL’s
   storytelling through inventive women’s cyclewear and sewing workshops as practice research
   events.
• Staff work with colleagues in the Anthropology Department on the globalGRACE project, which
   involves collaborative and non-hierarchical partnerships with NGOs in South Africa and the
   UK. GUNARATNAM is partnering with academics, NGOs, sex workers, and the public in South
   Africa on sex work, gendered inequalities and wellbeing; and PUWAR with professionals in the
   museum and galleries sector.
• Impact and engagement approaches are being taken forward in JUNGNICKEL’s Politics of
   Patents project (ERC Consolidator 2019-24) which combines sewing, quantitative analysis and
   archival methods of practice research, and the creation of a clothing invention reconstruction
   lab to work with sewing collectives, feminist/queer/non-binary clothes inventors; and
   BENSON’s Rebordering Britain and Britons After Brexit (2021-23), which includes working with
   policy makers, civil society and grassroots migrant-led organisations.

Our research also reached myriad publics through creative modes of dissemination including
the following examples:
• The production of films (e.g., BELL, JACKSON, JUNGNICKEL) including SAVRANSKY’s
    collaboration with artist Sonia Levy on a film installation, For the Love of Corals: An Ecology of
    Perhaps, which was showcased at the Critical Zones exhibition (curated by Bruno Latour and
    Peter Weibel) at the ZKM | Centre for Arts and Media, Karlsruhe, DE, and then at the
    Heidelberger Kunstverein Exhibition on Water (2020).
• The production of podcasts and blogs (e.g., BACK, BENSON, NOLAS) including blogs by
    Centre members for the series CISP Online and CUCR Streetsigns.
• Presentations at public forums and lectures outside the academy (BELL, PUWAR) including
    DAY’s talks at churches.
• Media broadcasts, publications and alternative media such as contributions to BBC 4’s
    Thinking Allowed programme (BACK, BELL, COLEMAN, BENSON, KNOWLES) including
    LOVEDAY’s discussion of attitudes to social mobility within higher education. Staff have also
    contributed to BBC News (BENSON), BBC’s ‘Countryfile’ (JUNGNICKEL) and
    OpenDemocracy (NASH, RUPPERT).
• Curating/or participating in exhibitions and other forms of outreach to non-academic publics
    (e.g., BACK, BENSON, COLEMAN, GRECO, GUGGENHEIM, RUPPERT, SAVRANSKY)
    including MOTAMEDI-FRASER and PUWAR’s ‘Migrating Dreams and Nightmares (2015), an



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   exhibition that brought the words and images of Berger’s A Seventh Man (1975) to the walls of
   the academy to examine the hopes and fears of contemporary migrants and refugees.

Expert advice and consultation
Our staff have served as experts on government task forces and provided expert testimony and
evidence to parliamentary inquiries including:
• The Algorithms in Decision-Making Inquiry, House of Commons Science and Technology
    Committee, UK (NEYLAND).
• Citizens’ Rights Inquiry, House of Commons EU Justice Subcommittee, UK (BENSON).
• Select Committee on Sexual Violence in Conflict, House of Lords, UK; Committee on Women's
    Rights and Gender Equality and Committee on Legal Affairs, EU Parliament; Prevent Sexual
    Violence Initiative, FCO, UK (CAMPBELL).
• Expert evidence on anti-Semitism for overseas trials in South Africa (2017) and USA (in 2019)
    (HIRSH).
• Expert advice to and membership on Eurostat’s Big Data Task Force (2014-18) (RUPPERT).

Staff also perform advisory roles and have relationships and partnerships with external
organisations including:
• The research advisory groups of independent, non-governmental public bodies including the
    Sentencing Council (FLEETWOOD); Family Rehabilitation Centre of Sri Lanka (GREWAL); and
    Office of the Children's Commissioner (NOLAS).
• Relationships with ThinkTanks, Third Sector/Civil Society Organisations and NGOs
    including: Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Migration Policy Institute Europe (BENSON);
    UN Women, European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights, Women's Court for the
    former Yugoslavia, WILPF (CAMPBELL); Headway East London (GRECO); Family
    Rehabilitation Centre, Sri Lanka and Law and Society Trust, Sri Lanka (GREWAL);
    Commission for Countering Extremism (HIRSH); Karachi URBANLab (KAKER); Runnymede
    Trust (KNOWLES); Coventry Society City of Litter Campaign (PUWAR); International HIV/AIDS
    Alliance (ROSENGARTEN); and NGOs at the World Economic Forum in Davos, CH in 2017
    (RUPPERT).
• Relationships and partnerships with industry, cultural and creative sectors including:
    IPSOS Mori (FARRIS); Media Diversified (GUNARATNAM); Women Leaders in Museums
    Network (PUWAR); and the Horniman Museum (ROOKE).

Research collaborations
Staff lead and participate in national and international academic projects that establish enduring
relations between UK Sociology and numerous disciplines and institutions around the world. These
include seven major international academic collaborations (BACK, GUGGENHEIM,
GUNARATNAM, NEYLAND, PUWAR, ROOKE) including ROSENGARTEN’s work on the
EUROPACH project, Disentangling European HIV/AIDS Policies: Activism, Citizenship and Health
with Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, DE; University of Basel, CH; and Jagiellonian University, PO
plus civil society partners in each country.

Collaborations also included leading and/or participating in national and international networks
(BACK, CAMPBELL, COLEMAN, GREWAL, FARRIS, KNOWLES) including BELL’s contributions
to the establishment of a scholarly network on social aspects of memory with colleagues in USA,
Chile, Argentina and Mexico (CONICYT funded, Chile) and ROBINSON’s membership on the Early
Career Urban Researchers Network (NYLON).

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Indicators of wider influence
Staff lead and serve on major national and international journals and book series including being
Editors or Co/Associate Editors of five journals: The Sociological Review (BENSON,
JACKSON); Feminist Review (GUNARATNAM); Entanglements (NOLAS); Big Data & Society
(RUPPERT); and Identities (ST LOUIS). We are also Editorial Board members on 23
international journals that cover general to specialist and interdisciplinary areas. Eight staff are
book series editors including the BSA’s 21st Century Standpoints, Polity Press and
Routledge Advances in Ethnography series (BACK); and participate in publishing initiatives
that seek to produce high-quality, peer-reviewed, open access publications, including Mattering
Press (GUGGENHEIM), and Goldsmiths Press (BACK, COLEMAN, GABRYS, GUNARATNAM).

Staff serve on national and international grant committees, including the ESRC (BENSON,
CAMPBELL, DAY, OSWELL, RUPPERT) and AHRC (JUNGNICKEL) Peer Review Colleges, the
Wellcome Trust HSS Expert Review Group (MOTAMEDI-FRASER) and three ERC Starting Grant
SH3 panels (RUPPERT).

Beginning in 2017, KNOWLES directed the BA’s Cities & Infrastructure programme and in 2019
was appointed Director of the Urban Infrastructures of Well-Being Programme, a £1.5 billion GCRF
fund. With this prestigious appointment KNOWLES is supporting 23 teams of researchers and
practitioners from the UK and 20 different counties across Latin America, Asia, Africa, and the
Middle East.

Receiving Fellowships and Prizes
Fellowships held by staff recognise our contributions and include the Academy of the Social
Sciences (BACK; KNOWLES); Royal Geographic Society (KNOWLES); and Royal Society of Arts
(NEYLAND). Staff have been recipients of international prizes and appointments including:
BELL the Newton Prize, which recognises excellent research and impact in international
collaboration (2018); FLEETWOOD the British Society of Criminology book prize (2015);
GUGGENHEIM the Amsterdamska Award (EASST, 2014); and, KRAUSE the BSA Philip Abrams
Memorial Prize (2015). ROSENGARTEN was made Honorary Professor in the Centre for Social
Research in Health, UNSW, AU; and RUPPERT, the Honorary van Doorn Chair at the University of
Rotterdam, NL (2018). Staff have also been nominated and shortlisted for prestigious book prizes
including the BSA/ Thinking Allowed Ethnography Award (JACKSON, KNOWLES).

Delivering National and International Invited Keynotes
Staff have been invited and delivered keynotes at over 100 national and international conferences
and events that recognise our significant contributions to Sociology and beyond. Below we name
one keynote for each staff person and the total each delivered since 2013 to illustrate the range
and international reach of our recognition:
• BACK (15) including the Antipode RGS-IBG Lecture at the Royal Geographical Society to mark
    the 50th anniversary of the journal, UK (2019); BELL (7) including the United Nations
    Programme for Development, NE (2016); BENSON (6) including the European Sociological
    Association, UK (2019); CAMPBELL (3) including the ‘Against Our Will’ Forty Years After:
    Exploring the Field of Sexual Violence in Armed Conflict, DE (2015); COLEMAN (6) at the
    Transmediale Festival, DE (2019); DAY (4) at the Dutch Association for the Study of Religion,
    NL (2015); and, FLEETWOOD at Counter-Narratives of Punishment and Criminal Justice, DE
    (2018).

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   FARRIS (5) including Gender Politics in Turbulent Times, DE (2017); GRECO (5) at
    Translation in Medicine, AT (2016); GUGGENHEIM (4) including at the Conference on
    Comparison, DE (2019); GREWAL (6) including Everyday Life of Human Rights Law, PT
    (2018); GUNARATNAM (3) at Hospitality, Hostility and Everything in Between in an Era of
    Forced Displacements, SE (2019); HIRSH at the Academic Engagement Conference, US
    (2016); JUNGNICKEL at Invisible Design, PO (2014); KNOWLES (10) including Megacities at
    the Moscow Urban Forum, RU (2018); MOTAMEDI-FRASER at Environmental Change and
    Ritualised Relationships with the Other-Than-Human World, US (2019); and, NASH (2)
    including Rethinking Political Sociology, CL (2017).
•   NEYLAND (4) including the Arts Meets Radical Openness festival, AT (2016); NOLAS at the
    European Sociological Association, UK (2019); PUWAR at the Gender and Cultures of
    In/Equality in Europe: Visions, Poetics, Strategies, NL (2019); ROOKE at the American
    International University, UK (2018); RUPPERT (10) including at the Annual meeting of the
    Dutch and Flemish Sociological Associations, NL (2018); SAVRANSKY (2) at the Annual
    Conference of 4S and European Association for the Study of Science and Technology
    (EASST), ES (2016); and TOSCANO at the University of Maryland Film Studies Symposium,
    US (2018).

Serving on Scientific Committees of Major Conferences
Staff have organised or served on the scientific committees of major academic conferences.
International (3) include ‘Against Our Will’: Forty Years After: Exploring the Field of Sexual
Violence in Armed Conflict Conference, DE (2015) (CAMPBELL); EASST Conference, UK (2018)
(JUNGNICKEL); and, Impact of Social Sciences and Humanities for a European Research Agenda
Conference, AT (2018) (RUPPERT). National (7) include Undisciplining, The Sociological Review
Conference (2018) (BENSON, JACKSON); BSA Sociology of Religion Annual Conferences (2014,
2018) (DAY); Historical Materialism Annual Conferences (2016, 2017) (FARRIS); BA Cities and
Infrastructures Conference (2016) (KNOWLES); and Paradoxes of Capitalism and Human Rights
(2015) (NASH).

Holding Visiting Appointments
Staff have held over 20 visiting appointments across the world including South and Central
America, East Asia, Australia and Oceania, North America, and Europe such as FARRIS’s
appointments at the University of Sydney, AU; University of Cagliari, IT; Fudan University
Shanghai, CI; and Princeton, US. They take active roles in subject associations and research
networks such as DAY’s contributions to the BSA Sociology of Religion Study Group and HIRSH’s
to the ESA Research Network on Ethnic Relations, Racism and Anti-Semitism.

Final Reflections on our Research Environment
The recognition of our contributions to the discipline is evidenced by the range of national and
international keynotes we deliver; the journals and conference organising committees on which we
serve; the fellowships, prizes and visiting academic appointments we receive; and the grant panels
on which we serve, including KNOWLES as director of two major funding programmes of the BA.
In these and other ways we have not only been recognised by our peers but have made significant
contributions to interdisciplinary research in the social sciences and humanities nationally and
internationally.

This statement exemplifies how the Department practices an understanding of live sociology
through the study of, and critical interventions in, contemporary social issues. Notably, we

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
demonstrate how sociology can make a difference by tackling issues of inequality and social
justice across our different practices: not only in our research and teaching but also in our very
departmental practices. We have done much to advance the careers of women and research on
gender, equality, and diversity and are committed to doing more in relation to ECRs, BAME and
LGBTQ+ staff. From practices of recruitment, workload allocations, and sabbaticals, to curriculum
reviews, organising anti-racism events and working groups, we have sought to critically reflect
upon and tackle inequalities. But we recognise much more can and needs to be done. To that end
we have adopted seven forward looking commitments (Section 2) through which we seek to further
address inequalities in the research, teaching and departmental practices that make up our
research environment.




                                                                                         Page 21
