Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: A4: Psychology, Psychiatry, and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 The Unit of Assessment (UoA) sits within the department of Psychology and Counselling at
 University of Chichester (UoC). In 2012, with HEFCE Strategic Development Funding, we
 established the People and Well-Being in the Everyday Research Centre (POWER Centre). The
 POWER Centre has acted as a focal point for well-being research and funding generated by
 Psychology staff members, and for counselling and professional development activity conducted
 by counselling staff members. All members of the UoA actively contribute to the Centre. In 2018,
 the department merged with Departments of Education and Social Work, with Psychology and
 Counselling leading the creation and management of the newly formed Institute of Education,
 Health, and Social Sciences, fostering an extensive multidisciplinary research focus.

 The POWER Centre acts as the central structure and framework within which UoA staff and
 postgraduate students conduct research. The Centre is further broken down into 8 specifically
 focused research laboratories, each supported by physical infrastructure and equipment, and the
 integrated dynamism and multidisciplinary focus of the Centre. Each lab includes 1 or more staff,
 postgraduate students, and undergraduate research assistants, along with national and
 international collaborators, providing a focused research stream supported by internal and
 external funding. During the current REF period, this research setting has resulted in over 100
 top-quartile peer-reviewed publications, and impact-related projects. The laboratories and
 Principal Investigators (PIs) are described below:

 COGNITIVE AGEING AND DEMENTIA RESEARCH (Pereira) – developing innovative
 techniques for early identification of neurodegenerative processes, and positively influencing
 personal activities of daily living for both healthy and cognitively impaired older adults.
 FUNCTIONAL BEHAVIOURAL SCIENCE (Tyndall) – bridging Educational and Clinical
 Psychology, including using Relational Frame Theory and derived stimulus relation to explore
 how language and cognition function in development of psychopathology, processes underlying
 talk and mindfulness-based therapies (e.g., Acceptance and Commitment Therapy), and
 methods to enhance educational attainment.
 COMPUTERISED INTERVENTIONS FOR BEHAVIOUR AND EMOTION REGULATION
 (Gladwin) – using neurostimulation and online interventions such as cognitive bias modification
 to improve mental health, by developing and critically testing complementary computerised
 therapy forms targeting unconscious and involuntary processes involved in anxiety/addiction, or
 by enhancing brain activity and neuroplasticity.
 HEALTH COMMUNICATION AND BEHAVIOUR CHANGE (Churchill) – understanding
 antecedents of health-related behaviour, encouraging people to be more accepting of health
 promotion campaigns, and elucidating moderating influences of personality (e.g., regulatory
 focus and impulsivity) in the relationship between persuasive health messages and behaviour
 change.
 BEING (Banerjee) – examining effects of mindfulness-based interventions, maladaptive thinking
 styles (e.g., rumination and worry), barriers to being mindful, and enhancing mindfulness
 engagement to improve mental health and well-being.
 CHILD AND ADOLESCENT SOCIO-EMOTIONAL DEVELOPMENT (Burkitt) – examining
 emotional, cognitive, and social development to better understand how children and adolescents
 experience and process social emotion information, what enables them to process and express
 emotions (e.g., drawing), and how this processing relates to well-being and learning outcomes.
 WELL-BEING AND CREATIVITY IN PERFORMANCE (Clements) – exploring individual and
 environmental characteristics underpinning development of talent and expertise in relation to
 psychological and creative demands of various performance domains including dance,
 education, gymnastics, and music/theatre.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CULTURE AND SOCIAL COGNITION (Spina) – focusing on how individual and cultural
 differences (e.g., British, German, Egyptian, Chinese, and Japanese) in people’s use of
 cognitive heuristics can cause biases in judgment and decision-making processes across
 contexts (e.g., health/financial), and corresponding behavioural effects.

 Unit Research and Impact Strategy
 Our UoA has implemented a forward-looking strategy to:
     • Increase high quality outputs
     • Maximise impact of research by integrating current strengths in health and well-being
     • Develop strategic links with neighbouring organisations (e.g., St Richards Hospital,
        Chichester).

 The UoA operates under research governance set by UoC, including the Research Ethics
 Committee (REC), Research Ethics Policy (REP), and Research Office. Academics within the
 UoA oversee ethics decisions for research students, the Head of Department oversees ethics
 decisions for UoA staff, and any projects surpassing ethics thresholds proceed to REC, which
 may withhold approval for research not in compliance with the REP, and remove items
 contravening the REP (publicly available through the University research repository or other
 media).

 Our aim is to conduct original world-leading research to improve health and well-being, taking
 individual differences into account, and to use our research to engage individuals and groups
 locally, nationally, and internationally, enabling a direct and positive contribution to the
 health and well-being of our surrounding society at large. Consistent with this, we have
 worked closely with UoC Open Access policy/provisions, to ensure all relevant outputs were
 available on our University Open Access platform within required deadlines.

 Success indicators from our existing strategy over the assessment period include:
 • Step change in publication of over 100 empirical research outputs in higher impact peer-
    reviewed international journals with increased citation rates
 • Impact case studies based on those publications with further reach and significance
 • 64 invitations to present research at prestigious international conferences
 • Formation and maintenance of 23 collaborative international research partnerships
 • Thriving postgraduate research training programme
 • Marked upturn in grant-seeking activity and corresponding increase in external research
    income
 • Creation of 8 active research laboratories
 • Purchase of range of advanced research equipment

 Our UoA strategy is synchronous with UoC’s broader objective of developing a comprehensive
 and diverse portfolio of health-related programmes and activities, and includes the following
 objectives:

 •   Recruit and develop high quality research active staff, as evidenced by all UoA staff
     being submitted to both REF2014 and REF2021. All our researchers lecture, and all
     lecturers conduct research and contribute to REF.
 •   Create capabilities for a diverse range of expertise and research methodologies. Staff
     utilise a variety of quantitative and qualitative research designs and specialist equipment.
 •   Establish a research profile focused on critical issues facing society today. We have
     maximised real-world impact of combined skills, capabilities, and resources by establishing a
     departmental theme of Health and Well-being.
 •   Establish research labs to maximise synergy with existing national and international
     contacts, along with local organisations we have established relationships with (e.g., St
     Richards Hospital and NHS Sussex). Each lab is based around a significant body of high-
     quality research activity and outputs, including work on:


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •    Trans-cranial Direct Current Stimulation to develop and critically test complementary
             computerised therapy forms to reduce anxiety and/or addiction-related behaviours
             (Gladwin)
         • Ground-breaking strategies to enhance prospective memory in aging populations
             (e.g., dementia/Alzheimer’s) in conjunction with Harold Kidd Unit, Sussex Partnership
             NHS Foundation Trust, and Memory Assessment Service (Pereira)
         • Developing and applying online cognitive intervention programmes (SMART) in
             international primary and secondary schools to increase individual IQ by 1 standard
             deviation within 3 months, correspondingly enhancing educational outcomes
             (Tyndall)
         • Mindfulness-based interventions to remedy maladaptive thinking styles, including
             Mindfulness for Schools project in collaboration with local schools to improve
             education experiences (Banerjee)
 •   Expand external research collaborations. Staff have fostered and maintained high-quality
     national and international research collaborations, e.g., by presenting and chairing symposia
     at prestigious national and international conferences in Italy, Japan, Australia, and South
     Africa.
 •   Build and maintain key institutional relationships. Staff have actively sought to establish
     relationships with local organisations to enhance the vitality and sustainability of our research
     environment, providing a rich seam of research across the assessment period, and
     promising to deliver more over coming years. Perhaps most notably, our ambitious
     programme involves preparing to submit a major bid in collaboration with St Richard’s
     Hospital (rated Outstanding for clinical care), with which we have built a robust working
     relationship since 2011, when we began a collaborative project on diabetes management by
     patients and service providers. The partnership has also allowed us to create a new
     professional doctorate programme relevant to hospital staff needs.
 •   Fostering multidisciplinary research. Staff play mentoring roles across departments,
     allowing us to conduct high quality multidisciplinary studies. Such collaborations improve the
     impact from resulting outputs, both in terms of significance and reach.
 •   Increasing capital investment in research and skills development. The UoA is now
     focusing on increasing external income generation by submitting more high-quality bids in
     collaboration with established contacts.

 Ongoing and Future Strategy
 Over the next 5 years, we aim to continue our rapid upward trajectory by maintaining and
 building upon our hitherto successful strategy, developing more collaborative partnerships to
 further boost research productivity, scaling up the volume and impact of projects, and hardwiring
 multidisciplinary perspectives into most activities.

 Increasing research funding
 With a successful research base established, we are increasingly prioritising securing
 prestigious research funding, to diversify the methods and equipment deployed within our
 research designs. We aim to generate research opportunities and income through bids internally
 and externally (e.g., widening POWER Centre partnerships to include Western Sussex Hospitals
 NHS Trust and Sussex Community NHS Trust). Representative examples of recent bid-related
 activity include:
 • Working with Research Design Service Southeast (who support researchers to develop high-
     quality grant applications for submission to the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
     and other national funding programmes) to prepare a bid for patient/public involvement on a
     Mindfulness in Schools project, and a corresponding bid through NIHR.
 • Developing a bid with colleagues at Royal Holloway (University of London) and the
     University of Sussex, to examine precursors and well-being outcomes of complex emotion
     processing across childhood.
 • Working with local care providers (e.g., Dementia Support/Sage House) on Care
     Collaboration Grants to develop, implement, and evaluate a model of collaboration between
     care providers and researchers, improving clinical practice while advancing scientific theory.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Increasing research impact
 The partnerships described above will enable a substantial increase in the reach and
 significance of our research, providing enormous potential for improving the quality of people’s
 lives. Working with the NHS across the UK more broadly and in collaboration with international
 health and well-being organisations, the UoA aims to significantly improve the quality of care
 delivered and the impact on health and well-being. In turn, this will increase the number and
 range of individuals we can reach with impact projects using psychological research to shift
 public behaviours and thinking patterns in ways that benefit such individuals, and society at
 large. For example, we are currently:
 • Assessing impacts of ways to measure mixed emotion in childhood with educational
     psychologists allied to West Sussex County Council and Islington SENCO teams.
 • Working with international partners at Institute of Molecular Medicine (University of Lisbon,
     Portugal), and Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour (Radboud University,
     Netherlands), on developing of a collaborative bid to design, validate, and implement a
     novel, time-efficient measure of cognitive decline easy to implement in clinical assessment.
 • Collaborating with University of Leipzig Department of Medical Psychology to validate health
     and well-being measures for physicians to use, enabling them to consider individual
     differences in research and patient treatment. 2 health-specific regulatory focus measures
     have already been translated and validated using large representative samples of the
     national population (4,000+ people), and physicians have been regularly contacting us about
     using the measures effectively in-patient care.

 Increasing quality/quantity of multidisciplinary research
 Research across disciplines can serve to expand the range of problems addressed, increase
 creativity, and lead to broader, more inclusive perspectives. Working with colleagues from a
 diverse range of disciplines including Medicine, Social Work and Policy, Education, and Health
 Economics, our UoA is developing a large-scale project to support clinicians in identifying and
 improving (or removing) expensive, inefficient treatments that do not produce tangible benefits.
 From an economic perspective, especially in the wake of Covid-19, demand pressures on acute
 beds are constant, making opportunities to improve quality of care and shorten hospital stays
 ever more important.

 Increasing number of research-active staff
 To recruit further staff, we are adding Psychology courses that fit synergistically within our
 Institute, including BSc’s in Counselling, Forensic, and Educational, MSc Heath, and a
 professional doctorate. Such efforts are already proving immensely fruitful, with a 3-fold increase
 in undergraduate and postgraduate student numbers successfully completing our Psychology
 degrees between 2014 and 2020, including a 25% increase during the Covid-19 lockdown.

 In turn, these developments allow us selectively to appoint new research-active staff to
 complement and build upon existing strengths. Incoming staff will increase the diversity and
 range of our collective expertise and research. Increasing the number and range of lab specialty
 areas will foment greater cross-fertilisation of research interests and activities, and serve to
 increase opportunities for securing external funding to increase the impact of our projects.

 2. People

                           Research Staff Strategy and Development

 Members of staff and students play an essential role in stimulating our interdisciplinary and
 collaborative culture, driving both world-leading research, along with research-led and research-
 informed teaching. UoA efforts from 2010 to 2018 focused on rapidly developing a successful
 and sustainable Psychology course (moved up the Guardian subject league tables from 61st in
 2014 to 8th in 2020), allowing for the further recruitment of research-active staff. Remaining



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attention was devoted towards developing a thriving research culture and recruiting a stable
 cohort of successful postgraduate students.

 In REF2014, the UoA was ranked in the top 3 universities in UK for Research Intensity (with all
 staff submitted). Subsequently, the UoA has continued this strategic and rapid upward
 trajectory, consolidated and energised through 2 half and 1 full academic appointments
 (Banerjee, Clements, and Gladwin), 3 academic promotions (professorship (Chmiel) and
 readerships (Burkitt and Pereira)), annual internal investment for research support, and active
 PhD student recruitment. Chmiel retired (2017) and Gladwin left (2020), and the 2 half posts
 became full posts. Thus, on the REF2021 census date, we had 7 full-time permanent staff, all
 submitted to REF2021.

 Staff have been strategically recruited to provide expertise across the full sweep of current,
 cutting edge research areas, with notable strengths in Biological, Cognitive, Cross-Cultural,
 Developmental, Forensic, Health, Individual Differences, Neuroscience, Social, and Work
 Psychology.

 Equality and Diversity
 All hiring and postgraduate recruitment was conducted according to UoC Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusivity Plan, ensuring individuals are valued for uniqueness in age, gender identity, sexual
 orientation, ethnicity, religion, and disabilities. Accordingly, the UoA has:
      • Achieved a gender balance reflecting discipline proportions (5 FTE women and 2 FTE
          men, https://www.apa.org/monitor/2018/12/datapoint)
      • Promoted women to leadership roles (e.g., Head of Institute (Pereira) and Head of
          Department (Banerjee))
      • Hired staff from a mixture of cultural backgrounds (British, Irish, Polish, Portuguese,
          Italian-Canadian, and Indian), all of whom are research active

 UoA members conduct research with participants from a variety of cultural backgrounds
 (e.g., British, Canadian, German, Italian, Portuguese, Egyptian, Chinese, Japanese, etc.),
 participants with disabilities (e.g., amputees), and participants considered vulnerable (e.g.,
 Alzheimer’s). As such, our research methodologies and participant sampling considers
 equality and diversity from initial project scoping, ethical approval, research delivery, and
 writing. In this way, we maintain an ethical research focus above and beyond Institutional
 Ethics Board criteria.

 Training and Development. The UoA is committed to working with tools provided by UoC (e.g.,
 online Research Development Framework Planner and the Concordat to Support Career
 Development of Researchers). The Concordat states all academic staff “have opportunities to
 develop their own research activity as well as their skills and knowledge”, with “access to
 facilities and support to enable them to undertake research at the required level.” UoA members
 Pereira and Spina sit on UoC Research and Innovation Committee (with Pereira as Chair), and
 are responsible for annually monitoring and reviewing progress against action plans.
 UoC’s strategic aim to undertake and support “research as an integral part of its provision” is
 operationalized by the UoA in Institute-level procedures, ensuring all academic staff engage in
 research activity at levels appropriate to individual and departmental priorities, providing career
 development support that increases capability and confidence in all staff.

 Supporting. Research support is developed at Institute level to broaden the range of research
 expertise available to staff and postgraduate students. ECRs are central to developing a
 sustainable research environment and community. Upon arriving, ECRs are mentored by our
 Institute Head (Pereira) to introduce the comprehensive support framework we provide,
 including assistance with grant writing, internal peer review, and funding for equipment
 purchase. Additionally, existing staff work actively with new staff to ensure they are ready for the
 next REF, to sustain our 100% research intensity.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Across the REF2021 assessment period, we have implemented an ECR development strategy
 that includes:
      • Reduced teaching loads for the first 2 years
      • Funding for 2 conferences the first 2 years
      • Funding to maintain existing research partnerships
      • Support for organising an annual internal research conference
      • Ensuring all postgraduate supervision teams have at least 1 ECR member. New
          supervisors are encouraged to undertake training provided by the Research Office.

 Support for UoA research serves to broaden the range of research expertise available to staff
 and postgraduate students, by including support mechanisms such as:
     • Performance Review Development Plan, an annual practice to reflect on past
        performance, identify future goals, and support requirements. This process is informed
        by UoA research objectives and Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework, which
        may lead to mentoring and experiential training
     • Targeted support for staff/students with disclosed needs (e.g., dyslexia) by trained
        professionals
     • Implementing a career development framework to enable ECRs to achieve senior
        status (e.g., Banerjee and Clements), senior staff to further build their careers (e.g.,
        Burkitt, Chmiel, and Pereira), and all staff to produce research meeting quality
        thresholds
     • Providing 25 days research/impact leave per year for all research-active staff
     • Support for developing research bids. In addition to support for bid preparation
        available by UoA staff mentoring, we utilise and contribute to UoC’s regular bid-writing
        and impact workshops
     • UoA mechanisms to foster career development, including:
             o Research skill development opportunities, e.g., research cafés since 2015
                and methodology mastermind sessions since 2016
             o Writing and bid-writing workshops since 2015
             o Peer mentoring on journal articles since 2014

 Mentoring. Staff at all levels benefit from targeted mentoring with researchers at advanced
 stages in career development or from collaboration within and across departments.

 Success from these efforts is evidenced by the fact that all departmental members of staff are
 research active and being submitted to REF2021. Furthermore, the UoA has achieved 3
 academic promotions within census dates (1 professorship, 2 readerships).

                        Research Students Strategy and Development

 Postgraduate students, including ProfDoc and PhD, are integrated into UoA activities through
 the POWER Centre, research labs, and teaching activities. All are members of both the POWER
 Centre and at least 1 lab, and have opportunities to contribute therein to projects beyond the
 immediate scope of their own research.

 Equality and Diversity is embedded into UoA support provisions for research students. Data on
 gender, age, and disability are reported annually as part of UoC’s Equality Scheme, and
 represents a routine item for Research and Innovation Committee (which has 2 PhD student
 representatives). Such endeavours inform aspects of staff training required to enhance Equality
 and Diversity and supplement postgraduate student training.

 Our first PhD cohort mid-2013 comprised 5 full-time bursaried students. In total, 8 bursaries
 have been issued (GBP12,000 to GBP13,000 per year). Since the initial cohort, we have
 witnessed a shift toward more part-time self-funded students. In total across the REF period, 12
 PhD students joined the UoA, 4 successfully completed (including 1 jointly supervised with the
 Institute of Sport), and 3 are nearing completion. The cohort has consistently included 5 to 8

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students to maintain critical mass in the research environment. Interest in MSci and self-
 funded PhD routes have risen sharply over the period, as indicated by application numbers.
 MSci student numbers have increased from 0 in 2014 to 15 in 2020. The ProfDoc programme is
 newly developed, and as of 2020, the UoA is already recruiting highly skilled ProfDoc
 candidates, particularly from Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust and St. Richard’s
 Hospital.

 During this REF period, success indicators include all 4 PhD graduates taking up successful
 academic positions (Brunel, Chester, Chichester, and Coventry). Additionally, Burkitt
 supervised an external candidate who has accepted an academic post at UoC.

 Training and informing. Candidates expressing interest in our PhD programme can apply
 directly or complete a Pre-PhD participation scheme, which involves working with intended
 supervisors through 6 meetings to develop their research proposal for application. All applicants
 submit a research proposal and are interviewed by a departmental panel. Interview records and
 hiring decisions are scrutinised by Human Resources to ensure decisions meet Equality and
 Diversity guidelines.

 UoA PhD student recruits participate in a formal induction upon arrival. Identification of required
 training is noted when students are formally registered via the Form 1 Research Proposal, and
 regular analysis of academic needs during our postgraduate annual monitoring, in line with
 Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework.

 Each postgraduate student is assigned to a supervisory team comprising at least 2 members
 with expertise relevant to the student’s research focus, all of whom engage fully and regularly
 with research supervision. In their first year of study, students attend UoA advanced training in
 psychological research methods, statistical analysis, and research skills (e.g. project
 management, specialist equipment training, impact, and presentation skills). Staff and students
 (including undergraduate) are encouraged and supported to present their research at the annual
 UoC research conference. Furthermore, postgraduate students are given opportunities to
 contribute to teaching, after completing UoC’s HEA accredited PG Certificate in Learning and
 Teaching in Higher Education.

 Our main objectives include fostering a multi-disciplinary collaborative research environment,
 including research application and impact. In addition to regular lab meetings with supervisors,
 we have appointed a Research Champion (Spina) who strongly supports our research
 environment by hosting regular events to enable a vibrant research community, including
 monthly or bimonthly:
     • Departmental speaker seminar programmes since 2013 (8 speakers including UoA staff
         and postgraduate students presenting own research)
     • Postgraduate research feedback presentations since 2013
     • Research implementation workshops since 2016
     • Research cafes since 2017
     • Methodology masterclasses since 2018
     • Postgraduate study days run by the Research Office since 2020

 The UoA utilises PRES results to assess our research culture. For example, 2013 PRES results
 indicated some students wanted a stronger seminar programme, so we instituted our annual
 speaker seminar programme, which includes at least 4 external speakers per year. Events are
 open to the general public, encouraging the growth of an inclusive and flexible research
 network, affording opportunities for intellectual and technical cross-fertilisation, and
 generating interest from local organisations and institutions. The UoA has focused on
 recruiting speakers from prestigious institutions who conduct research relevant to postgraduate
 student needs. Recent speakers have included world-leading expert on pain management
 Professor McCracken (Uppsala University, Sweden), and Professor James Pennebaker
 (University of Texas, USA), considered to be one of the top 10 social psychologists in the world.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Changes made to our research culture informed by PRES results and face-to-face feedback
 sessions with postgraduate students have paid off, as in 2017 PRES results, UoA PhD students
 report they are positive about their training (100% against 76% for sector), and understand
 requirements and deadlines for formal monitoring of progress (100% against 85% for sector),
 responsibilities as a postgraduate student (100% against 89% for sector), and supervisors'
 responsibilities towards them as a postgraduate student (100% against 77% for sector).

 Supporting. The UoA ensures postgraduate students:
    • Seek advice and help from supervisors and/or Research Champions
    • Utilise the Research Office when necessary on general postgraduate matters
    • Use dedicated desk space or shared desk space in South House (postgraduate building)
    • Apply for financial support (GBP750) available from the Research Office to undertake
       scholarly activities (e.g., present at conferences)
    • Attend regular training events organised by our UoA and Research Office, thus
       supporting multidisciplinary development

 Postgraduate students engage with staff with shared interests and expertise. The 2020 PRES
 results indicate that students are positive about their supervisory contact (100% compared with
 88% for sector), support (100% against 82% for sector), and feedback (100% against 88% for
 sector).

 Monitoring. Monitoring is overseen by the Research Degrees Group, on which Spina serves as
 Chair. Uptake of training at University and external level is recorded in students’ Personal
 Progress Logs, which are submitted annually to the supervisory team, and used to review
 progress by the team, an internal faculty member not on the team, and the UoA Research
 Champion. The 2020 PRES results indicate students are positive about their overall experience
 (90% satisfaction rate against 82% for sector),

 A future priority is to grow our postgraduate student population. In addition to advertising the
 POWER Centre more broadly and effectively using social media, we nurture students from
 undergraduate courses and our integrated MSci through to postgraduate courses, as a potential
 pipeline for future PhD students/collaborations/academic roles. A recent graduate has already
 followed this route from the MSci, and others are expressing interest. We have also recently
 initiated a new standalone MSc Health Psychology (starting September 2021), in addition to the
 new ProfDoc. Furthermore, we are recruiting co-funded students working with local
 organisations through collaborative partnerships, e.g., St Richard’s Hospital and NHS Sussex.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The UoA has worked to build on the research base we created for REF2014 in a manner
 consistent with our new aims and focus, creating capabilities for a diverse range of expertise and
 research methodologies, establishing research labs to maximise synergy with local, national,
 and international contacts and organisations, and fostering further multidisciplinary research.
 UoC has supported us by investing over GBP200,000 in creating and maintaining cutting-edge
 shared facilities dedicated to psychological research.

 In 2014, with over GBP100,000 UoC funding, the UoA completed the construction of a dedicated
 psychology laboratory facility comprising 5 separate rooms (c600m2 total). One large room
 contains a suite of 60 desktop computers used for both teaching and postgraduate teacher
 training (70%), and staff/postgraduate research (30%), for computerised survey and
 experimental designs. A second room is dedicated solely to research, and is divided into 4
 cubicles. The central large cubicle is used for group research and 3 equally sized smaller
 cubicles operate as soundproofed, light-controlled experimental booths for individual participants
 in controlled lab experiments. The remaining 3 rooms are used for both teaching and
 postgraduate teacher training (70%) and staff/postgraduate research (30%), and contain tables
 and a computer/projector, and are used for group research, interviews for qualitative designs,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and experiments utilising specialist software and equipment, including 30 laptops purchased for
 surveys and experiments.

 During the current REF period, the UoA has purchased a range of specialist software and
 equipment. For survey designs and online experimental research, we annually invest over
 GBP4,000 in powerful online software Qualtrics for staff and student use (undergraduate and
 postgraduate). We also purchased 6 laptops installed with a variety of specialist software for
 staff and postgraduate student use, including e-prime, SuperLab, Inquisit, Mplus (multi-level
 multivariate modelling), QDADataminer (qualitative analysis), NOLDUS –Observer XT
 (collection, analysis, and presentation of observational data), along with a host of psychometric
 assessment tools for individual experiments (e.g., WAIS and WISC).

 Across this REF period, the UoA has invested over GBP75,000 to purchase a range of specialist
 advanced research equipment for biological, cognitive, and neuroscience research methods,
 including:

 •   Functional near-infrared spectroscopy neuroimaging equipment: NIRScout-NIRx Medical
     Technologies (for investigating oxygenation changes in different brain regions)
 •   Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) equipment: DC-STIMULATOR PLUS -
     neuroConn (for studying the influence of facilitating/inhibiting cortical processing via electrical
     neuromodulation) – resulting in publications in world leading journals including American
     Journal of Psychiatry (Gladwin)
 •   Immersive Virtual Reality System for Neuroscience Research, including aLIAS Laptop and
     Biopac-MP15 and finometers (for recording physiological indicators of stress responses and
     freezing)
 •   Virtual Reality development platform: Vizard-Oculus Head set (DK2 and Rift), 50-inch wall
     mounted HD smart TV for external connection, along with 3D Shopping Centre Software and
     3D Shopping Centre Interior Software (for simulating real world environments)

 A full-time dedicated technical staff member (over GBP30,000 per year) commissions and
 manages these facilities, providing laboratory support, programming and training as required.

 Shared equipment. The UoA has also benefitted from sharing access to equipment and lab
 space with UoC’s sector-leading Institute of Sport, including a large range of equipment suitable
 for investigating psycho-motor and biological functions (e.g., SMI-ETG wireless eye-tracking
 glasses by Sensorimotor Instruments to record a person's natural gaze behaviour in real time).
 Furthermore, in 2015, the Unit established an ongoing agreement with St Richard’s Hospital to
 allow use of their extensive medical library.

 In 2015, the UoA established a research participation scheme in which undergraduates
 participate in faculty and student research projects in exchange for course credit, enabling our
 research-led culture to permeate all levels of the department, and introducing students to the
 process of creating and conducting high-quality research. Success from this scheme is
 evidenced by over 20 high quality peer-reviewed publications during this REF period, by staff
 collaborating with both undergraduate and postgraduate students (e.g., in the journal Health
 Communication and Intelligence). Furthermore, in 2016, the UoA established a voluntary
 research assistantship scheme, whereby undergraduate students can work in a lab to benefit
 from playing an active role in conducting high quality research, while allowing UoA staff and
 postgraduate students to achieve more in relation to their research and impact agendas.

 Income
 After the UoA created a successful portfolio of programmes, hired research active staff covering
 a range of expertise across BPS professional subdivisions, recruited postgraduate students
 (MSci, PhD and ProfDoc), and developed an engaging and supportive research culture,
 subsequent efforts focused on establishing successful research laboratories and infrastructure,
 and increasing the number and range of bids for external research funding. As a result, bidding
 activity has been on a marked upward trajectory between 2014 and 2020.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Success of our overall strategy is evident from the fact that 44 bids (for a total sum of over
 GBP1,600,000) have been submitted since mid-2013. Initial successes are evidenced by
 successful bids including the Colourisima consulting project, comprising Burkitt’s research on
 children’s drawing and mental health. Lelli Kelly Consultancy awarded GBP2,580 to Burkitt to
 investigate how children’s shoes, which include interchangeable accessories that children can
 personalise through drawing and colouring on them, demonstrated increased well-being
 associated with individual colour choices during product use. A second successful bid came
 from the Intelligence: Up, Down, and All Around project. The John Templeton Foundation
 awarded GBP173,786 in 2017 to Ellen Fridland (PI) at King’s College London. Gladwin
 collaborated with Fridland on the project, serving as Director of Empirical Research for this
 project, to evaluate a Cognitive Bias Modification intervention for alcohol use designed to
 increase the ability to control risky drinking behaviour and reduce craving. Initial results are
 successfully demonstrating the efficacy of this intervention.

 Pereira, Churchill, and Tyndall are working on a SHIFT project led by UoC’s Institute of Sport,
 together with the UoA and partners from the UK, Netherlands, France, and Belgium. The
 Institute of Sport was awarded over €4,000,000 for the project from European Regional
 Development Fund. The project has included a large survey of over 1000 people across the UK,
 Netherlands, and Belgium over age 45, and produced 2 reports, 1 for over-45s, and 1 for
 vulnerable groups on all aspects of sexual health. The UoA has also produced 2 qualitative
 reports of focus group interviews with 125 over-45s and vulnerable populations regarding
 experiences with sexual health and sexual health services. The project demonstrates the
 excellent multi-disciplinary and collaborative work fostered and developed by the UoA.

 Bids pending response include Pereira’s project titled ADEPT: An Advanced Prospective
 Memory Tool to Support the Early Diagnostic of Alzheimer’s Disease. The bid is for GBP70,902
 from the Alzheimer's Society. Furthermore, most notably perhaps, Pereira is working on an
 Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) funded by NIHR, who have confirmed full 5-year funding
 for an ARC between our UoA and Kent, Surrey, and Sussex universities. Because of this
 collaboration, together with the Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the NIHR
 ARC, we were able to offer 2 exciting opportunities for a nurse or allied health professional to
 undertake a PhD alongside a clinical practice role. The roles will be full-time for a period of 5
 years and comprise 15 hours/week clinical practice based in the new Dementia Unit at Western
 Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, plus 22.5 hours/week PhD work at UoC. The Nurse or
 AHP/Clinical Doctoral Research Fellowships will begin in February 2021. They will receive a 0.4
 WTE AfC salary and a tax-free stipend in year 1 of GBP11,000 to a maximum of GBP12,500 in
 year 5. Part-time PhD fees are paid on their behalf by UoC.

 The UoA will continue to build on initial external funding successes by increasing bidding activity
 over the next REF period according to our income strategy articulated above. Our next tranche
 of investment from both UoC and external funding will prioritise the further development of our
 world-renowned research in the area of health and well-being, and to increase the reach and
 significance of our research impact in both the UK and the world at large.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our unique context and profile present several advantages we have sought strategically to
 exploit across the REF2021 assessment period. As the only university in West Sussex, with
 campuses in Chichester and Bognor Regis, we have always recognised the economic, social
 and cultural importance of place. Meeting both local and global challenges, we maximise our
 academic and ‘real-world’ impacts. At the same time, our small size and integrated structure
 have allowed us to adapt quickly to global challenges, affording us an unusual level of
 administrative agility. We have been able to hard-wire multi-disciplinarity into our research
 activities, fostering innovative ways of thinking and working that set us apart from other
 institutions.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Every researcher within the Unit makes a distinct and significant contribution to the research
 base and discipline, working with other researchers across UoC, the UK, and internationally.
 These efforts are essential for sustaining and further developing both our UoA and our discipline.
 Key contributions across the REF period are described below.

 Collaboration
 Pereira (Reader) collaborates with Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, Centre
 for Cognition, Radboud University, Nijmegen (Netherlands), Radboud University Nijmegen
 Institute of Molecular Medicine (Netherlands), Institute of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of
 Medicine at University of Lisbon (Portugal), Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Western
 Sussex Hospitals NHS Trust, Community Nursing (West Sussex) – Sussex Community NHS
 Trust, NIHR Research Design Service South East & Centre for Health Research, Sage House –
 Dementia Support (West Sussex), Memory Assessment Service at Harold Kidd Unit (Psychiatric
 hospital, Chichester), and 3 research groups at the University of Reading (the Centre for
 Cognition, School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences, and Centre for Integrative
 Neuroscience and Neurodynamics), leading to 4 publications.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Pereira is a Chartered Member of the British Psychological Society (BPS), Associate Fellow of
 the BPS, Fellow of the Higher Education Academy, and member of Dementia and Cerebral
 Aging Society, Portuguese Society of Neurology, and Portuguese Association of Linguistics. She
 is a regular reviewer for Journal of Cognitive Psychology, Frontiers in Psychology, and
 Gerontology. She has accepted invitations to present her research at prestigious conferences in
 London, Dortmund (Germany), Budapest (Hungary), Enna (Italy), Lisbon (Portugal), Melbourne
 (Australia), and Yokohama (Japan). Pereira has been contributing to the economy and society
 by developing lines of research to improve early diagnosis of dementia. In collaboration with
 Gladwin, she has also been developing novel, time-efficient assessment methods aimed at
 reducing the burden of dementia and Alzheimer’s on both patients and care providers. Such
 methods will facilitate earlier initiation of treatment, improved outcomes, and reductions in total
 costs of disease management. Pereira has served as external examiner for 3 doctorates (e.g.,
 Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Lisbon).

 Collaboration
 Tyndall (Senior Lecturer) collaborates with Professor Karekla (Department of Psychology,
 University of Cyprus), and Drs Holliman (Institute of Education, University College London), and
 Pancani (Department of Psychology, University of Milano-Biccoca, Italy). He has been
 evaluating reliability and validity of measures used in Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
 (ACT) with Professor Whelan (Trinity College Dublin), and Drs Waldeck (Coventry University),
 Dawson (University of Lincoln), Kurz (VA administration, USA), Morris (La Trobe University
 Melbourne, Australia), Trindade (Coimbra University, Portugal), and Valencia (University of
 Lima, Peru). Tyndall is also working on a health behaviour change project using acceptance
 and commitment therapy and relational frame theory with Professor Ruth Rehfeldt (Chicago
 Professional School of Psychology, USA), and collaborating with clinical and health researchers
 at Queen Alexandra Hospital and Portsmouth University on ACT for cancer patients. Tyndall
 has ongoing partnerships bridging social psychology and clinical psychology, including ostracism
 and psychological flexibility, with Professor Riva (University of Milano Biccoca, Italy), and has
 worked on the development and further application of the FAST test of implicit attitudes with Drs
 Roche (Maynooth University, Ireland), Cummins (Ghent University, Belgium), and Murray (Abu
 Dhabi, UAE), along the SMART programme for education with Drs Pereira, May (University of
 South Wales, UK), McLoughlin (Liverpool John Moores University), Cassidy, and Roche
 (Maynooth University, Ireland), along with basic empirical accounts of body image disturbance
 and values in psychotherapy with Professor Sandoz (University of Louisiana, USA), and Dr,
 Bordieri (Murray University, USA).
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Tyndall is a Chartered Member of the BPS, and member of Association for Contextual
 Behavioral Science and Association for Behavior Analysis International (ABAI). He serves as
 associate editor for The Psychological Record, and on editorial boards of Journal of Contextual
 Behavioral Science and Frontiers in Psychology, and is a regular reviewer for the Journal of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Behavior Therapy and Experimental Psychiatry, Development and Psychopathology, Journal of
 the Experimental Analysis of Behavior, Behavioural Processes, the European Journal of
 Behaviour Analysis, Health Communication, Basic and Applied Social Psychology, and Acta
 Psychologica. Tyndall wrote and published the popular scientific online blog series, ‘Symbolic
 Language and Thought’ for the ABAI dissemination platform until 2019, at which time the blog
 had over 20,000 readers. Tyndall’s blogs include edited submissions from psychologists in the
 US, Portugal, Ireland, and Australia and have been read over 16,000 times in the last few
 months. Within this series, he has conducted video interview podcasts, for example with world-
 leading Professors including psychotherapist Hayes (founder of ACT) at University of Nevada
 (US), and Wilson (Binghamton University, USA). This series has a dedicated following of
 psychologists, practitioners, and academics from across the globe, with overwhelmingly positive
 feedback on Twitter and Facebook. Tyndall has also created a regular Psychology Interview
 series as an outreach initiative, which has featured world-leading researchers including
 Professor Kevin Mitchell, a behavioural geneticist discussing his book 'Innate: How the Wiring of
 Or Brains Shapes Who We Are' and his views on the genetic basis of gender, intelligence,
 autism, and schizophrenia. Tyndall has served as external examiner for 2 doctorates (e.g.,
 King’s College London).

 Collaboration
 Churchill (Senior Lecturer) collaborates with Professor Harris, and Drs Jessop and Sparks
 (University of Sussex), and Pavey (Kingston University) to investigate variables that moderate
 the persuasive effects of health communications (e.g., impulsivity), the effects of proscriptive and
 prescriptive health-related injunctions (e.g., on moral norms, reactance, attitudes, intentions, and
 behaviour change), the impact of self-affirmation on message acceptance, and whether framed
 implementation intentions (e.g., if-then plans) can help people successfully translate good
 intentions into action (resulting in 9 publications).
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Churchill is a Chartered Member of BPS, and is a regular reviewer for Health Psychology,
 British Journal of Health Psychology, Acta Psychologica, Applied Psychology: Health and Well-
 Being, Health Communication, and Appetite. She is an honorary lecturer at the University of
 Sussex, and is invited regularly to contribute to a seminar series in health psychology, in addition
 to peer-reviewing grants for funding.

 Collaboration
 Burkitt (Reader) collaborates with Professor Banerjee at University of Sussex in workshop
 design and bid generation, and with Drs Watling at Royal Holloway on developmental projects
 investigating emotion encoding in children’s drawing and mixed emotion development, Lowry at
 UoC examining benefits of graphing emotion, art education, and community activity, and Galpin
 at The Bridge research teaching facility in London for impact work examining the value of
 graphing mixed emotion in assessment practice with SENCOs.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Burkitt is a Chartered Psychologist and Scientist, and Associate Fellow with BPS, and a Fellow
 of the Higher Education Academy. She is Consultant Editor for Contemporary Educational
 Psychology and Educational Psychology, leading Guest Editor for Education Research
 International, and a regular reviewer for Cognitive Development, International Journal of
 Behavioral Development, Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, British Journal of
 Developmental Psychology, Perception, British Journal of Psychology, Journal of Infant and
 Reproductive Psychology, and the Journal of Infant and Child Development. She has been
 invited to create a second edition of a leading online annotated bibliography about children’s
 drawings by Oxford University Press, and a second edition of Child development and the Brain:
 An Introduction. (Policy Press: Bristol). She has also created a website that disseminates project
 findings from her research (http://children.chi.ac.uk/about-project), which hosts a growing
 archive of children’s drawings. She has accepted invitations to present ongoing research at
 prestigious conferences in Victoria and Calgary (Canada), the Gold Coast (Australia),
 Amsterdam (Netherlands), and Braga (Portugal).
 Burkitt has been contributing to the economy and society by conducting impact work examining
 changes in understanding and behaviour within a range of professionals and family members

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 about how they work with children to consider their emotional communication in drawings. She is
 working with SENCO teams and educational psychologists to assess the benefits to children’s
 well-being and the usage of a new tool that measures children’s complex emotional experiences.
 She has worked as a research and marketing consultant for Lelli Kelly shoes (pan-European),
 leading 2 projects investigating colour-affect association in childhood. This resulted in a host of
 media articles about the findings in relation to their product. She is also a contributor to
 programme design for policy and practice workshops focused on improving children’s mental
 health (Policy Keynote Seminar Series, UK and Westminster Education Forum Keynote Seminar
 Series). Burkitt has served as external examiner for 2 doctorates (e.g., University of
 Portsmouth).

 Collaboration
 Spina (Senior Lecturer) collaborates with Drs Guo (University of Macau, China), Ji (Queen’s
 University, Canada), and Helmy (Menoufia University, Egypt) on cross-cultural projects
 investigating biases in decision-making processes, and with Professor Zenger (Department of
 Medical Psychology, University of Leipzig, Germany) to adapt and psychometrically validate
 health-related decision-making scales for public and professional use.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Spina is a Chartered Member of BPS. He is a Review Editor for Frontiers - Cultural Psychology,
 and regularly reviews articles for Psychological Bulletin, Journal of Personality and Social
 Psychology, Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, Journal of Experimental Social
 Psychology, Social Psychological and Personality Science, and Journal of Cross-Cultural
 Psychology. He has accepted invitations to present ongoing research at prestigious conferences
 in Melbourne (Australia), Nagoya (Japan), Stellenbosch (South Africa), San Francisco (US),
 Warsaw (Poland), and UK universities (Brunel and Southampton).
 Spina has been contributing to the economy and society by developing simple cognitive primes
 that influence thinking styles in randomised-control-trial studies, successfully reduce the
 likelihood of biased health-related decisions that negatively impact on people’s health and well-
 being. The project aims to achieve impact by tailoring health messages to specific types of
 individuals to reduce thinking that inhibits healthy lifestyle choices (e.g., by reducing cognitive
 dissonance prompted by health messages). Spina has served as external examiner for 2
 doctorates (e.g., University of Macau).

 Collaboration
 Banerjee (Senior Lecturer and ECR) collaborates with Sussex Mindfulness Centre, and Drs
 Cavanagh and Hazell (University of Sussex) on an Office for Students funded project on the
 mental health of PhD students, and Strauss (Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust).
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Banerjee is a Chartered Member of BPS. She regularly reviews articles for Mindfulness, and
 has accepted invitations to present ongoing research at prestigious international conferences in
 Amsterdam (Holland), Rome (Italy), and San Francisco (US).
 Banerjee has been contributing to the economy and society by developing and carrying out the
 Mindfulness for Schools project, which aims to improve mental health for both teachers and
 students, reducing stress, burnout, and anxiety/depression symptoms within the sector. She is
 also developing a project on mindfulness for PhD students, which will attempt to map and
 reduce the stress and burnout that currently blights this community.

 Collaboration
 Clements (Senior Lecturer and ECR) collaborates with Drs Nordin-Bates (Swedish School of
 Health and Sport Sciences) on self-determination theory and creativity, Edlund (Karolinska
 Institute, Sweden) in collaboration with Swedish Gymnastics Federation on mental health and
 compulsive training in national gymnasts, and Clegg at (University of Buckingham) on a 2-year
 longitudinal project into performance anxiety-reducing interventions.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Clements is a Chartered Member of BPS and a member of APA Division 10. She is a regular
 reviewer for Journal of Dance Medicine and Science. She delivers performance psychology
 workshops for professional dance companies and performing arts schools (UK, Sweden, USA,

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hong Kong, India), and consults for Momentum Performing Arts (UK) and Head to Toe Irish
 Dance Academy (USA). She has accepted invitations to present her research at prestigious
 conferences, including the International Association of Dance Medicine & Science (Helsinki) and
 the International Symposium on Performance Science (Melbourne). In 2020, she reached the
 final 3 shortlist for a One Dance UK national award for supporting dancers’ health and well-
 being.

 Collaboration
 Gladwin (Senior Lecturer) collaborates with the Dutch Ministry of Defence, and received an
 ERAB grant in collaboration with University of Amsterdam to study clinical interventions to
 change alcohol-related cognitive biases.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Gladwin is a Chartered Member of BPs, Associate Editor for Addiction Research & Theory, and
 regular reviewer for academic journals including NeuroImage, Human Brain Mapping, Brain
 Stimulation, Journal of Neuroscience, Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, and Clinical
 Psychology Review. He delivered invited presentations on experimental clinical interventions at
 a military research meeting in 2016 (Hilversum, Netherlands) and on military mental health
 research to a governmental oversight committee in 2017. He has also participated in a public
 debate on addiction ("Nacht van Descartes"), and given evening classes (on addiction and
 scientific methods) for homeless charity Stone Pillow.
 Gladwin regularly lectures as part of a training course on military mental health research to
 doctors in training at the Dutch Ministry of Defence and Utrecht (Netherlands). He has made his
 tutorials and research software available online for data analysis, stimulus generation, and
 online task programming. His research on brain stimulation was the subject of a newspaper
 article in a (Dutch) national newspaper. Gladwin has served as external examiner for 2
 doctorates (e.g., Maastricht university).

 Collaboration
 Chmiel (Professor Emeritus) works with Professors Hansez (University of Liege, Belgium) on
 psychological processes related to safety behaviours at work, Grote (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)
 on individual and organisational approaches to workplace safety, Taris at University (Utrecht,
 Netherlands) on safety at work, Fraccaroli (University of Trento, Italy), Sverke (University of
 Stockholm, Sweden) resulting in an edited book: An Introduction to Work and Organisational
 Psychology: An International Perspective), McCrae (UoC) and Palmer (University of Winchester)
 on work team resilience, and with Drs Pereira, Churchill and Tyndall on prospective memory,
 diabetes foot care management, and ostracism.
 Contribution to the discipline and society
 Chmiel is an Associate Fellow, Chartered, and Full Member of BPS, a member and past
 President of the European Association of Work and Organisational Psychology (EAWOP), and a
 full member of Division of Occupational Psychology and the Experimental Psychology Society.
 From 2015 to 2019, Chmiel was on an EAWOP taskforce initiating and developing ways to
 impact policy in relation to health and well-being in the workplace. His main contribution was
 developing the blueprint for a policy impact thinktank, which was formally adopted at EAWOP
 congress (Turin, 2019). Chmiel is a consulting editor for European Journal of Work &
 Organisational Psychology, and regular reviewer for Human Relations, Journal of Occupational
 Health Psychology, the Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, Safety Science,
 Blackwell, Sage, and Routledge. Chmiel has served as external examiner for 4 doctorates (e.g.,
 University of Surrey and University of Liege).




                                                                                         Page 14
