Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newman University

 Unit of Assessment: Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Education UoA works within and contributes to the wider university research culture of a
 comparatively small, single-campus academic community. As outlined in the institutional
 statement, Newman is a modestly-sized but diverse University in south-west Birmingham, with
 approximately 2,800 students, including in excess of 40 research students, taking a range of
 subjects at undergraduate and postgraduate level. Originally a Catholic teacher training college,
 Newman attained University status in 2013 and maintains a strong reputation for student
 support and socially-oriented research. The University’s Catholic ethos underpins our strategic
 plan which seeks the advancement of research for the benefit of the public and is ‘dedicated to
 the construction of the common good, the transformation of its members’ lives and of the world
 they serve and engage with’. The University’s research degrees are validated by Liverpool
 Hope University and during the next REF period Newman will be seeking Research Degree
 Awarding Powers (RDAP), which is a key part of our strategic aim to become ‘recognised
 nationally and internationally for the integrity and quality of our research and scholarship’.

 The Education Unit of Assessment is a long-established research area at Newman stretching
 back to the Institution’s foundation as a teacher-training college in 1968. The unit’s research
 interests have spanned multiple areas over this time and were broadly described in REF 2014
 as covering professional education, identity and collaboration; education and social
 policy; safeguarding of children and young people; inclusion; creativity in education and
 maths in education. These areas have been refined to four in the current submission, with
 research focused on education and practice, pedagogy, and policy bringing together the cross-
 disciplinary collaborations and contributions of staff across the University while resting on the
 work of the 11 current staff members with a significant responsibility for research within the
 scope of the UoA (given in bold below):

        (1) Education and social policy (Dixon, Kadi-Hanifi, Keenan, Willoughby, Tucker,
            Trotman, Lees, Rayner)
        (2) Supporting families, children and young people (Sextou, Mac an Ghaill)
        (3) Maths and computer science in education (Csizmadia, Yates, Lawson)
        (4) Practice in Higher Education (Peters, Beniston, Thomas)

 The research in these areas has been supplemented by that of other key ex-staff members who
 have worked in the Unit during the REF period (as noted above): Prof Steve Rayner, Prof
 Duncan Lawson, Prof Dave Trotman, Emeritus Prof Stan Tucker, and Dr Helen Lees.

 Largely but not exclusively based in the University’s Faculty of Education, the Education UoA’s
 development from 2014 to 2021 has marked a new phase for research in the Unit, which
 specifically placed a priority on recognizing the importance of promoting the evolving research
 profiles of established practitioners and teaching staff in conjunction with the expertise of its
 professors, and other research active staff, while also advising on the research potential of
 applicants prior to new appointments. In this undertaking, the aim of the Unit has been to be
 developmental and supportive, building on past successes while mindful of ensuring
 sustainable and robust research activity. The key objectives for research and scholarship within
 the Education UoA have been: all academics making an effectively shared public contribution to
 research and/or scholarship; more staff making a nationally recognized contribution; and more
 high-quality outputs and impact. To develop these key objectives, the UoA has been
 substantially supported and led by the Research Knowledge Transfer and Consultancy Group
 (RKTCG), which was central to the Faculty of Education’s core work. The RKTCG was created
 at the start of the REF cycle (2014) and led the unit through the following stages: initial
 scope/identification; review of current research areas and potential outputs; a development
 programme supported by the RKTCG, Faculty of Education Visiting professors and the

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic Practice Unit (led by Prof. Peters and Dr Yates); targeted financial support from the
 Research Committee. The three priorities of the RKTCG have been: research environment,
 researcher development and research capacity; research excellence and impact; and
 consultancy, CPD and knowledge transfer. These were formalised in a 5-year strategic plan in
 December 2015, with an ‘inclusive leadership’. Researchers in the Faculty offer a client-based
 partnership service and a portfolio aimed at the production and delivery of research knowledge
 transfer and consultancy. The RKTC group quickly become a fulcrum for generating and
 managing nearly £300k for the Faculty in new business and with the launch of the Doctorate in
 Education [EdD], this deepened and extended the postgraduate research [PGR] portfolio,
 supporting the pursuit of Research Degree Awarding Powers [RDAP] and targeting scholarship
 and academic development as key aspects for resource investment.

 Since REF 2014, there have been a number of changes in the Unit as the staff complement has
 been refreshed. Some senior members have retired from the University (Profs Rayner, Lawson,
 and Trotman), while others have matured into leaders, and new early-stage researchers have
 emerged. The UoA has included the work of CADlab, an ARTS-based Research Hub led by
 Professor Persephone Sextou that investigates Applied Theatre and Wellbeing in paediatrics,
 and the Newman Institute for Leadership in Education which has been helmed by several
 leading staff over the course of the REF period and most recently by the Faculty Dean, Dr.
 Lorraine Thomas. These bodies have driven the unit’s approach to Impact strategy, which has
 rested on working with mainly public sector and educational organisations to make a positive
 difference to the lives of individuals and communities, in line with Newman University’s aims and
 mission. In line with this approach, the main non-academic user groups/beneficiaries/audiences
 for our research are local government departments and agencies, schools, charities, and
 voluntary organisations in the UK.

 Our vision for research is underpinned by the University’s core values and its mission to make a
 positive difference to individuals and communities through the contribution of its staff, students,
 and graduates. The University’s Research Strategy has focused investment funds on Units
 submitting to the Research Excellence Framework, whilst enabling early-career researchers to
 develop their capacity. The University encourages partnership and collaborative research with
 public and third-sector bodies, as well as fellow academics, on a range of real-world issues
 including education and well-being, heritage and culture, community and professional
 development. Newman additionally advocates research-informed professional practice across
 all subject areas, enhancing the volume and quality of international research and encouraging
 knowledge transfer into the regional community.

 While different areas have a research or practice focus, the University encourages and expects
 all academic staff to engage in advanced scholarship. At Newman, this means that scholarship
 is purposeful, well-founded and appropriately conducted; it produces meaningful results which
 are communicated effectively. It may involve knowledge creation, integration, sharing or
 application, as well as the development of ways of knowing in others. Such scholarship may
 issue in research publication but equally may find expression in other disseminated outputs and
 forms of public engagement. Research seminars are held throughout the year, some organized
 centrally or by Research Centres and some within subject areas and Faculties. Contributors to
 these seminars are a mix of University staff, research students, and invited speakers from other
 institutions.

 The University’s Research Committee takes as its remit a strategic role in all aspects of
 developing and sustaining a successful research culture and research performance. The
 Committee’s major function is to ensure that the University’s areas of research strength and
 comparative advantage are protected and enhanced, that research potential is nurtured and
 that resources are strategically targeted to build an externally recognised research presence.

 For the coming five-year period 2021-2025, Newman’s institutional research strategy, and in
 turn the UoA’s, will build on the current research plan while focusing on specific areas of
 implementation: an attainment of research degree awarding powers, research integrity, Open

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research compliance, and the equal promotion of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary, and
 interdisciplinary research. Its focus will continue to be on education and practice, pedagogy,
 and policy alongside supporting families, children and young people.

 The implementation of the Education UoA’s and the University’s research strategy is
 underpinned by the support provided by the Research Office and Graduate School, including:
 the maintenance of a University-wide repository and research data base; the preparation and
 provision for the Research Committee of up-to-date information on research performance in the
 University; coordination of all matters relating to postgraduate research students; oversight of
 the establishment and operation of the University’s research centres; organization of a seminar
 programme bringing together researchers with internal and external speakers to debate
 research findings, discuss methodologies, and share academic insights; coordination of the
 University’s links with relevant research networks; support for the administration of the
 University’s forthcoming submission for Research Degree Awarding Powers.


 2. People

 Fundamental to the University’s Strategic Plan as a University with a Catholic Foundation is its
 commitment to the formation of staff and students. Newman’s commitment to human flourishing
 is expressed in its People Strategy 2015-20, which states the University’s values and principles
 of organizational development: ‘The University is committed to advancing equality of opportunity
 and eliminating unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, to foster good relations
 between people from different groups which embraces and celebrates diversity in line with our
 values and principles’ The University’s research environment, community, and culture is
 supported by the Graduate School which has the primary responsibility for postgraduate
 research student training and social and intellectual integration while playing a key role
 alongside Faculties, Subject Areas, and Programmes in developing career pathways for
 successful research students. Institutional development and support for research students is
 provided by the Graduate School, while pastoral support and mentoring is provided by the
 Postgraduate Research Co-ordinators. In addition to attracting self-funding students, the
 University occasionally offers research studentships through a competitive bidding process,
 funded at the level of Research Council stipends. The University offers training to PGR students
 preparing for a career in teaching in Higher Education and opportunity is available wherever
 possible for students to gain in-class teaching experience.

 Our commitment to formation and to human flourishing includes the community of our research
 students and our approach to supervision is characterised by individual support as well as high-
 quality supervisory teams. We aim to create an environment that develops our supervisory
 capacity and enables our doctoral and MPhil students to reach their goals and realise their
 potential as early career researchers. Working with partners, as individuals or external
 supervisors, we aim to work within the Researcher Development Framework to enable our
 researchers successfully to make their own significant contribution to knowledge and to
 advance their own professional and career opportunities.

 Research student training is provided locally and centrally. The central programme is overseen
 by the Graduate School and the postgraduate research coordinators. All research students
 have access to a dedicated PGR room for facilities on-campus and to help build community
 cohesion. All students are able to apply for an annual financial contribution to research training
 activities, printing is free, and supervision talks place in teams to ensure a range of expertise
 and continuity. Through our partnership, research students also have access to the facilities,
 virtual and physical, available at Liverpool Hope University.

 In addition to supporting professorial Emeriti, Newman has also long maintained a Visiting
 Professor and Fellow scheme for distinguished scholars. As well as delivering research
 seminars and workshops, the Visiting Professors play a pivotal role in developing the research
 and scholarship potential of staff through appropriate forms of advice, training and support. In

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition to Steve Rayner as Professor Emeritus, this has included over the REF period:
 Professor Pete Boyd, from the University of Cumbria, as Visiting Professor in Academic
 Development; Dr Linda Hammersley-Fletcher, from Manchester Metropolitan University, as
 Visiting Professor in Leadership in Education; Dr George Head, from the University of Glasgow,
 as Visiting Professor in Social Justice, Inclusion and Lifelong Learning; Dr Alan Floyd,
 University of Reading, Visiting Professor in Educational Leadership; and Professor Jonathan
 Glazzard, Leeds Beckett University, Visiting Professor in Initial Teacher Education; and
 Margaret Clark as Visiting Professor in Early Years Education. Visiting professors typically offer
 such support as: a consultant to staff responsible for doctoral student development in
 Education, advising on strategies to support the development of the skills sets and knowledge
 of doctoral students; workshops addressing particular aspects of doctoral support including
 writing skills, working with literature, developing methodology, writing for articles alongside
 providing spaces for students to share their experiences and ask questions; individual support
 for doctoral students as and when requested; taking part in interview procedures to add an
 external research perspective to appointment panels.

 Newman University is a member of the GuildHE Research Consortium, previously the
 Consortium of Research Excellence, Support, and Training (CREST), and thus works in a
 network of over two dozen small and specialist institutions who collaborate in the provision of
 postgraduate resources, including an annual summer school, a shared repository, and close
 collaboration over a shared agenda with respect to research policy and practice.
 https://research.guildhe.ac.uk/about/

 Newman is also a member of the Cathedrals Group association of fifteen universities, nearly all
 ex-teacher training colleges, all of whom share a common mission of service that includes a
 commitment to research which is of societal benefit and contributes to the public good
 https://www.cathedralsgroup.ac.uk/

 The University is an accredited HE member of Social Enterprise Mark, which is externally
 assessed and internationally recognized. The Mark provides an independent guarantee that an
 organization has met sector-agreed criteria and is operating as a genuine social
 enterprise, committed to creating positive social change. It provides clear standards for the
 social enterprise sector, defining what it means to be a genuine social enterprise. This chimes
 with the ethos of the institution to support social enterprise in the community that brings benefit
 to others and works towards a more just society which puts people over profits. This
 commitment has led to such awards as the reacquisition of our EcoCampus Gold Award in
 October 2017, our Fairtrade status since 2007, and becoming the the first university to be
 awarded the Catholic Agency for Overseas Development (CAFOD) Livesimply award in 2017.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Despite the relatively small size of the unit, the contributing subject areas have been successful
 in accruing external monies and grants from a number of providers. Most notably, Professor
 Sextou’s research within the Community and Applied Drama Laboratory (CADlab) has
 generated over £100K with support from BBC Children in Need, The Lottery Community Fund,
 The Grimmitt Trust, The W.A. Cadbury Trust, Heartlands Arts-NHS Trust and private donations.
 CADlAb is a long-standing and innovative ARTS-based Research Hub that investigates Applied
 Theatre and Wellbeing in paediatrics. It brings professional applied theatre facilitators,
 puppeteers, hospital teachers, psychologists, psychiatrists, nurses, digital learning developers,
 play specialists and drama students together in inter-disciplinary research. In CADlab, research
 is a symbiotic experience that has mutual benefits for both children as audiences-research
 participants and the researchers. Researchers use a range of mixed-methods to develop a
 collaborative approach to child wellbeing through the arts with technology aiming to support the
 communication of research back to the community. Sextou’s research let to an established
 research partnership between Newman and HEIs in Australia (‘Future Stories’ pilot study).
 Research within CADlab was presented as keynote speeches at international conferences in

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Poland, Ireland and Australia and featured in the public media (TV Gdansk and ACB Melbourne
 Radio live).

 Key to practice-based and school-oriented research in the Faculty of Education as well as the
 evolution of the UoA during the current REF cycle has been Newman’s Institute of Leadership
 in Education (NILE) research centre, which was formally agreed in 2014. The NILE research
 centre was developed to deal in both accredited and non-accredited learning as well as pure
 and basic research. NILE has staged a range of both small-scale seminars and large
 conferences, with a central focus on three key areas of work: 1) leadership and management in
 schools and higher education institutions, including Catholic school leadership, school
 improvement and change management; 2) pedagogical leadership; and 3) the leadership and
 management of pastoral care. These key themes have been embedded in a wider range of
 evaluative research and audit services, institutional improvement interventions and
 accredited/non-accredited CPD.

 To support colleagues in the Faculty moving from practice, or new to Higher Education, the
 Faculty stages regular ‘Coffee Club meetings’ on looking to present a first conference paper or
 write for publication for the first time. For those undertaking a research degree, there is also a
 Doctoral support group with a target audience of Faculty of Education staff and students
 undertaking doctorates. Additionally, there is targeted REF support from Visiting Professors for
 staff who are aspirational to be entered for any research exercise post-REF2021 for
 publications and impact case studies, where Visiting Professors provide feedback to staff on
 final drafts of articles and impact work prior to submission to journals or funders.

 Originated by Professor Rayner in 2014, the Newman Institute for Leadership in Education
 (NILE) is a centre for a portfolio embracing all types of research, consultancy and knowledge
 transfer, enabling focused work on educational policy, leadership, and management. NILE was
 launched via a Pastoral Care in the 21st Century Conference in March 2015. Keynotes were
 delivered by Prof Terry Wrigley, Dr Dawn Casserley and Emeritus Prof Stan Tucker and
 Dr Dave Trotman. The conference was opened by Prof Steve Rayner and Phil Jones, Chair of
 the National Association for Pastoral Care in Education.

 From 2015 to 2020, the Unit ran a long-standing seminar series convened by Prof. Dave
 Trotman, beginning with a session focused on Education, Ethics and Profession: Contemporary
 issues and moral challenges, led by Visiting Professor Lesley Saunders in February, 2015 2.00
 pm. We hope to see you there. Subsequent key events in the series were a seminar by the
 former Chief Education Officer for Birmingham Professor Tim Brighouse on School Leadership
 in the 21st Century to an audience of school leaders, governors, academics and students,
 followed in 2016 by lecture seminars from Professor John MacBeath on the impact of OFSTED
 on school leadership and Professor Megan Crawford on ‘Leadership and staff development –
 untangling professional learning’.

 The UoA also organised and ran at Newman the European network Diversity in Early Childhood
 Education and Care (DECET) international conference in June 2015 on ‘No quality without
 Equality’, highlighting how ‘Quality’ continues to be the defining term for early childhood
 education and care following the proposal for a European Quality Framework, launched by the
 EU Commission in 2014.

 To complete the infrastructure for research support, the Centres and Unit work closely with the
 Research Office and Graduate School, which provides research administration and
 postgraduate coordination. The Research office organises and runs the central Research
 Committee, research degrees committee and research ethics subcommittee. With
 representation from researchers across the Faculties and UoAs, the committees provide an
 infrastructure for disbursement and delegation of funds, research strategy and policy
 coordination, oversight of the PGR environment, as well as policies for, among other aspects,
 ethics, open access, and research integrity.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research support activity was also underpinned by a research bid writer funded by the
 University from 2014 to 2018. From 2018, research funding support was outsourced on a
 consultancy basis. This has provided information on grants and support for external funding
 opportunities as well as assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications,
 including advice on costing and pricing, meeting funding eligibility criteria, and submission of
 bids. The university has at times subscribed to Research Professional, Grantfinder, and other
 tools to support bidding and grant acquisition. Bid writing is supported equally by the Finance
 Department and the Graduate School to provide a system for full-economic costing, review and
 quality control, authorization, and submission.

 To seed-fund basic research and impact, the University’s Research Committee has operated a
 number of grant schemes during the REF period. A good proportion of QR monies has been
 devolved down to Units of Assessment to support research eligible for the REF and this is
 managed by researchers in their individual UoAs. The University has additionally operated a
 scheme of negotiated sabbatical support for staff, who must identify clear and measurable
 targets to be achieved at the end of the sabbatical period. This has been supplemented by a
 Small Grants scheme; a conference support scheme; support for regular research seminars,
 research training workshops and inaugural-professorial lectures, and financial support for staff
 undertaking research degrees.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As outlined in the first section above, the work of researchers in the Education UoA over the
 REF period is divided into four areas:

        (1) Education and social policy (Dixon, Kadi-Hanifi, Keenan, Willoughby, Tucker,
            Trotman, Lees, Rayner)
        (2) Supporting families, children and young people (Mac an Ghaill, Sextou)
        (3) Maths and computer science in education (Csizmadia, Yates, Lawson)
        (4) Practice in Higher Education (Peters, Beniston, Thomas)

 The Unit has seen considerable change over the REF period and research in these areas by
 staff at the University on the census date has been supported and supplemented by other key
 ex-staff members who have worked in the Unit: Prof Steve Rayner, Prof Duncan Lawson, Prof
 Dave Trotman, Emeritus Prof Stan Tucker, and Dr Helen Lees, who was Reader in Alternative
 Education Studies.


    (1) Education and social policy (Dixon, Kadi-Hanifi, Keenan, Willoughby, Tucker,
        Trotman, Lees, Rayner)

 Work in this area has been spearheaded by Newman’s Institute of Leadership in Education
 (NILE) research centre, which was formally agreed in 2014, and discussed in the previous
 section. Work in the area has reached national notice. For example, Professor Dave Trotman
 and Emeritus Prof Stan Tucker were invited by the Welsh Minister for Education and Skills to
 contribute to an expert workshop in November 2015 on wellbeing and pastoral support in
 secondary schools in Wales. The workshop had been organised following Professor Sir
 Graham Donaldson’s review of the Welsh Curriculum which highlighted a need for better
 pastoral care in secondary schools. Alongside supervising PhD students in Education, the
 University introduced a new Doctorate in Education (EdD) in 2016, approved by Liverpool Hope
 University and led by Dave Trotman, Professor of Education Policy. In the first cohort,
 seventeen external students and staff colleagues from a wide range of professional
 backgrounds made for a rich and dynamic cohort spanning Early Years, Primary and
 Secondary school teaching, Headship, family support work, FE lecturing along with colleagues
 from academic and support areas at Newman. The first graduates of the degree completed in
 2020.

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mentored by Professors Tucker and Trotman, four staff from the UoA currently work in the area
 of education and social policy. Dixon works in the area of children, young people, digital media,
 education and technology. is an Executive Committee Member of the British Education Studies
 Association, is on the Board of Reviewers for Pastoral Care in Education: An International
 Journal of Personal, Social and Emotional Development (Taylor & Francis) and sits on the
 Board of Editors for both Transformations and Educationalfutures (British Education Studies
 Association). Willoughby conducts research in Educational Theory, Teacher Education,
 Psychoanalysis, and Child and Clinical Psychology. His current research projects include
 studies on the early development of psychoanalysis in Britain, the work of Esther Bick, and the
 public recognition of civil bravery. He leads the University’s MA in Education. Both Dixon and
 Willoughby contributed sections to the publication edited by Trotman, Lees, & Willoughby
 (2017) Education Studies: The Key Concepts, Abingdon: Routledge.

 Keenan and Kadi-Hanifi, both of whom joined the University in the REF period, have worked
 closely together since 2015, producing five joint publications on epistemology and identity in
 post-compulsory education. Kadi-Hanifi jointly presented with one of her doctoral students, an
 early career researcher (Hedges), research on Transformative Education in Cyprus at the Freire
 Institute conference in 2017. Working in supervisory teams with Dixon and Kadi-Hanifi, Keenan
 has supervised 9 doctoral research students, with two completing with minor corrections in
 2020 (Saunders; Loveland-Armour). Kadi-Hanifi is similarly engaged, supervising on these two
 completions, and also in the REF period has two completions at her previous University,
 Worcester, with one (McElearney) completing in 2020. Keenan has presented work to the
 Association for Research in Post-compulsory Education at Oxford University in 2014 and 2016.
 Kadi-Hanifi has presented work at the ‘Linking London research forum’, delivering a keynote
 paper ‘Research on CBHE’ at Birkbeck University, London, November 2019 and co-presented a
 keynote paper with John Keenan at Teachmeet (Halesowen and Dudley Colleges) ‘The
 leadership of teachers’ in June 2020. Kadi-Hanifi is a Peer reviewier for Literacy journal; RPCE
 journal; Pastoral care in education journal; Higher Education journal and is a Committee
 member for Research seminar/conference organisation at the Association of Research in Post-
 compulsory Education (ARPCE).

 Professor Stephen Rayner continued as Dean of Education until his retirement in 2017. He had
 developed international reputation for his research in the field of individual differences in
 learning, teaching, leadership and the management of inclusive education. While still at
 Newman, research projects (2005-15) included the following: researching international
 knowledge creation/exchange in styles research and lead roles in developing networking
 communities of practice (ELSIN and BELMAS); the construction and use of personalizing
 pedagogies associated with web-based learning; developing curricula/impact case studies in
 educationists’ professional learning at doctoral level; a funded Leadership foundation in Higher
 Education Research Project investigating academic leadership in the role of the professoriate in
 the ‘UK University’; and, the recent establishment (2015) of the Newman Institute for Educational
 Leadership in Education (NILE). Recent collaboration with colleagues at Monash University also
 resulted in, “A Guide to Promoting a Positive Classroom Environment” winning
 academic/professional recognition for a CPD text with the presentation of the 2016
 Exceptionality Education International Book Prize Award.

 For several years during the REF period, Dr Helen Lees worked as a Lecturer and then Reader
 at Newman, contributing to the EdD and researching into diverse aspects of alternative
 education including democratic education, home education, silence, and mindfulness. She was
 founding Editor-in-Chief of Other Education – the journal of educational alternatives and
 founding convenor of the BERA Alternative Education SIG. With Nel Noddings, she edited The
 Palgrave International Handbook of Alternative Education (2016) and with Fiona Nicholson she
 contributed the chapter on ‘Home Education in the United Kingdom’ to the Wiley Handbook of
 Home Education (2017) edited by Milton Gaither.



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (2) Supporting families, children and young people (Mac an Ghaill, Sextou)

 Professor Mairtin Mac an Ghaill is a social and educational theorist and his research in the field
 of identity and gender is internationally recognised. He has served as a member of the editorial
 boards for Qualitative Research; Ethnography and Education; Race, Ethnicity and Education;
 Men and Masculinities; Irish Journal of Sociology; Irish Migration, Race and Social
 Transformation Review and Thymos: The Journal of Boyhood Studies. In addition he has acted
 as an external examiner for numerous PhD candidates.

 Widely published and cited, Persephone Sextou is Professor of Applied Theatre for Health and
 Wellbeing and Artistic Director of CADlab, an ARTS-based Research Hub that investigates
 Applied Theatre and Wellbeing in paediatrics. https://www.newman.ac.uk/research/cadlab/
 CADlab was founded with an Entrepreneurship Award from HefCE & UnLtd in 2010. CADlab
 operates in partnership with Birmingham Women’s and Children’s NHS Foundation Trust, The
 James Brindley School at BCH, Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust in England and,
 Queensland Children’s Hospital Brisbane Australia. CADlab’s projects have now involved over
 4000 sick, injured and terminally ill children in performances and, pre- and post-show
 evaluations at their bedside. Sextou is researching the impact of participatory theatre on
 hospitalised children’s wellbeing, and the role of the artist in health. She is an Adjunct Research
 Fellow with Griffith University, Australia in the Centre of Social and Cultural Research working
 with NSW Sydney University and the Children’s Queensland Hospital. Sextou organised the
 Broken Puppet 3 International Symposium on ‘Puppetry: Community, Health, Well- being and
 Disability: Professional Training Opportunities’ in conjunction with UNIMA at Newman University
 https://bit.ly/2Htubf1 (19-21 April 2019) and the Cathedrals Group Conference on ‘Arts, Health
 and Wellbeing’ at Newman University. https://youtu.be/jKaLIbHZihI (September 2018) Sextou
 has secured multiple grants for research projects, most recently ‘Welcome to Rocketarts online!’:
 Educational resources for hospitalised children as research tools. Available at:
 https://youtu.be/vm_Eejigeyo She is currently applying for funding for ‘Future Stories ‘ (main
 study) with the Australian Research Council as an International Collaborator PI in partnership
 with The University of New South Wales (Lead CI), Griffith University, Central Queensland
 University and Children's Health Queensland Hospital and Health Service, The University of
 Queensland. Regionally, Sextou is a member of both the Birmingham Children’s Hospital NHS
 Trust Arts & Health Steering Group and the West Midlands Arts, Health and Wellbeing Alliance
 Steering Group, and internationally she is a member of the International Arts for Health Australia
 Network and the International Health Humanities Network. She serves as Associate Editor of the
 Arts in Society journal (USA) and as a member of the editorial boards for Arts & Health journal,
 Routledge, and the Applied Theatre Research journal, Intellect.


    (3) Maths and computer science in education (Csizmadia, Yates, Lawson)

 Professor Duncan Lawson worked at the University over the REF period up to 2018. He is a
 much sought-after expert in Mathematics education in higher education and in 2016 was
 awarded the prestigious Gold Medal for outstanding contribution to the improvement of the
 teaching of mathematics by the Institute of Mathematics and Its Applications. Among other roles,
 while at Newman Lawson was Judge for HEA / Times Higher Global Teaching Excellence
 Awards 2017-18, Advisor to the Norwegian Quality Assurance and Enhancement Agency
 (NOKUT) on Centres for Excellent Education 2012-16, and Chair of QAA Mathematics, Statistics
 & Operational Research Benchmark Group in 2015. Nominated by colleagues on his departure
 from Newman as part of the Department for Education’s commission from the Cabinet Office,
 Lawson was awarded an MBE in 2019 for services to Mathematics in Higher Education, and in
 particular for his work supporting the learning of mathematics by students from all disciplines
 over the previous 25 years. Lawson re-joined Coventry University as Co-Director of the
 sigma centre for Mathematics and Statistics support in October 2018.

 Csizmadia researches into computer science education, and promotes this agenda at a local,
 regional and national level through collaborative projects, conference presentations and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications. His research interests include computational thinking, computational modelling and
 programming pedagogy, Andrew has published on these topics and has presented at both
 national and international conference. He has presented at numerous international conferences
 (e.g. at the 20th Annual Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science
 Education in Vilnius, and at the 6th International Conference on Robotics in Education in
 Yverdon-les-Bains), and his work is influential in the field: for example, he sat on a subject
 expert group convened by Computing at School, the national subject association for computer
 science teachers, to critically explore computational thinking. An output from this group was the
 production of a monograph, Computational Thinking: A Guide for Teachers (Csizmadia et al,
 2015). He is a Member of the Institution of Engineering and Technology and sits on the Editorial
 Board of The International Journal of Computer Science Education in Schools ( IJCSES).

 Dr. Paul Yates is Deputy Director of Learning, Teaching and Scholarship at the University. A
 Senior Fellow of the Staff and Educational Development Association since 2017 he is a Principal
 Fellow of the Higher Education Academy since 2015. Reviewer for National Teaching Fellowship
 Scheme, 2016-2018. Reviewer for Global Teaching Excellence Award, 2017. Reviewer for
 Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence, 2018. His research specialism is in mathematics
 for chemists and he has published often in Education in Chemistry (twice in 2014, in 2015, and
 in 2017) and presented at international conferences, such as giving a plenary on ‘Defining
 Excellent Chemistry Teaching’ at the 6th European Association of Chemical and Molecular
 Sciences Chemistry Congress, Seville, Spain, 2016.


    (4) Practice in Higher Education (Peters, Beniston, Thomas)

 Working alongside Dr Yates, John Peters is Director of Learning, Teaching and Scholarship at
 the University. He was appointed Professor of Higher Education Practice in 2017. He serves on
 the executive of the Staff and Educational Development Association, as chair of its Scholarship
 and Research Committee, and is on the editorial board of its journal Innovations in Education
 and Teaching International. Prof Peters’ research interests include student partnership, critical
 pedagogy in HE, appreciative inquiry, collaborative educational development and personal
 tutoring. He co-ordinates the Romero-Freire Institute and research centre at Newman and his
 research interests include developing principles for pedagogies of partnership and appreciative
 inquiry. He has often presented at conferences in partnership with student researchers. He has
 published in a range of journals across the REF period from Higher Education Research and
 Development to Pastoral Care in Education, both with others in the Romero-Freire Institute and
 with colleagues from other HEIs. The Romero-Freire Institute draws together academics, HE
 colleagues and students interested in the value of critical pedagogy and liberation theology for
 Higher Education. It thus emphasizes the importance of partnership research and practice with
 a social justice purpose. It has organized conferences, an ERASMUS international training
 week, and brought together mixed teams for research and publication. Members have
 published numerous journal articles on HE and its first book, Hopeful Pedagogies in Higher
 Education, will be published by Bloomsbury in 2021. John is an experienced research
 supervisor and examiner, with 8 research degree completions, on subjects such as the student
 experience of PDP, early years education and educational research methodology. As well as
 currently supervising 5 further doctoral studies, John has also examined PhDs and EdDs at
 UCLan, and the Universities of Derby, Wolverhampton and Worcester.

 Jane Beniston’s work since 2016 has focused on student engagement and transformation
 which I have published research from 2016 onwards. She has published in Training and
 Practice (2016) and The Journal of Educational Innovation, Partnership and Change (2017) as
 well as three collaborative chapters in the forthcoming Bloomsbury book Hopeful Pedagogies
 in Higher Education (ed. M. Seal, 2021) on the history of higher education, student led learning,
 and hopeful spaces.

 Dr Lorraine Thomas was appointed Dean of the Faculty of Education in 2017. Her research
 concerns teaching in higher education with particular reference to teacher training and the value

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the postgraduate academic award in initial teacher education, on which she has published in
 the European Journal of Teacher Education and the Teacher Education Advancement Network
 (TEAN) journal.




                                                                                        Page 10
