Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure:
 This assessment period has been an exciting time for Engineering research at Sheffield Hallam
 University, with sustained investments in academic appointments, staff development and research
 infrastructure driving advances in output quality, disciplinary diversification and research facilities.
 Growth has exceeded our REF2014 aspirations in terms of staff returned and research student
 numbers, resulting in a burgeoning portfolio of research, consultancy and knowledge transfer. 49
 staff (48.6 FTE) are returned in this submission, compared with 31.2 FTE in REF2014.
 Additionally, colleagues from the Department of Engineering and Mathematics are also being
 returned under Computing (UoA11), Architecture, Built Environment and Planning (UoA13), and
 Education (UoA23). Our work on Robotics, which was part of our Engineering submission to
 REF2014, has been incorporated en-masse into the University’s new submission to UoA11.

 In terms of the research support structures set out in the Institutional Statement, Engineering
 represents the largest component of the Industry and Innovation Research Institute (I2Ri). Led by
 Alderson, it also comprises research and innovation activities in Biomolecular Science,
 Computing, and Security and Terrorism. I2Ri is one of four Research Institutes established across
 the University in 2020, making a significant shift towards removing the boundaries and borders
 between research groupings, and enabling the building of large-scale interdisciplinary responses
 to national and global challenges. I2Ri provides Engineering research staff and PGR students with
 infrastructure, technical and administrative support, and expert guidance in innovation and
 collaborative thinking.

 Our research is aligned to the University strategy of Transforming Lives, delivering research that
 generates innovative, practical solutions to real world problems; and focuses on three main
 themes: Functional Materials and Surfaces; Smart Technologies and Emerging Materials;
 and Food Engineering and Transformative Manufacturing. Much of our work is conducted in
 the purpose-built £5.5M, 2000m² laboratories and office space of our Materials and Engineering
 Research Institute (MERI). We moved into this significantly expanded research facility in 2014,
 and have since benefitted from its cutting-edge equipment and modern design. Having academic
 staff, support teams and research students co-located in this space has resulted in a vibrant and
 high-quality research environment. As described in our Institutional Statement, Engineering
 research has also benefitted from a £10M investment in STEM facilities (in 2017), enabling co-
 location of engineering, physics and chemistry, to facilitate collaboration and interdisciplinarity.

 A further substantial institutional investment is our National Centre of Excellence for Food
 Engineering (NCEFE). Developed in partnership with the National Food and Drink Federation
 (FDF), and companies including Nestlé, Premier Foods and SMEs, NCEFE delivers engineering
 led research and innovation to address food sector challenges. Launched in 2014, with a
 dedicated facility opening in 2019, NCEFE has established itself as an industry-facing catalyst for
 innovation, skills and training. Its £10.5M, 1815m² industry-facing facility represents an important
 component of the Sheffield City Region LEP's ambition to grow its Advanced Manufacturing
 Innovation District and help to physically regenerate the Darnall and Tinsley ward of Sheffield.
 NCEFE’s laboratories incorporate pilot-scale production facilities and workshops, which are
 specifically designed to enable direct collaboration with global and national businesses.

 Realisation of REF2014 Plans:
 Our REF2014 research strategy focused on five aspects. We briefly summarise progress against
 each of these, before setting out our research achievements in more detail against our three focus
 themes, including references to our submitted outputs and funded projects.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a) Achieve financial stability through a portfolio of research grants & contracts, research
 students, and consultancy, KT and licensing
 We have achieved sustainability by progressing activities across a balance of income streams,
 totalling £22M in this REF period. Thus, in addition to the £11.22M of research grant funding
 submitted under our REF4b/c, and £2.91M of QR, we have: gained research consultancy income
 of £1.60M, KT income of £1.41M, licensing income of £358k and PGR income of £4.81M;
 delivered multiple paid interventions through coordinated KT programmes such as Innovation
 Futures 2, Sheffield Innovation Programmes 1 & 2, and Grow Med Tech; and conducted 22 full
 and four short Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), and five Enhanced Mentored Internships.

 b) Complete planned refurbishments and so deliver positive research environments
 The refurbished MERI laboratories and office space and the new NCEFE building are high-
 functioning research spaces, offering modern well-equipped facilities with excellent infrastructure
 and technical expertise.

 c) Nurture and develop new academic appointments, particularly ECRs
 The number, quality and diversity of new academic appointments significantly exceeds that
 envisaged in 2014. 21 of the 48.6 staff submitted (43%) joined the University within this REF
 window, with this being a first permanent academic post for 16 of those 21. 29% of our new
 appointments are female and 48% have ethnicity other than white.

 d) Expand PGR provision through internal and industrial bursaries
 Research student numbers have grown very strongly through an increase in supervisory capacity,
 establishment of a central University Doctoral School with bursary scholarship schemes, and
 realisation of a strategy to grow industry-funded doctorates. Thus, against a REF2014 target of
 40, our numbers peaked at over 80; before dropping to 70 due to a deliberate reduction in
 recruitment during the Covid pandemic, which enabled us to support funded extensions for current
 students. External PGR sponsorship has been achieved from multinationals (Michelin, Unilever,
 Siemens, Merck), SMEs (PIL Membranes, MIRA Ltd), government/third sector (HSE, NNL, US
 DoE, Culham Laboratory, Rutherford Appleton Lab, Sheffield Hospitals) and the EC H2020
 CoFund Doctoral Training Alliance programme (801604- DTA3-H2020-MSCA-COFUND-2017).

 e) Diversify research areas
 This submission is significantly broader in scope than our REF2014 submission, which was made
 to Electronic Engineering, Materials Engineering and Metallurgy, rather than General Engineering.
 Our main diversification has been into the Food Engineering and Transformative
 Manufacturing theme, but we have also grown physics/maths research. The portfolio of industrial
 networks forged by NCEFE has enabled this theme to grow very strongly, particularly since the
 completion of its bespoke research facility. Growth in other areas has been achieved through
 concerted recruitment, staff development and nurturing of research-active new appointees. This
 has run across our vibrant programme of taught awards in engineering and maths, including our
 provision in physics, which re-opened in 2016.

 Research Themes and Pathways to Impact:
 Each of our research themes is coordinated by a research Professor, to provide leadership and
 representation across governance structures. Impact is intrinsically embedded into the mission of
 each theme, and realised by multiple threads (see Impact section).

 Functional Materials and Surfaces
 This theme, led by Hovsepian, comprises our work on: wear-resistant and functional coatings;
 nano-structured materials with photonic, photovoltaic and sensor applications; metallurgy; and
 structural materials. Much of this research has strong economic impact, particularly through a
 series of long-term partnerships with industrial collaborators and license-holders.

 High-Power Impulse Magnetron Sputtering (HIPIMS) surface coating technology, the upscaling of
 which was pioneered in our production-grade laboratories, is now embedded in industries
 worldwide. As set out in ICS2, the enhanced protection offered by HIPIMS in environments with

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high oxidation, wear and corrosion conditions underpins several extended license agreements
 with major coatings system manufacturers (Hauzer, CemeCon) and our Joint Research Centre
 with Fraunhofer IST. As well as pioneering novel thin film coatings for photovoltaics and high-wear
 components (EP/J011398/1, EU 310436, Ehiasarian 10.1016/j.jallcom.2019.02.238, Hovsepian
 10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.01.007, IUK 71257-487353, patent application EP3527688A1 with Rolls
 Royce), our HIPIMS group has developed nanostructured coatings for orthopaedic implants with
 enhanced fatigue resistance (Ehiasarian 10.1016/j.surfcoat.2014.02.029, PhDs with Zimmer
 Biomet). Further, our HIPIMS research has been exploited by Trumpf Hüttinger in the production
 and technological advancement of the Apple iPhone 12 Pro.

 Innovative nanostructures are also prevalent in other work under this theme, such as graded
 bandgap materials for photovoltaic devices (Dharmadasa 10.1038/s41598-020-78066-y, PhD
 with CARA), writeable plasmonic structures for anti-counterfeiting solutions (Cranton
 10.1016/j.optlaseng.2015.12.010), high-sensitivity, portable biosensors for agricultural and food
 industry applications (Nabok 10.1039/c8nr02144a), and in theoretical work on quantum dots
 (Harrison 10.1021/acs.jpclett.5b02408) and terahertz lasers (Pereira 10.1364/OE.22.003439,
 Harrison 10.1063/1.4918993, MPNS COST Action MP1204).

 On metallurgical systems, we have developed approaches to increase the lifetimes of cutting
 blades (Luo 10.1016/j.msea.2018.04.012, KTP with Tyzack Machine Knives). We have also
 worked with a steel manufacturer (PhDs with Tinsley Bridge) to develop heat treatment
 technologies for ultrahigh strength and wear-resistant steels. Further, we have advanced novel
 technologies       and      hybrid     materials     for    helicopter     repair      (Kordatos
 10.1016/j.compstruct.2015.03.014, FP7 IAPETUS project), approaches to prevent erosion-
 corrosion loss of neutron source targets (PhD with RAL), and the manufacture of insulating jackets
 for petroleum pipelines (KTP with BS Stainless).

 Our research on novel building materials and methodologies includes the development of low-
 carbon alternatives to Portland cement (Mangat 10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2018.07.180, Starinieri
 10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2018.06.055, ISCF 79439-506253) and electrically heated flooring (KTP
 with Marlborough Brickwork), and prototype microwave curing techniques for in-situ concrete
 repair (Mangat 10.1016/j.conbuildmat.2016.03.007, FP7 605664) (ICS1).

 Smart Technologies and Emerging Materials
 Under this theme, led by Sammon, we group our work on soft materials (polymers, gels, auxetics,
 and fluid flows) with that on glasses and ceramics. Much of this activity is underpinned by
 fundamentals of physical sciences, which has provided support for new researchers in physics
 and made for strong multi-disciplinary links with collaborators in biomedical science.

 We have achieved major success in developing thermally-triggered gels attuned to biomedical
 applications, particularly the repair of intervertebral discs (Sammon 10.1016/j.actbio.2017.03.010,
 Patent EP2747797) and bone, supported by over £2M in funding with biomedical collaborators
 (EU246351, EU825925, MR/P026796/1). Multi-disciplinarity has been crucial to this success,
 generating co-authored outputs with colleagues from the University’s Biomolecular Sciences
 Research Centre (BMRC; UoA5). Further, collaborations have been achieved on polymer
 nanocomposites, with applications in sustainable packaging and fire-retardancy, and as binders
 (Breen 10.1016/j.clay.2014.10.010, Clegg 10.1021/acs.macromol.7b02030, IUK 132319),
 automotive components (KTP with Cook Defence Systems), electrolyte gels (Mader
 10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.10.049), particulate detection (Mader 10.1002/jrs.5113, PhD with the
 HSE), and drug release systems (Sammon 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.9b01063,
 EP/I501665/1).

 Experimental and theoretical work on auxetic behaviours has identified novel mechanisms for
 sport, consumer products and healthcare applications (Alderson 10.1002/adma.201603959);
 PhDs with Michelin and Pioneer Healthcare; consultancies with Nike, BASF, Babolat, HEAD
 SPORT GmbH, BSN Medical Inc); and includes collaborations with BMRC and Sports Engineering
 (UoA24). In addition, self-assembly has been utilised in both conducting threads for wearable tech

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Aminorroaya-Yamini 10.1021/nn406026z) and simulations of nano-structures (PhDs with
 Unilever and Merck, Cleaver 10.1080/00268976.2018.1492744, consultancy with DSTL). This
 sub-theme is an exemplar of the global reach of our research activity, embracing collaborations
 with the US (Cal Tech, Georgia Tech, University of Pennsylvania), Japan (University of Tsukuba),
 China (Harbin Institute), Australia (University of Sydney, Murdoch University) and mainland
 Europe. Across the whole of this submission, 57 of our 116 submitted outputs (over 49%) have
 international co-authors.

 Our expert use of modelling and simulation to probe fluid flow has been strategically developed to
 cover a vast range of time and length scales, from foundations of the Lattice Boltzmann
 methodology for multiphase flows (EP/M006948/1, Halliday 10.1080/10255842.2013.799146, Xu
 10.1103/PhysRevE.96.053308), to biomedical and haemodynamic flows (Halliday
 10.1080/10255842.2013.799146,           Schenkel          10.1160/TH16-03-0214,          Spencer
 10.1093/cvr/cvw210), droplets (Cheng 10.1016/j.expthermflusci.2018.01.027), CFD for aero and
 automotive systems (Viswanathan 10.1016/j.ijmultiphaseflow.2018.09.016, PhD with HORIBA
 MIRA, Li 10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.05.114), high speed aerodynamics (KTP with EPA
 Manufacturing),      supersonic     shocks      (Li      10.1016/j.ijhydene.2018.05.114,      Cui
 http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4975983), and ocean-based energy converters (Royal Academy of
 Engineering UK-CIAPP\73, Kara 10.1016/j.renene.2016.01.088).

 The growth of our research in glasses and ceramics has far exceeded that predicted in REF2014.
 As well as performing cutting-edge work on the fundamentals of glass science (Bingham
 10.1038/s41598-019-51306-6, Forder 10.1021/ic5028702, Diamond synchrotron time, Jones
 10.1088/1361-648X/aaab7d, ESRF beam-time) we have made considerable achievements in
 reducing the environmental impact of glass and ceramics manufacture (IUK 104382, 132334 and
 132360, BEIS TRN: 2021/08/2019, PhD with Wienerberger), and advancing technologies for high
 level nuclear waste glasses (Bingham 10.1111/jace.15936, PhDs with NNL and the US DoE).
 This academic expertise has also been applied to industrial problems, including the development
 of an innovative high-temperature fibre insulation material, as set out in ICS4 (KTP009345,
 SKTP1000819, PhDs with Morgan Advanced Materials).

 Our corresponding work on ceramic materials ranges from knowledge transfer activities on
 ceramic composites (Royal Society IF120126, KTP with Wienerberger), to international
 collaborations developing a family of environmentally friendly ceramic piezoelectric materials for
 actuator and energy-storage applications (Feteira 10.1039/C7TA09857J, Diamond Light Source,
 Sterianou 10.1039/C6TC05515J), highly innovative thermoelectrics (Aminorroaya-Yamini
 10.1002/aenm.201501047), and novel magnetic ceramics (Eccleston 10.1039/C9DT00418A).
 Modelling and simulation of fast-switching ferrimagnetics and magnetic alloys for future data
 storage technologies (Ostler 10.1038/s41467-019-09577-0, NIA awarded 2020 EP/T027916/1)
 extends this area further into the realm of the underlying physics. Further physics and mathematics
 research       includes         experimental       nuclear       structure      physics      (Smith
 10.1103/PhysRevLett.119.132502, PhD with Culham), theoretical astrophysics (Baxter
 10.1088/1361-6382/ab310e)              and         population          modelling        (Abernethy
 10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2018.12.003).

 Food Engineering and Transformative Manufacturing
 Food Engineering is founded on the pull of end-application, rather than the push of methodology
 or academic discipline. Consequently, while NCEFE has its own core research and innovation
 team, it also draws on the full range of our Engineering research expertise on a project-by-project
 basis. Transformative Manufacturing, meanwhile, is a rapidly evolving sub-theme of our research
 portfolio and extends well beyond our traditional Materials Engineering core, to embrace
 automotive, control, power engineering and engineering management.

 Led by Howarth, NCEFE has, through the period, undertaken 12 collaborative R&D projects with
 industry, funded through IUK, Newton Fund, EPSRC and EU H2020 Eranet; with a total project
 value of £8,232,720, of which funding to Sheffield Hallam was £1,827,636. This includes IUK
 funding     of:   heat    recovery   research     with   Dext   (IUK    102322,     Asthana

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 10.1016/j.egypro.2019.02.100, ICS3), manufacturing process optimisation with World Feeds,
 process control research with Nestlé and Greencore (IUK 102327 and 102700, Howarth
 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2020.110229, Dubey 10.1063/1.5123182), and rice milling with overseas
 partners and Koolmill (EP/P026206/1). A number of studies aimed at maximising the full value
 chain of food systems include: pyrolysis-based valorisation of underutilised crops (Kabir
 10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.08.090), upgrading of agro-food waste materials (Sammon
 10.1016/j.indcrop.2017.10.062), investigation of anaerobic digestion systems (ISCFPoC17_11),
 and okra-derived biopolymers for pharmaceutical sustained-release applications (Fleming
 10.1016/j.foodhyd.2017.02.010).

 We have also established a substantive research activity in energy management systems. Our
 three new appointments in this field give us a strong core in power networks (Liao
 10.1109/TSG.2018.2868461), and microgrids for community energy systems, unified control and
 autonomous electric vehicle charging (Issa 10.1109/TPEL.2014.2359792, Ikpehai
 10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2709254); alongside ongoing activity on fuel cell configurations (Zhang
 10.1007/s40565-016-0196-5), ohmic heating (Breikin 10.4236/ojmsi.2021.91002) and our
 Energy-focused Horizon 2020-funded Doctoral Training Alliance activity.

 The CFD modelling activity for aero and automotive systems, listed under the previous theme, is
 complemented by work on automotive drive control strategies and diagnostics (Lenzo
 10.1109/TIE.2016.2540584, consultancy with TEXA, PhD with Siemens).                Our Control
 Engineering      work    ranges      from   satellite   network      optimisation    (Battistini
 10.1016/j.actaastro.2017.12.050), to research with Sheffield Children’s Hospital to investigate
 treatments to improve bone strength (Razaghi 60/01Harrison, POM000156 ICURe). Finally, under
 this sub-theme, we have a strong track record in engineering management and supply chain
 networks (Saad 10.1504/IJSCOM.2018.091620), with PhD theses applying these methods to
 petroleum and steel industries, achieving several thousand downloads from our open access
 repository (e.g. Dr M Khamkham 4959 downloads).

 Impact:
 As illustrated in the theme summaries above, impact is intrinsic to our research activity. Our
 approach to impact is based on three priorities: partnerships, knowledge transfer and
 dissemination. For the first two of these, impact largely is economic - the development of materials,
 systems, knowledge and skills, in partnership with end-users. The third relates to external
 engagement via outreach and training of professionals.

 Partnerships
 Our most direct route for engaging with industrial beneficiaries is through collaborative research
 projects with partner organisations. This has been achieved through: full cost research projects
 (e.g. Hauzer, BioMet), EU-funded collaborations (e.g. the FP7 project MCure), TSB and IUK
 sponsored collaborative research and development partnerships (e.g. six NCEFE IUK projects
 totalling £897k), industrial funding for over 20 PhD projects, and licensing of patents or specific
 expertise.

 Through our expertise in key applications areas and strong internal networking, we have also
 enhanced our impact via thematic clustering in the areas of Energy, Biomedical and Food
 Engineering. Our work on Energy includes: new materials for energy generation, transfer and
 storage; low carbon approaches to materials production and processing; control systems for
 power networks and microgrids; industrial heat-recovery systems; and mechanisms to enable low-
 energy data-storage. Our research with Biomedical applications includes: gels for disc and bone
 repair, joint replacements, bio-medical and haemodynamic flows, novel stent designs, and
 healthcare technologies. In Food Engineering, our development of NCEFE represents a long-term
 strategic and targeted realisation of a major research and innovation goal, with real-world impact
 at its core. This is exemplified by the words of Ian Wright, CEO of the Food and Drink Federation:
 “The National Centre of Excellence for Food Engineering at Sheffield Hallam is a fantastic example
 of how manufacturers, government and academics can collaborate to bridge the food industry’s
 research gap. The shared vision and priorities that we have developed will make this world-class

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facility a focal point for research and innovation excellence for the UK’s largest manufacturing
 sector.”

 Knowledge Exchange
 Impact activities through knowledge exchange are supported via strategic project investment in:
 specialist facilities (e.g. £0.86M HIPIMS system, £150k biomechanical tissue loading suite), 13
 HEIF Impact Fellowships supporting partnerships with industry, and direct funding of SME
 engagement projects. The Sheffield Innovation Programme (SIP), an ESIF supported partnership
 with the Sheffield City Region Growth Hub and University of Sheffield, and its predecessor
 Innovation Futures 2, are examples of our programmes to support SMEs through access to
 expertise and facilities. We have engaged with 77 regional SMEs through these schemes,
 generating seven new products (six new to market) and extending many interventions into follow-
 on research and KE activities, such as KTPs and IUK projects.

 Dissemination
 We have engaged proactively in public-facing outreach, particularly in the Sheffield City Region.
 In addition to talks to local schools, and in PubhD and Skeptics in the Pub settings, this has
 included hosting of and contributing multiple sessions to the annual Sheffield Festival of Science
 and Engineering, e.g. stands by Breen, Alderson, Clegg and their PGR students at hands-on
 events, and public talks by Cleaver, Cranton and Sammon. Alderson has also contributed to the
 BBC2 Learning Zone Biomimetics programme (2015).

 Jones has led a range of outreach activities on sustainability and e-waste
 www.whatsinmystuff.org, including appearances in the documentary film “E-Life” (2016), BBC
 World News (TV) Talking Business with Aaron Heslehurst (2018), and talks at schools across the
 country. Alderson, Bingham and Sammon have also had several BBC Radio Sheffield
 appearances discussing their work during the REF period.

 We have an established track record in disseminating our expertise to key professionals by
 developing and delivering CPD courses, targeted at two specific groups - road traffic accident
 investigators and bridge inspectors. Across multiple sessions these have, respectively, been used
 to train 145 accident investigators from 24 police constabularies, and 251 bridge inspectors from
 UK and international jurisdictions.

 Future Research Strategy:
 Our future strategy builds on the strong growth and diversification we have achieved during the
 REF2021 period and reflects our commitment to the wider University objectives outlined in the
 Institutional Statement. Our Unit strategy is designed to ensure a strong research and innovation
 culture that delivers excellent performance and sustainable income growth, and focuses on
 economic and social impact. The formation in 2020 of I2Ri, to which the Unit and the Department
 of Engineering and Mathematics are aligned, provides the opportunity to shape our future
 interdisciplinary research and innovation strategy.

 Our strategic objectives for the next five years are to:

 a) Promote Financial Sustainability by expanding the primary sources of income generation.
 The Unit will participate in the plans of I2Ri to develop a framework for large-scale funding schemes
 and create an annual cycle of income generation and horizon scanning, to ensure research is
 supported through a balance of grant funding, “full cost consultancy” and direct industry-funded
 work. The Unit will target year-on-year increases of 10% growth in income and achieved through
 the development of existing staff and appropriately targeted recruitment.

 b) Enhance Facilities, Equipment and Infrastructure by building on the consolidation of
 research facilities through the £16M combined investment in MERI and NCEFE during this REF
 period, securing new investment and capital funding to enhance this base, and promoting
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research. Initial investments to be made during the next period
 include a new £2.74M Testing, Imaging and Characterisation Centre for Innovation, a move to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cloud-based high-performance-computing facilities, and provision of equipment to support
 emerging research.

 c) Consolidate and Expand Research and Innovation Culture and Capacity by growing the
 Unit, through recruitment and staff development, from the current Significant Responsibility for
 Research (SRfR) intensity of 40.8%, towards a target of 50%, with a particular emphasis on ECRs.
 Initiatives delivered through I2Ri will promote interdisciplinary activities and support consortia and
 bid development to achieve impact. Enhancement of links between the research and innovation
 activity of the Unit and the taught curriculum will ensure sustainability of capacity and research
 opportunities, with particular emphasis on PGR development through experience of academic
 delivery.

 d) Develop ECRs through targeted investment of a new University-funded ECR Fellowship
 Scheme, a coordinated mentoring programme, and direct support for the development of external
 funding bids, such as New Investigator Awards and Fellowships. All ECRs will be encouraged and
 supported to participate in the University ECR Network and, through the annual Research
 Planning cycle for academic staff, the Unit will provide facilities and expertise required to realise
 individual research plan objectives. Support for researcher development from competitive internal
 Creating Knowledge and Research Institute funding schemes will be focused on ECRs.

 Interdisciplinary Research:
 Engineering research at the University has its origins in our interdisciplinary Materials and
 Engineering Research Institute (MERI), and now ranges across engineering, chemistry, materials,
 physics and manufacturing. These links and their wider external networks and collaborations now
 continue through the University’s Research Institute-based structure, one of the objectives of
 which is to promote interdisciplinarity. This engenders an environment that provides a scholarly
 home, firmly rooted into the academic portfolio of its departments, from which contributions and
 collaborations are built that drive borderless research. Examples from across the Unit, detailed
 above, include projects with Biomolecular Science, Sports Engineering, Economic and Social
 Research, Business, and Food and Nutrition.

 Open Research:
 The University’s Open Access (OA) policy is committed to the principle of making the outputs of
 publicly-funded research available through unrestricted online access. All staff and research
 students are introduced to the fundamentals of OA and data management. Our publications and
 theses are made available through our institutional Green OA facility, the Sheffield Hallam
 University Research Archive (SHURA). Since 2017, this has included full digitisation and posting
 of new and historical theses, 249 of which are from Engineering. For this Unit, download counts
 in this assessment period are 124,000 papers and 58,000 theses. Staff and research students are
 also encouraged to utilise ResearchGate, Academia.edu and other academic networking sites to
 disseminate pre-print publications, and all Category A staff possess an ORCID identifier.

 University systems automatically trigger Gold OA where it is a requirement of a funder. We also
 fund Gold OA for other outputs, priority being given to high impact work and authors who are
 returning from parental leave or are ECRs. The Library Research Support Team oversees this
 process, provide a training and advice service, and work with academics to archive research data
 sets and make these publicly available via the University’s research data archive (SHURDA).

 Research Integrity:
 We are fully aligned with the University’s Research Integrity policy and action plan for the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity, as detailed in the Institutional Statement. These include
 a requirement that research be conducted in accordance with published standards and
 behaviours, underpinned by Research Misconduct policies. Research ethics and integrity are key
 topics in our training programmes for research students, supervisors, and early career, developing
 and experienced researchers. Research ethics processes are systematically embedded and are
 a specific progress-requirement for doctoral projects. All research proposals are submitted to our
 University-wide research ethics management system and are scrutinised by research-active staff,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including at least one senior researcher. Our Laboratory Management Group oversees health and
 safety procedures and risk assessments at a local level, and supplements these with regular walk-
 around checks. All risk assessments were re-appraised during the Covid lockdown, with
 subsequent phased re-opening of specialist facilities implemented under strict protocols.



 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development:
 Our long-standing aim in staffing has been to sustainably grow our research and knowledge
 transfer capacity through a concerted combination of recruitment, development and reward. Our
 strategy for achieving this has principally focused on appointing talented new academic staff and
 enabling their development into independent research leaders. This is underpinned by a culture
 of excellence which values high-quality impactful research, enables diversification and
 interdisciplinary working, and provides specialist facilities, training, mentorship and time.

 These approaches are well aligned with wider University objectives for researcher development
 and its action plan in relation to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers;
 Cleaver chairs the University’s Researcher Concordat Operations Group.

 Recruitment and Career Development:
 We have a joined-up recruitment policy through which senior staff responsible for research and
 teaching work together to appoint new faculty with strong potential to deliver on both fronts. As a
 result of this, 21 of the 48.6 academic staff in this submission joined the institution within this
 assessment period, this being a first permanent academic post for 16 of the 21.

 Below Reader level, individual Research and Innovation Plans are used to ensure a consistent
 approach to allocation of research time. These plans annually set out a 3-5 year view of how
 funding, research, outputs and impact activities will work together with approaches to developing
 personal networks, collaborations and any support required to scale-up achievements. They are
 then reviewed by the Departmental Research Lead (Bingham) and feed into academic work
 planning. This standardised approach for allocating research time against future plans is the basis
 for identifying SRfR status, guaranteeing an allocation of at least 20.8%.

 A further institutional mechanism for ensuring consistency across different career stages and roles
 is the University’s Academic Careers Framework (ACF). The ACF sets out indicators of
 achievement in academic citizenship and leadership, research and innovation, teaching and
 learning, and external engagement. This provides a structured framework for talent identification
 and career conversations within the annual Performance and Development Review (PDR)
 process, which gives all researchers the opportunity to review and set new research objectives, in
 line with the Unit's strategy and their own career development plans.

 Early-Career Researchers:
 Along with targeted recruitment of new staff aligned to our research expertise, the support and
 development of ECR colleagues is central to our approach for growing research capacity and
 community. ECRs are directly supported through mentoring, to foster our culture of research
 excellence that values quality research with impact, and by being pairing up with experienced
 supervisors to form PGR supervisory teams. In line with the Researcher Concordat action plan,
 internal investment schemes prioritise direct support for and/or engagement of ECRs in strategic
 projects and funded PhD scholarships. This provides both encouragement and opportunity to
 develop as independent researchers and secure internal fellowships/external funding as a
 pathway to future leader status. Examples of colleagues who have been supported by such
 approaches during the period are Bingham, Ostler, Starinieri and Xu. Both Bingham and Xu
 were (consecutively) ECR representatives on the University’s Researcher Concordat Operations
 Group and have since progressed to Reader (Xu) and Professor (Bingham).


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This consistent implementation of supportive ECR development policies over many years is
 reflected in the histories of several of the staff submitted here: five gained their own PhDs at
 Sheffield Hallam (Clegg, Ehiasarian, Razaghi, Sammon, Spencer) and two are now at
 Professorial level. Our ECRs also participate actively in governance structures and our ECR
 Network (see Institutional Statement) promotes community, culture and interdisciplinarity by
 enabling ECRs of all disciplines to come together through a series of events and workshops, run
 by and for themselves.

 Research Leave/External Exchanges:
 Throughout the period, the Unit has supported staff with institutional initiatives to promote the
 growth of research capability through investment to engage in strategic projects. Mechanisms
 such as the Chancellor’s Fellowship Scheme, the Platform Challenge Fund and HEIF Strategic
 funding have been used to allocate ring-fenced sabbatical/research time and project funding to
 support Bingham, Ehiasarian, Jones, Nabok, Ostler and Sammon. In each case, the funding
 has been used to promote external engagement and build capability.

 In addition, HEIF funded Impact Fellowships have been awarded to 13 staff through the period,
 with the objective of enabling them to work with industry, public, and voluntary and community
 organisations, to develop new collaborations and deepen existing relationships.

 Recognition and Reward:
 Exceptionally, four staff in this Unit have been promoted to senior university roles in research and
 innovation leadership in this REF period: Eccleston (PVC Research and Innovation, and
 subsequently Deputy VC Academic), Cranton (Dean of Research), Alderson (Director of I2Ri),
 and Cleaver (Director of the Doctoral School). Additionally, Fleming and Zhang both achieved
 departmental leadership roles as Deputy Heads of Department (NFA grade 10).

 In recognition of their excellent research achievements, Bingham and Feteira, who were ECRs
 in our previous REF submission, have progressed through Reader to gain personal Chairs.
 Additionally, Aminorroaya-Yamini, Asthana, Breikin, Clegg and Xu have all achieved Reader
 or equivalent (grade 9). Of these, Aminorroaya-Yamini and Xu, two female new appointees, are
 exemplars of talented researchers who have achieved accelerated career progression. Twelve
 other colleagues in this submission have progressed from grade 7 to 8. All individual promotions
 are assessed against the ACF, to ensure consistency across the institution and apply the
 principles of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

 Relatively few of our established research staff have left the institution for alternative employment
 in this REF period. Two who did (Harrison and Pereira) went to Professorial positions at other
 HEIs. We would though like to note in this submission the enduring contributions of two of our
 valued colleagues, Professor Chris Breen and Dr Sue Forder, who very sadly passed away
 through ill-health whilst still in post.

 Research Students:
 Postgraduate research (PGR) students are integral to our research community and the growth of
 our PGR provision has been a key focus in this REF period. 29% of the outputs submitted by the
 Unit have PGR student co-authors. We have achieved 77 completions, compared to 58 in
 REF2014; though a like-for-like comparison with that previous total would be 91, due to several
 established supervisors now being aligned with the new submission to UoA11.

 The University operates a 'hub and spoke' model for the administration and management of
 research degrees, the hub being the central Doctoral School, led by Cleaver, with I2Ri one of four
 spokes. PGR operations in I2Ri are coordinated by a Head of Research Degrees, who leads a
 team of academic PGR Tutors (PGRTs), working in partnership with professional services staff.
 UoA12 has two PGRTs (Clegg, Xu) who oversee recruitment, progression and supervisor
 allocation. Our dedicated Research Student Administration team maintain PGR records and co-
 ordinate the allocation and maintenance of resources. Our Research Student Administrators also


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have a student support remit, signposting to a range of university services, including our growing
 provision on mental health and wellbeing.

 PGR policies and procedures are set by the institutional Research Degrees Committee, to ensure
 that our research degree provision meets quality thresholds, as stipulated by the QAA UK Quality
 Code for HE. Institute and University action plans are devised annually, guided by external
 regulatory change and student feedback, particularly through the national Postgraduate Research
 Experience Surveys, in which we consistently achieve strong results. We are well networked with
 PGR operations at other HEIs through Cleaver being co-chair of the UKCGE Deans and Directors
 of Doctoral Schools Network.

 Recruitment, Training and Supervision:
 PGR admissions are implemented via a pre-offer proforma, developed to ensure adherence with
 all internal and external (i.e. QAA, UKVI, F&CO ATAS) requirements. All applicants are
 interviewed by their prospective supervisor(s) and an independent experienced academic (usually
 a PGRT), who has responsibility for ensuring that admissions decisions are fair, consistent and
 reliable. As well as growing our PGR population, we have achieved a high degree of diversity -
 approximately 60% are international and 25% are female. By headcount, ~25% of the Unit’s home
 PGR students have BAME ethnicities, compared with an institutional average of ~11%. This
 diversity is regularly celebrated through student-led “bring-a-dish" lunches, which range from
 Wurst to Wensleydale and from Pavlova to Baklava. A range of social events are organised to
 celebrate festivals from different cultures and to accommodate differing attitudes to alcohol.

 All new PGR students attend University and Research Institute induction events. Extensive digital
 resources are provided via a Blackboard VLE, and the Doctoral School’s training and development
 site, which is based around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Training in research
 practice (data management, analysis and statistics; information retrieval; integrity and ethics; and
 health and safety) is provided through compulsory training sessions delivered at University and
 Research Institute levels, supplemented by online training such as Epigeum modules. Project-
 specific instruction on research methods and instrumentation is then provided by academic or
 technical staff with appropriate expert knowledge. Sessions on transferable skills are regularly
 provided by the Doctoral School. A Teaching Skills for Doctoral Students module, obligatory for
 those engaging in undergraduate tuition, also introduces PGR students to an optional
 development programme leading to Associate FHEA accreditation.

 We attach particular importance to the development of communication skills. Central to this, each
 May we run a two-day Research Symposium in which all second year PGRs give an oral
 presentation and all first years present a poster in a conference-like environment. This involves
 the whole Unit, plus external invitees, and provides a focus for our training cycle and engenders
 a strong cohort focus across our PGR community. Many of our students have gone on to give
 external outreach talks (PubhD, Skeptics), and win prizes at professional body meetings.
 Additionally, one of our students won the UK 3MT Final (Vitae Conference, 2019) and gained a
 significant SciComm contract during her PhD.

 Supervision is team-based, both to broaden each student’s support network and to enable ECRs
 to contribute/develop their skills. Each supervisory team receives 90 hours allocation and is
 required to meet University criteria relating to supervisory experience, research expertise,
 engagement with update sessions and supervisory loading. Where appropriate, external
 supervisors from collaborating HEIs or industry are included. Supervisor training includes an
 institutional Research Supervisor Development Programme, plus workshops for research degree
 examiners and independent chairs. In addition, I2Ri runs “supervisor fora” to update on regulatory
 changes, promote exchange of good practice and disseminate feedback from PGR surveys.

 Funding:
 The growth we have achieved in PGR numbers has been underpinned by considerable success
 in developing a diversity of funding streams, leading to total PGR income of £4.81M across the
 REF period. This has been significantly founded on effective use of institutional PGR bursary

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 schemes, to both raise the profile of our programmes and leverage commercial funding to provide
 industry-linked PhD opportunities. Specifically, our effective advertisement of funded places has
 led, indirectly, to increased interest from government- and self-funded international applicants.
 Whilst maintaining strict quality standards, this resulted in recruitment of students from over 25
 territories, including India, Iraq, Libya and Nigeria. Additionally, by proactively engaging in a
 collaborative funding scheme with external partners, we gained support for over 20 full- or match-
 funded PhDs. These included applied projects with industry (Merck, Michelin, MIRA, Siemens,
 Weinerberger) and other agencies (Culham, NHS, RAL, US DoE), in line with our broader KE
 objectives. Finally, we played a lead role in establishing the University Alliance DTA programme,
 firstly developing it as a structured PhD training collaboration, and subsequently being a partner
 in its successful application for a €6.5 million Horizon 2020 grant.

 Progression and Support:
 PhD registration is formally completed at the Application for Approval of Research Programme
 stage at 3 months FT/6 months PT. For this a researcher who is independent of the project and
 the supervisory team reviews the project quality and viability, the support and infrastructure
 requirements, the candidate’s development needs, and considerations of research ethics and
 project safety planning. Academic progress is formally assessed at Application for Confirmation
 of PhD stage at 15 months FT/27 months PT. For this candidates submit a 6000-word report
 outlining their research aims, a literature review and description of methodologies/techniques,
 indicative results, and a detailed plan identifying their potential contribution to knowledge. In
 Engineering, candidates then undertake a viva based on this report, with one or more independent
 assessors. Overall outcomes based on this, combined written and oral assessment, are then
 moderated by a PGRT. Imposing a strict 15-month deadline for Confirmation has improved
 submission rates. Further, where Confirmation assessment identifies issues, it enables our
 PGRTs to determine where alternative arrangements may be needed to ensure successful
 completion.

 Students with disabilities can access support from the central Disabled Student Support service,
 including assistance with Disabled Support Allowance applications, and assessments and
 negotiation of a PGR-specific Learning Contract, which sets out reasonable adjustments for
 research, supervision and assessment. Our institutional development of a bespoke Learning
 Contract proforma and process for PGR students has led to a clear increase in the proportion
 identifying as disabled, and represents sector-leading practice.

 Equality and Diversity:
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded in all staffing policies and actions, evidenced by
 the fact that 29% of our new appointments in this REF period are female (exceeding our research
 student F:M ratios), and 48% have ethnicity other than white. By comparison, female staff made
 up less than 10% of our REF2014 submission. These increased levels of diversity are further
 underpinned by our Department of Engineering & Mathematics and MERI gaining a bronze Athena
 SWAN award in this REF period.

 Access to community and training activities via video-conferencing accelerated rapidly during
 2020. Increases in attendance and feedback received suggest this has been instrumental in
 increasing participation, especially amongst part-time students and staff and those with caring
 responsibilities. We intend to retain and enhance this blended learning approach.

 All researchers have ready access to infrastructures which support diverse communities of staff
 and students. These include locally-available support networks and initiatives relating to BAME,
 disability, gender and LGBTQ+, e.g. the Allies programme. Through our management structures
 the Unit ensures that all policies and processes are deployed effectively, including mandatory
 completion of unconscious bias training.

 Recruitment is undertaken in accordance with University policies for equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Shortlisting involves independent, criterion-based assessment by panel members. All
 candidates with a disability who meet the essential criteria are automatically shortlisted and are

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 asked if reasonable adjustments may help at interview. All interview panels include female and
 male members, and staff involved in recruitment, promotion and selection processes are required
 to have undertaken recruitment and selection training offered by the university, which includes
 sections on equal opportunities legislation, gender and diversity.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income:
 Our funding strategy is to develop staff via a range of funded programmes - encompassing a
 balance of grant, KT and collaborative funding - towards larger-scale bids. The Unit delivers
 research through programmes that are heavily co-created with industry and undertaken through
 regional, national and international collaborations. Our income portfolio is consequently distributed
 across a range of funding sources, with total income of £22M, comprising: £10.45M research grant
 funding and £765k in-kind support, submitted under our REF4b/c; with additional research
 consultancy income of £1.60M, licensing income of £358k, PGR income of £4.81M, knowledge
 transfer income (HEIF and ERDF) of £1.41M, and OfS (REF QR/RDP) income of £2.91M.

 Impact is central to our research and funding strategy and has been delivered through multiple
 coordinated KT programmes, such as Innovation Futures 2 (IF2 - 23 companies supported),
 Sheffield Innovation Programmes (SIP1 - 57 business assists, delivering 7 new products to
 companies and 6 new products to market; SIP2 - on-going), Grow Med Tech (5 projects), and
 through 22 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), 4 short KTPs (sKTPs) and 5 Enhanced
 Mentored Internships (EMIs - total KTP/sKTP/EMI income of £2.79M (REF4b)).

 These initiatives create a pipeline of industry-focused projects of increasing significance and
 value, typically developing from IF/SIP activity, to KTP and other larger-scale funded research
 delivering real-world impact. Examples of companies where IF/SIP activity has developed into
 KTP projects include: ACS Stainless Steel Fixings Ltd, Evenort Ltd, PMS Diecasting Ltd and EMSc
 (UK) Ltd.

 Exemplar impact includes EMI/KTP funding with C-Probe Ltd (ICS1) on concrete infrastructure
 led by Mangat. Luo’s initial IF1 (previous REF period) and IF2 activity with Tinsley Bridge Group
 (TBG) has led onto follow-on KTPs with TBG and Tyzack Machine Knives to develop ultrahigh-
 strength and wear-resistant steel technologies to support the UK’s defence and heavy-duty
 machineries. The work undertaken by Bingham into glass and ceramics research includes an
 sKTP and a KTP with Morgan Advanced Materials, underpinning ICS4. Bingham has also
 undertaken a SIP project with Glass Technology Services as part of a partnership which has
 secured IUK funding (104382) and formed part of Glass Futures Ltd consortia, recently awarded
 a £7.1M Industrial Fuel Switching Procurement Contract (BEIS) and a £15M Transforming
 Foundation Industries Challenge investment (UKRI).

 Some of the key projects secured in the current REF period are identified by research theme
 below:

 Functional Materials and Surfaces
 Mangat - EU_FP7-SME £343k (605664) with six academic and commercial partners around
 Europe, to develop and demonstrate energy efficient system for accelerated curing during repair
 and refurbishment of concrete structures.
 Hovsepian - EU_FP7 £206k (consortium grant of €3.4M) (310436) with 13 academic and
 commercial partners around Europe, to develop new coatings for supercritical steam power plants
 for efficient and clean coal utilisation.
 Ehiasarian - EPSRC £160k (£329k total award straddling REFs 2014 and 2021) (EP/J011398/1)
 with six academic and commercial partners, to use HIPIMS to produce solar cell coatings and
 improve our understanding of the layers.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Smart Technologies and Emerging Materials
 Breen - EU_FP7 £1.2M (290098) straddling REFs 2014 and 2021 (total value of €3.1M): Marie
 Curie ITN, coordinated by Breen, a 12-partner interdisciplinary team of academic and industrial
 groups with a focus on sustainable packaging solutions.
 Sammon - EU_FP7 £133k (246351) straddling REFs 2014 and 2021 (consortium grant of €4.0M)
 with 10 academic and commercial partners around Europe, to develop biomimetic nano-polymer
 based gel for minimally invasive treatment for disc regeneration.
 Bingham - IUK £173k and BEIS £173k (consortium grants of 2 x £494k) (104382) with five
 commercial partners, to develop raw materials for the manufacture of more economical, more
 efficient, lower-emission glasses and ceramics.
 Bingham - EPSRC £172k (consortium grant of £2M) (EP/R020957/1) with 17 academic and
 commercial partners, to develop innovative manufacturing methods to enable production of
 evolvable bio-hybrid systems with the inherent ability to sense and repair damage.

 Food Engineering and Transformative Manufacturing
 Howarth - EPSRC £301k (EP/P026206/1) with 12 UK/India academic and commercial partners,
 to develop bran processing and investigation and evaluation of rice husk ash production and
 application, testing and exploitation in India.
 Dubey - IUK £236k (consortium grant of £575k) (102700) with three academic and commercial
 partners, to develop a novel micro-formulation technology to manufacture a healthy cheese
 product.
 Howarth - IUK £183k (consortium grant of £497k) (102327) with three commercial partners, to
 deliver a step change to the capability of milk processing technology at Nestlé.
 Asthana - IUK £182k (consortium grant of £451k) (102322) with three commercial partners, to
 extend heat recovery systems for application in the food manufacturing industry. Underpinning
 research for ICS3.

 Organisational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact:
 UoA12 has a core role in I2Ri, which facilitates enhanced interdisciplinary collaboration, support
 for horizon scanning, pump-priming, collaboration and developing funding. The UoA12 theme
 leads serve on the I2Ri Leadership Team, alongside those from UoAs 5 and 11, and the Institute
 Head of Research Degrees. The Institute coordinates scholarly activities such that researchers
 have access to regular interdisciplinary events and dialogues with panels, inclusive of gender,
 race and research career stage. Our Unit-focused scholarly activities include fortnightly research
 seminars, an annual Symposium showcasing doctoral and new staff appointee research activity
 (Section 2), and an annual I2Ri Winter Poster event. Researchers from the unit also participate in
 the annual Creating Knowledge Conference (Institutional Statement).

 Alderson convenes fortnightly planning and oversight meetings comprising Hovsepian,
 Sammon, Howarth, Bingham, the Research Institute Manager and Technical Manager.
 Representatives from Digital Technology Services attend every six weeks to ensure IT and
 software infrastructure requirements are fit for purpose, and the group co-opts attendance as
 required (e.g. AD Research, HoD). This ensures strong alignment of research strategy and
 operational leadership across facilities, IT and professional services.

 As with PGR, our research activity is supported by the University’s Research and Innovation
 Services (RIS) via a ‘hub and spoke‘ model. The central team provides governance, policy, funding
 KE and commercialisation support. The team within I2Ri then drive research income and
 operations (Institute Manager), and knowledge exchange and innovation (Innovation Manager). A
 dedicated professional services team (4 FTE and a placement student), managed by the Institute
 Manager, support PGRs (Section 2), pre and post award grant submissions, and communications.

 The Library integrates high quality academic information resources with excellent IT facilities and
 specialist research-focused staff and training, enabling our researchers to access a vast range of
 journals and other scholarly materials.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A Technical Manager leads the team of technical staff in support of our specialist laboratory
 facilities and is responsible, together with the heads of research and PGR supervisors, for health
 and safety in the laboratories.

 Supporting Funding Applications:
 All external funding bids go through a rigorous preparation and authorisation process, including a
 triage and feedback stage, overseen by Alderson. Staff are supported by research group leads
 early in the conceptualisation and writing processes, and by the I2Ri peer review college in later
 stages of proposal development. RIS support the submission and approvals process, including
 costings and compliance with funder rules. RIS has specialist advisors for EU and grant funding,
 along with innovation funding advisors. External grant development support is also facilitated,
 particularly for large consortia (e.g. Glass Futures Industrial Fuel Switching Procurement Contract
 (BEIS) and Transforming Foundation Industries Challenge (UKRI)). Successful proposals are
 supported by the Institute team through initial start-up and project monitoring meetings to establish
 administrative, financial and management protocols, and ensure PIs are supported with project
 delivery.

 A significant aspect of our support for growing funding and research capacity is through strategic
 investment in staff, partnerships and projects - to underpin consortia and bid development. For
 example, Cleaver provided close mentoring and peer support to develop two successful early
 career research proposals: a First Grant application for Spencer (EP/M006948/1, £71,769); and
 a New Investigator Award for Ostler (EP/T027916/1, £228,352). Ostler’s NIA proposal was itself
 an outcome from his internal Chancellor’s Fellowship funding.

 Estate and Facilities, Including Specialist Research Infrastructure and Facilities:
 The Unit has benefitted from major investments in the estate and infrastructure. This includes the
 expanded Materials and Engineering Research Institute (MERI) facilities, the recently launched
 NCEFE facility, large scale equipment in National Centre for HIPIMS Technology, and
 refurbishment and co-location of engineering and chemistry provision through a £10M STEM
 project.

 The primary focus of our research - the excellent experimental research facilities, consolidated via
 the £5.5M refurbishment of the 2000m2 MERI Hub in 2014, brings together a suite of laboratories,
 staff and PGR student workspaces, meeting rooms and social area.

 Equipment available in the MERI Hub includes:
    • Analytical Transmission Electron Microscope
    • Corrosion analysis (SVET, SKP, Environment-Assisted Failure)
    • Electrochemistry Suite
    • Scanning Electron Microscopes (Quanta 650, Nova NanoSEM200, Quanta 3D FIB/FEG)
    • FEI Empyrean Powder X-ray Diffractometer
    • FTIR Spectrophotometers (x3), FTIR Microscope and Imaging FTIR Microscope
    • Full Metallography Suite
    • Hauzer 1000 PVD Coating Rig
    • Von Ardenne Cluster Magnetron HIPIMS System
    • High Performance Computing (Beowolf Cluster)
    • Instron Impact Testing Machine and Dartec-Controlled Fatigue Testing Rigs
    • Lesker UHV Sputtering Rig
    • Piezoelectric/Ferroelectric Evaluator System
    • Raman Microscopes (x3)
    • Spectroscopic Ellipsometer
    • Thermo-Analytical Instrumentation (DSC, DMA, TG-FTIR, TGMS, TGA)
    • Tribological Characterisation Equipment
    • TA ElectroForce 3200
    • Wavelength Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometer
    • Wissel Constant Acceleration Mossbauer Spectrometer

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A long-term ‘renew and replace strategy’ is achieved through an annual institutional call for Capital
 Investment bids. This enables experimental and infrastructure facilities to be updated in a phased
 manner. Institutional support through this route has enabled £2.1m of expenditure in this period.
 Equipment acquired includes the new £0.86M Von Arden Cluster System HIPIMS coating facility,
 and expansion of the Beowolf Cluster from 260 cores to 592 upgraded cores. Secured investment
 into the next period includes a new TEM as part of a £2.74M Testing, Imaging and Characterisation
 Centre for Innovation, in partnership with colleagues in Biosciences.

 Additionally, researchers in the Unit utilise large test rigs in the Infrastructure Management labs,
 and research facilities in the Departments of Engineering and Mathematics, and
 Chemistry/Bioscience. Our £10.5M NCEFE facility provides analytical laboratories, and two large
 process halls designed to simulate actual food production lines. This industry-facing research and
 pilot production facility represents another crucial institutional investment in the Unit. Large
 external facilities (notably STFC RAL and CERN) are used through beam time allocations and via
 collaborations.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships:
 Research across our themes is geared towards internal and external collaborative partnerships.
 Building on the mechanisms of engagement and staff support described in Sections 1 and 2,
 specific examples from across each theme are described below:

 Functional Materials and Surfaces
 (1) The variety and importance of nanostructured surfaces is highlighted by work of the HIPIMS
 team (Ehiasarian, Hovsepian) including: (i) coatings for aviation jet turbine blades with University
 of Southampton and Rolls Royce; (ii) antibacterial coatings for in vivo applications with EPF de
 Lausanne and Fraunhofer-Institute for Surface Engineering and Thin Films; (iii) high wear-
 resistant coatings for joint replacements with Zimmer Biomet UK Ltd; and (iv) doped graphite solid
 lubricants with University of Strathclyde, Hungarian Academy of Sciences and Hauzer.
 Dharmadasa, in collaboration with Federal University of Technology Akure, Nigeria, has used
 electrodeposition to create highly efficient photovoltaic materials.

 (2) Nabok and Cranton’s work on sensors includes: (i) bacteriological sensors with: (a) University
 of Sheffield, University of Pennsylvania, North Carolina State University and Aalto University, and
 (b) reusable biosensors with University of Sheffield and Novosibirsk State University, Russia; and
 (ii) the physics of plasmonic behaviour with Nottingham Trent University, University of Nottingham
 and CNRS Poitiers. Work by Pereira on terahertz lasers secured MPNS COST Action MP1204
 funding, the epitome of collaborative working.

 (3) Collaborative work on steels, led by Luo, includes: (i) environmentally friendly electrochemical
 treatments for steel components with Chemetall, (ii) enhanced cutting blade lifetimes with Tyzack
 Machine Knives, and (iii) heat treatment technologies for ultrahigh strength and wear resistant
 steels with Tinsley Bridge.

 (4) Research on novel building materials and methodologies includes Mangat’s work on: (i)
 development of low-carbon alternatives to Portland cement using rice-straw reinforced
 cementitious composites with University of Danang-University, Vietnam; (ii) low energy
 microwave-cured concrete repair mortars with Queen’s University Belfast; and (iii) use of carbon
 fibre rods for strengthening and affording cathodic protection for reinforced concrete structures in
 collaboration with C-Probe Systems Ltd (ICS1). Starinieri has also engaged with restoration
 projects developing nanolime treatments for conservation of historic structures with: (i)
 Smithsonian Institute, Washington DC; (ii) Getty Conservation Institute, LA; and (iii) University of
 L’Aquila, Italy.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Smart Technologies and Emerging Materials
 (1) Structure property relationships are exemplified in Alderson’s auxetic biomedical devices
 research: laparoscopic space creation device (EP/J501839/1, Central Manchester University
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust); compression fabrics (BSN Medical); catheter for mapping atrial
 fibrillation (Nottingham Trent University); and tissue engineering scaffolds (Sheffield Teaching
 Hospitals, Pioneer Healthcare). Aminorroaya-Yamini's international partnerships include: (i)
 development of conducting threads for wearable tech funded by Australian Research Council
 (DP1093952, DE130100310) with Universities of Wollongong, Sydney and Dublin City, and (ii) 2D
 materials for energy storage applications funded by Japan Science and Technology CREST
 (JPMJCR15Q6, JP17H02749, JP16F16706, JP16H06441), and the Australian Research Council
 (DE130100310). Simulations of nanostructures (Cleaver) have been leveraged via collaborations
 including: (i) Tufts University, University of Pennsylvania and Georgia Tech in the USA, (ii) Merck
 and Unilever funded PhDs, and (iii) DSTL-funded consultancy with QinetiQ and Cranfield
 University. One of our ECRs, Ostler, has been mentored to develop strong collaborations with
 experimentalists at University of Liège, European XFEL and the Diamond Light Source, to inform
 simulations of fast-switching ferrimagnetics and magnetic alloys.

 (2) Breen and Clegg’s work on polymer clay composites benefits from extensive end-user
 collaborations: (i) PF-Clay with NetComposites (IUK); (ii) Graphire with Composites Evolution and
 Aim Altitude (IUK); (iii) external staff visits through the Marie Curie ITN ‘NEWGENPAK’ from
 Technical University of Denmark and Instituto Tecnologico del Embelaje (Valencia); and (iv)
 Erasmus students from Slovak Academy of Sciences, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid and
 Universite de Haute-Alsace. Kordatos has used polymer composite patches to repair helicopter
 rotor blades with Universities of Manchester, Bath, Sheffield and Ioannina, Greece; and
 thermography to investigate the repair efficiency in collaboration with Norwegian University of
 Science and Technology and University of Ioannina, as part of FP7 project ACP8-GA-2009-
 234333.

 (3) Sammon and Mader’s work on regenerative medicine comprising: (i) NPMIMETIC (FP7
 246351) was undertaken with 10 partners including AO Foundation (Switzerland) and VUMC
 (Amsterdam) hosting six exchange visits; (ii) SNIPER (Versus Arthritis); (iii) SNIPER-X
 (GrowMedTech); (iv) MRC (MR/P026796/1); and (v) hosting visiting VUMC researchers funded
 by the Dutch Spine Society, COST Action MP1302 Nanospectroscopy, Eurospine and Erasmus.

 (4) Our flow modelling group of Schenkel, Halliday, Xu and Spencer probe fluid flow covering a
 wide range of time and length scales, using the Lattice Boltzmann methodology for multiphase
 flows, especially for haemodynamic systems with: (i) CNR (Rome) and Brunel University; and (ii)
 University of Sheffield, Queen Mary University, MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College,
 University of Leeds and Erasmus Medical Centre in Rotterdam.

 (5) The glasses and ceramics team of Bingham, Feteira and Jones work on the fundamentals of
 glass science and ceramics for actuator and energy-storage applications and protective armour.
 The work of Bingham is featured in ICS4, while Feteira has fostered strong international
 collaborations developing environmentally friendly ceramic piezoelectric materials including: (i)
 ferroelectrics for solar energy harvesting with University of Sheffield; (ii) lead free ceramics with
 high recoverable energy density with University of Sheffield, Iowa State University, Xi'an Jiaotong
 University, Abdul Wali Khan University and North China University of Technology; and iii) lead-
 free antiferroelectrics in conjunction with University of Sheffield, Shanghai Institute of Ceramics,
 Xi'an Jiaotong University, Tangshan Normal University, Xi'an Technological University and
 Diamond Light Source Ltd in Harwell. Jones has engaged heavily with XeraCarb Ltd, developing
 lightweight ceramic armour plates in collaboration with Cranfield University and Imperial College,
 leading to follow-on grants including: (i) two MOD CDE projects (DSTLX10000888480,
 DSTLX1000104116), (ii) TSB funded Proof of Concept 710272, and (iii) an MOD DSTL project.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Food Engineering and Transformative Manufacturing
 (1) Howarth and Asthana are driving efficiency improvements in the food industry through
 national and international partnerships, examples include: (i) working with Nestlé Product
 Technology Centre, Spirax-Sarco and Brunel University to optimise product quality and overall
 oven performance; (ii) Dubey studying the generation of biohydrogen from citrus wastewater with
 Shahjalal University of Science and Technology, Bangladesh and Universiti Malaysia Pahang; and
 (iii) Zhang with University College Dublin, University di Salerno, Technical University of Valencia,
 Lund University, TU Berlin and University of Amsterdam, on smart processing of foods.

 (2) Further aspects of efficiency and sustainability include: (i) Fleming in collaboration with
 Universities of Huddersfield, Bradford and Bristol Laboratories Limited, looking at okra-derived
 biopolymers for pharmaceutical sustained release applications; (ii) Kabir with University of
 Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Aston University and Universiti Teknology Petronas, Malaysia on
 process optimisation; and (iii) Sammon with the CSIC in Valencia, Universitat Jaume I, Castellón
 and Universitat Politècnica de València, incorporating waste almond shell flour into PLA for food
 packaging applications.

 (3) Research into energy management systems including: Liao with: (i) University of Manchester
 on mitigation strategies in power networks, and (ii) the National Grid to evaluate power quality; (iii)
 Issa and Ikpehai research on microgrids for community energy systems and autonomous electric
 vehicle charging with Universities of Exeter, Manchester Metropolitan, Bolton and Oslo; and
 Asthana who works with several companies including (iv) Wavin, (v) Orion data centre cooling
 systems, (vi) BS Stainless and (vii) food manufacturer Rakusens, to achieve energy saving.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society:
 As exemplified by the range of end-user driven research projects and examples of impact
 presented in Section 1, our strategy is built on the support of excellent research delivering benefit
 to the economy and society. The key impacts detailed in our ICSs are:

 Work by Mangat and O’Flaherty (UoA13) on concrete materials and structures influencing
 professional practice and providing certified competence training to over 250 bridge inspectors,
 with commercialisation of research on bridge management expert systems adopted by 45 local
 authorities, six national and eight international bodies (ICS1).

 HIPIMS research by Hovsepian and Ehiasarian leading to the generation of revenue of more
 than £116M for coatings systems/equipment manufacturers and cutting tool businesses, with
 applications of HIPIMS improving the performance and longevity of medical implants, enhancing
 lives (ICS2).

 NCEFE delivering step-change environmental improvements in global manufacture through food
 processing heat recovery reducing in CO2 emissions, leading to £1.35M in additional revenue
 (ICS3).

 Bingham’s work in collaboration with Morgan Advanced Materials having a direct policy and
 investment impact on decarbonising UK glass, ceramics and other foundation industries, by
 resolving thermal combustion flaws in a high temperature thermal insulation material for industrial
 furnace applications (ICS4).

 Contributions to the Discipline:
 Professional Body Committee Memberships
 Alderson (Executive Board of the Engineering Professors Council [EPC]; Chair, Research,
 Innovation and Knowledge Transfer Committee of the EPC); Asthana (UK Energy Research
 Centre Research Committee; Registration and Standards Recruitment Panel Member, Institution
 of Engineering and Technology); Cleaver (British Liquid Crystal Society; IoP Physics in Food
 Manufacturing Group; UK Council for Graduate Education); Clegg (Treasurer, Clay Minerals
 Group of Mineralogical Society of Great Britain); Eccleston (Founding Chair, Institute IoP Physics
 in Food Manufacturing Group); Ehiasarian (Joint European Committee on Plasma Surface

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering, Secretary, British Vacuum Council); Hovsepian (Joint European Committee on
 Plasma Surface Engineering; Vice Chair Thin Films Division of International Union of Vacuum
 Science Technique and Application); Lenzo (IEEE Tellers Committee; IFToMM Transportation
 Machinery Technical Committee; IEEE Vehicular Technology Society Technical Committee; IEEE
 Transportation Electrification Community Steering Committee); Ostler (Secretary, IoP Magnetism
 Group); Sammon (Chair, RSC Molecular Spectroscopy Special Interest Group; Secretary, RSC
 Biomaterials Special Interest Group; RSC Materials Chemistry Division, Infrared and Raman
 Discussion Group Committee); Spencer (Communications Officer, British Liquid Crystal Society);
 Starinieri (RILEM Technical Committee).

 Conference and Workshop Organisation
 Alderson, International Conference on Auxetics and Related Systems (Sheffield, 2018 and
 Committee for 2014-19). Asthana, International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Futures,
 (Nottingham, 2019); International Conference on Renewable and Non-Renewable Energy, (USA,
 2019); Power Energy Summit, (Dubai, 2019). Cleaver, British Liquid Crystal Conference
 (Sheffield, 2015); Symposium within APS March Meeting (L.A, 2019). Clegg, Clay Minerals
 Group, Research in Progress meeting (Sheffield, 2018). Eccleston, Inaugural IoP Physics in Food
 Manufacturing (Sheffield, 2017). Ehiasarian, International Conference on the Fundamentals and
 Applications of HIPIMS (Sheffield and Braunschweig, 2014-19); HIPIMS session at Annual
 Technical Conference of the Society of Vacuum Coaters (USA, 2014-19); Symposium at
 International Conference on Metallurgical Coatings and Thin Films (USA, 2014-15). Feteira,
 Symposium of Electronic Materials and Application (USA, 2019-20). Ikpehal, Committee of IEEE
 International Symposium on Powerline Communications and its Applications (Manchester, 2018).
 Howarth, Dairy Technology (Sheffield, 2018). Kordatos, Committee of International Joint
 Conference on Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering (Athens, 2020); Committee of
 International Conference and Expo on Ceramics and Composite Materials (Rome, 2018). Lenzo,
 Special Session at International Conference on Robotics (France, 2020); Special Session at
 AIMETA (Italy, 2019); Special Session at International Symposium on Advanced Vehicle Control,
 (China, 2018). Luo, International Symposium on Thermal-Fluid Dynamics (China 2019). Nabok,
 Committee of European Conference on Organised Films (2015, 2017, 2019). Sammon,
 Committee of Polymar2018 (Greece, 2018); Infrared and Raman Discussion Group (Sheffield,
 2017); Session co-organiser TERMIS (Genoa, 2014); Polymar2013 (Barcelona, 2013); RSC
 Biomaterials Chemistry Special Interest Group (Sheffield, 2013).

 Selected International Keynote and Invited Conference Presentations
 Alderson, ‘International Conference and Workshop on Auxetics’ (Poland, 2014; Malta, 2015;
 Poland, 2016; Crete, 2017; Poland, 2019), Techtextil North America (Atlanta, 2016), Materials for
 Tomorrow Conference (Sweden, 2014); Asthana, Green Energy Conference (Rome, 2019),
 International Conference on Renewable and Non-Renewable Energy (Miami, 2019); Cheng,
 International Symposium on Thermal-Fluid Dynamics (China, 2019), International Conference on
 Combustion Science and Processes (Rome, 2019); Cleaver, International Liquid Crystal
 Conference (Ohio, 2016); Clegg, International Conference on Advanced Materials Science and
 Technology (Indonesia, 2015); Cranton, Nanotexnology 2017, (Greece, 2017); Ehiasarian, EPS
 Conference on Plasma Physics (Prague, 2018), European Vacuum Congress (Portugal, 2014),
 International Symposium on Sputtering and Plasma Processes (Japan, 2017); Feteira, CICC-11
 (China, 2019); Hovsepian, International Conference on Plasma Surface Engineering (Germany,
 2014); Jones, ChemSpec Europe, (Budapest, 2014); Luo, Workshop on PVD Coatings for Cutting
 Tools (China, 2014), International Symposium on the Hybrid Materials and Processing (South
 Korea, 2017), SurfCoat (South Korea, 2018); Sammon TERMIS (Rhodes, 2019); Zhang, British
 Council Lecture Tour (India, 2016).

 Journal Editor and Editorial Board Positions
 Alderson, Editor-in-Chief, International Journal of Mechanical and Materials Engineering;
 Editorial Board, Applied Sciences; Computational Methods in Science and Technology; Guest
 Editor Physica Status Solidi B; Smart Materials and Structures; Asthana, Associate Editor Journal
 of Design Engineering (Special issue); Journal of Energy and Built Environment (Special issue);
 Breikin, International Journal of Systems Science; Clegg, Associate Editor of Applied Clay

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Minerals; Cheng, Editorial Board, Physics of Gases; Cui, Editorial Board, International Journal of
 Aerospace Engineering; Dharmadasa, Editor, Journal of Materials - Materials in Electronics;
 Feteira, Editor, International Journal of Applied Ceramic Technology; Associate Editor, Journal of
 the American Ceramic Society; Materials; Frontiers in Materials; Fleming, Editorial Board,
 Wounds; Lenzo, Editor, Paladyn - Journal of Behavioural Robotics; International Journal of
 Transportation Engineering and Technology; Luo, Editor, Surface Technology, International
 Journal of Nanomedicine and Nanosurgery, Journal of Material Science and Technology
 Research, Coatings (Guest), Journal Advanced Materials Science and Engineering (Guest),
 Imaging and Radiation Research; Kordatis, Editor, Special Issue Applied Sciences International
 Journal; Nabok, Editor, BioNanoScience, Chemosensors; Saad, Editor, International Journal of
 Intelligent Computing and Cybernetics; Zhang, Editorial Board, International Journal of
 Engineering Systems Modelling and Simulation.

 Service on National Funding Panels
 Alderson (chair), Cleaver and Sammon (all EPSRC); Asthana (UKERC, BEIS); Dharmadasa
 (Commonwealth Scholarship Commission); Kabir (EPC); Luo (Exchange Programme of Royal
 Society and National Science Natural Foundation of China).

 EPSRC College
 Alderson, Cleaver, Dharmadasa, Ehiasarian, Feteira, Kabir, Jones, Sammon, Xu

 Reviewing
 Staff review for funders, including: BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, IUK, Alexander von Humboldt
 Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society, National Science Natural Foundation of China,
 Polish Science Foundation, Swiss National Science Foundation; and many Q1 journals including:
 Acta Materialia, ACS Nano, Advanced Functional Materials, Advanced Materials,
 Biomacromolecules, JACS, Journal of Materials Chemistry A, Nature Communications, PLOS
 One, PNAS, Physical Review Letters and Polymer.

 Prizes
 Ehiasarian, Plasma Innovation Award of the Plasma Physics Division of the European Physical
 Society 2018, Industrial Accolade from Oike & Co, Japan 2018; Industrial Accolade from Ionbond
 UK, 2014; Dharmadasa, BriSLA Award 2016 for achievements in Science and Technology;
 Hovsepian, Society of Vacuum Coaters, (SVC) Mentor Award 2017.




                                                                                           Page 19
