Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 17 - Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context
 At the time of REF2014 and for two years after that, Business School (BUS hereafter) staff and
 research activities were hosted under the umbrella of a multi-disciplinary research environment
 made up of three units of assessment (UoA) submitted in the RAE2008: Business and
 Management; Library and Information Management; and Computer Science and Informatics. In
 2014 the focus was then on Information Systems and Management, Management Education and
 International Business. Today, BUS constitutes a standalone UoA and, even if it is young, the first
 buds of fruitful years are blossoming. Core strengths are realised in two main areas: 1. Leadership,
 management and governance of the business organisations; and 2. Agent-based and data-driven
 business, economic and financial models. The unit has developed a strong interdisciplinary and
 international profile evidenced by our cross-disciplinary publications and global network. In these
 two areas, our mission is to be recognised as a world leader by the production of top-quality
 original and rigorous research outputs creating significant real-world impact in line with LSBU’s
 strategic vision.

 Business and Management at London South Bank University (LSBU) is a well-resourced UoA
 providing a sustainable and active environment in which contemporary business and management
 research is conducted. Our research helps businesses and organisations to be successful in a
 globally competitive environment by maintaining the core values of equality, social responsibility,
 and care for employee wellbeing. The research environment we have created filters through to the
 development of research outputs that help in shaping future managers and society members,
 providing them with cutting-edge knowledge, skills and abilities to compete in the business world.

 LSBU, in 2017, established a formalised framework of Research Centres of excellence. As part of
 this action, BUS's commitment to its research environment is evidenced by the successful
 establishment of the London Centre for Business and Entrepreneurship Research (LCBER).
 LCBER was established in parallel with a significant restructuring in BUS, which aimed to make
 research activities central to create real-world impact. The inception of LCBER is the first step in
 the implementation of the BUS research strategy, as detailed in Section 1.3. Most of the
 information provided in this document refers to the growth in research BUS has experienced since
 the inception of the LCBER until the REF2021 submission.

 1.2 Unit structure
 BUS comprises 54.2 FTE academic staff. 27 (corresponding to 25.6 FTE, 47% of total BUS FTE)
 have workloads allocated to research-related activities and are categorised as Research Active
 Colleagues (RACs). Of these RACs, 17 (corresponding to 15.6 FTE, 29% of total BUS FTE) have
 significant responsibility for research (SRR). The non-SRR RACs have research and development
 plans to gain SRR status in the near future (details about staff development are included in
 Sections 1.3, 2.1 and 3.2).

 LCBER involves 27 academic staff: 3 Professors (Prof Roy Cerqueti*, Prof Claudiu Herteliu*,
 Prof Karin Moser*), 4 Associate Professors (Dr Dag Bennett*, Dr Barbara Czarnecka*, Dr Gurjeet
 Dhesi*, Dr Rea Prouska*), 11 Senior Lecturers (Dr Sara Abdaless, Cherry Cheung*, Dr Valerio
 Ficcadenti*, Dr Charles Graham*, Dr Sara Hajikazemi*, Dr Sara Hasani-Darabadi, Dr Aidan
 McKearney*, Dr Carrie Rutherford*, Dr Weiou Wu*, Dr Heba Younis, Dr John Opute), and 9
 Lecturers (Dr Olalekan Aladesanmi*, Dr Loua Khalil, Dr Emily Ngan, Dr Grace O'Rourke, Dr
 Sarah Sabbaghan*, Dr Rana Tajvidi*, Dr May Tungtakanpoung, Dr Mark Winter, Dr Nadeeka
 Withanage). With "*", we indicate those having SRR status.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LCBER members are organised into research groups and are encouraged to hold appropriate
 affiliate membership roles with more than one group. This facilitates internal collaborations and
 integration of early career researchers (ECRs). To support the research activities, 18 pre- and
 post-doc research assistants have been employed on fixed-term contracts generated from
 external grants and Quality Related (QR) funding since 2017 (see Section 3 for details on QR
 funding).

 The number of staff involved in research activities has now increased by 232% compared to 2017
 when LCBER was founded. During the REF period, RACs have produced more than 200 journal
 articles; in 2014, they produced 24, and in 2020, the figure has risen to 44, yielding an increase in
 outputs of about 100%. The outputs selected for the REF submission have shown a substantial
 growth between 2014 and 2020, circa 400% increase. According to SciVal1, the RACs with SRR
 status have increased "Publications in Top 5% Journal Percentiles by CiteScore Percentile" from
 5.3% in 2015 to 34.5% in 2018. Also, from SciVal, in the year 2018, International Collaboration
 (%) in research papers is 58.6%, and the total citations obtained by RACs with SRR is 6,157.
 Field-Weighted Citation Impact is 45.25. Furthermore, from SciVal, the average h5-index (2014-
 2019), reported for the colleagues with SRR status that have a publication record since 2014, is
 in excess of 3.

 1.3 Research strategy
 LCBER was established as a grassroots Research Centre in order to trigger sustainable vitality in
 producing world-leading research, embracing the four research groups described below. At the
 outset, BUS identified two top-level research directions developed from the research environment
 as it stood in 2016:

 1. Leadership, management and governance of the business organisations (with a focus on
    social values), acting in a complex and changing environment. Specifically, to meet this first
    direction, three research groups (Intercultural Management; Digital Economy; Business Ethics
    and Corporate Social Responsibility) were established to explore globalised and multicultural
    business environments, the importance of adapting/integrating digital technologies, and ethical
    sustainable and responsible entrepreneurship and leadership.
 2. Agent-based and data-driven business, economic and financial models and measures, with
    the fit for purpose real-world applications. Specifically, to meet this second direction, the
    Economic and Financial Modelling research group was established.

 These two research directions have been continuously and successfully developed and deepened
 during the REF period. These research directions are the focus of research activity within BUS
 and LCBER, delivered through the four research groups listed above that are nested within the
 Centre. In the next three years, given the productivity trends (see sections 1.1 and 1.2), we will
 exceed a critical mass of quality research base, so the intention is that LCBER will bifurcate into
 two research centres, developing from the grass-roots bidirectional research centre, to create two
 ‘identity-focused’ research centres.

 The summary of the research focus of each of the four research groups is highlighted below.
 Greater than 50% of the output submissions to REF comes from Economic and Financial
 Modelling (EFM) research group members. This group's research profile is quickly maturing to
 provide the base of the 'agent-based and data-driven' business research centre of global
 recognition. The majority of the other three research groups (IM, DE, BECSR) members will
 constitute the base for the 'business' organisation and structure' research centre. These elements
 are a clear sign of the continuous realisation of our strategic goals.

 Intercultural management (IM). Prouska is the lead of this group pursuing the first research
 direction identified above. IM's primary objective is to understand cultural, regional and national
 differences in consumer behaviour, work relationships and attitudes, cultural norms and values,
 crisis management, governance and social policy. The work produced by this group supports
 businesses to succeed across cultural and national boundaries by enabling them to work with a

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diverse consumer base, leadership in nurturing the workforce, and deploying international
 collaboration partners. More precisely, the strong vitality manifested in the current REF period
 from this research group comprises: Prouska's research on employees/employers relations which
 develops and tests a scale for measuring adverse working conditions affecting SMEs in severe
 economic crisis conditions, her work on employee silence and work-life balance during crisis
 periods, her investigations of employee involvement and participation in decision-making, and
 conceptualisation of a framework for studying project-workers' voice; McKearney examines the
 profound changes regarding sexual minority rights in Britain and Ireland in the employees' context;
 Hajikazemi examines project and project organisation specifications that influence the
 effectiveness of responses to early warning signs in projects; and Czarnecka investigates the use
 of emotional appeals in business-to-business bank advertisements and the meaning of an 'ethnic
 group' from the perspective of different cultures.

 Digital economy (DE). Moser leads this group, which also pursues the first research direction.
 DE's primary objective is to provide insight into how to respond to the digital age's challenges and
 opportunities. Such studies aim to understand online consumer behaviour and social media's role
 in marketing, virtual teams and remote collaborations, online fraud, and the value of big data to
 businesses. More precisely, the strong vitality manifested in the current REF period from this
 research group is demonstrated by the following activity: Moser investigates how digital
 transformation impacts leadership, teamwork and work communication; Winter and Moser study
 decision making in social dilemmas; Ngan and Tajvidi investigate boardroom decision making,
 voting behaviour and multi-stakeholder networks; Ngan and Tajvidi explore digital
 entrepreneurship and marketing and how it relates to business performance; Tajvidi and Moser
 examine the effects of virtual agents on work collaboration and consumer behaviour; Sabbaghan
 and Moser study the impact of fake news; and Sabbaghan examines statistical measurement on
 trees' similarity research methods.

 Business ethics and corporate social responsibility (BECSR). Cheung leads this group
 pursuing the first research direction. BECSR's primary objective is to create knowledge that
 supports businesses in leading in a responsible, ethical and sustainable way. Such studies aim to
 apply principles of lean management and integrated reporting, examine the management of
 equality and diversity, and develop successful social entrepreneurship. More precisely, Cheung
 explores bricolage, collaboration and mission drift in social enterprises, path and place
 dependence of entrepreneurial ventures at times of war/conflict and displaced entrepreneurs
 during war/conflict.

 Economic and financial modelling (EFM). Dhesi leads this group, which pursues the second
 research direction identified above. EFM's primary objective is to study business-related models
 and micro-founded measures based on agents' behaviours. Such studies aim to understand the
 underlying economic and financial environment and deploy fit for purposes models and measures
 for business and financial needs. More precisely, the outstanding vitality manifested in the current
 REF period from this research group comprises: Dhesi proposes a new Irrational Fractional
 Brownian motion used for modelling and forecasting the fat tails and the so-called irrational
 behaviour in finance; Cerqueti studies agents financial portfolio selection problems, Markov chain
 processes bootstrapping issues applied to financial modelling and, more in general, network-
 based agent models; Aladesanmi, Dhesi, Herteliu and Wu, in separate studies, model agents’
 interactions, leading to volatility clustering and contagious phenomena in the financial markets;
 Ficcadenti, Cerqueti and Dhesi explore agents' and institutions' communications with reference
 to the effects on markets, furthermore, agents’ preferences problems are addressed by evaluating
 voters' entropic decisions making; Herteliu also makes contribution in investigating agents'
 preferences by means of alternative data such as religious orientation; and Bennett and Graham
 model consumers as agents to evaluate brand loyalty, market structure, marketing models in
 emerging markets and brand portfolio management.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In order to deliver on these research objectives, three tactical pillars support our strategy, as
 outlined below:

     a. Expanding the pool of research-active staff
 Expanding our pool of research-active staff is essential to realising our strategy. We have achieved
 this objective by strategically recruiting new research-active colleagues who contribute to our
 existing research route. Moreover, we will invest in research-active staff with varying experience
 but with a particular focus on early career and mid-career researchers, which we believe will help
 us build a sustainable future. Regarding the existing staff, the development plan supports the
 RACs’ journey to achieve and maintain the SRR status.

     b. Facilitating continuous staff development
 We provide systematic support to all academic staff. Our investment is closely aligned with
 individual personal development goals and takes the form of both individual support (e.g.
 mentoring) and environmental support (e.g. innovative "Research Today" seminar talks,
 conferences, networking opportunities, seed funding, individual research rewards, writing
 workshops, methods training). Our tactical support - as we advance - builds on what we call the
 'Mentor-Motivate-Monitor' (MMM) framework with the key aim of facilitating staff development and
 managing performance. MMM is based on supporting colleagues - at all levels - to progress in
 their research journeys via a close relationship with their mentors. Research Teams are being
 developed to further support this activity. Each of them has a Research Team Leader who is a
 RAC with the highest profile in the team, and Team Members made up of at least one established
 researcher, one mid-level researcher, one early-stage researcher and affiliated PhD students. The
 Research Teams create research projects and roadmaps, contributing to creating rigorous,
 original and significant outputs, impacting productivity, and focusing on research enterprise
 activities (e.g. consultancy, knowledge-transfer partnerships, and intellectual property and spin-
 offs). The performance of Research Teams is to be monitored through the production of task-
 oriented reports and tangible outputs.

     c. Impact of our research benefits
 The impact of our research benefits from integration with the surrounding civic environment. We
 continuously build tactical and strong links with external stakeholders, such as businesses, end-
 users and professional groups/associations, towards developing quality research with real-world
 impact. For example, the relationships that LSBU has developed with the Southwark/Lambeth
 project around the refurbishment of the campus area has been fruitfully developed in actions from
 the BUS with the collaborations of academics like Graham (see his Impact on community
 described in Section 4). This will enhance future integration with the local community benefiting
 from our leading global research.

 1.4 Impact strategy
 Glocalisation2 is central to our impact strategy and direction. Our mission is to connect the
 integration with the local context (urban civic nature) of the LSBU's BUS and the objective of
 producing world-leading research and making a real-world impact. It happens by applying
 developed expertise in local areas. We are part of local communities, and we bring in innovations
 generated by our core research disciplines, "think globally, act locally".

 Our impact strategy's realisation can be found at a public community level, informing the local
 government regarding commercial management practices and helping in planning decisions in the
 urban landscape (Graham). Similarly, we interact with 'systems' of health care providers and civic
 communities for helping the development of efficient networks for integrated care contributing to
 NHS policy (Malby) and in making data-driven decisions with solutions developed by the Global
 Burden of Disease network (Herteliu). At an individual level, we are supporting social
 entrepreneurial initiatives (Cheung) and at a society level, clarifying motivational, social, and
 cognitive factors that influence knowledge sharing and decision making in organisational contexts.
 An example is support to the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and all EU+ member states


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to improve their information-sharing (Moser). The details regarding these tangible contributions
 with partners and stakeholders are fully outlined in Section 4.

 1.5 Research integrity
 In carrying out research, BUS's staff is led by LSBU's values like excellence, honesty, integrity,
 cooperation, accountability, and constant development through training to ensure upskilling and
 safety3. At the BUS, we have an open-access co-ordinator to oversee and facilitate open access
 and open science compliance of 100% engagement in practices designed to ensure transparent
 and appropriate behaviours of the highest standards.

 We have a school ethics panel responsible for the school's research ethics approval which reports
 to the university's ethics committee. All research conducted in the UoA 17 is subject to ethical
 scrutiny. Ethical approval for all research undertaken by staff and PGRs is being conducted by the
 school ethics panel, who also delegate and monitor undergraduate and postgraduate projects.
 During the assessment period, we have undertaken a detailed review of the business school's
 ethical procedures. In the last years, an average of 15 approvals per year has been granted for
 research projects, with approximately one-third of them asked by PhD students. These approvals
 are evidence of an integral and socially responsible research environment.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In line with the BUS strategy, we have increased the business school's academic appointments
 since 2017 by 32%, appointing staff with exceptional potential in our two key research directions.

 Sixteen new RACs have been hired during the assessment period with the explicit aim to enhance
 research activities at LCBER. Thirteen of them are ECRs. RACs have increased by 133% since
 2017, leading to a much more vital and sustainable research environment. The implementation
 of the staffing strategy and the increasing vitality of LCBER’s environment has also led to a
 considerable increase in the number of RACs with SRR status, rising from 5 FTE in 2017 to 15.6
 FTE in 2020 indeed yielding an increase of circa 300%. It is worth noticing that the percentage of
 FTE qualified as RAC increased from approx. 25% to approx. 50%, similarly, the proportion of
 FTE with SRR status have moved from approx. 10% to approx. 30%. This is a strong sign of the
 implementation of the present staff development plan. The RACs without the SRR status are
 developing, with the MMM model's support, research and development plans to gain it in the near
 future. The support framework has produced a significant upward trend in SRR-to-RAC ratio along
 the years 2017: 45%; 2020: 61%. Besides, we have invested in the appointment of two
 experienced full professors, increasing our research environment's sustainable capacity and
 implementing our MMM framework. In September 2020, 4 new RACs join the BUS's LCBER in
 line with the growing rates described (Dr Craig Duckworth, Dr Katrin Franke, Dr Mika Khanh and
 Dr Yehia Nawar).

 Primarily due to the strength of their research contributions, during this REF period, two Lecturers
 have been promoted to Senior Lecturers (Hajikazemi, Wu; ECR), one Senior Lecturer to
 Associate Professor (Dhesi) and one Associate Professor to Professor (Moser). The vitality of the
 BUS's research environment has also been enriched by the LSBU's fully funded research
 sabbatical scheme obtained by one of the BUS's staff member (Moser’s research highlights from
 this are listed in Section 4).

 RACs meet the Director of Research and Enterprise (DoRE) twice per year to propose and agree
 on their objectives and quality and quantity output targets and agree on development needs. With
 this approach, RACs get research time allowance based on a fully transparent three-tier workload
 allocation model (WLM). The RACs also obtain individual research award for their successes.
 Additional funding opportunities are given by internal seed funding and the research group funds.
 With this self-targeting system, we guarantee a sustainable and productive environment. This
 system serves both as a motivational and a monitoring mechanism for staff. Research support

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also comes through a team of paid research assistants mainly drawn from PhD students with
 particular merit in research skills (from 2016, approximately 20 RAs have been recruited).

 The LCBER Centre and the research groups work within the well-defined University's Equality and
 Diversity Policy Statement and University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Together, these
 positions, and the LSBU's commitment to proactively pursuing its values according to diversity,
 fairness, mutual respect and inclusion, guarantee a sustainable and non-discriminatory context.
 Figures supporting that are given by the fact that the 50% of RACs are ECR, and more
 outstandingly 33% of the ECRs have SRR status; more than 50% of the research group members
 have BAME origin and 50% of the research groups are led by staff with BAME origin; 60% of the
 RACs, 75% of the research group leads and 70% of the ECRs are females. Overall, ECRs have
 a consistent presence across all Research Groups, which is evidence of our commitment to their
 development. Our actions to have an integrated diverse environment rely on initiatives taken by
 staff members like McKearney, who, for example, served as Guest Editor for the special issue
 'Reflections from Men Doing (In) Equalities Research' for the journal "Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion" (2014). Furthermore, McKearney is an active member of the Race, Gender and
 Sexualities Research Group, of LSBU’s Law and Social Sciences school. This connects with the
 attention paid at the university level by LSBU to these themes.

 2.2 Research students
 BUS has a Director of Postgraduate Research (Czarnecka) who manages the PGR processes.
 Postgraduate research (PGR) students and their supervisors are members of the London Doctoral
 Academy (LDA) established in 2017 to provide – among others – LDA-specific administrative
 support. LDA facilitates the development of core research skills. Those skills are pertinent for
 PGRs to progress towards post-doctoral work, and they are provided at the university level by the
 LDA and locally by BUS's staff. The LDA also hosts the annual summer school, a week-long
 programme of guest and peer-led sessions on career-focused topics, and PGR research
 presentations from students at all levels of the doctoral programme. All our PGRs are provided
 with desk space, workstation and technical assistance at the BUS. In our support framework,
 research students benefit from sponsored attendance to national and international conferences to
 meet leading scientists in their fields and present their research findings. The BUS provides each
 research student with a fiscal budget of £500 plus ad-hoc extra funding to attend research events.
 As part of the broader core skills training for a career in the academy, the PGRs undertake paid
 teaching-related activities, generally no more than six hours per week.

 All research students are guided in their research by a staff supervisory team comprising a director
 of studies and a co-supervisor. Joint supervision is of extreme benefit to PhD students who have
 access to academics to provide them with subject and research methods expertise. It also serves
 to mentor and develop ECRs by giving them an opportunity to observe the process of supervision
 and training them to become director of studies in the future. The school offers opportunities for
 PGR to present their research to a School audience that is both supportive and critical through
 open staff/student seminars (see "Research Today!" Series in Section 3). For example, five PhD
 students presented their research advancement in "Research Today!" seminars during 2019/20.
 Furthermore, PhD students benefit from PhD "Writing Retreats" (see Section 3).

 To address our objectives of maturing our research environment, we have invested in two fully
 funded scholarships for the PhD by publication program. There has been a noticeable increase in
 the number of applications made by national and international PGR students. For example, from
 2018/19 to 2019/20, applicants increased from 101 to 162, representing a 60% increase.
 In the current period, we had 18 PhD completions (44% of these in the last 2 years) and an average
 of 1.33 student per RAC as director of studies / first supervisor. Occasionally, the PGR students
 are co-supervised by associated academics, emeritus professors, or colleagues outside the RACs
 community (see Section 4 about collaborations) in pursuit of the research strategy engaging with
 other national and international institutions, e.g., Prof. Marcel Ausloos from the University of
 Leicester is jointly supervising students with staff from the BUS.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 LSBU's investments for BUS in QR funding has grown approx. 36% between 2016/2017 – 2017/18
 and has sustained itself at approx. £70k per annum thereon. In 2019, to address our research
 strategy, this income has been additionally increased by sponsoring two fully-funded PhD
 scholarships. The investment in staff can be summarised by looking at the "other operating
 expenses/investments" as accounted during the years: 2016, £7,547; 2017, £29,362; 2018,
 £40,492 and 2019, £121,523. Most of these amounts have been spent on staff. Furthermore, there
 have been investments in temporary staff (e.g., research assistants) to support research activities.
 The staff costs associated with these were in 2018, £3,241 and 2019, £12,614; the increments
 show the increasing investments made in the research environment.

 Research grants
 Grants obtained in the REF period by BUS are supporting the broader research strategy and first
 research direction outlined in Section 1.3. They are related to organisation and management and
 led by the achievements reached in that area:

 Prouska, Moser and Tungtakanpoung successfully secured a grant from the European
 Commission (Erasmus+, KA2 Cooperation for Innovation and the Exchange of Good Practices)
 on developing the cross-cultural skills of graduates in response to the needs of European
 enterprise. The total value of the grant is €139,733, and the partner institutions contributing to this
 project are the University of Worcester (Project lead-UK), London South Bank University (UK), UC
 Leuven-Limburg (Belgium), Halmstad University (Sweden), and Bursa Uludağ University (Turkey).
 The project was developed in response to recent research highlighting the importance of
 intercultural competencies for graduates wanting to work in Europe and what intercultural
 competencies and skills higher education institutions provide.

 Cheung has successfully obtained a research grant from the "Global Challenges Research Fund
 administered by London South Bank University" for a value of £10,699. The project has the
 purpose of capacity building training to help the refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs)
 in Pakistan to overcome the challenges they face to develop their business. The research is
 conducted in collaboration with the University of Peshawar and Kohat University of Science and
 Technology, Pakistan. The project benefits refugees and IDPs in Pakistan. The activities aim to
 help the displaced persons to become entrepreneurially resilient to overcome and sustain trauma
 and various shocks experienced due to war and displacement; enable them to develop sustainable
 livelihood for promoting economic growth and welfare supported by strong foundations for
 inclusive economic growth and innovation; help them to find and use support, both formal and
 informal, to develop and sustain their business.

 Alex Murdock is Emeritus Professor. He specialises in healthy ageing, charitable sector especially
 in health and social care, citizen engagement and collaborative agendas and social impact
 measurement. He has successfully obtained three grants via the ESRC Social Enterprise Capacity
 Building Cluster (one VOUCHER with ANXS Collective, £3,000; one VOUCHER with Global
 Institute for Entrepreneurship, £3,000; and one VOUCHER with Tara Yoga Centre, £3,000). He
 has also successfully secured a grant from Entrepreneurial Training for Enterprise Educators
 (ETEE), specifically for mental effectiveness training outcomes for health and social care students
 for £14,636.

 Additional positive outcomes from our efforts to increase research income follows:
 Hasani-Darabadi successfully obtains Erasmus+ K203 funding from the European Commission
 (€374,000, circa 30% directed to LSBU) submitted in May 2020. Her 'Training the educators to
 facilitate the teaching and assessment of abstract syllabus by the use of serious games' (TEGA)
 project aims to develop and implement innovative game-based teaching practices to capacitate
 Higher Education (HE) professionals in the enhancement of their students learning process and


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ease the acquisition of crucial skills (e.g. decision-making, problem-solving, conflict resolution, or
 stakeholder management skills).

 Younis successfully obtains a grant from Qatar National Research Fund through the National
 Priority Research Programme to study Qatarization's status quo, the role of the institutional
 environment in supporting Qatarization strategy, and the approaches that can be used to boost
 the effective implementation of Qatarization strategy (£84,173).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Structure for research management.
 To pursue research strategy objectives, an effective research management structure has been
 developed. Moser was the School's DoRE (2016-2020) when the LCBER was established, and
 the step one of the research strategy (see Section 1.3) was achieved under her leadership. Dhesi
 acted as interim DoRE (Sept. 2019 – Feb. 2020) while Moser was on sabbatical (see Section 4,
 where its impact is described). After that, Dhesi stepped down from the role of research group
 lead of Economic and Financial Modelling and has taken the role of DoRE to establish the
 strategy's second objective of routing the bifurcation of the research centre (see Section 1.3).
 Prouska and Ficcadenti (Deputy DoREs) support the implementation of the research strategy's
 tactical pillars. In this way, Ficcadenti benefits from the MMM framework being an ECR supported
 by Prouska. Furthermore, Prouska leads the research enterprise activities like consultancy,
 KTPs, intellectual property/spin-offs.

 BUS research is promoted externally with press releases delivered through the recent role of
 media champion (Moser) and through the policy implemented by the open-access officer
 (Prouska). Czarnecka leads the progress of the PhD program. She is also the deputy director of
 LCBER. In this way, we grant a full integration between the development of promising scholars
 and the LCBER initiatives.

 One of the staff's facilities is regular training courses on the most suitable software and tools for
 their research activities. For example, in the REF period, we had courses on NVivo, Qualtrics,
 Python, R Research Methods using SPSS and Academic writing. Additionally, staff working on
 publications benefit from at least two "writing retreats" per year led by experienced professorial
 level academics from LSBU and outside. For example, we had one lead by Prof. Nick
 Theodorakopoulos, from Aston University - Business School (July 2019) for more established
 academics and another one more suitable for ECRs with Dr Bruno Schivinski from Birkbeck,
 University of London (June 2019). The staff also benefit from the weekly research seminar series
 "Research Today!" which runs during term time. It was initiated in autumn 2015 by Moser; with
 over 100 seminars since then, it is becoming an established platform for BUS employees and
 attracts external attention. Notable and renowned speakers have presented at the series, for
 example, Prof Ute Stephan, (King’s College London), Prof Yehuda Baruch (Southampton
 Business School) and Dr Maria Anastasiadis, (Associate Professor at the University of Graz).
 These seminars also provide an opportunity for staff to develop their understanding of the
 publishing process in top journals and to network with prominent academics holding editorial roles
 in academic journals of international standing, as for example Dr Dermot Breslin, Co-Editor in
 Chief in the International Journal of Management Reviews presented at "Research Today!" in May
 2019.

 Physical research facilities
 Staff (and PGRs) can access wider support from over 40 technicians (housed in LSBU's Technical
 Support Services team), providing easy access for the design, build and testing of required
 resources. In addition, the BUS has two dedicated technicians supporting needs on-site. There is
 also a Bloomberg lab with 12 terminals available for research. Software facilities and training
 courses are available for staff and doctoral students (see Section 2 for details on staff/student
 development opportunities offered).




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Academic, industry, public and third sector collaborations
 LCBER members hold key academic collaborations for joint research activities with more than 23
 universities and academic institutions. These collaborations have produced joint papers and
 collaborative research grants. Some examples follow: Moser, Prouska, and Tungtakanpoung
 have active cooperation with Worcester University, UC Leuven Limburg (UCLL) in Belgium, Bursa
 Uludağ Üniversitesi in Turkey and Halmstad University in Sweden that has produced a successful
 ERASMUS+ grant which will further lead to academic publications and outputs in future. Prouska
 and colleagues at Aston University, University of Birmingham, Birmingham City University and
 CITY College (International Faculty of the University of Sheffield, Greece) have produced a
 publication at the British Journal of Management. Cheung has active collaborations with Essex
 Business School that have produced journal outputs in Entrepreneurship & Regional
 Development. Wu collaborates with the Department of Business and Management (MaMTEP) in
 Aalborg University in Denmark and Northumbria University and Queen's University Belfast and
 has produced joint publications in Research in International Business and Finance and in the
 Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance. Rutherford collaborates with the University of
 Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene (USTHB) in Algiers and has produced a journal
 article published in Discussiones Mathematicae Graph Theory.

 Other examples of key collaborations include:
 In the UK, Prof Jeremy Dawson, Dr Carolyn Axtell from the University of Sheffield, Management
 School, work on joint publications, joint international symposia, and delivering keynotes and guest
 editing special issues with Moser. Moser further collaborates on grants and research papers with
 the University of Bern in Switzerland, the University of Queensland, Australia, the Research
 Centre for AI Technology for Humankind (AiTH) at the National University of Singapore as an
 international member, the Centre for Cyber and Information Security, NTNU Norway, and with the
 Winton Centre for Risk and Evidence Communication at the University of Cambridge. Moser
 further collaborates with Dr Andrew Whittaker from LSBU’s School of Health and Social Care in
 joint grants and publications, with Prof Lizzie Jackson in the LSBU School of Arts and Creative
 Industries and with Dr Tasos Dagiuklas from LSBU School of Engineering on joint grant
 applications.

 Prouska collaborates with colleagues at Birkbeck College, Essex University, Aston University,
 Birmingham City University and the University of Birmingham on joint grant applications and
 publications, as well as with Prof Chris Brewster at the University of Reading, Prof Adrian
 Wilkinson at the Centre for Work, Organisation and Wellbeing at Griffith University in Australia and
 with Prof Elaine Farndale at the Center for International Human Resource Studies at Penn State
 University in the US on joint publications.

 Graham collaborates with the Ehrenberg-Bass Institute for Marketing in Australia for joint
 publications, collaborative funding applications and has been working on an impact case study
 around this collaboration. Bennett collaborates with colleagues from Kingston University in the
 UK and with Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Spain. Cheung works with colleagues from the
 University of Essex, Business School, on joint grants and publications. Younis collaborates with
 the College of Business and Economics at Qatar University. Other collaborations that our
 members have included the Institute of Management Studies at the University of Peshawar in
 Pakistan, the Institute of Business Studies in Kohat University of Science and Technology in
 Pakistan, Mohanlal Sukhadia University in India, Pokhara University in Nepal, Beijing Institute of
 Petrochemical Technology in China and the Heilongjiang Institute of Technology in China.

 LCBER members have also made an impact and collaborated with the following public and third
 sector organisations as expert advisors in contract research and consulting, such as the EASO
 (Moser), the Chartered Institute of Management (CMI) (Moser), and the Swiss Olympics (Moser),
 Swiss Federal Ministry of Defence (Moser), the Ehrenberg-Bass Institute for Marketing Science,
 Australia, (Bennett and Graham) and the British Council, UK (Khalil).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.2 External memberships, committee work and visiting positions/fellowships
 LCBER members are affiliated with a range of external national and international institutions and
 professional bodies. We list here a few examples: Moser is a European Commission Senior Expert
 with the EASO to advise all EU+ member states on information sharing and use of digital platforms.
 She is also an Honorary Professor of Social and Economic Psychology at the University of
 Queensland (Australia) and an Adjunct Professor at the University of Bern in Switzerland. She is
 a lead judge for the "Management Book of the Year" Competition in the UK. Herteliu has roles in
 many National and European institutions like the European Master in Official Statistics (EMOS),
 Advisory Committee within Eurostat, European Statistical Advisory Committee (ESAC), Advisory
 Committee within Eurostat and National Council of Statistics and Prognosis for Higher Education
 in Romania. Cerqueti is a Review Panel expert in the European Cooperation in Science and
 Technology (COST)4. He also has held visiting positions in the University Paris 1 – Sorbonne
 (France), University of Milano-Bicocca (Italy) and University of Angers (France). Graham is an
 Adjunct Professor at the Ehrenberg Bass Institute for Marketing Science, University of South
 Australia5. Bennett is an Adjunct Senior Research Fellow at the University of South Australia.
 Hajikazemi is a Visiting Lecturer at Bartlett School of Construction and Project Management at
 University College London (UCL). Aladesanmi is a member of the Royal Economic Society.
 Tungtakanpoung has recently taken up the role of Director of Research & Academic Relations
 in the Society for Intercultural Education, Training, and Research (SIETAR) in the UK. Wu is an
 Adjunct Professor at the Beijing Institute of Petrochemical Technology in China, a Visiting
 Professor at the Siberian Federal University in Russia and an Academic Fellow at Levy Economics
 Institute of Bard College in the US.

 4.3 Journal/special issue editorships and journal peer-review roles
 LCBER members hold a range of editorial positions in internationally renowned journals and have
 been successful at being Guest Editors of Special Issues. Some examples follow: Cerqueti is an
 academic editor at PLoS ONE (Quartile1 Scimago), in Annals of Operations Research (Quartile1
 Scimago; special issue in developments in financial modelling and risk management), in
 Sustainability (Quartile2 Scimago; special issue in economic and financial challenges for social
 and environmental sustainability). Moser is an editorial board member at the Journal of Personnel
 Psychology since 2014 (Quartile3 Scimago). Prouska is an associate board member of the journal
 Work, Employment and Society (Quartile1 Scimago) and an editorial advisory board member of
 the journal Employee Relations (Quartile1 Scimago). She is also currently a guest editor in Human
 Resource Management Journal (Quartile1 Scimago; special issue in macro-level turbulence and
 the worker experience in HRM). Cheung has led a special issue in the Journal of Entrepreneurship
 in Emerging Economies (Quartile2 Scimago) on 'Understanding Chinese entrepreneurship from a
 historical perspective'. Bennett has been a guest editor in Sustainability (special issue on CRM
 brand sustainability). Hajikazemi is a member of the editorial board in the International Journal of
 Managing Projects in Business (Quartile1 Scimago). McKearney was a guest editor of Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (Quartile2 Scimago).

 In addition, many of the LCBER members are regular reviewers of internationally recognised peer-
 reviewed journals, such as Annals of Operations Research, Applied Psychology, Asia Pacific
 Journal of Human Resources, British Journal of Management, Computers in Human Behaviour,
 Entropy, European Journal of Finance, European Journal of Information Systems, European
 Journal of Marketing, European Journal of Operations Research, European Journal of Social
 Psychology, European Journal of Work and Organisational Psychology, European Management
 Review, Expert System with Applications, Human Resource Management Journal, Information
 Technology & People, International Journal of Human Resource Management, International
 Marketing Review, Journal of Business Research, Journal of Occupational and Organisational
 Psychology, Journal of Small Business Management, Marketing Letters, Soft Computing.

 4.4 Research-based awards and honours
 LCBER members have been receiving awards and honours for their research contributions in this
 REF period. Herteliu has obtained the prize "Best of UNICEF research 20156". One of Cerqueti's

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 papers was elected as one of the three Editor's choice in the IMA Journal of Management
 Mathematics in 2019. Prouska has received the "Benedictine University Award for outstanding
 paper on Ethical Issues in Consulting" from the Academy of Management, Management
 Consulting Division (2020) and the "2019 Best Paper of the Year Award" from the European
 Management Review. Graham has received the "Best Track Reviewer 2018" award from the
 Australia and New Zealand Marketing Academy Conference and the "Best Paper Award 2017" in
 Australasian Marketing Journal.

 4.5 Conference/workshop organisation and presentations, invited lectures/keynotes
 Moser has delivered numerous keynote speeches and invited talks in the past few years. For
 example, she delivered as a senior expert advisor for the EASO at EU+ strategy meetings, as a
 keynote for the launch event of the European Branch of British Academy of Management at the
 British Embassy in Berlin. She was twice at the Chartered Association of Business Schools'
 research conferences and has delivered workshops to executives. Examples are a workshop for
 the minister and senior executives of the Bernese government and a workshop for the senior
 management team at the University of Arts Bern in Switzerland.

 Herteliu was a keynote speaker at the 5th International Researchers, Statisticians and Young
 Statisticians Congress that took place in Turkey in 2019 and an invited speaker at the CEBSS
 Seminar in 2017 (Babes-Bolyai University, Romania). Cerqueti has organised many conference
 sessions, and he has been invited as speaker multiple times: NET 2016 International Conference
 (Italy), Workshops on Systemic Risk (France) in 2017 and 2018, 29th European Conference on
 Operational Research (Spain), Journées de Statistique (France) in 2019.

 Cheung and Moser have organised the "Autistic Entrepreneurs: Research and Practice Today"
 conference at LSBU in 2018, including academic researchers, practitioners, and lobbyists.
 Prouska organised a British Academy of Management workshop in 2019 regarding the
 understanding of impact from "turbulence" through international HRM research. She was also
 invited as keynote panellist on "Rethinking Reward" at the Pensions & Benefits UK 2019
 Conference. Hajikazemi organised the first "LSBU Project Management Conference" in 2019.

 Graham has organised and delivered two marketing workshops for Tree Shepherd7 to displaced
 tenants of the Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre. Dhesi was an invited speaker at 28th and 29th
 European Conferences on Operational Research held in Spain and Dublin.
 In addition, all LCBER members regularly present their research work to national and international
 academic conferences specialising in their fields, such as the Academy of Management, European
 Group for Organisational Studies (EGOS), European Academy of Management (EURAM),
 Academy of Marketing, and the British Academy of Management, European OR.

 4.6 Contributions to media, public engagement/dissemination
 LCBER members' work often appears in the media and is disseminated across multiple channels.
 For example, Moser's work is regularly portrayed in the media, such as in Personnel Today (2020),
 the BBC (2020), GQ Magazine (2020), the Financial Times (2020) and WIRED Magazine (2020).
 Herteliu has been invited to TV shows to present his research such as in Speranta TV (Romanian
 Television) in 2018 and 2020. Graham has been invited to deliver seminars at advertising and
 marketing agencies such as J Walter Thompson, Saatchi & Saatchi, Landor Associates,
 Adam&EveDDB, and the Institute of Promotional Marketing. Prouska has had her work exhibited
 in "Employee Benefits"8 and referred to in The Guardian9.

 4.7 Interdisciplinarity.
 The UoA interdisciplinary research areas are mainly constituted by mixing econophysics,
 computational linguistic, demographics, psychology, and networks science with our research
 directions. The one benefiting the most from the interdisciplinary activities is the "agent-based
 data-driven" one (see Section 1.3). RACs contribution to realising the research strategy employing
 interdisciplinarity is presented below:


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cerqueti's community of reference is mathematicians and statisticians working in applied
 economics, finance and social sciences. His research approach follows two main routes. On one
 side, he develops and studies theoretical models whose background is operational research,
 stochastic optimisation, statistical modelling, applied probability and game theory. On the other
 side, he deals with extensive data analysis and simulations in the context of rank-size laws, time-
 series explorations, econophysics and complex networks. Often, such approaches are merged in
 a unified scientific product, where theoretical advancements are validated through empirical
 analysis or numerical simulations.

 The financial studies by Dhesi are collating many techniques and models from the mathematical
 and physical domain. Hence, this aspect connects his studies with other fields, creating a
 favourable environment for interdisciplinary research activities. For example, in the contributions
 published in Wilmott and Chaos, Solitons and Fractals, he discovered the so-called psychological
 soliton factor to capture behavioural paths in finance.

 Ficcadenti has worked in the cross of computational linguistic and rank-size. Key highlights
 include a paper on earthquakes economic costs through rank-size laws (Journal of Statistical
 Mechanics: Theory and Experiment); a paper on entropic analysis of split-voting phenomenon in
 Italian elections between 1948 and 2018 (Entropy); and a paper on words ranking and Hirsch
 index for identifying the core of the hapaxes in political texts (Journal of Informetrics).

 Herteliu contributions to demography and scientometrics are published in interdisciplinary
 journals like Entropy and Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications. Herteliu is also
 part of the Global Burden of Disease network producing research outputs in Nature and Lancet
 regarding the economy and global public health issues.

 Moser's research on human cooperation, communication and decision-making in the workplace
 is interdisciplinary because she connects psychology and business organisation related issues.
 She uses game theory to understand the costs and benefits of cooperation dilemmas, social
 identity and self-categorisation theory to model group processes, the impact of social norms, and
 cognitive biases. She also integrates core findings from social influence, communication theory,
 and human-computer interaction research. With this, her research spans the boundaries of
 organisational behaviour, social psychology, behavioural economics, human-computer interaction
 and cognitive science. It impacts business and management applications, such as knowledge
 management, strategy and leadership, teamwork, and digital transformation.

 Our approach to developing research strength in key areas and facilitating cross-disciplinary and
 cross-justices engagement has ensured a more collaborative research activity focus. These cross-
 sectional collaborations include joint doctoral students supervised by members of the LSBU with
 scholars affiliated with different institutions.

 4.8 Impact on business, economy and society
 Following on from our Glocalisation mission stated in the impact strategy, as described in Section
 1.4, details regarding tangible contributions with partners and stakeholders are detailed below:

 Moser's research has focussed on the motivational, social and cognitive factors that influence
 knowledge sharing and decision making in organisational contexts. Her research has led to
 collaborations with and support of numerous private companies, public sector organisations, and
 government agencies to improve their knowledge management, internal and external
 collaborations, and digital media use. Key highlights of the impact of her work include appointment
 as expert at the EU level to support the EASO and all EU+ member states to improve their
 information-sharing; her advice at the country of origin information network meetings of migration
 and war "hot spots" across the globe, and individual meetings with the country and migration
 experts for risk assessments and decision making, and her leadership in delivering workshops on
 knowledge and digital management, influencing organisations' practices (e.g. the minister,


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 department directors and senior executives of the Bernese government; senior management team
 and department heads of the University of Arts Bern).

 Predictive and diagnostic retail footfall conversion models developed by Graham's research is
 informing local government and commercial management and planning decisions. Evidence of
 impact is provided thanks to the usage of the models by Southwark Council, Tree Shepherd (a
 consultancy advising the 73 retailers affected by the Elephant and Castle Redevelopment), Chair
 of the Latin Elephant Traders' Association, Regional Operations Directors, Landmark Group, and
 Multinational Portfolio Brand Retailer based in Dubai.

 The Industry Growth Initiative is a research project funded by Mars inc. at the Ehrenberg-Bass
 Institute at the University of South Australia. The leader of this impact project is Graham. Such a
 case aims to identify and understand the underlying patterns of aggregate market performance
 associated with persistent growth in Consumer Packaged Goods (CPG) categories. This case
 provides evidence of research impact on the strategic decision-making at Mars Pet Care Nutrition,
 Mars Wrigley Confectionery and at Frito-Lay, where Graham's research has defined how
 marketing investment decisions are shaped and how evidence-based marketing science decision-
 making can impact companies.

 Cheung research interests in social entrepreneurship have given rise to investigations of
 entrepreneurs from socially disadvantaged conditions. Specifically, she has investigated the cases
 of refugees and/or autistic people. This research focuses on developing a culture of
 entrepreneurship amongst disadvantaged groups. The research is proving potential in the
 education field. In fact, training programmes are run in collaboration with the University of Essex
 with a practical focus on refugee entrepreneurs.

 Across the world, networks have become the predominant organisational form of every domain of
 human activity. Collaboration in "systems" of healthcare providers and communities has become
 the predominant model of organising to secure "the triple aim" of improving patient's experience,
 population health, and health care cost. Prof Becky Malby has developed a body of knowledge
 on healthcare networks (although she is not affiliated at the BUS, her impact case study is
 submitted as part of UoA 17). Her developed knowledge and training materials have reached
 thousands of health service managers and clinicians nationally and internationally. She
 contributed at informing the network of integrated care and primary care units; this contributed to
 NHS policy development on networks in primary health care and improving health services.




                                                                                            Page 13
