Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
24 – Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Introduction

In REF2014, the Centre for Sport and Exercise Sciences (CSES) researchers made their first REF
submission to UoA26 (submitting previously as part of UoA5, Biological Sciences). The success of
the submission encouraged the University to make a major investment in future research in this
area. This led to the creation of the School of Sport, Rehabilitation and Exercise Sciences (SRES)
in August 2017 enabling a transformative growth trajectory in UoA24 at the University of Essex.
Investment of £12 million in the new Sport Arena provided a location for the new School. The
creation of SRES provided opportunities for future research synergies across the disciplines of
Sport and Exercise Science (from Biological Sciences now Life Sciences), Physiotherapy, and
Sports Therapy (from the School of Health and Social Care (HSC)). Fourteen academic staff from
CSES and 14 from HSC joined the new School, growing to 42 for the start of the 2020/21
academic year. Whilst at its inception, the new school had a 50:50 split between staff on academic
research (ASER) and academic-only (ASE) contracts, 12 new appointments since its founding
have dramatically shifted this emphasis to 68% now on ASER contracts; enabling a step change in
the volume of researchers submitting in UoA24, rising from 9 in 2014 to 25 in 2021, with an
associated increase in PGR students and an exponential increase in research publications.

How research is structured

In REF2014 and until 2017 the UoA had two research groups; it now has three. In addition, the
Human Performance Unit (HPU) which previously sat alongside CSES was fully integrated into
SRES from 2018 providing additional research support and specialised testing facilities. In 2019, a
full review of the HPU, undertaken by the Faculty of Science and Health, made recommendations,
aligning its future focus, activities, management and strategic research goals with those of the
University and SRES.

Research Groups

Staff may be members of more than one group reflecting their substantive research areas, outputs
and income.

Health Exercise and Active Lifestyle (HEAL): This successful group has expanded with new
appointments in SRES, increasing the numbers working in key strength areas such as Green
exercise (Rogerson, Wood).

HEAL group members who are REF-eligible are: Bateman, Barton, Clark, Freeman, Gladwell,
Griffin, Hammond (ECR), Kerr, Liew (ECR), Lowry, Pethick (ECR), Rogerson (ECR),
Sandercock, Taylor, Waterworth, Wood.
(Italics indicate those appointed since 2013)

The Sports Performance and Fatigue group has expanded and is now the Sports Performance
group (SP) (the emphasis on fatigue is no longer so relevant). It has added strength with the
inclusion of staff working within elite sport (Maynard, Jones, Hope). New appointments including
professional elite athletes turned researchers provide a particularly unique insight (in rugby: Jones
– England 7s; Moran - Ireland U19s; Waterworth – 2017 and 2018 qualifier world championships
IronMan).

SP group members who are REF-eligible are: Freeman, Hope (ECR), Jones, Maynard,
McManus (ECR), Micklewright, Mills (ECR), Moran (ECR), Waterworth.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The growth in ASER staff enabled the formation of a third research group: Developing Young
People through Sport (DYPS), building on existing strengths.

DYPS group members who are REF-eligible are: Gladwell, Hope (ECR), Jones, Leeder (ECR),
McManus (ECR), Mills (ECR), Rogerson (ECR), Sandercock.

The three Research Groups include all staff (both ASER and ASE) and PGR students across
SRES and provide opportunities to explore the significance of sport and physical activity in
performance and health and disease contexts, for individuals, organisations and communities, and
across the lifespan. The research groups provide a sense of belonging for all staff and help
strengthen the research culture within the School. An audit of research skills undertaken by the
research groups in SRES allowed for a sharing of expertise across the School and is particularly
important as we look to increase research activity and confidence in the physiotherapy and sports
therapy teams. The success of including ASE staff in the research groups is evidenced by: joint
outputs (including, ‘Are there associations with age and sex in walking stability in healthy older
adults?’ REF output submission), contribution to one of the impact case studies (Coughlan); and,
identification of funding opportunities by physiotherapy staff (Etherton, Jackson) leading to
research income (RehabWorks Ltd., Griffin).

Our HEAL group strategy has a stronger focus on exercise/physical activity and health, to align
more effectively with growing physical and mental health challenges within society. We took a
strategic decision to place ourselves as expert evaluators, for example, working with RehabWorks
Ltd. (Griffin). We have moved towards more interdisciplinary research involving collaborations
with external charities, councils, and partners in healthcare to widen impact and inform
organisational practice and policy working in both clinical and community health settings. For
example, working with a local community interest company, Provide, has led to a number of funded
studentships and publications (Jones, Griffin).

Research within SP tackles basic science questions alongside projects with strong potential for
societal impact. Our SP research has strengthened links with national and international
organisations to: inform the content of our work; obtain research funding from both those and other
organisations; and develop the resulting impact. This is evidenced in our related impact case
study, where we have worked with international level sporting organisations, including USA/GB
hockey, England Golf and European Tour and Russian Synchronised Swimming. Another example
is funding from Basketball England supporting work exploring ‘Ecological dynamics and the place
of Fundamental Athletic Movement Skills in Basketball.’ (Moran)

The DYPS group examines ways to: adapt sports competitions for positive individual and group-
level outcomes; develop effective training programmes; facilitate optimal training environments;
train effective and efficacious coaches; and improve the lives of disadvantaged and disengaged
young people and youth at risk, for example, the work of Mills exploring ‘Positive Youth
Development’ funded by WADA. Members of DYPS are interested in questions around the role of
sport and physical activity in developing confidence, communication skills, mental health and
wellbeing as well as in activity levels. Building on relationships with local schools, DYPS have
agreed a set of measures to use in all schools we visit to enable the creation of a combined
dataset to underpin their research. This aligns with previous work undertaken in relation to younger
children by Sandercock with Active Essex.

Research Vision and Strategy

In REF 2014 the UoA’s objectives formed the basis of the 2014-2018 CSES research strategy for
growth, supporting and developing new and existing staff, and to increase grant income.
Objectives to support this were to:

Objective 1) Integrate new staff into the UoA’s research structure to maximise the quality and
intensity of their research.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
New staff have been integrated across our expanded research groups and supported by
infrastructure spend. McManus moved from managing the HPU to a lecturer post supporting the
closer integration of the HPU into the research structure. Using data generated within the HPU he
will determine ventilatory thresholds during incremental exercise and challenge a ‘new’ threshold
that lacks scientific evidence and is currently marketed by a manufacturer of breath-by-breath
indirect calorimeters.

New research collaborations involving the disciplines of physiotherapy and sports therapy with the
UoA research staff (Jones) have already generated publications including, ‘An Evaluation of
Service Provision and Novel Strength Assessment on Patient Outcomes in a UK based Pulmonary
Rehabilitation Setting’.

New members of staff have worked with existing Green Exercise group members within HEAL, UK
charities and non-profit organisations resulting in improvements in health and wellbeing
(Rogerson, Wood) ‘The efficacy of green exercise interventions for mental well-being’.

Objective 2) Encourage staff to engage in research activities likely to have impact in sports
performance and human health.

We have successfully supported the application of muscle optics to elite sport illustrated by a
number of outputs: ‘Muscle oxygen changes following Sprint Interval Cycling training in elite field
hockey players’ (Jones, Cooper); ‘Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) Observation of Vastus
Lateralis (Muscle) and Prefrontal Cortex (Brain) Tissue Oxygenation During Synchronised
Swimming Routines in Elite Athletes’. (Jones, Cooper); ‘Performance comparison of the MOXY
and PortaMon near-infrared spectroscopy muscle oximeters at rest and during exercise’ (Cooper,
McManus).

Hope in the SP group is using equipment within the new Sport Arena examining real-time analysis
of training and competition with our specialist IP 4K cameras, with footage streamed onto our 6x4
metre electronic display screen. This indispensable feedback tool for both University and external
sports teams (World champions, New Zealand Netball), also provides applied research
opportunities of sports performance analysis processes. In addition, we have a range of portable
equipment to analyse sports performance away from the Sport Arena, including team and
individual-level filming as well as quantifying workload via GPS technology.

Objective 3) Expand links with new and existing centres of excellence enabling the goal of
fostering interdisciplinary research.

We have PGR students co-supervised with the Centre for Brain Science, Department of
Psychology and the Embedded and Intelligent Systems (EIS) Research Laboratory in the School of
Computer Science and Electronic Engineering. Staff from the Institute for Social and Economic
Research (ISER) were co-applicants on the successful Sport England (Essex County Council)
£750K bid. In addition, National and international links include the Sexual Health in over Forty
Fives (SHIFT) project involving collaboration with psychology at Chichester; midwifery and nursing
at Antwerp University; and Odisee University in Belgium (Lowry).

Research aims were reviewed during the formation of SRES in 2017 and additional objectives
were identified.

Objective 4) Develop an inclusive, thriving research community including supporting ASE staff to
develop a research profile to enable a transfer to ASER contracts.

To develop a thriving research community, we have: grown numbers of research active staff;
invested in research infrastructure; and, provided a supportive research environment facilitating our
internationally excellent research.

SRES has made significant investment in new staff including appointing the first Chair in Sport

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Performance (Maynard) and two readers (Kerr, Lowry) as per the commitment in our previous
REF research strategy. We increased our skill base, appointing excellent ECRs matched to the
research groups (Clark, Hammond, Hope, Leeder, Liew, McManus, Mills, Moran, Pethick,
Rogerson) and additional technical staff. Staff development is evident in internal promotions
(Barton, Freeman, Gladwell, Griffin, Micklewright, Sandercock, Taylor).

Since 2014, SRES has invested in research equipment and received substantial investment in
research facilities from the University (see section 3).

The development of a supportive environment is driven by the Research Committee (RC)
overseeing the strategic development of research, scholarly and knowledge transfer activities
within the School and is chaired by the Director of Research (DoR).

Progress against strategic aims and KPIs is monitored by the committee. Other key objectives of
the committee include: creating a high-quality research environment; developing strategies to
support grant development and success; promoting interdisciplinary collaboration, knowledge
exchange, and interaction with research bodies such as the NIHR Research Design Service (led
by Bateman); reviewing staff Annual Research Plans; promoting effective research impact; and
supporting a programme of research seminars. All ECRs are provided mentorship, via their
‘Pathway toPpermanency’ supervisor, including agreeing performance indicators ensuring they
meet the required research criteria. These are reviewed on a regular basis and actions put into
place where concerns are raised. New staff are encouraged to attend the University’s Newcomers
seminar series and to meet with the linked Research Development Manager from the Research
and Enterprise Office (REO) so funding opportunities are matched to their research interests.

Objective 5) Increase research income per annum by 2020; increasing per capita income of staff
by increasing the number of grant applications, increasing success rates, developing new larger
grants and diversifying sources of income.

In the last REF submission income was good but dependent upon a few. With retirement and
moves out into leadership roles there was an initial dip in income also associated with the
recruitment of many ECRs. Over the last three years SRES increased its funding and grant capture
from £59K to £733K income per annum, distributed across the staff group (see section 3).

Strategic Aims (2021-2025)

Following the successful growth and integration of sports and exercise science and rehabilitation
research areas during 2014-2020, the focus of SRES will be to offer a high quality, adaptable
research agenda, able to respond to the changing public health priorities across diverse
communities and populations allowing us to build upon our vision of enhancing health, fitness and
well-being across the lifespan.

More specifically our plans for 2021-2025 are to:

      further enhance the relevance and quality of our internationally excellent exercise and
       health research as applied to the areas of disease prevention, rehabilitation and health
       inequalities;
      maximise the impact of our research by supporting further collaborations and partnerships
       with national and international partners and stakeholders;
      apply a strategic, cross-disciplinary approach to research funding applications that
       promotes sustainability and maximises impact on sport performance and development,
       public health and medicine;
      continue to grow the number of active researchers within the School.

More generally, SRES will seek to strengthen translational research, driven by stronger
engagement with relevant stakeholders in research design and translation of findings into practical
outcomes. Building on recent success working in partnership with Active Essex and Essex County

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Council (ECC), but more generally we are keen to demonstrate what public health can learn from
sport and exercise sciences and how the research of SRES can help inform public health, policy
and practice, reflecting the intentions of the NHS Long Term Plan. We will work more closely with
general practitioners influencing Clinical Commissioning Groups to ensure all their patients have
better quality guidance on physical activity and nutrition building on our evaluation work with Future
Roots and Dementia Adventure. Potential funding sources include MRC and NIHR. We will
maximise the expertise available within the NIHR Research Design Service and build upon the
funding success of Bateman NIHR Brain MedTech Cooperative (£1.25mill) and NIHR RfPB grant
(£245K).

Enabling impact

Objective 2 focused on impact and SRES has adopted a number of strategies to enhance
potential research impact building upon the central support available within the University. Potential
case studies are identified at University-level workshops and putative submissions sifted by senior
research management and the Research Impact Officer in the REO who liaises with the SRES
Director of Impact (DoI). The three impact case studies selected for this submission are exemplars
of the successful approach to impact over the census period.

ESRC Impact Acceleration Account funds have provided invaluable support for the development of
the Green Exercise impact case study including a secondment to ukactive (Gladwell/Rogerson,
£12,668) and a Challenge Lab, ‘Improving workplace wellbeing by using nature’ (Gladwell,
£9,999). In addition, Rogerson was employed as a research officer 2015-2018 specifically to
develop the reach and impact of the Green Exercise work.

A number of strategic decisions enabled the impact of the Sports Performance impact case study
including: encouraging ASE staff (Coughlan) to integrate into the research groups; the decision in
2014 to fund muscle optics in elite sports; the appointment of Jones to ensure the work was
sustained with the ill health and retirement of Cooper; a University-funded impact award to judge
the quality of the award (Japanese speaking assistance) and a trip by Cooper to Japan to evaluate
the impact of the swimming documentary.

Historic funding from the Life Sciences research promotion fund supported the East of England
Healthy Hearts Study together with the subsequent facilitation of Sandercock’s development of
Fitmedia which forms the basis of the Child Fitness impact case study. Additional support from an
ESRC funded secondment to Essex County Council (ECC) for Gladwell (£11,285), PVC
(Research) funding (£66K) and ESRC, Active Essex (Sandercock, £16,000) further contributed to
the impact work.

In addition, SRES funds (or match-funds) strategic PhD studentships focused on research
underpinning potential impact case studies and deploys students in areas of research related to
developing impact, for example, paid employment opportunities with Fitmedia.

Open Research Environment

Open access publishing is promoted and encouraged through a range of mechanisms. All output
publications are published through the University’s Research Information System (RIS). From 2014
to 2021, 273 articles were deposited in the University’s Institutional Repository, among which 141
were Green open access and 82 Gold open access. The University provides a central block grant
for Gold Open Access publishing of specific outputs linked to UKRI-funded projects, and has an
increasing number of read-and-publish agreements with publishers such as Wiley and Sage.

SRES embraces the values of open science that goes beyond publishing in open access journals,
encouraging academic staff and research students to conduct and publish transparent and open
research, making their data, materials and analytical code publicly available. Positive changes are
visible in the increase in implementing open science practices with staff increasingly making their
data publicly available. For example, Sandercock East of England Healthy Hearts Study hosted by

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK Data Archive has resulted in multiple publications. Staff are encouraged to share or archive
data from their work and to utilise support available via the UK Data Archive who offer data skills
training sessions as part of the Newcomers programme. Mills was the inaugural President of the
Society for Transparency, Openness and Replication in Kinesiology and the founder of SportRxiv,
the first community led open access subject repository for Sport, Exercise, Performance and
Health Research.

Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity

We are committed to undertaking research of the highest quality in an environment with high
standards of research integrity, governance and good practice. The University conforms to the
Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and has developed the University Code of Good
Research Practice, which is provided to all staff as part of training and induction. This includes
explicit reference to the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE) recommendations on publication
and authorship; the department is committed to ensuring all contributors, including PhD students,
gain appropriate recognition and are included in research outputs. Overall oversight of research
integrity is provided by REO’s Research Governance and Planning Manager, who ensures
compliance with the code as well as other external legislation and funders’ requirements across all
projects within the department.

A responsive School ethics committee led by the SRES Ethics Officer allows for prompt review of
applications for ethical approval and consistent decision making. The Ethics Officer sits on one of
three Ethics Sub-Committees (ESC) of the University Ethics Committee. Applications are referred
to the ESC when necessary. The School provides significant information to staff and research
students about the ethics application process and its underlying principles using the Virtual
Learning Environment, Moodle. Ethics is a standing item on the RC’s agenda. To ensure good
research practice the UoA has developed a portfolio of risk assessments covering core research
activities to ensure safety of research participants and researchers. A technician keeps this
updated as necessary and supports the development of individual new risk assessments as
required. Compulsory risk assessment training was undertaken by all staff within the newly formed
School in 2017 and is renewed regularly.

2. People

Nine academic staff were submitted to REF2014 and it was identified that the vitality of the UoA’s
research environment was dependent upon a small number of researchers with expertise in five
different disciplines. A review of REF 2014 identified the need for a doubling of the FTE
submission for 2021 to create a world class research environment noting that research income
correlated inversely across the sector with staff/student ratios. The creation of SRES has created a
larger research environment; buoyant student recruitment has enabled sustained staff growth
reflected in the significant increase in the size of the UoA submission for REF2021 from 8.7 FTE to
24.1 FTE (Objective 4). SRES now has 24 staff on contracts with academic and research
responsibilities (ASER) and 18 with contracts reflecting primarily education responsibilities (ASE).
In addition, there are currently 2 research officers. Talent spotting from undergraduate courses
supporting graduates to undertake MSDs and/or PhDs has made a significant contribution to the
growth in our PGR student numbers. This approach to talent spotting has also provided a pipeline
from PhD to academic posts in SRES (Barton, Jones, McManus, Moran, Wood).

Staffing strategy

The ‘appliance of science’ or the application of theory to practice is a golden thread running
through all core activities in SRES. Our school’s REF-related research themes and impact case
studies are all designed ‘to make a difference’, to performance, health and lifestyle or human
development through all elements of society and across the lifespan. To this end, from the outset
of SRES, we have sought to recruit colleagues with a ‘scientist-practitioner’ orientation, academics
whose outputs are evidence-based and have the goal to use their research to transform human
experiences for the better (Objective 2). Examples include the work of Lowry, ‘Rock drumming

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enhances motor and psychosocial skills of children with emotional and behavioural difficulties’, and
Kerr, ‘Physical education contributes to total physical activity levels and predominantly in higher
intensity physical activity categories’.

The long-term aim is to increase the proportion of staff on ASER contracts by direct recruitment
and to support existing ASE staff to develop a research profile enabling them to transfer contracts
(Objective 4). As part of this process ASE staff have been supported to undertake PhDs/Prof Docs
(Coughlan, Easton, Etherton, Innes, Mallows, Utti) providing an additional source of high-quality
doctoral students. Some are contributors to REF-submitted outputs (Coughlan, Easton), joint
supervising an interdisciplinary PhD with Computer Science and Electronic Engineering (Utti) and
Coughlan is one of the authors of the SP impact case study. Research active ASE staff
participate in PhD/MSD/Prof Doc supervisory boards and supervision alongside ASER staff.

Candidates applying for academic posts within SRES are required to discuss potential research
collaborations and alignment with an identified research group in their applications. This ensures
we recruit staff who will maximise the intensity and quality of our research (Objective 1). Research
groups also enable recruitment, attracting staff with shared interests; for example, the recruitment
of Rogerson and Woods enhanced the work of Green Exercise within the HEAL group.

To support research activity the HPU Practice Educator and Sports Scientist time is determined by
the Head of School (HoS), DoR and Director of HPU, in alignment with SRES strategic priorities.
The sports scientist oversees data collection ensuring high standards are maintained. Students
undertaking placements in the HPU also support data collection where appropriate.

Staff development and support

We implement the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers throughout our
activities. Annual staff appraisals are conducted by the HoS and other members of the Senior
Management Group, including reviews of research activities and research priorities. The University
offers a structured approach to ECR development (Pathway to Permanency), all ECRs have a
Pathway to Permanency supervisor working with them to ensure they meet the requirements for
making a successful application for permanency including achievement of research targets
(Objective 1). The faculty’s Deputy Dean (Research) facilitates cross-faculty and cross-University
funding applications. The School requires peer-review of grant proposals to ensure that staff are
adequately supported in preparing applications. Sandercock, as a Professor with a high number of
publications in both sports and health journals, has a specific remit to advise on possible avenues
of publication that ECRs may be unaware of, suggesting additional studies, improving/optimising
data collection, collaborating with others to get multi-study papers, all with the goal of enhancing
the academic impact of outputs.

In SRES, ECRs on their pathway to permanency benefit from reduced teaching and administrative
work loads. In their first year of employment a weighting factor of 2 reducing to 1.3 in their second
year is applied to the School’s workload model. In their third year this weighting is removed if good
progress is being made towards meeting permanency targets. If issues are noted, then retention
or an increase in weighting can be negotiated on an individual basis. The School can nominate
ECRs for the University’s ‘Future Leader programme’ and more experienced staff for its ‘Strategic
Leader programme’. The University has a generous research leave scheme (every 6 terms, 1 term
of leave is accrued) and the RC reviews applications before they are considered centrally. This
scrutiny ensures that research leave applications are well thought out and take into consideration
staff development needs. Staff who have had research leave within the REF period include Griffin,
Taylor, Sandercock, Cooper, Micklewright. In addition, from 2020/21 all SRES academic staff
may apply for a short period of study leave (3 weeks maximum) to support research and scholarly
development allowing staff to be responsive to short notice calls for funding or other time sensitive
activities. Staff bringing in grant income receive additional research time within the workload
model (teaching buy-out) and the University’s research incentive scheme allows a proportion of
grant indirect costs to supplement their personal research account.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Secondment opportunities are encouraged, and examples include Gladwell’s secondment to ECC
leading to a successful bid for funding to evaluate Sport England Local Delivery pilot work and
Gladwell/Rogerson to ukactive.

Contribution to one or more research impact case studies is now included within the research
criteria for internal promotion within the University. For example, Grade 10, ‘Demonstrable impact
of own research’ - Barton was promoted to Reader based in part on Green Exercise impact case
study; and Grade 11, ‘Demonstrable impact of research included in at least one REF impact case
study’ - Gladwell and Sandercock were promoted to Professor based in part on the Green
Exercise case study and the on child fitness testing case study respectively. In addition, the role of
impact lead is recognised as contributing to citizenship for promotion to grades 9–11. All work
related to impact is acknowledged within the SRES workload model and in the future all staff will
be able to make an annual request for 50 hours per year specifically to develop the impact of their
research.

A proportion of the School’s operating budget (£15,000 per annum), overseen by the School’s
Senior Management Group, is devoted to individual staff budgets (£750 per person) which helps
with conference attendance fees, publication fees, or research associated expenditure. Both staff
and students may apply for additional support through this fund. In addition, a minimum of £30K
has been used annually from the Departmental Operating budget to provide specialist equipment
and consumables.

Research students

The department does not hold any DTC or DTP awards, so most students are either self-funded or
are funded through departmental PhD scholarships (9 awarded within the UoA period 2014-20)
and Faculty interdisciplinary PhD scholarships (9 awarded to SRES in this period).

The UoA has a vibrant and active research student community and reflects an increase in PGR
students from 28 to 41.75 since the creation of SRES with a total of 91.75 within the REF period.
The one-year MSD is particularly popular and provides a route through to PhD for a number of
students each year. SRES has excellent completion rates for PGR students (of the 18 students
competing in the last 3 year, 17 completed to time).

Doctoral Degrees Awarded

                                            Year of award
                                                                                               Total
                2013/14     2014/15     2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
 Doctorate            5           6           1        3      3     3.5       7                  28.5
 ProfDoc*             0           0           1        2      0       0       0                     3
 Total                5           6           2        5      3     3.5       7                  31.5

*Since 2018 we offer a suite of professional doctorates ensuring that our PGR titles are all
available as MSDs, PhDs or Prof Docs (2 students currently registered).

PGR students benefit from a dedicated Director of PGR studies who works closely with the DoR.
The PGR Director serves as ad-hoc contact for students and staff, oversees student progress,
well-being and sits on the RC. The PGR Director offers each student an individual meeting
annually and meets with them as a group on a regular basis both formally, via the student voice
committee, and informally. Each student is aligned with one of the research groups. The Director is
supported by an administrator of PGR studies, overseeing administrative aspects of admission,
progress, extensions, and vivas and serving as another point of support for students. The PGR
Director is supported by the DoR and other experienced staff in reviewing and shortlisting student
applications for funding ensuring a reliable process to select the strongest candidates for
studentships.

The UoA has a policy for dual supervision for PGR students. Progress of students is monitored by

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
bi-annual supervisory panels where potential challenges to progression are identified. A third
independent panel member chairs the panel consistently over the duration of a student’s
registration period. Panels making decisions confirming PhD status and completion are chaired by
the PGR Director or DoR.

SRES provides desk space and priority access to lab space for PGR students. The University
provides specialised training courses on topics relevant for student progress and development
(e.g. advanced writing, preparing papers for publication) via its unique ‘Proficio’ programme. Each
student receives £2,500 to access these courses. Funding may also be used to access specialised
external courses (e.g. Vicon training). The School further provides support for students to cover
research expenses or conference attendance.

PGR students organise their own seminar series supported by the PGR director and in addition
SRES holds an annual student and staff conference and PGR milestones require students to either
submit a poster or present a paper. Students have participated in the nationwide ‘3 Minute Thesis
Competition’ and teaching skills can be developed by working as GLAs or giving guest lectures on
established modules. Some PGR students have successfully applied for recognition of their
teaching practices by Advance HE under the UK Professional Standards Framework.

We also encourage UG (and MSc) students to be part of our research culture (Objective 4). BSc
project students have worked alongside PhD students and been co-authors on three published
papers in Sport, Exercise and Performance Psychology, Psychology of Sport & Exercise and
Nutrition, Metabolism and Cardiovascular Diseases. PGR students are encouraged to seek
external funding, a recent success, a competitively awarded Student Travel Award from the
Association for Applied Sport Psychology to attend a national conference in Portland, Oregon,
USA. In addition, PGR students are able to work as research officers on projects including Local
Delivery Pilot work, the Centre for Sustainable Health, Century Project and the Football
Foundation.

Of particular note are the opportunities for PGR students to work on ‘live’ project work, PhD
examples include: exploring recovery from domestic violence using wilderness therapy; and The
Relationship Between Research and Practice in Applied Sport and Exercise Psychology.

Equality and diversity

The SRES strategic plan ensures staff and students see themselves as valued members of the
School, working together to study and research within a climate of community, inclusiveness and
integrity. Our aim is to foster a confident, high-performing, creative, and productive School, where
we support each other in our different research endeavours. This work is promoted and recorded
through our Athena SWAN team, created when SRES formed in 2017. The team consists of 14
staff and 1 PGR student. The UoA is expected to make an independent Athena SWAN submission
in April 2021. Pre-2017 UoA staff were situated in departments with Athena SWAN recognition
(Life Sciences, Bronze award; and Health and Social Care, Silver award). We fully recognise the
importance of equality, diversity and inclusivity within the work force and in maintaining a healthy
work-life balance for all colleagues. Where possible core meetings are held between the hours of
10.00-16.00 making them as accessible as possible to staff with caring responsibilities. Seminar
organisers regularly consult with staff to ensure that all interests are covered. Seminars take place
at varying days and times avoiding the beginning and end of the day to ensure staff, whatever their
commitments, are able to participate.

We have gender balance within the SRES Senior Management Team, across our senior
researchers (Readers and Professors) and across the leadership of our undergraduate
programmes. Of the 42 academic staff in SRES 57% are men, and 71% of staff with a research
component in their contract are men. Gender is more evenly distributed in the senior staff group
and all external senior appointments since the creation of SRES have been women. Four of the 11
staff appointed with research in their contracts since the creation of SRES have been women.
Research leave is available for all staff (full and part time) and plans to apply for leave are

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
discussed at annual appraisals. Every attempt is made to ensure that protected characteristics are
considered in respect of committee membership and recruitment, including interview panels. Our
REF output review and environment statement groups included equal representation of men and
women. All staff can apply for support to attend conferences, including travel and this includes
requests to enable those with significant caring responsibilities to attend such events. SRES
supports the University’s flexible working policy and within the REF period, 8 staff have made use
of this to agree altered working hours. A professor with a declared disability was supported to take
early retirement on health grounds but was enabled to still take an active part in teaching/research
as much as possible or desired, by the granting of an Emeritus professorship and dedicated office
space with step free access in the new building with associated disabled parking. Part-time staff
are valued and supported to return to work after adoption/maternity leave with no hindrance to their
careers evidenced by the success of Barton and Gladwell (promotion to Senior lecturer/Reader
and Professor).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Operational Structure

The UoA’s RC oversees the School’s research activities. The committee is chaired by the DoR and
consists of HoD, DoI, PGR Director and the Ethics Officer. Each research group is represented by
its lead. Additional members are co-opted ensuring appropriate equality and diversity
representation. Research group leads convene termly research meetings to facilitate research
communication within the School and to provide support in grant applications. Technicians and
professional services staff support research activities and two additional technician appointments
have been made since 2017.

Income

Increasing research income (Objective 5) has been a key focus since 2017 with individual plans
discussed at annual appraisals with all newly appointed staff expected to make or contribute to a
grant application during their initial 3 years. The University provides various internal grants on a
competitive basis for piloting new work, developing research grant applications, supporting
workshops and other follow-on impact activities, and to buy-out staff time. These include
Innovation Vouchers, an Impact Acceleration Account, an Eastern Arc fund (Academic Research
Consortium between Essex, UEA and Kent) and Challenge Labs, ranging from £5k to £20k. Staff
in SRES are encouraged to apply for these and have a high success rate. Examples are given in
other sections. SRES works closely with the linked Research Development Manager from the REO
who regularly promotes funding opportunities and helps with preparing grant applications.

The majority of our commercial income comes from charities, government and public service
sources (£1.2 million since 2017) including: Patient assessment tool, Rehabworks (Griffin,
£20,000); Essex Physical Activity Local Delivery Pilot, Essex County Council (Gladwell, Freeman,
Sandercock, £750,000), Benefits of football facilities, Good Relations Ltd.; Training programme for
the development of life skills, Football beyond Borders (£14,781).

Staff have also led and collaborated on funded projects hosted at other institutions (Objective 3).
For example, Lowry has been involved in assessing the occupational and leisure physical activity
of army cadets Defence Human Capability Science & Technology Centre funding (£511K) and the
benefits of Rock Drumming for children and adolescents with Autism Spectrum Disorder, Waterloo
Foundation funding (£98K, £60K) and Gladwell collaborated with the Centre for sustainable Health
in a successful £63K bid to the Health Foundation.

Infrastructure and Facilities

Building on considerable investments into facilities made during the previous REF period,
management of the UoA ensures that staff have access to world leading facilities by continuing to
invest in maintenance and enhancement of facilities (Objective 4). The opening of the £12 million

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sport Arena in 2018 provided a new location for SRES including a large PGR student space. To
further support world leading research, the Arena is equipped with video analysis capabilities,
AnalysisPro and the AP Capture system including GPS technology. Targeted investment has led to
well-equipped laboratories (£90K in biomechanics equipment). Laboratory space has increased by
35% since 2014 with an additional 25% increase planned during 2021. PVC (Research)
Infrastructure funds (£240K) have further enabled additional equipment purchases.

The Human Performance Unit (HPU) is integral to the success of the UoA; a public facing entity
providing a service for athletes and commercial consultancy in sport and exercise science. It
includes a laboratory used by clients including elite athletes, generating data used for research
(McManus, Waterworth). Additional facilities include a biomechanics lab, hosting specialist
equipment, including the Vicon system, force plates and the isokinetic dynamometer. Other
accommodation includes a discrete, designated laboratory room for biochemical analysis, a
dedicated room for body composition analysis including dual x-ray absorptiometry (DeXA) and a
new strength and conditioning area including Olympic lifting platforms and rigs for multiple
resistance training-based interventions including force-velocity profiling, velocity-based training,
strength diagnostics and athlete profiling in multiple sports.

The HPU offers three key areas of expertise to support the research agenda in SRES: participant
recruitment; organisation, administration and collection of data; and, support for using specialist
equipment. Aligning the goals of the HPU with SRES has facilitated effective support for the
research groups, examples of how the research groups work with the HPU were provided in
section 1.

The majority of equipment purchased in this REF period has been supported through strategic
investments from the University demonstrating its commitment to research. Equipment purchased
has broad reach across SRES, cutting across research groups within a number of areas. In
addition to standard equipment (including – blood pressure monitors, heart rate monitors, ECG,
blood analysis equipment, ergometers, treadmills, body composition, gas analysis), as expected in
any department hosting UoA24, specialist equipment to support the cutting-edge research work
associated with the University has also been purchased, supporting work including:
cardiopulmonary rehabilitation; activity monitoring; cardiometabolic/nutrition; evaluation and survey
work; movement analysis, and; sport performance. This allows for inter-disciplinary and trans-
disciplinary research reaching beyond the immediate discipline and associated areas.

Promoting high quality research and opportunities to collaborate with external organisations,
strategic investment has been made in specialist equipment addressing gaps in current NHS
provision/capacity, such as DeXA, Vicon, Kistler force plates and the Biodex isokinetic
dynamometer. Motion capture equipment has been used by staff and PhD students exploring gait
changes in older adults and has supported the publication of a number of papers. Equipment such
as DeXA, enabling measures of body composition, should increase our likelihood of publishing in
higher impact journals outside of sports science by ‘medicalising’ the approach and through use of
state-of the-art techniques. Similarly, the Biodex will underpin joint research grant applications with
orthopaedic surgical specialists (Clark) and be used by PhD students.

Examples of work that this equipment has supported include: Near infrared spectrophotometer
(Portamon and Portalite system, MOXY monitors) supporting research informing exercise
prescription and its monitoring. Blood analysis equipment (Biosen C line clinic, Arkray Lactate
Pro/Pro2, Hemocue Haemoglobin, Accutrend Glucose and Cholesterol, Cholestech, Afinion 2).
The Cholestech and Afinion 2 were fundamental to a grant application submitted to Innovate UK
and Heart Research UK in which the use of this equipment will enable measurement of blood lipid
profiles, glucose and glycated haemoglobin levels. Ergometers (Monark Arm crank and cycle, Lode
Excalibur, Wattbike, Velotron) and treadmills (HP Cosmos Saturn, Woodway Curve) have also
enabled a number of PhD studies, as has the purchase of a modular putting green used within
PhD/published work. The GPS System supports PhD students’ work investigating the 3-minute all-
out running test as a measure of critical speed in elite and sub-elite football. Qualtrics survey
software has been used by PhD students exploring social and communication skills in children with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ASD and talent identification in football and for use in other projects, including: Sport England
Local Delivery Pilot work and the collection of data from over 2000 roller derby players.

Through collaborations across the University (Objective 3), SRES staff and PGR students have
access and used other equipment including but not limited to: transcranial magnetic stimulation,
electrocephalography, virtual reality suites, observation suites, and head mounted eye-tracker.
Equipment from the EssexLab enabled data collection from large cohorts, for example in the
morning Adrenaline Rush project (Gladwell, Freeman). External to the University equipment and
software from Kings College London’s Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology & Neuroscience was
used in the Rock Drumming Research (Lowry) including a 3T MR scanner.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations

The creation of SRES in 2017 with the associated changes in its size, structure and disciplinary
profile allows us to address problems by drawing on a wider range of expertise and professional
experiences. The staff profile and breadth of research undertaken positions us to engage in
collaborations with a wide range of partners both internally within the university and externally with
a range of stakeholders. Our research is data-driven, with expertise in applying our knowledge and
skills to other organisations’ data and evaluating interventions, with examples from working with
organisations such as RSPB and ECC, undertaking research in areas ranging from cardiac
rehabilitation through to match analysis. This fits closely with University-wide developments in Data
Analytics, and projects have involved collaboration with researchers in ISER (Objective 3),
building on their world-leading expertise in longitudinal studies, data linkage, evaluation of policy
changes and policy development (Active Essex, Local Delivery Pilot, The Wildlife Trust).

Cross-School collaborations are also facilitated by faculty funded PhD scholarships. Since the
faculty launched these cross-faculty scholarships, SRES staff have successfully secured funding
for 9 PhD students demonstrating how well the UoA is connected across the faculty.

As well as many internal collaborations staff have significant external interdisciplinary links
including: Sport England (Gladwell, Sandercock, Freeman), RFU (Jones, Mills), International
Olympic Committee (Freeman), Basketball England (Waterworth, Moran), Canadian Paralympic
committee and Swimming Australia (Hammond), WADA (Mills), British Army and Cirque du Soleil
(Clark), ukactive (Rogerson, Gladwell), Active Norfolk (Leeder), Wildlife Trusts (Rogerson,
Barton, Wood, Gladwell), MS-UK (Griffin, Taylor).

A range of specific examples below illustrates the achievements of some of these collaborations.

Gladwell was seconded to ECC between March and December in 2017 (via ESRC, IAA funding).
Based at County Hall in Chelmsford one day a week to build on the innovative work previously
undertaken at Essex (Gladwell, Sandercock) to inform how ECC could use the considerable
resources in Essex, in pursuit of improving the physical, emotional and spiritual wellbeing of the
Essex population. This enabled ECC (in particular Active Essex) to evaluate more of their physical
activity services/programmes and to undertake additional evaluation of services; enabling ECC to
identify the wider outcomes of physical activity and how to robustly measure them. In 2017, this
culminated in ECC being one of the twelve consortia awarded £10 million to implement Sport
England’s local delivery pilot schemes to transform the delivery of physical activity locally through
system change. Gladwell and Sandercock's ground-breaking research, a key component which
assisted ECC to win this award and a number of SRES staff are now involved in this externally
funded project involving evaluation of the Sport England Local delivery pilot in Essex (£750K
(Freeman, Gladwell, Sandercock, Pettican). This increases the understanding of physical activity
levels and health inequalities, and the role of capability, opportunity and motivation in explaining
physical activity (COM-B model). To facilitate this project, key external collaborations have been
formed with Mansfield (Brunel University), Copeland (Sheffield Hallam), and internally with
colleagues from across the University of Essex; Reinhardt (School of Government) and Al Baghal

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Knies (ISER). This is an example of how initial engagement with an organisation has led to an
ongoing and developing relationship working on funded projects.

In related work Gladwell, Freeman, Sandercock, Pettican have worked with external companies
(Jump Projects, Reason Digital, Impact Reporting) to establish a progressive web app-based
survey tool that public sector partners (Active Essex and ECC) will use to evaluate all of their
physical activity related projects.

The University joined the successful bid to create the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East
of England (ARC EoE) in 2018. This provides opportunities to increase and develop collaborations
in relation to health research. Bateman a contributor to the UoA 24 submission is the Director of
the NIHR East of England, Research Design Service and leads the neuropsychological
rehabilitation theme within the Brain Injury MedTech Co-operative. The expansion of healthcare
provider contacts builds upon a number of existing strong relationships with Provide a local
community interest company (Jones, Easton), East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation
Trust (ESNEFT) (Griffin, Taylor, Liew, Clark, Kerr, Utti, Jackson), RehabWorks (Griffin), and
Anglia Community Enterprise Community Interest Company (Liew). The ongoing work with
Provide exemplifies the success of sustained collaborations. An initial service evaluation of
differences in patient outcomes of pulmonary rehabilitation programmes of different durations led
to work around novel strength assessments (Jones, Andrews, Easton) and is now supporting a
funded PhD student, with a cross faculty supervision team, exploring strength assessments and
strength training in pulmonary rehabilitation. As well as influencing local practice, successful
outcomes from this work have the potential to inform national clinical guidelines.

In 2017 Sandercock and Jones won a competitive tender to evaluate a change in legislation for
age grade (u7-u19) rugby in the UK, by the RFU which has developed into an ongoing relationship.
A rule designed to impact on player retention (reducing drop out from sport), between 2017-2020,
a pilot to evaluate and a staged integration of the rule change into club and school rugby for age
grade rugby was undertaken. One immediate impact was that the rule (Half-Game Rule) became
legislation for the 2019-2020 playing season. They are now (2020-2023) evaluating the player
registration data and will each year carry out focus group work to look at the longer-term impact on
player retention/attrition. This work is available on the RFU website and all clubs were provided
with an infographic that Jones helped design. In addition, the work has received national news
coverage (The Times, ITV Anglia News).

The opportunity to engage beyond the discipline is further supported through University challenge
labs (ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, EIRA funding) and our commitment to supporting
projects outside of SRES as staff contribute to cross-disciplinary bids. Two projects have focused
on mental health in youth: Performance banded physical education classes to improve fitness and
mental health outcomes in youth’ (£9,556 – ESRC IAA) (Jones, Moran, Hope) and Resistance
exercise to improve outcomes in youth with mental health problems (£9971 - ESRC IAA) (Moran,
Hope).

Examples of confirmed future activities, with both internal and external partners both national and
international, include:

      Using Global Challenges Research funding a visit (Kerr, McManus, Lewis) to South Africa
       established a collaboration with the University of the Western Cape. Kerr will be working
       with Professor Susan Bassett and has secured an additional £6135 to explore the feasibility
       of time-restricted feeding for weight loss and type 2 diabetes prevention in UWC students
       and Dr Barry Andrews will be working with McManus;
      Carlile Archive Phase One (AU$10,000) with Dawn Penney (Monash/Edith Cowan AUS).
       ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (£10,006) to use video documentary to study the
       narratives of children returning to school post UK COVID lockdown with Lowry, Hammond,
       Blower (LiFTS) O'Gorman, Poerio (Psychology) Chiu (Linguistics), Etheridge (Economics)
       and Gemma Warsap (ECC) and £9,920 to study the COVID community volunteering
       recruitment, organisation and responses during 2020 and 2021 lockdowns with Lowry,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       O'Gorman, Poerio (Psychology), ECC and The Active Wellbeing Society;
      Links between Kerr, Lowry, Waterworth and researchers (Dr Soliman / Dr Jan) at Fakeeh
       Hospital, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia are developing research in management of obesity and
       type 2 diabetes;
      Public Health Collaborations – EU European Regional Development Fund Interreg 2Seas
       Funding (Lowry) for two projects with partners in the UK, France, Belgium and the
       Netherlands Step-By-Step (2.6 million Euros) and Sexual Health in the over Forty Fives (4
       million Euros).

Contributions to research base and discipline

UoA staff are heavily involved in contributing to the discipline and research base of sport and
exercise science, including: editorial work; peer review processes for both outputs and grant
funding; committees; delivering keynote lectures; associated conference activities.

Editorial board membership/Editors: Journal of Sport Psychology in Action (Maynard - editor,
Freeman), International Review of Sport and Exercise Psychology (Freeman), Environmental
Psychology (Barton – review editor), Frontiers in Psychology (Barton), PLOS ONE
(Micklewright), Frontiers in Physiology (Moran, Micklewright – Topics Editor), European
Journal of Sport Science (Moran), Frontiers in Sports and Active Living (Moran), Isokinetics and
Exercise Science (Clark), The Sport Psychologist (Maynard), Science and Medicine in Football,
Frontiers in Psychology (Mills), Journal of Applied Sport Psychology (Maynard)

National grant review (NIHR, ESRC, MRC, Versus Arthritis, CSPCT) International reviews
including the European Commission, Health and Medical Research Funder – Government of Hong
Kong, and the Polish Ministry of Science, Advanced Olympic Research Grant Programme, Social
Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Research Grants Council of Hong Kong
(Lowry, Freeman, Gladwell, Jackson).

In addition to peer reviewed articles and acting as journal editors, 11 members of staff have also
written and edited books, chapters and national guidelines since 2013.

Research excellence has also been acknowledged via a number of awards and honours including:
Association for Applied Sport Psychology (AASP), Distinguished Professional Practice Award in
2015 (Maynard) and British Psychology Society (BPS), Lifetime Achievement Award -
Distinguished Contributions to Sport and Exercise Psychology, 2019 (Maynard). A number of staff
are fellows in organisations, including the Physiological Society (Gladwell), BASES (McManus)
and BASES, ASSP, BPS (Maynard).

Our research has been disseminated via keynote presentations or expert panel membership at
meetings including:

      Belfast NHS Trust Health Conference 2017 British Psychological Society’s Division of Sport
       and Exercise Psychology Conference 2020 (Lowry);
      Solutions to Isolation, Green Spaces Better Spaces (Rogerson);
      Green Exercise Concept, Mindscape, Ireland, Cheltenham Science Festival, International
       Mountain & Outdoor Sports Conference, Prague Czech Republic (Barton);
      European Society for Sports Traumatology, Knee Surgery and Arthroscopy (Clark),
       International Congress of Sport Science, Turkey, British Society of Academic and Clinical
       Hypnosis Annual Conference, (Maynard);
      Science in Cycling Conference, Nantes, France,1st Endurance Research Conference,
       University of Kent, Annual Conference of the American College of Sports Medicine
       Orlando, USA (Micklewright),;
      A meeting of minds: the biology of mental health BASES, Institute of Healthcare
       management (2021); Landscape Institute (2020); Centre for Sustainable Health (2020)
       (Gladwell);
      ukactive national summit, London: Borrowing from abroad - Exploring what we can take

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       from other nations’ approach to tackling youth inactivity; Open Forum Events: Exercise and
       Health- Active lifestyle, Better Life Conference, Manchester. What are the barriers to
       activity in youth? BHF Preventive healthcare practitioner conference - keynote on trends in
       sedentary time PA and children’s cardiovascular health, Westminster Education Forum
       Keynote Seminar: School sports – increasing participation, improving PE provision and
       tackling the ‘inactivity crisis’ (Sandercock).

We have made important contributions to professional associations via conference organisation:
Congress committee European Congress of Sport Science (Maynard).

SRES hosted the IDEAL Pacing and Coaching Symposium in September 2018 which was co-
funded by the Erasmus+ programme, and had speakers from Essex and across the EU (Freeman,
Micklewright).

SRES staff are represented as board members, trustees, or scientific advisors on a number of
different organisations including: Parkrun Research Board (Rogerson), Expert Advisory Group –
Public Health England (Pettican), Chartered Society of Physiotherapy Charitable Trust (Jackson),
Advisory board member for the University of Konstanz, Germany Research Excellence Initiative
(Micklewright),

International PGRs are a developing area in SRES. An example is the collaboration with Massey,
NZ. Expertise in muscle oxygenation measurement (Jones) leading to a collaboration with
Professor Ajmol Ali to collaborate on a series of studies investigating the effect of beetroot juice
consumption in younger, older, pre-hypertensive and pre-diabetic people. Jones and Ali now co-
supervise a Massey based PhD student. In addition, Jones has provided NIRS training and
expertise that will help other Massey students with higher quality data collection, and publications
in higher-quality journals. Professor Ali has visited the University of Essex twice, presented to staff
and PG students, led to one collaborative grant application (New Zealand Heart Foundation) and
one publication with others from the PhD studentship planned). We have also explored PGR
student and staff exchanges between the institutions, Sandercock’s trip to Massey, 2019.




                                                                                               Page 15
