Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 34 – Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context and overview

 This large unit reflects the inclusivity of our approach and the growth and diversification of the unit
 since 2014. The latter is linked to the creation of the Faculty of Media and Communication (FMC)
 in 2014 from the former ‘Media School’, thereby formalising interdisciplinary connections. Since
 2014, we have continued to expand and embed research excellence across a growing staff base.
 The number of researchers submitted in this unit has increased by 198% from 24.8 FTE in 2014
 to 73.86 FTE in 2021. Doctoral completions have increased by 166% from 19.83 in 2008-2013, to
 52.67. in 2014-2020. In this REF period our unit has increased its academic footprint and made a
 major mark on the fields of media, communication and cultural studies, with c. 1800 scholarly
 outputs including: 103 books, 270 book chapters, 477 journal articles, 14 exhibitions, 19 artefacts,
 2 compositions, 675 conference papers, 36 films, 7 performances, 60 research reports, 81 internet
 publications and 17 special issues.

 That growth has taken place in a context where within FMC the institution has developed new unit
 submissions in the disciplines of Law (UoA 18) and English (UoA 27), which were incorporated
 within our 2014 UoA36 submission.

 Within the unit we have continued with similar research management arrangements to those that
 had been very effective prior to 2014. These arrangements include encouraging and facilitating
 interdisciplinary research via research centres and groups. These groupings also offer an identity
 and community for researchers, enabling the promotion of research activity across departments,
 faculties, and external academic and industry partners. In the spirit of collaboration and cross-
 fertilisation, colleagues are encouraged and supported to work across and between research
 groupings. This is reflected in the summary below, where some colleagues are mentioned under
 multiple groupings.

 In 2014, the unit included work that was based on eight specialist areas: politics and media,
 journalism, media history, consumer cultures, narrative research, public relations, media
 education and intellectual property policy and management. Since 2014, six of these groupings
 have grown and flourished within this unit, with the narrative research and intellectual property
 groups developing into new unit submissions in English and Law. We have also seen research
 centres evolve and merge to develop interdisciplinarity as part of a long term strategy to meet
 today’s societal challenges and funding environment.

 1.1.2. Key areas of research within the UoA

 i. Political culture and communication

 Established in the early 2000s, this group continues to grow in size and academic impact. It has
 long-established expertise in the broad areas of media and politics including comparative media
 analysis (Jackson, Lilleker), political communication and political psychology (Gerodimos,
 Richards). Since 2014 it has expanded its academic footprint into areas such as public diplomacy
 and nation branding (Dolea, Surowiec), protest and social movements (Elsheikh, Feigenbaum,
 Veneti) and emotion, affect and political culture (Gerodimos, Richards, Voutyras, Yates). Growth
 has been aided by the validations of the MA in International Political Communication (2015) and
 the MA in Political Psychology (2016), which have also been successful feeders into our PGR
 community.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this REF period the group has worked under the Centre for Politics and Media Research,
 which has recently been renamed the Centre for Comparative Politics and Media Research to
 reflect its increasingly global outlook and commitment to external collaboration and comparative
 research.

 ii. Journalism, conflict and social justice

 Bournemouth University (BU) has always had a strong reputation within the journalism industry
 based on its degree programmes, but we are now firmly established as a centre of journalism
 research. With a growing critical mass of researchers, our research agenda has also expanded,
 from one focused around journalism innovation in 2014, to one that encompasses post-disaster
 journalism (Matthews, Sreedharan, Thorsen), science and data journalism (Nguyen, Thompson),
 comparative journalism studies (Jackson, Jebril, Thorsen, Zhao), journalism and emotion (Glueck,
 Jukes) and ethics and trauma in reporting sensitive subjects (Fowler-Watt, Jukes, Luce).

 Since 2014, this group of researchers worked under the auspices of the Centre for the Study of
 Journalism, Culture and Community, which grew in such a way as to give birth to two new research
 centres in 2019: the Narrative Research Centre (aligned with UoA27) and the Centre for the Study
 of Conflict, Emotion and Social Justice. The latter centre aims to provide the infrastructure for
 better collaboration across disciplines in journalism and law, and drive research towards global
 challenges and UN Sustainable Goals. It is now also home to many of our practice-based
 researchers, whose work is connected through their commitment to tackling marginalisation
 through engagement with seldom heard voices (Gee, Hearing, Iwowo, Sudbury).

 iii. Promotional cultures and communication

 Bournemouth has an established reputation for pursuing critical aspects of promotional culture
 and communication. In particular, we developed specialisms in digital virtual consumption
 (Denegri-Knott, Jenkins) and critical public relations (PR) (Moloney) including PR history
 (Theofilou). Since 2014, these research strands have intensified in critical mass, as well as
 branching into new territories such as: branded content (MacRury), corporate social responsibility
 (Grigore, McQueen, Moloney), marketing rhetoric (Miles) and consumer subjectivity and choice
 (Oshima, Scullion). This group of researchers operate within the Promotional Cultures and
 Communication Centre (PCCC), incorporating those who previously occupied the Public Relations
 Research Group.

 iv. Media history
 BU has a long-established and global reputation for excellence in media history research. Since
 2000, this group has worked productively as the Centre for Media History - one of only three
 centres for media history in the Anglophone world. Building on existing strengths in broadcast
 history - particularly public service radio (Chignell, Franklin), this group has expanded into film
 history (Fisher), community radio (Khamkar, Scifo, Starkey) and oral history (Cosson); and have
 consolidated critical mass around the history of women’s radio (Murphy, Skoog, Terkanian).

 v. Media literacy and pedagogy

 This area began as a HEFCE-funded Centre for Excellence in Teaching and Learning in Media
 Practice from 2005 to 2010, pursuing innovative and technology-led approaches to media
 education and practice. The group has since transitioned into a leading international centre of
 media education research, and since 2014 the group has continued to grow in capacity and
 external impact. The research agenda of the group is themed around digital media literacies
 (Gerodimos, McDougall, Rega, Woodfall), experiential learning and co-creation (Bissell, Fowler-
 Watt, McDougall, Readman), civic media (Gerodimos, Feigenbaum, Rega), and innovative
 pedagogies with impact on educational inclusion (Cownie, Gabriel, Readman). Administratively,
 the group works under the Centre for Excellence in Media Practice (CEMP) which leads across
 the university in education research and evidence-based practice.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vi. Media industries

 This interdisciplinary group of researchers have emerged as a collective entity since 2014 to
 explore important issues in the creative and media industries, including: tackling marginalisation
 in media and film (Brylla, Hodges, Pullen), careers in the media industries (Van Raalte, Wallis),
 media franchises (Berger, Proctor, Stutterheim, Westling), media management in the creative
 industries (Oliver).

 As an emerging area of strength, much of this work has occurred outside of formal research centre
 administration, which we expect to grow into an external-facing centre in the course of the next
 REF cycle as we expand the critical mass of researchers. Much of the practice-based research
 that emanates from this grouping sits within the Experimental Media Research for Cultural and
 Creative Industries (EMERGE) research centre - which spans six university departments and two
 Faculties and is led by Prof. Garcia.

 1.2. Research strategy

 Delivery against 2014 objectives

 The key aims in our REF 2014 submission have been achieved or exceeded. We respond to these
 in the following section where we also introduce new strategic objectives that have driven our
 activities during this REF period.

 SO1: Improve our research capacity and environment through grant capture

 Since 2014 we have built a supportive and inclusive research culture and infrastructure to enable
 successful grant capture. The unit’s total research income in this REF period stands at £901,185
 which represents a 77.4% increase since 2008-2014 REF Period. As we detail in Section 3, this
 comes from a range of sources including UKRI, charitable foundations and commissioned
 research. We are also developing sustainability through the submission of more research council
 bids since 2014 and growing the number of staff involved in funded projects (as both PI and Co-
 I).

 SO2: Support international research partnerships and collaborations

 We are committed to developing sustainable international research partnerships across the unit
 that lead to collaborative research and high-quality outputs (see Section 4.2). Approximately 30%
 of our eligible publications are co-authored with international collaborators (SciVal 2020). Major
 international collaborative research projects have been conducted with local partners in India
 (Sreedharan and Thorsen), Latin America (Rega and Lilleker, Jukes and Fowler Watt), sub-
 Saharan Africa (Rega and Lilleker) and Nepal (Sreedharan and Thorsen), funded by the AHRC
 and BU’s institutional Global Challenges Research Funding block grant.

 Since 2014 we have supported the development of international research partnerships through:

    •   Over £350,000 QR investment for international conference attendance and for
        international network building.
    •   Promotion and use of the Erasmus+ scheme for staff mobility.
    •   Recognition and reward of developing international partnerships and collaborations in pay
        and promotion.
    •   Appointment of Deputy Deans of Global Engagement at Faculty level (since 2016), and
        Global Engagement Leads at Department level (since 2015).
    •   An internal GCRF funding panel, predicated on the building of international research
        networks, set up in 2019 in collaboration with UKRI. The UoA has been the recipient of
        three awards: supporting research and impact projects on child survivors of Colombia’s
        armed conflict in collaboration with multiple international partners (Jukes and Fowler-Watt);
        media action against sexual violence in India in partnership with multiple media and NGO

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        stakeholders (Sreedharan and Thorsen) and post-disaster journalism in Nepal
        (Sreedharan and Thorsen).

 SO3: Develop our capacity for research collaborations with the media and cultural
 industries

 Since 2014, this unit has further established a collaborative, industry-facing research culture (see
 Section 4), shaped and supported by a legacy of employing people who have worked and continue
 to work in the media and cultural industries. Researchers in our unit have established and
 sustained research partnerships that include: the BBC (Fowler-Watt, Murphy, Perry), Channel 4
 (Jackson, Sudbury), Reuters (Jukes), BECTU (Van Raalte and Wallis), Exterion Media (Denegri-
 Knott, Jenkins) and Sky (Oliver); relationships that form an important part of our impact case study
 portfolio. Section 4 also details our successes in sustaining partnerships in the NGO/ non-profit
 and policy sectors.

 Our strategy of furthering research collaborations with external partners has been supported
 through institutional pay and progression incentives whereby colleagues are rewarded for
 successful professional practice activity and the establishment of industry partnerships. BU is a
 leader in the sector for its inclusion of professional practice as part of the workload allocation for
 every BU academic. Rather than sitting separate to research and education, our institutional
 philosophy is that professional practice should be integrated, so that it is driven by research
 excellence and therefore aligned with the research impact agenda.

 SO4: Shape public debate through the communication of research

 Public engagement has become firmly embedded in our research culture. As presented in Section
 4, our aim has been to contribute evidence, shape ideas and develop new perspectives in public
 debate through media appearances, research-informed reports and public-facing events. It also
 includes a commitment to engaging the local community with our research.

 In the REF period, unit colleagues have organised over 150 public and community engagement
 events (including public lectures, public seminars, festivals and exhibitions), made over 500 media
 appearances, produced 60 research-informed reports and over 70 research-informed media
 artefacts (including films, documentaries and short stories) (see Section 4). Our unit has also made
 major contributions to the annual Festival of Learning held at BU and 10 Global Festivals of
 learning, including events in India, China, Malaysia, Vietnam and Germany. Nine public
 engagement events have been organised by the unit through our partnership with the ESRC
 Festival of Social Science.

 Since 2014 we have supported public engagement activities through:
    • Investment of circa 20% of our annual HEIF budget in public and community engagement,
        reflecting its importance in our strategy.
    • Investment of over £70,000 of QR funding in support of the creation of research-informed
        media artefacts.
    • Embedding of public engagement in staff and PGR development provisions.
    • The appointment of three dedicated public engagement roles: a Research
        Communications Manager, Public Engagement Officer, and an Events Organiser whose
        sole focus is to facilitate and support the public engagement activities of BU colleagues.
    • Recognition of public engagement in internal pay progression and promotion.

 SO5: Cultivate an inclusive research culture where all academics are expected and
 encouraged to pursue research excellence

 Our inclusive research culture is reflected in our large submission of 73.86 FTE, a 198% increase
 from 2014, and including staff at all career stages. This growth results from our institutional
 strategy to support all academics in pursuing research excellence. There are no teaching-only
 contracts at BU: all BU academics have a ‘Fusion’ contract, meaning that they are expected to

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participate in research, education and professional practice. We require and support staff with
 industry experience to pursue doctorates and have made good progress in improving the
 proportion of staff with doctorates (70% for the Faculty, compared to 51% in 2013-14). We are
 also inclusive of practice-based research and are proud that our submission includes 15 such
 outputs (excluding double-weighting), including scripts, compositions, exhibitions, documentaries
 and films. We created a Practice-based Research ‘Champion’ role (Sudbury) to support its
 development across the unit. Inclusive values are also evident in our staff profile (Section 2), and
 in the research we pursue, which is driven by a critical awareness of marginalisation and social
 justice.

 S06: Embed impact at the heart of our research culture

 We are proud that through this REF period we have supported the development of 15 impact case
 studies (ICS) - more than double our submission requirement. The case studies reflect the
 international, interdisciplinary and collaborative character of the unit, with beneficiaries from the
 charity sector, corporations, media organisations, sports governing bodies, global policy makers,
 government departments and NGOs. Case studies also reflect our unit’s commitment to ethical
 and socially responsible values in media representation.

 We have invested heavily in our infrastructure supporting impact, with a considerable expansion
 of dedicated impact support staff since 2014, alongside generous internal funding streams,
 institutional rewards and the appointment of a UoA Impact Champion (Chignell, Gerodimos) (see
 Section 3). Our commitment to impact extends beyond REF - putting it continuously at the heart
 of our research culture.

 SO7: Develop interdisciplinary mindsets in our researchers

 Media, communication and cultural studies have always found themselves at the frontiers of other
 academic disciplines, and our diverse outputs profile is testament to our commitment to
 interdisciplinarity. Before and since 2014, our unit has made this an explicit strategy so as to better
 align with the external funding environment and to develop our capacity for working across
 disciplines.

 Throughout the REF period we have been intent on building teams of researchers that work
 beyond their ‘home’ discipline. A major structural part of this culture change came in the re-
 commissioning of research centres in 2019. Historically, our research centres emerged from
 departments and were discipline specific. But now, all of our research centres operate across
 departments (and therefore disciplines), demonstrating a commitment to responding to social,
 cultural and ethical challenges that emerge (which are rarely discipline specific). The aim of this
 strategy is to build teams of researchers who are oriented towards the funding priorities of
 prestigious funders. In support of this culture change, we have also embedded an alignment with
 the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) in all of our research activities. In applications
 for internal seed funding, and in the development of individual research plans for example,
 academics must show how their activities are engaged with the UNSDGs.

 Future research and impact strategy
 We will maintain and develop SOs 1-7 to achieve the following objectives:

 SO1: Improve our research capacity and environment through grant capture
 Increasing our capacity for grant capture lies at the heart of our UoA strategy over the next five
 years. This strategy is underpinned by major investment in support and incentive structures (see
 Section 3) and the BU2025 strategic plan, which places emphasis on grant capture through the
 cultivation of research teams from across disciplines and different career stages. Our bidding
 activity will also strategically move towards larger grant capture. These investments indicate
 sustainability for the unit; since July 2020 we have won over £520,000 of UKRI funding for six new
 projects (see Section 3). In the next REF period, we expect to increase our research income by

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 up to 30% and will also focus on increasing the number of staff involved in external bidding as a
 PI (currently 60% of unit).

 SO2: Expand our international research partnerships and collaborations
 We will continue to support and reward staff in their efforts to establish international partnerships
 through the continuation of internationalisation roles, QR investment and bidding support towards
 grant capture. We aim to increase the number of internationally co-authored papers and have set
 an institutional KPI to monitor our progress. Strategically, as a unit, focus will be given to a)
 continuing our track record in developing partnerships within ODA countries and b) large,
 international comparative research projects. Both internal resources and external funding are
 sought to achieve these aims.

 SO3: Develop our capacity for industrial collaborations
 Moving forward, we will re-orientate our focus beyond the media and cultural industries to embrace
 more interdisciplinary industrial partnerships that support larger grant proposals. Supported by the
 wider BU 2025 strategy, we will maintain incentives and support structures as part of our own
 research strategy in the next REF period.

 SO4: Shape public debate through the communication of research
 Having established a solid infrastructure for our research activities and its communication with
 public and external stakeholders, our ambition post-2021 is to maintain our commitment to public
 engagement and open research, and also to raise our profile in national and international media
 and amongst key stakeholders.

 SO5: Cultivate an inclusive research culture where all academics are expected,
 encouraged, and supported to pursue research excellence
 All staff will continue to be supported in their research endeavours, including those who join without
 a doctorate. We aim to increase the proportion of Faculty staff with a doctorate to at least 80% by
 2025. We will continue our investment in high-quality research facilities and supporting
 infrastructure to benefit all researchers. We will address the gender and other potential inequalities
 in our unit profile (particularly the proportion of female full professors) through external recruitment
 and internal promotion.

 S06: Embed impact at the heart of our research culture
 We will maintain our current investment in the infrastructure to enable the development of impact
 at all levels including support and leadership roles, internal funding and institutional rewards. We
 will further invest in training and mentorship in relation to building impact into research projects,
 cultivating external partnerships, and conducting policy work. We can look ahead to the next REF
 with 9 prospective ICS that are already in development, including 3 of those continued from this
 REF cycle, alongside ones that have emerged since.

 SO7: Develop interdisciplinary mindsets in our researchers
 We will increase the range, diversity, and innovativeness of our work by partnering with
 researchers across other disciplines, leveraging our institutional Strategic Investment Areas and
 Fusion themes for BU2025, particularly Digital & Technological Futures, Global Security and
 Health & Wellbeing to identify and forge strategic collaborations with new internal and external
 partners.

 SO8: Continue to grow, and develop a vital and sustainable PGR culture
 We aim to continue growing our PGR community, particularly through competitive funding
 streams. Infrastructure investment will be focused on improving both PGR research facilities and
 spaces where innovation and staff-student collaboration thrive.

 1.3. Creating an open research environment

 The public dissemination of our research is facilitated by a generous university open access (OA)
 funding policy, which provides funding for high quality outputs to be published via the gold open

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access route. Since 2014, c. £21K has been spent on funding the gold open access publication of
 outputs for this unit. In addition, green open access is facilitated via Bournemouth University
 Research Online (BURO), which houses open access research outputs by BU staff and PGR
 students, as well as our collection of PhD theses. BURO is linked to our research data repository,
 BORDaR, launched in 2018. 99% of our in-scope outputs in this REF period are OA compliant or
 had a permitted exception. Despite greater copyright challenges, these principles apply to our
 practice-based research too, most of which is freely available online. Targeted support and
 promotion of open access is offered by the appointment of a UoA Outputs Champion (Berger).

 Since 2017 we have appointed two Faculty Data Champions to promote and facilitate the
 responsible storage and open sharing of data. We have also encouraged the use and awareness
 of open source software and code sharing so that data can be (re)produced, archived and shared
 in non-proprietary/open data formats. To do this we have invested in training and support through
 such initiatives as Datalabs (Feigenbaum, Jackson, Thorsen, Thompson) which brought together
 researchers from across the unit, alongside data scientists, psychologists, and geographers - who
 have a shared interest in computational research methods. Many of the resources developed from
 this project have gone into the Routledge Data Storytelling Workbook (Feigenbaum, 2020).

 1.4. Supporting research integrity

 Research integrity is of fundamental importance to all research conducted by unit members,
 several of whom (Berger, Gabriel, Farrell, Jebril, Matthews, Iwowo, Rega, Thompson) play a
 significant role on the institutional social sciences ethics panel. Institutionally-mandated ethics
 training for all staff and PGRs is enhanced by support and advice provided by a dedicated
 departmental ethics panel, and all research activities are required to comply with the highest
 ethical standards via a thorough assessment by the institutional ethics panels.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1. Staff and staffing strategy

 The staffing strategy for this unit supports four principal aims:
 1.       Research excellence: Continue to ensure that research excellence or potential are key
 criteria in staff appointments. Encourage and support staff to develop skills required to enhance
 high quality outputs, impact generation, external engagement and further developing academic
 excellence – to develop future strategic priorities across the unit. Further develop pay, reward and
 recognition structures that recognise high performance, potential and delivery in research.
 2.       Inclusive research community: Support all staff in defining and developing research
 appropriate to career stage and expertise via mentoring and structured staff development. Support
 flexible careers (including P/T and flexible working arrangements) that reflect our inclusive values.
 Address inequalities related to gender through Departmental work towards Athena SWAN
 recognition (1 Department at Bronze currently working towards Silver, 2 Departments working
 towards Bronze) and a Faculty action plan on gender and research. Address race inequalities
 through contributing to the institutional Race Equality Charter submission.
 3.       Expanding PGR supervisory capacity: Support PGR growth and enhance PGR
 experience – including structured on-going supervisory development via the Doctoral College and
 increasing the number of staff involved in active supervision in the unit.
 4.       Ensuring the long-term sustainability of the unit: Through the award of permanent
 contracts and the application of succession planning, especially in senior and leadership roles.

 Since 2014 we have recruited 42 new members of staff for this unit at ECR (30), mid-career (8)
 and senior levels (4). These appointments reflect our investments in interdisciplinarity researchers
 (such as media history and politics) alongside the building of research capacity in existing areas
 of strength (such as media practice, marketing communications and journalism). Possessing a
 doctorate is an essential criterion for all appointments since 2012; a policy that has significantly
 changed our staff profile and associated research culture. Given the vocational nature of some of
 our degrees we make exceptions for candidates who come with outstanding industry experience.
 These new staff are obliged to undertake doctoral study as part of their contract and are supported
 through the process of becoming independent researchers.

 Sustainability of the unit has been enhanced by significantly expanding the professoriate,
 which now stands at 22 (compared to 7 in 2014). We have made 4 external appointments at
 professor level (Garcia, Knudsen, Stutterheim, Yates) while also promoting 5 staff to full professor
 (Berger, Jukes, Lilleker, McDougall, Thorsen) and 12 to associate professor (Cownie, Denegri-
 Knott, Fisher, Feigenbaum, Gerodimos, Jackson, Luce, Nguyen, Oliver, Pullen, Rega, Sudbury).
 This provides us with greater research leadership capacity, alongside the ability to succession-
 plan appropriately for staff turnover. We are also ensuring sustainability through maintaining a
 strong base of staff on permanent contracts (94% of our submitted staff), and a balanced
 academic cohort featuring: (excluding former staff and 5 in senior management positions) 2
 Postdoctoral Researchers, 20 Lecturers, 23 Senior Lecturers, 13 Principal Academics, 12
 Associate Professors and 9 Professors. 70% of Faculty staff now have PhDs compared to 51% in
 2013-14, increasing both our research and PGR supervisory capacity.

 Over the REF period we have employed a number of Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs).
 PDRAs have worked on externally funded projects and in internally funded postdoctoral roles to
 assist academics in developing research outputs and impact case studies. The PDRAs make a
 valuable contribution to the research culture of the unit, and are fully integrated into our mentoring,
 staff development and research planning processes. This strategy has proved successful, with all
 developing their research profiles and finding further employment at BU (Goldsmith, Mills) and
 elsewhere.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. Staff development and support

 We have continued to support staff towards research excellence in the following ways:

    •   Better leadership and management structures through the creation of the Departmental
        Head of Research role (now a Deputy Head of Department), introduced in 2014, enabling
        a new focus on our research environment at Department level.

    •   Tailored support for researcher development through the production of an annual
        Personal Research and Impact Plan as the basis for short and medium-term career
        planning. Through dialogue with research mentors and departmental leadership, these
        research plans also identify development needs that can be acted upon.

    •   Time for research. Our institutional workload model foregrounds substantial opportunities
        for research as a defining characteristic of all academic roles. All academics are given a
        minimum of 30% of their workload for the purposes of research. This stands as a central
        tenet for institutional commitments to 'Fusion': the ambition for all staff to be active in
        research, education, and professional practice. Flexibility is also allowed for staff to tilt their
        workloads towards teaching in one semester, so that they have more intensive research
        time in other semesters.

    •   Mentoring. Since 2014 we have expanded our mentoring scheme so that all Faculty staff
        are assigned a mentor who they meet at least once a semester. Mentoring is shared
        between senior staff members within the Faculty and we monitor the gender balance of
        mentors/mentees. All staff who mentor are required to attend staff development sessions
        on coaching and mentoring. Since 2019 we have embedded mentoring more formally into
        researcher and career development by aligning it with: a) individual research plans, b) the
        appraisal and c) workload planning. Staff can also be appointed an additional mentor (with
        appropriate experience) when applying for research grants and when taking on research
        leadership roles.

    •   Research leave. In 2016, the Faculty launched a QR-funded competitive research leave
        scheme enabling focused work on extended writing and research projects. The unit has
        had six beneficiaries including Chignell, Feigenbaum, Jackson, Pullen, Thorsen and
        Veneti. From 2018, colleagues have applied for a central BU scheme with five beneficiaries
        in the unit including Cownie, Fowler-Watt, Gabriel, Savigny and Scullion. These periods of
        leave were highly productive and have resulted in outputs entered into this REF
        submission.

    •   Access to competitively allocated QR funds for conference attendance.
        Approximately £350,000 was invested in conference attendance during the REF period,
        with unit colleagues presenting 675 conference papers. ECRs are given priority in these
        schemes.

    •   Investment in supporting colleagues to disseminate their research at industry and policy
        stakeholder events. For practice-based researchers, this often includes supporting the
        costs of attending film festivals and running exhibitions, as part of a strategy that
        supports engagement with non-academic stakeholders (see SO3). The outcomes of this
        QR investment (approximately £50,000 over the REF period) are documented in Section
        4.

    •   Specific QR support for leadership of and engagement with national and
        international subject associations / academic networks. Separate to the funds
        allocated to conference attendance, approximately £50,000 was invested in institutional
        membership of academic networks/ associations and in supporting staff to take leadership
        positions within these. Unit staff have held 32 subject leadership roles in this REF period
        (see Section 4).

                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research skills support and development
 Aligned with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, we support staff
 through all stages of the research cycle through a programme of staff development sessions.
 Since 2017, our unit has benefited enormously from the Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Development Framework (RKEDF), which offers a range of opportunities for academics to develop
 their research skills, knowledge, and capabilities. Programmes include writing for publication,
 grant capture, research project management, career planning, international collaborations,
 impact, and public engagement. Sessions offer specific support for ECRs, mid-career academics
 (new to research), mid-career academics (research leaders), and the professoriate. Over 75% of
 UoA34 colleagues attended at least one RKEDF session since 2017 including all of our ECRs.

 Subject specific research skills development is provided through events and initiatives hosted
 by research centres, departments and the Faculty. These include:
     • Over 120 research seminars organised by research centres in this REF period, featuring
        internal and external speakers (see Section 4.2).
     • Over 60 ‘research process seminars’, organised at Faculty level since 2017, which share
        the process of doing research - the methods, approaches, failures and successes in
        conducting research projects - as a means of staff development.
     • The launch in 2020 of the ‘Industry to Academia Seminar Series’, convened by an ECR
        (Iwowo), to support staff transitioning into academic research from previous careers.
     • Over 40 departmental ‘Brown Bag’ sessions, where in-progress manuscripts are shared
        with colleagues for feedback.
     • Weekly writing days - held either off-campus or virtually - where colleagues share writing
        goals and conduct focussed writing.
     • The ‘Publishing Partnership Initiative’, which matches ECRs with more senior colleagues,
        assisting in the development of over 20 research outputs since 2015.

 Output development and seed funding
 In this REF period we have more than doubled our QR investment fund (which has totalled
 approximately £3m over the period), focused on creating clearer lines of funding streams, and
 aligning them with our strategic priorities (Section 1).

 Academics can bid for small amounts of money to support projects early in their development. At
 BU, such schemes are designed to favour ECRs. Between 2014-18, much of this QR budget
 was held at Faculty and Departmental level, but since 2018, more seed funding has moved
 centrally to encourage interdisciplinary collaboration. Below, we outline the seed funding
 schemes that unit colleagues have benefitted from during this REF period:

     • Research Centre funding
 On average over the REF period, each Research Centre has a yearly budget of approximately
 £500 per Centre member which is scaled according to the number of members. As well as
 serving Centre research seminars this budget is also for seed funded projects and research
 environment. In the REF period, Centre funding has supported the fieldwork costs of 65 outputs
 in our submission, and the indexing and production costs for 20 books. Centre funding is also
 used to support innovative, rapid-response and/ or outreach work that could not be funded any
 other way. Examples include the Election Analysis reports (Jackson, Lilleker, Thorsen, Veneti),
 the Suicide Reporting Toolkit (Luce) and Civic Media Hub research resources (Feigenbaum).

     • Student Research Assistants (SRA) scheme
 This programme focuses on facilitating co-creation between academics and students. The unit
 has won over £15,000 of investment, directly supporting 10 of our submitted outputs (beneficiaries
 including Feigenbaum, Gerodimos, Jackson, Luce, McDougall, McQueen, Thorsen, Sreedharan).
 For students, it is an opportunity to undertake research under the guidance of an experienced
 academic who is directly related to their career path and/or academic discipline.

 Focused support for output development is also facilitated by the creation of two leadership
 roles: a UoA Outputs Champion (Berger) and Practice-based Research Champion (Sudbury). In

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018 we invested in a full-time outputs PDRA who supported academics in producing research
 outputs.

 Impact development
 We have expanded our staff development schemes for those aiming to bid externally. These are
 aimed at academic staff from ECR to professoriate levels and cover all aspects of external
 research bidding, from horizon scanning to bid writing, budget, and people management. For
 many of these schemes, submitting an external bid is an expectation of completing the course.
 Institutional schemes include the Grants Academy and since 2019, the Research Council
 Development Scheme (see REF5a for further information). 24 unit members have participated in
 these schemes, underpinning many of our submitted grants. A suite of staff development sessions
 are also delivered on a rolling basis, including: ‘Building partnerships’; ‘Working with industry’ and
 ‘Meeting the industrial challenges’.

 Supporting the development of ECRs (including PDRAs) and their integration into the unit
 research culture remains a priority. All of the above-mentioned competitive internal funds and
 development opportunities privilege ECRs.

 2.3. Equality and diversity

 The unit has a diverse staff profile. Our gender ratio is 49% female, 51% male. Similar proportions
 are reflected in our submitted outputs (45% female, 55% male) and impact case study contributors
 (50% female, 50% male). There are equal proportions of men and women throughout all the
 grades in our unit with the exception of professor, where we have two female professors (both
 appointed in this REF period) and seven male professors. This is an imbalance we will address
 through new appointments and internal promotion, by supporting female associate professors
 (currently 6) towards full professor.

 Our REF preparations have been led by a mixed gender (4F/3M) team consisting of the
 following roles: Jackson and Yates (UoA Leads), Berger (Outputs Champion), Sudbury (Practice-
 based Research Champion), Gerodimos (Impact Champion), Mills and Ozgul/ Weidhase (Impact
 and Outputs PDRAs). All members of this, and our mock REF review panels, have completed the
 Equality and Diversity training as outlined in our Institutional Code of Practice.

 We gained Athena Swan recognition for the Media Production department and are preparing
 applications for the other two departments in FMC covered by this UOA (Humanities and Law and
 Communication and Journalism) in 2021. We have set up a working group as part of the FMC
 Research and Professional Practice Committee to monitor and promote gender equality. The
 Faculty-wide action plan aims to:
    • Provide female research mentors for men and women.
    • Equalise PGR supervision and examination.
    • Improve the representation of women in research leadership positions.
    • Equalise our bidding profile in relation to gender.
    • Balance gender in recruitment and promotion panels.
    • Create an awareness of unconscious bias through mentoring and training.
    • Ensure gender balance in the allocation of course leadership and pastoral roles, which
        often take academics away from research productivity.

 Our institution offers a more generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision than
 required by law and is moving towards a fully covered maternity leave. We have on-site child-care
 provision for ages 3 months-14 years. This is provided by an on-campus nursery and pre-school
 (ages 3 months-5 years, Ofsted Outstanding) which runs throughout the year and our Sport BU
 team (ages 5-14) which runs during the Easter, summer and Christmas holidays. We are able to
 be adaptable and support flexible and part-time working, and 20% of our unit staff have
 elected to use this option to promote a positive work/life balance. We have a transparent process
 to request scheduling of teaching loads congruent with caring responsibilities and extra-university
 requirements.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have mixed gender recruitment review processes for staff and PGRs and have been pro-
 actively including ECRs on panels and in supervisory teams. We interview all those who meet the
 minimum requirements for a role who have declared a registered disability. All colleagues have
 engaged with unconscious bias training.

 Our inclusive approach has created tangible outcomes in recruitment, progression, visible
 role models, and researcher development. Our promotions process now reflects part-time
 working and periods of leave, and detailed advice and support is available for all colleagues
 through university-wide group and one-to-one sessions. Women are further supported by advice
 available through the Women’s Academic Network and female-only promotion workshops. Our
 success in mentoring and personalised support can be evidenced in our academic promotions
 (26F/23M), where 9 of the females to be promoted were on part-time contracts or had taken
 periods of leave. The increase in female progression is creating more balance at senior levels,
 with our unit containing one female Deputy Dean (Van Raalte), 3 female Heads of Department
 (Fowler-Watt, Thompson, Van Raalte), and 5 females who have led research in their department
 (Cosson, Denegri-Knott, Dolea, Feigenbaum, Yates).

 13% of our unit staff are from ethnic minorities. There is a strong critical awareness of inclusion
 and diversity within the unit and issues of social justice run through our research (see Section 2).
 Furthermore:
    • The Black British Academics Network has contributed to the research environment through
        the work of its Director, Deborah Gabriel, holding research events and workshops on
        practices of diversity and equality in HE.
    • We hosted three major international conferences where issues of equality and diversity
        were foregrounded and where all keynote speakers were female (MeCCSA, 2014;
        Consoling Passions, 2018; The Association for Psychosocial Studies, 2018).

 2.4. A sustainable and integrated PGR community

 We have a vibrant PGR research culture based on a commitment to providing PGRs with all the
 necessary skills, knowledge, resources, facilities and high-quality supervision needed for their
 research.

 The number of PGR students in this unit has grown considerably, reflecting the wider growth
 of the unit’s research environment. Doctoral completions have increased by 166% from 19.83 in
 2008-2014, to 52.67 in 2014-2020. During this REF period we also welcomed 9 visiting PGRs to
 the unit from all over the world.

 Our PGRs are funded in diverse ways. Our expertise attracts full-time international students,
 both sponsored and independently funded. BU has continued its investment in fully and matched
 funded PhD studentships (£4.3m since 2014 and £8.6m since 2008) and is committed to funding
 at least 50 such studentships per annum, across all Faculties, until 2025. Since 2014 this UoA has
 benefitted from 2 Vice Chancellor’s fee-waiver scholarships, 2 BU Studentships and 3 matched
 funded PhD, all competitively won.

 We have continued our formal agreement with the University of Utrecht since the last REF,
 whereby we enrol and supervise a number of their staff at HKU Hilversum (8 since 2014) for P/T
 MPhil degrees, mainly in the area of creative media. CEMP runs an established Doctoral
 programme in Creative and Media Education, now recruiting to its ninth cohort.

 PGR Recruitment
 At the recruitment stage, students are guided through the application process via two potential
 supervisors, the Department Head of Research / Deputy Head of Department and Faculty Deputy
 Dean of Research.

 Accepted students join us at three points in the year (January, April, September) and are
 welcomed into the Faculty and the wider university through induction events that include a mix of

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informative material and social activity. These defined entry points also help establish PGR cohort
 and peer support culture.

 Integration into a shared research culture
 PGR students are provided with a desk, PC and shelf space and are co-located in dedicated PGR
 rooms alongside students from across the Faculty, to ensure interdisciplinary synergies are
 fostered. A new dedicated space for PGRs is currently in development within Weymouth House,
 where FMC academic staff and research administrators are also housed.

 Our PGR culture is sustained through a range of events and activities, often in collaboration with
 the Faculty PGR Student Representatives. These include an annual PGR conference, monthly
 PGR-led research seminars and reading groups. They can also attend Research Centre events,
 and social events such as networking meetings, weekly coffee mornings and PGR picnics. There
 is a dedicated PGR space on the VLE where details of events and training can be found.

 Diverse supervisory teams
 Part of our staffing strategy since 2014 was to expand our supervisory capacity. We offer doctoral
 supervision opportunities to qualified staff at all levels, and typically appoint a supervision team
 that is gender balanced and includes staff at either ECR or mid-career level. In 2014, 10 members
 of UoA 36 had completed the accredited Supervisor Training. Today, 53 members of staff in this
 UoA (64%) have supervised PGR students over the REF period, and all are required to attend
 regular supervision training hosted at both Faculty and Doctoral College levels. We have an action
 plan to actively monitor and support the development of women researchers as PGR supervisors.
 Time is given in staff workloads to develop the particular skills and expertise needed to be a good
 supervisor. In addition, time is provided by the Faculty Research Degree Committee (FRDC) for
 Student Representatives to provide feedback about the student experience.

 PGR Administration, milestones and monitoring
 Student progress is monitored by FRDC. A traffic light system triggers action (by the Director of
 Studies, DDRPP, or other as appropriate) when any individual's progress appears to be at risk.
 Students document their activity in relation to set milestones and upload relevant proformas via
 the online interactive administrative system, ResearchPad, which supervisors also use to monitor
 progress and record feedback. There are also annual re-enrolment reviews which are recorded
 on ResearchPad and provide a holistic overview covering teaching duties, conference attendance,
 publication opportunities, and the identification of any doctoral training needed.

 PGR Researcher development
 BU runs an institution-wide Researcher Development Programme, aligned with the Vitae
 framework. It is structured into four domains and 12 sub-domains, encompassing the knowledge,
 skills, personal qualities, and professional standards required to do research, impact and public
 engagement. There are over 100 workshops and online modules as part of this framework, many
 of them repeated multiple times during the year. Full-time doctoral students are expected to attend
 a minimum of 10 workshops, one academic engagement activity and one public engagement
 activity per year of registration.

 All full-time students within FMC are given an allowance of £3000 over the three years (FT), which
 covers fieldwork costs, conference attendance and any specialist research methods training or
 software that is not already offered by BU.

 PGR Work experience and career development
 PGRs are encouraged to jointly write research outputs with academic staff and to develop their
 experience as Research Assistants for staff projects. 22 publications have been co-authored with
 PGRs in this REF period. PGRs also play a key role in the organisation of international
 conferences hosted by the Faculty (see Section 4). Such work provides students with leadership
 experience and organisational skills needed in a post-PhD employability context. Students are
 also given the opportunity to take up to six hours per week of teaching duties as seminar leaders
 and lecturers, and to attend training workshops for this classroom work. In addition, all PGR

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students have access to career advice and the Researcher Development Framework where
 support for CV writing and preparation for postdoctoral employment is provided.

 Support into employment
 The Faculty’s support of and investment in PhD students as the next generation of leading
 scholars/practitioners is demonstrated by our postgraduate employment record. Of the 24 PhD
 graduates in this REF period who completed the graduate employment survey, 19 have full-time
 academic posts with another 5 going into highly skilled roles in the private sector and government.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Unit income and funding support infrastructure

 Research income across the assessment period stands at £901,185 which represents a 77.4%
 increase income from the £508,000 in the 2008 - 2014 period. As REF 4b data shows, while the
 bulk of income comes from Research Councils and the EU, the diversity of funding sources
 provides a robust portfolio and our funding trajectory over the research assessment periods
 displays the sustainability of our approach. We are also developing sustainability through growing
 the number of staff involved in funded projects (as both PI and Co-I), with 30% of submitted unit
 members having been a PI on an externally funded research project during this REF period and
 60% having been a PI on a submitted bid. Since the last REF period we have doubled our number
 of submitted bids (from 98 in 2008-2014 to 200 in 2014-20) to research councils and charitable
 foundations.

 Successful funded projects are grounded in our strategic objectives and are a result of our
 research environment. For example, AHRC Networking Grants related to digital media and
 marginalisation (Rega, £45,803) and international film development (Knudsen, £8110) evidence
 our commitment to developing international research partnerships and collaborations (SO2).
 British Academy grants on digital possessions in the family (Denegri-Knott, £6613), digital
 adaptations in the media (Oliver, £3392) and chronically underperforming media firms (Oliver,
 £7211) evidence our research collaborations with the media and cultural industries (SO3); and
 Marie Curie fellowships related to media and political extremism (Richards, £174,076) and media
 literacy amongst refugees (Berger, £171,301), alongside AHRC Standard Grants on disability and
 the cultural legacy of the Paralympics (Hodges, Jackson, Scullion and Stutterheim, £557,004,
 shared with UoA20) demonstrate our commitment to interdisciplinary research (SO7).

 The development, capture and delivery of prestigious grants is supported by a range of
 infrastructures at university and Faculty level. As described in our institutional research
 environment submission, BU has a centralised Research Development and Support (RDS) office,
 with 13 of their staff devoted to supporting the process of grant capture and delivery. This includes
 two officers specialising in international funding and one in industrial collaboration. FMC has a
 team of two RDS staff who are physically located in the Faculty, and who exclusively support the
 external research income endeavours of Faculty staff.

 This infrastructure works to advance research income generation - from the initial stages of bid
 development to project delivery - in the following ways.

 At the point of bid development there are a number of institutional and Faculty support
 mechanisms available to staff, many introduced in the current REF period. These include:

    •   Access to one-to-one support with specialist bid writing consultants.
    •   Institutional membership of Research Professional.
    •   Off-site writing retreats for grant writing, often focused on a particular funding scheme.
    •   A Faculty mentoring scheme for grant bidding, where staff are allocated a mentor at the
        point of submitting an Intention to Bid form.
    •   Faculty QR funding scheme directed towards funding large bids, e.g. by supporting
        network-building.
    •   A formal peer-review system for improving the quality of research bids.
    •   Regular information visits by prestigious funders.

 At the point of grant capture, we have continued much of the support that was available in 2014
 and strengthened it by the appointment of a full-time post-grant delivery officer employed by RDS
 and located in the Faculty.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, since 2019 a number of institutional incentives for grant capture have been introduced,
 particularly relating to prestigious funders:

    •   An individual incentive scheme, where staff are awarded 5% of recognised income on large
        research awards. This money then becomes their Individual Staff Research Account
        (ISRA), for investing in their research programme. This is tiered according to career stage,
        with the threshold for ECRs standing at £50k income in a financial year, and £100k for
        other staff.
    •   A prestigious funder scheme, that incentivises staff to bid for large grants. Here, BU will
        provide internal funding for either a PGR or PDRA linked to awarded grants (income of
        ≥£350k, or ≥£100k for ECRs) by prestigious sources.
    •   Faculties that exceed their yearly income target receive 10% additional budget for all
        income received above the target. This money is then added to the Faculty QR budget for
        spend on a range of Faculty-level research investments mentioned in this document.

 All of the above incentives have been introduced since 2019. Added to the (existing) individual
 reward for grant capture through pay progression and promotion, these changes are intended to
 embed a sustainable culture of grant bidding through incentives rather than compulsion. During
 the course of this REF period much work has gone into laying the foundations for successful grant
 capture and we are already seeing benefits of this investment for the next REF. Since July 2020
 our UoA has already been awarded UKRI grants worth over £520,000, including: two AHRC-
 funded Covid-19 rapid response projects on solutions-focused constructive journalism
 (AH/V015168/1) (Nguyen, £280,659) and communicating public health messages through data
 comics (AH/V012614/1) (Feigenbaum, £62,021); alongside five AHRC grants on digital arts for
 refugee engagement (AH/V014323/1) (McDougall, £106,455), how innovations in technologies
 can support cultural and creative industries for refugee youth (AH/T005572/1) (Rega and
 McDougall £2596), community theatre for refugee integration (McDougall, £8585), protecting local
 heritage through the use of creative and digital tools (AH/T008466/1) (Rega, £54,520) and girls
 and vocational media education (AH/V005391/1) (Rega, £11,428).

 Alongside increased infrastructure to support prestigious funded grant bidding, we have continued
 our growth of research-driven knowledge exchange and commissioned research, which totals
 30 projects responsible for £149,559 income during this REF period. These activities centre
 around particular areas of strength where we have successfully commercialised our expertise, and
 invested in supporting infrastructure:

 Media literacy and education.
 Particularly through the work of CEMP colleagues, we have earned the reputation as a leading
 hub for media education research and practice. This expertise has been successfully
 commercialised through projects for such clients as Samsung, Creative Skillset and the U.S.
 Embassy. While in the last REF period the activities of CEMP were mostly aligned with CPD, since
 2014 they have moved towards strategic partnerships with key stakeholders in the media literacy
 and education field, focused on commissioned research and grant capture. Administratively,
 CEMP benefits from a part-time administrator and web designer.

 Consumer cultures and behaviour.
 This group of scholars (notably Armon, Denegri-Knott, Jenkins, Miles, Oshima) have a well-
 established record of delivering commissioned research that was captured in our previous
 environment narrative. Since 2014, they have continued this work that serves both local, national
 and global clients (including Exterion, Transport for London and Hearst Media) and is built upon
 research expertise in digital consumption, consumer cultures and branding. Between 2011 and
 2016, this group was externally known as the Creative Enterprise Bureau, and supported by a full-
 time, HEIF funded Business Manager. Since 2016, this role has been merged into the central
 business development support we now have.

 Commissioned research projects are valuable for the capacity-building opportunities they bring,
 but their real value is in the new research that they drive, and the knowledge exchange, industry

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networking, thought leadership and impact opportunities that they create. Almost all of these
 commissioned research projects have led to REF outputs, and some have directly led to impact
 case studies (e.g. Denegri-Knott/ Jenkins; Oliver).

 3.2. Research impact

 Impact staff
 Since 2014, the university has built a team of ten full-time impact and knowledge exchange staff
 in RDS. Our Faculty has a dedicated full time Impact Officer, while we also benefit from a Research
 Communication Manager, a Public Engagement Officer, and an Events Organiser at university
 level. Since 2017 our UoA has two (1.5 FTE) Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRA) who are
 subject specialists, dedicated to impact work (as part of a balanced workload that involves their
 own research time). We have also appointed an academic Impact Champion since 2015
 (Gerodimos), who leads on impact development throughout the UoA.

 Impact funding
 Compared to the last REF period, we have significantly expanded our investment in impact
 through the creation of various competitive funding schemes. From 2015 to 2018 we introduced
 an Impact Acceleration Fund (£12,481 of unit investment for 5 projects), which from 2018
 became the Research Impact Funding Panel (£22,269 of unit investment for 7 projects); these
 schemes specifically support the networking, collaboration and evidence gathering that impact
 case studies require. BU also set up the Charity Impact Funding Panel in 2016 with the aim of
 a) increasing engagement with charities in order to further the impact of BU’s research, b)
 increasing the amount of research undertaken collaboratively with charities and c) encouraging
 future funding bids with charitable partners (£22,000 of unit investment for 7 projects). Since 2019
 we have had a centrally administered Global Challenges Research Fund, supporting impact-
 oriented projects in developing countries (£81,700 of unit investment for 2 projects). In addition to
 these central schemes, staff can also bid for Faculty Impact Funding. Alongside supporting
 prospective impact case studies for current and future REF submissions, these funds have directly
 supported four of our submitted impact case studies.

 With all of this impact infrastructure and support, the aim is to build capacity, ensure excellence
 and embed a culture of impact through all of our research. While this supports our REF
 submission, our strategy is not defined by REF, and so will continue uninterrupted beyond the
 current REF cycle.

 3.3. Research facilities and physical infrastructure

 We have invested heavily in this REF period in creating physical spaces where research
 excellence can thrive. For example, the Faculty building, Weymouth House, underwent a £2.4m
 partial refurbishment in 2018-19, with further work planned from 2020-2022. This includes the
 movement of all Faculty PGR students to the heart of the Faculty building from their currently
 dispersed locations, in order to foster greater integration and collaboration between staff and
 research students. We have also built two new buildings on Talbot Campus: the Student Centre
 (£10.5m, opened 2015) and the Fusion Building (£22m, opened 2016). At the heart of these
 investments is the creation of state-of-the-art meeting, event and social collaboration facilities
 spaces that facilitate innovation and the dissemination of excellent research.

 As a leading centre of practice-based research, we have access to some state-of-the-art media
 production facilities. Many of these are housed in the new (2020) Poole Gateway Building; an
 estates investment of £27m plus £4.8m of equipment. The building includes the latest
 professional-level facilities featuring: two multi-camera TV studios equipped with 4K (Ultra High
 Definition) cameras, a film studio and sound stage, music studios, a cinema, edit suites, sound
 suites, green screen and motion capture studios. In addition, our UoA has invested significantly
 (estimated over £2.4m since REF 2014) to maintain and update our media production hardware
 and software in Weymouth House, providing high-quality technical facilities that support research.
 These include: a mid-life upgrade to the Weymouth House TV Studio infrastructure (£50,000), the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 purchase of an Alexa kit (£166,000) which secured a second lifetime loan kit from Arri, a Tricaster
 system (£35,000), substantial investment in photographic equipment (£102,000) and lighting and
 grip kit (£130,000). These investments have directly supported practice-based research in sound
 (Karathanasopoulou, Perry) and film (Fair, Gee, Hearing, Sudbury) that are presented in our
 outputs profile.

 Library resources supporting the Faculty are found in The Sir Michael Cobham Library (TSMCL).
 Researchers in TSMCL benefit from a designated Postgraduate Zone with both silent and group
 study spaces. Collaborative working is supported with 17 ‘Technobooths’.

 The library annual budget for resources relating to our unit is £56k for books and standing orders
 and £56k for journals. The annual budget for electronic resources is £170k. We have in the region
 of 32,500 print books relevant to this area, and nearly 400,000 e-books, over 3,600 DVDs and
 55,000 e-journals. Audio visual resources are available via our subscriptions to resources such as
 Box of Broadcasts (BoB) and Kanopy, and we have access to thousands of historic and
 contemporary newspapers and magazines via our subscriptions to Gale Reference Complete,
 PressReader, Lexis Library and the digital archives for The Times, Guardian and Independent -
 all acquired since 2014.

 We have one of the largest university-based media history archives in the world, which include the
 archives of the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA); the precursor of OFCOM. Researchers
 visit this archive from across the UK and overseas.

 Since 2014 we have expanded our suite of electronic resources for research to include site
 licenses for: SciVal, Stata (data science software), NVivo, MaxQDA (qualitative data analysis
 software), JISC Online Surveys, alongside our existing licenses for Endnote, Web of Science,
 Factiva (news database) and Creative Club (database of adverts).

 Together, our investment in these facilities (both physical and electronic) represents a long-term
 commitment to facilitating excellence in research.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Academic and subject leadership

 Journal editing: Three journals are edited from the Faculty: MERJ - the Media Education
 Research Journal (Readman), Journal of Media Practice and Education (formerly Journal of Media
 Practice [2010-2017]) (McDougall) and the Journal of Promotional Communications (an outlet for
 student work which embodies our commitment to closer ties between research and education)
 (Denegri-Knott).

 In addition, in this REF period we (co)edited seven journals: Media, War and Conflict (Richards,
 founding co-editor); European Political Science (Savigny); British Politics (Savigny, Associate
 Editor); Journal of Psychosocial Studies (Yates); Free Associations (Yates); Journal of Marketing
 Management (Miles, Associate Editor); Interactions: Studies in Communication & Culture (Scifo);
 Journal of English Literature and Cultural Studies (Stutterheim, Associate Editor) and
 Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society (Yates).

 Editorial boards service: Unit members hold editorial duties for 33 journals and referee for over
 60. These responsibilities span the UoA including marketing communications, public relations,
 media education, media practice, journalism, adaptation, media history and political
 communication.

 Refereeing for funding bodies: Seven UoA colleagues served on the peer review colleges for
 the AHRC (Berger [panel chair and Mentor], Chignell, Jackson, Lilleker, Richards, Stutterheim,
 Thorsen), UKRI (Berger), and have reviewed funding proposals for over 20 national and
 international funding bodies including the European Commission, ESRC, British Academy,
 NORFACE, Leverhulme, Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research, European Science
 Foundation, British Council, Carnegie Trust and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. Two
 colleagues are also expert reviewers for the Newton Prize (Nguyen, Stutterheim).

 Book series editing: Five staff have been commissioned by publishers to edit book series. These
 support both the sustainability of existing fields, such as the Palgrave series on Political
 Communication and Campaigning (Lilleker) and Routledge New Directions in PR &
 Communication Research (Moloney); but also the vitality of new fields such as the Routledge
 series on Psychoanalysis and Popular Culture (Yates), Anthem Studies in Emerging Media and
 Society (Nguyen) and Routledge series on History of Public Relations (Theofilou).

 Professional/subject associations roles: In this REF period, 21 unit staff have held 32
 leadership roles in scholarly associations. These include board memberships of MeCCSA
 (Thorsen), ECREA (Surowiec), ICA (Dolea), International Screenwriting Research Network
 (Stutterheim), Association of Psychosocial Studies (Yates), Children’s Media Foundation
 (Woodfall), International Development Informatics Association (Rega), World Journalism
 Education Council (Luce), International Association of Suicide Prevention (Luce), Oral History
 Society (Cosson), Political Studies Association (Savigny) and the European Media Management
 Association (Oliver). Over £50,000 of QR investment has supported this work (see Section 2.2).

 Conference organising: Our unit organised 24 annual academic conferences in the REF period,
 hosting leading scholars from all over the world. These include the annual conferences of scholarly
 associations such as: MeCCSA (2014), the Association for Psychosocial Studies (2018), the
 Academy of Marketing (2014), the Oral History Society (2020) and the annual Consoling Passions
 conference (2018). In addition, we have sustained the annual conferences of networks set up by
 BU colleagues in the last REF period: the International History of PR Conference (IHPRC) and the
 Media Education Summit. Both of these networks have grown since 2014 and deepened their
 collaborations with scholars from across the globe, with the Media Education Summit held in
 Prague (2014), Boston, MA (2015), Rome (2016), Segovia (2017), Hong Kong (2018), Leeds
 (2020) and the IHPRC held abroad for the first time in 2020 (Boston, MA).


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further to this, we have organised over 60 one-off academic conferences, symposia and
 workshops at BU and abroad, often crossing disciplinary boundaries and related to the interests
 and expertise of our unit. These include preconferences on: Election Reporting (ICA, Prague,
 2018), the EU Referendum (IAMCR, Leicester, 2016) and Sports Communication and Social
 Justice (ICA, Washington, 2019); expert workshops on News Flows in the Digital Age (BU, 2019),
 Shame and Violence (Berlin, 2019); symposia on Media and Midwifery (BU, 2016), Fake News
 (BU, 2018), Global Exploitation Cinemas (Lincoln, 2016), Geriaction Cinema, the Ageing Action
 Star (BU, 2018) and conferences on Marketing (as) Rhetoric (BU, 2014), the Play of Political
 Power (BU and the Freud Museum, 2017).

 Finally, unit colleagues organised 14 conferences as part of AHRC funded networking projects,
 which developed sustained collaborations with scholars and other stakeholders. This includes: 5
 through the E-Voices, Redressing Marginality Network (Lilleker, Rega), 5 through the Branded
 Content Research Network (MacRury) and 4 through the Media and the Inner World Network
 (Yates).

 4.2. Collaborations and partnerships

 Visiting speakers and fellows: The unit maintains close connections with the field through
 regular research seminars run through research centres (featuring external speakers) and a
 visiting fellows scheme. Since 2014, we have welcomed approximately 80 external speakers for
 guest talks, including: Prof Jay Blumler (Leeds), Prof Ann Phoenix (University of London), Prof
 Lynne Segal (Birkbeck), Prof Sally Alexander (Goldsmiths), Dr Gail Lewis (Birkbeck), Dr Jeffrey
 Murer (St Andrews), Prof Matt Hills (Huddersfield), Prof Scott Wright (Melbourne), Prof Stephen
 Reese (Texas), Prof Martin Barker (Aberystwyth), Germaine Greer (Warwick), Prof James Martin
 (Goldsmiths), Prof Christ'l De Landtsheer (University of Antwerp) and Prof Peter Scott (IoE).

 During the REF period we have welcomed 52 Visiting Fellows and Professors to the Faculty,
 including Bob Ainsworth MP, Dr Craig Batty (RMIT), Dr Marie Cronqvist (U of Edinburgh), Sandra
 Laville (the Guardian), Prof Jonathan Shaw (Coventry University), Ivan Sigal (Global Voices), Dr
 Paul Mihilidis (Emerson College), Prof Susan Orr (UAL), Vin Ray (BBC), Gavin Rees (Dart Center
 for Journalism and Trauma) and Prof Brett Kahr (British Psychoanalytic Council). They are
 carefully selected to nurture long-term reciprocal relationships that extend and enhance the
 research environment. These formalised collaborations have led, for example, to our CEMP
 visiting scholars running a youth conference as part of our international summit for five years
 running, joining the scientific committee for that event and presenting keynotes, co-bidding for
 external funding, collaborating on funded projects, co-authoring articles, books and chapters.

 In turn, 11 of our staff (Chignell, Esfahani, Jebril, Oliver, Gerodimos, Lilleker, Oshima, Rega,
 Skoog, Surowiec, Theofilou) have spent time at other universities as part of Fellowship or other
 mobility schemes. For example, John Oliver was awarded a Visiting Fellowship at Oxford
 University in 2016, funded by an internal Santander Staff Mobility and Networking grant, which
 involved working with academics at the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism.

 The international research collaborations of our unit encompass many international partners
 across multiple disciplines. Diagram 1 overleaf illustrates some of the larger collaborations we
 have participated in.

 Many of these empirical projects have led to academic publications presented in our outputs
 profile. These collaborations form part of our determination to develop sustainable links with
 international partners that last beyond the duration of individual projects and can be utilised in
 large funding bids and other projects. They are also supporting the vitality of the subject by
 advancing comparative research designs that extend the explanatory power of research findings.
 Given their strategic importance, many of these projects have been supported by QR funding.




                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Diagram 1. Collaborative research projects




                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3. Peer esteem/ recognition of contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Keynote addresses: Unit members have given over 40 keynote presentations at international
 and major national events since 2014. These include keynotes at the annual conferences of the
 ECREA Political Communication Section (Lilleker); the International Association of Political and
 Non-Profit Marketing (Lilleker); MeCCSA (Gabriel) and the Association for Psychosocial Studies
 (Yates). Unit members have given over 200 invited talks at conferences, workshops, symposia
 and university research seminars in the UK and overseas.

 Prizes and awards: Unit members have won 19 awards from scholarly associations and
 journals in this REF period and have been nominated for another 20. These include: paper
 awards by the ICA (Jackson, Nguyen), European Public Relations Education and Research
 Association (Dolea), Political Studies Association (Gerodimos), Journal of Marketing Management
 (Denegri-Knott), Learning Media and Technology (journal) (McDougall), Digital Journalism
 (journal) (Thorsen and Jackson), Academy of Marketing (Oshima), Association of American
 Geographers (Feigenbaum); and book awards by the British Association of Film, Television and
 Screen Studies (Fisher, Proctor) and UK Literacy Association (McDougall).
 In addition our practice-based research outputs have won 16 industry awards and been
 nominated for another 46. These include: the prestigious AHRC Research in Film Award (Sudbury,
 with Brylla and Gerodimos shortlisted), Royal Television Society (Sudbury), European
 Independent Film Award (Gerodimos), Hollywood Verge Film Awards (Gerodimos), Madrid
 International Film Festival (Knudsen), Africa Movie Academy Awards (Iwowo), Starburst
 International Film Festival (Gee), Queen Palm International Film Festival (Gee), BBC Radio 4 Pick
 of the Year (Perry), Raw Science Film Festival (Sudbury) and an Oscar nomination for Best
 Documentary Feature (Sudbury).
 The practical value of our commissioned research projects are evidenced through winning 7
 industry awards since 2014, including the prestigious Marketing Research Society Media
 Research Award and the Media Research Group Best Research Initiative Award (both in 2016)
 - both for the Transforming the Commuter Journey project (Armon, Denegri-Knott and Jenkins)
 and the Overall Winner at the FIPP Insight Awards in 2019 for Re-theorising consumer ‘attention’
 (Armon, Denegri-Knott, Jenkins and Oshima).

 Roles on boards /advisory committees and industry/public bodies: Beyond the academy, our
 unit is making a significant contribution to professional and public bodies. For example: UoA
 members are Founding Scholars of the British Psychoanalytic Council (Richards, Yates);
 Research Associates of the Freud Museum (Yates); Research Fellows for the Royal Society of
 Arts (Yates); Steering Group Members of the National Suicide Prevention Alliance (Luce); Board
 members of the European Documentary Network (Stutterheim), and Institute for Research on
 Development Communication, Vietnam (Nguyen); Nomination committee/ judges for the Ivor
 Novello Awards (Perry), BBC Audio Drama Awards (Perry), German Film Academy Awards
 (Stutterheim), International Association for Business Communicators Gold Quill Awards (Le
 Roux), and the Journalism for Sustainable Development Award, Vietnam (Nguyen); Trustees of
 the Institute for War and Peace Reporting (Jukes) and Dart Centre for Journalism & Trauma
 (Jukes). Unit colleagues are also members of a further 44 professional bodies.

 4.4. Impact, external engagement and policy work

 Building relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences beyond the academy
 is essential in our aim to develop a unit research agenda that is centred on the needs of research
 users.

 Public engagement events organised: We have organised over 150 public engagement events
 since 2014, to engage diverse audiences with our research. These range from regular ‘Cafe
 Scientifique’ talks in local cafes, to book launches, school talks, public lectures, panel debates and
 festival talks all over the world. We have also organised 20 public screenings and 14 exhibitions
 of our practice-based research, again in locations across the globe.


                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our work has also been prominent as part of externally curated public exhibitions, festivals
 and expos. For instance, Anna Feigenbaum’s RIOTID publication - to train human rights monitors
 and field medics in how they record and monitor the use of riot control weapons - was exhibited
 as part of the Cruel Designs Exhibition at Banksy’s Dismaland (2015) and the Disobedient Objects
 show at the Victoria & Albert Museum (2015). In 2020, Sue Sudbury’s Indian Space Dreams film
 was selected for the Goethe Institut’s Science Film Festival and screened to over 200,000 school
 children throughout Kenya, Iran, Bangladesh, Pakistan and India. Samantha Iwowo’s film,
 Oloiburi, premiered at the Cannes Film Festival in 2015. Our research films have been screened
 at over 55 international film festivals.

 Media appearances: staff have made over 500 media appearances since 2014 across local,
 national and international media. These include regular expert interview appearances such as
 those around election events: (e.g. Gerodimos, Jackson, Lilleker), public protests (Feigenbaum)
 or film launches (Berger), cultural commentary for national media (e.g. Gerodimos, Proctor,
 Richards, Yates), Conversation pieces (e.g. Jackson, Lilleker, Richards, Veneti), to features on
 BBC Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed (Feigenbaum) and Woman’s Hour (Murphy, Yates). Practice-
 based research outputs have been broadcast for ABC Radio National (Perry), BBC Radio 3, Radio
 4 (Perry, both commissioned), ITV (Sudbury), National Geographic (Sudbury), Apple TV+ and
 Amazon Prime (Knudsen, Iwowo) in the REF period, reaching audiences in the millions.

 4.4.1. Stakeholder engagement
 We have developed a number of sustained and impactful partnerships with key research
 stakeholders that have taken years to cultivate and (where not externally funded) are supported
 by ongoing QR investment. These span the commercial, policy and non-profit sectors.

 Researchers in the field of promotional cultures have developed fruitful partnerships with the
 commercial sector. The Digital Possessions in The Family Project (Denegri-Knott and Jenkins,
 funded by the British Academy/Leverhulme) involves collaboration with Microsoft Research,
 thereby reflecting the unit’s strategy for research that combines scholarly excellence with industry-
 focused application. Partnerships between BU, Exterion Media and COG Research have helped
 Exterion win a £1.2bn contract from TfL to manage its entire advertising estate including the Tube,
 the London Overground and Crossrail for the first time; and formed the basis for an impact case
 study (Denegri-Knott and Jenkins).

 In the policy sector, CEMP colleagues have worked on research-informed policy reports for and
 with the European Commission (Teaching Media Literacy in Europe), the United Nations
 Development Programme (Media Action Plans), Samsung (Digital Families: From Digital Literacy
 to Capability), NATO (Deterrence), Dept for Culture, Media and Sport (Online Safety) and the
 European Audiovisual Observatory. In addition, unit members have given expert advice to the
 UK Parliament Knowledge Exchange Dept in race and education (Gabriel); Ofcom’s expert group
 to measure the BBC’s performance (Oliver); the Welsh Assembly Government on suicide
 prevention (Luce); Digital Competition Expert Panel on social media regulation (Yesiloglu) and the
 Council of Europe’s Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights on the use of teargas by police
 against peaceful demonstrators (Feigenbaum).

 Finally, we have sustained collaborations with the non-profit sector and NGOs that have
 facilitated impact pathways for three of our impact case studies (Feigenbaum, Luce, Sreedharan/
 Thorsen) including: the Centre for Investigative Journalism, Amnesty International, Omega
 Research Foundation, Network of Women in Media (India), National Suicide Prevention Alliance,
 Samaritans, Public Health England and the Big Issue Foundation. For example, over the past five
 years Ann Luce has worked with stakeholders on the policy and practice of suicide prevention as
 it relates to the media. This includes developing best practice guidelines in news coverage of
 suicide, and consulting for various suicide prevention bodies; work that forms the basis of an
 impact case study. In collaboration with Reuters and the Dart Centre for Journalism and Trauma,
 Stephen Jukes and Karen Fowler-Watt have developed an e-learning platform (translated into five
 languages) for the effective safety training of nearly 600 Reuters journalists worldwide.


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Similarly, since the 2015 earthquake in Nepal, unit staff (Sreedharan, Thorsen) have been working
 with UNESCO, the Federation of Nepali Journalists, Nepal Press Institute and Working Women
 Journalists and alongside four universities in Nepal, to assess the levels of news media
 preparedness and develop good practices and culturally specific recommendations to strengthen
 post-disaster journalism. The outcomes have been over 100 news articles on the aftermath of the
 disaster, a bilingual stakeholder report in 2018 on the lessons of post-disaster journalism and a
 2019 bilingual book with UNESCO in Kathmandu.

 Stakeholder events: throughout this REF period we have expanded our connections and
 collaborations with key stakeholders through regular events, often co-organised with external
 organisations (approximately 75 since 2014). Partners in such events include: the Hackett Group
 (global consultancy firm), the US Embassy in London, BBC, Thomson Reuters, Google, Buzzfeed
 and Demos. Through one GCRF-funded project alone, we hosted 14 events in November-
 December 2018, in New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, and Kottayam as part of the
 Media Action Against Rape (MAAR) project in partnership with UNESCO (Sreedharan, Thorsen).
 These included panel discussions, film screenings, workshops and street and forum theatre
 performances.

 Policy work: in addition to the 30+ research-informed policy reports our unit has produced in the
 REF period, we have also regularly responded to government consultations and requests for
 evidence (supported by staff development in policy work). These include: submitting evidence to
 the DCMS 'Fake news' inquiry (Alexander, Lilleker, Jackson, Elsheikh, Richards, Thorsen); BBC
 Charter Review Consultation (Jackson, Thorsen) and Inquiry into Reality TV (Luce); Women and
 Equalities Committee Inquiry on the Mental Health of Men and Boys (Luce); the Speaker’s
 Commission on Digital Democracy (Jackson, Lilleker) and the House of Lords Select Committee
 on Citizenship and Civic Engagement (Lilleker).




                                                                                          Page 24
