Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: A5 (Biological Sciences)

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 STRATEGY

 1.1 Context and Background
 UoA5 at the University of Nottingham (UoN) is composed almost entirely of members of the
 School of Life Sciences (SoLS), a vibrant multi-disciplinary School in the Faculty of Medicine
 and Health Sciences (FMHS), with over 400 members of staff and more than 330 PGR students.
 The majority of Category A research staff in SoLS are returned in UoA5 (Biological Sciences, Main
 Panel A), with a minority having a strategic fit with other units.




 1.1.1 UoA5: Review of the Research Strategy in REF2014
 The UoA5 research strategy presented in REF2014 set out to maximise collaborative research,
 focused on both fundamental and applied research questions at a local (University), national and
 international level. This UoA5 strategy was further developed following the 2016 SoLS Review of
 Research by the UoN chaired by Prof John Atherton, Pro-Vice Chancellor for FMHS, and advised
 by three external leaders in Biomedical Science: Prof Susan Brain (KCL), Prof Nick Hastie FRS
 (Edinburgh) and Prof Deborah Smith OBE (York). Over 60 practical recommendations provided a
 framework for the research strategy for SoLS and UoA5, with implementation led by Prof Victoria
 Chapman. Key steps were to refresh leadership and research focus; to assess research
 performance focussing on existing areas of success; to ensure long-term planning to balance
 research and teaching; and to initiate succession planning for longer-term future research and
 impact success. Strategic priorities were identified and positive action directly relevant to UoA5
 followed:
    •   External recruitment of a new Head of SoLS with a leading research profile, with the
        appointment in February 2018 of Prof James McInerney, formerly Director of the Evolution,
        Systems and Genomes Research Domain at the University of Manchester.
    •   Structural reorganisation: a simplified research organisational structure with three core
        Research Divisions was created to enhance cohesion within and between UoA5 research
        and UoN Centres (Future Food and Green Chemicals Beacons, SBRC, COMPARE, BDI
        – details below).
    •   Investment in a new ambitious academic staffing strategy (details in Section 2, People). A
        total of 21 R&T academic posts (~20% of UoA5 headcount) including four tenure-track

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        fellowship appointments (below) were recruited post-2016 in key areas relevant to UoA5,
        underpinned by Faculty budgetary agreement and future planned staff departures.
    •   Investment in current academic research success through the buy-out of teaching time via
        a UoN Research Strategy investment. The Research-Enabling Flexible Teaching Support
        programme (funded by the University Research Committee in partnership with the FHMS)
        supported five 2-year teaching fellows in core areas underpinning UoA5 research.
    •   Introduction of the Wellcome Prime Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) scheme at
        UoN to support the most productive and innovative members of academic staff at earlier
        stages of their careers, who UoA5 will develop to become our future generation of research
        leaders (Section 2.1).
    •   Implementation of a proactive campaign to attract Nottingham Research Fellows (NRFs)
        and Anne McLaren Fellows (AMFs, for outstanding female scholars in STEM), as part of a
        sustainability strategy to recruit high-profile tenure-track early career external academics
        with a strong fit to UoA5 (Section 2.1).
    •   Investment in a dedicated Research Development Team at School/UoA5 level:
        Appointment of a Research and Business Development Manager (RBDM), Impact
        Development Coordinator and Research Support Officer, collectively to support external
        funding applications and development of impact relevant to UoA5. A Faculty RBDM,
        Faculty Research Strategy Manager and Faculty Impact Officers were also appointed to
        provide joined-up support to all UoAs across the Faculty.

 1.1.2 Embedding UoA5 Research Strategy Within the Wider University Context
 The current FMHS governance structure includes a pro-active role for the Associate Pro-Vice
 Chancellor (APVC) for Research, supporting the SoLS Directors of Research to develop and
 monitor the UoA5 research strategy. UoA5 strategy is aligned to FMHS and UoN research
 strategies, maximising opportunities for investment arising from University-wide research
 initiatives. Examples of UoN research strategy actively engaged by UoA5 include: the UoN grant
 academies for BBSRC, NERC and Wellcome applications; investment in 100 tenure-track
 Research Fellows (NRF and AMF) to establish the next generation of research leaders; and the
 creation of the Beacons of Excellence. The diagram summarises how UoA5 research integrates
 into the broader UoN research strategy and structures:
                                                    A total of six UoN interdisciplinary Research
                                                    Beacons of Excellence [ILS2.1 = cross-
                                                    reference to Institution-Level Environment
                                                    Statement, Section 2.1] each address UN
                                                    Sustainable Development Goals, and act as
                                                    foci for innovative cooperation between
                                                    internationally-competitive    UoN      research
                                                    groups. UoA5 members contribute leadership
                                                    to both the Future Food Beacon (Yant,
                                                    Loose) and Green Chemicals Beacon
                                                    (Minton), and play active roles in the Precision
                                                    Imaging for Medicine Beacon (Irving,
                                                    Serres).

                                                    The University also defined five Global
                                                    Research         Themes     (GRTs)       with
                                                    interdisciplinary Research Priority Areas
                                                    (RPAs) providing a vehicle for cross-School
 and Faculty investment at the grass-roots level, pump-priming new areas of research and building
 future research capabilities. As selected examples of UoA5 environment enabling research

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developments, the Antimicrobial Resistance RPA catalysed the recruitment of new UoA5
 academic Griffin, (2017, vaccine research), the establishment of a £1.2M NBIC (National
 Biofilms Innovation Centre) unit branch at UoN (led by Camara, Section 1.2.2 below), and the
 award of a £1.18M Wellcome Antimicrobials and Antimicrobial Resistance DTP PhD programme
 (2017, led by Williams, Section 2.3.2). The Industrial Biotechnology RPA (led by Minton) was
 the background to the recruitment of Heap as Associate Professor (2019) and Blount as
 Nottingham Research Fellow (2020).

 In 2019, 15 UoN broad-based Interdisciplinary Research Clusters (IRCs) evolved from the RPA
 structure [ILS2.1(a)]. Life in Changing Environments is led by UoA5 (Avery). UoA5 contributes
 to Improving Health in Contemporary Society, Water Works and Advanced Molecular
 Materials. Engagement with the RPAs and now the IRCs is an important mechanism for UoA5
 researchers to build new discipline-spanning collaborations across UoN. In the REF period UoA5
 was awarded a total of £424K through the RPAs for interdisciplinary research; in addition, the
 University-wide UNICAS scheme, pump-priming interdisciplinary equipment for academics and
 ECRs, funded 8 projects across UoA5, mainly to ECRs. The UNICAS Interdisciplinary Research
 sandpit events funded basic and translational research in diverse areas, ranging over
 microbiology, wound healing, virology, zoology, evolutionary biology and ecology.

 1.1.3 UoA5: Innovation and Knowledge Exchange
 Industry engagement and collaborative interdisciplinary research is embedded across SoLS
 research Divisions and many of the UoA5 research groups, both with UK-based and
 EU/International businesses, including Unilever, DuPont, Oxford Nanopore Technologies,
 Allergan, GSK, Novartis, Promega, Pfizer and Gilead Sciences. External funding for translational
 and applied research totals over £5M for the period (Section 3), with a broad portfolio including
 from RCUK, charities, EU and other funders as well as direct research funding from companies.
 Innovate UK funding supports research in partnership with SMEs/industry, including projects with
 Chain Biotechnology Ltd, DeepBranch Biotechnology Ltd and Green Biologics Ltd (Minton), Ozo
 Innovations Ltd (Avery), and Unilever (Williams).

 UoA5 holds a portfolio of 11 patented technologies and current research on patents/patentable
 projects will lead to future impact including further spin-out companies and licensing opportunities,
 managed through the impact pipeline by our Research Development Team. Current patents
 include those derived from research into small-molecule therapies for myotonic dystrophy (Brook),
 therapeutic and other applications of novel materials based on spider silk (Goodacre), novel
 combinations of agents for targeting microbial pathogens (Avery, [REF2021ICS (=REF2021
 Impact Case Study)]), bacterial expression systems and Clostridia-directed enzyme prodrug
 therapy (Minton, Heap), controlling bacterial attachment to surfaces (Williams, [REF2021ICS]),
 biomarkers for Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Camara, Williams), bioinstructional materials
 (Ghaemmaghami), and therapeutic applications of targeting mannose receptors (Martinez-
 Pomares).

 Hill launched CellAura Technologies in 2008 built around the use of fluorescent ligands as
 alternatives for traditional radioligand binding assays. Recent advances include new assays
 combining fluorescent ligands (for G-protein coupled receptors, GPCRs and receptor tyrosine
 kinases, RTKs) developed in Nottingham with the NanoLuc technology in partnership with
 Promega [REF2021ICS]. Highly sensitive and specific nanoBRET assays have been devised for
 binding to cell surface receptors. Bates and Donaldson spun-out Exonate Ltd in 2013 focused on

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exploiting VEGF as a drug target for the treatment of wet macular degeneration. Total funding to
 the company amounts to £9.1M and Exonate holds two patents on novel VEGF-based agents. A
 collaboration between Exonate and Janssen Pharmaceutical to develop new eyedrops for retinal
 vascular disorders based on their technology was announced in early 2020 [REF2021ICS].

 Dyer’s research on fungal mating genes resulted in the development of novel strains for the blue
 cheese industry and the recent formation of a spin-out, Myconeos, producing products to be sold
 to the dairy industry. Charlton holds a joint appointment between UoN and OMASS Therapeutics
 (as Vice President Pharmacology) which uses high-resolution native mass spectrometry to drive
 drug discovery. Charlton and Holliday hold joint appointments between UoN and Excellerate
 BioScience (founded by Charlton) - a contract research organisation that specialises in developing
 cellular and molecular pharmacology services to the pharmaceutical industry. These appointments
 allow rapid transfer of knowledge and expertise, and commercial opportunities between academic
 and industrial environments. UoA5 also hosts a Royal Society Entrepreneur-in-Residence (Chris
 Finnis, Research Director of Phenotypeca), based in the SBRC (Section 1.2.3 below), to improve
 dialogue between academia and industry and support newly-founded companies.

 1.1.4 UoA5: Achieving Impact
 Over the REF period the application of UoA5 research has been centre stage, with a culture-shift
 from retrospective and ad hoc identification towards prospective planning and continuous
 sustainable development of research impact. This was achieved with an expanded Research
 Development Team (Section 1.1.1), with a dedicated Impact Acceleration Coordinator, and
 internal-administered funding to develop impact and translation of research including awards from
 the MRC Proximity to Discovery and Confidence in Concept, the BBSRC Impact Accelerator and
 the Midlands Innovation Commercialisation of Research Accelerator schemes (over £650K to
 UoA5). Alongside a strong pipeline of projects developing future impact, the seven selected
 REF2021 Impact Case Studies evidence the approaches to supporting and developing impact,
 including both examples arising from close ties to industry (Camstent, Lucozade Ribena Suntory,
 Promega) and clinical impact developed in response to research findings (Hepatitis C, meningitis,
 eye disease, lung cancer). In line with UoN Global Research Themes, all of our case studies have
 a direct or indirect impact on human health and wellbeing.



 1.2 Organisational Structure of Research in UoA5 – the SoLS Research Divisions
 The Directors of Research and Research Committee of SoLS have responsibility for developing
 the UoA5 research and impact vision and creating effective mechanisms for its implementation
 and sustainability. Cross-Divisional research collaborations and networking are facilitated by
 weekly external and internal School seminar programmes which include a social programme, and
 inclusive School-wide communication of all research events on a variety of platforms.

 From January 2014-December 2016, UoA5 members were mapped to one of eight SoLS
 Research Themes, each with 7-20 academic members and individual leads (Genetics Ecology
 and Evolution; Cell Biology, Development & Biochemistry; Microbes; Neuroscience;
 Musculoskeletal; Cell Signalling and Pharmacology; Biological Engineering; Immunology). To
 maximise collaborative interdisciplinary research (including fully realising the opportunities from
 existing flagship research centres and groups, as highlighted in the REF2014 strategy), and
 following support from the 2016 SoLS Review, in 2017 UoA5 research was consolidated into three
 larger Research Divisions: Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience (PPN); Infection,

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Immunity and Microbes (IIM); and Cells, Organisms and Molecular Genetics (COMGEN). These
 Research Divisions created critical mass and are the primary level at which management,
 communication, mentoring and support for the UoA5 research strategy and impact are developed
 and implemented. Nevertheless, cross-Division collaborations are also important aspects of our
 research effort and are well exemplified by recent responses to the Covid pandemic (Section
 4.1.3).

 1.2.1 Physiology, Pharmacology and Neuroscience (PPN) Research Division contributes
 33 research leaders and independent fellows to UoA5. Research disciplines range from
 fundamental studies of single molecules and molecular signalling mechanisms to whole-organism
 studies with a focus on cardiovascular disease, neurodegeneration, CNS disorders and pain.

 UoA5 research in PPN has critical mass in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) pharmacology and
 chronic pain mechanisms, whilst sustaining strength in cardiovascular pharmacology, modelling
 of CNS function, and human disease. Inflammatory signalling is a common theme across all areas.
 PPN includes two competitively-funded flagship Centres (Centre of Membrane Proteins and
 Receptors (COMPARE) and the Pain Centre Versus Arthritis) that are focal points for world-
 leading research with synergy and co-membership across both Centres. As further examples of
 environment enabling research developments, these Centres have attracted competitive funding
 (2019, £4.45M Wellcome DTC led by Woolard (COMPARE) and Donaldson (Pain Centre Versus
 Arthritis)), as well as the recruitment of Prof Meri Canals from Monash (molecular pharmacology
 of opioid receptors, recently awarded a competitive Professorship from the Academy of Medical
 Sciences (2019, £493K)), Dr Rob Lane from Monash and Prof Dmitry Veprintsev from Paul
 Scherrer Institute (molecular pharmacology and biophysics).

 COMPARE: the UoN/University of Birmingham £10M Signature Institute (led at Nottingham by Hill
 and Woolard), was created in 2016 through a competitive process providing investment in facilities
 and people to study GPCRs and RTKs and develop new approaches to investigate these in health
 and disease. The decision to support COMPARE was facilitated by the critical mass of GPCR
 researchers in UoA5, sustained MRC funding, strong links with industry (Heptares, Promega,
 GSK, AstraZeneca), novel fluorescent ligand and BRET technology development [REF2021ICS],
 and exceptional cell surface receptor imaging research infrastructure. Development is guided by
 an international advisory board of academia and industry leaders, reflecting COMPARE as a
 global hub for molecular pharmacology research. Imaging capabilities, STED-FCS and camera-
 based FCS technologies have been expanded through a British Heart Foundation infrastructure
 grant (2018, £348K).

 Pain Centre Versus Arthritis led by Chapman is the UK Centre of Excellence for osteoarthritis
 pain research with external funding of £4.5M (2010-2021). It was established to provide a research
 environment to promote translation between preclinical and clinical pain research in the SoLS and
 School of Medicine, with a focus on arthritis pain (five-year block funding of £2.5M with £900K for
 preclinical studies (UoA5)). The Pain Centre was awarded a further £2M competitive renewal in
 2015 (£823K for UoA5 for the period up to Dec 2021). Additional project grant funding has
 supported complementary research projects (£1.8M funding from BBSRC, MRC, Versus Arthritis
 and industry). PPN also hosts a Paget’s Association Centre of Excellence (led by Layfield,
 UoA5) with Prinsloo (Nottingham City Hospital), part of a UK network that promotes translational
 research collaborations into this common skeletal disorder. In vivo experimental research
 expertise remains a critical skill. UoA5 hosts a critical mass of researchers in this area, leading on

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research including in vivo single and multi-unit electrophysiological recordings of sensory and
 motor function and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) regional brain activity and
 functional connectivity (Chapman, Donaldson; Versus Arthritis, BBSRC and Wellcome funding)
 plus vascular function and metabolism (Serres). Pre-clinical fMRI is substantially enhanced by
 UoA5 member’s access to world-leading facilities in the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre and
 the UoN Precision Imaging Beacon. In vivo approaches make a fundamental contribution to our
 cardiovascular research, including real time monitoring of haemodynamics (Woolard , BHF and
 Wellcome awards). As part of a commitment to delivering 3Rs impact, UoA5 hosts the Fund for
 Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments (FRAME) Laboratories (£607K, 2018, led by
 Bennett), with a goal of development of innovative 3D mammalian culture methods and
 microfluidics approaches (Dajas-Bailador, Bellamy).

 1.2.2 The Infections, Immunity and Microbes (IIM) Research Division contributes 31
 research leaders and independent fellows to UoA5. Research activities in IIM cover a spectrum of
 infection and inflammation research from the lab bench to the hospital bed.

 IIM hosts the research group of Prof Liz Sockett FRS, who studies the biology of Bdellovibrio
 bacteriovorus, a predatory bacterium that invades and kills pathogens, pursuing research on both
 the biological processes underlying predation and the potential application of their activity as
 alternatives to antimicrobial compounds. Prof Sockett was elected a Fellow of the American
 Academy of Microbiology in 2017 and of the Royal Society in 2019.

 The One Virology initiative was established to bring together 16 principal investigators and
 around 40 postdoctoral researchers, technicians and postgraduate students from across UoA5,
 Veterinary Medicine and Science, and Biosciences (Ball £250K 2018, Wolfson Foundation). One
 Virology co-locates a new Centre for Global Virus Research at the UoN Sutton Bonington Campus.
 Collectively, they have secured research funding from sources including the EU, MRC, BBSRC,
 NIHR, DEFRA and NIH (USA), as well as industry and charities, of more than £16M in total (of
 which £5M directly supports research at Nottingham).

 The National Biofilms Innovation Centre (NBIC), aligned to the UoN Antimicrobial Resistance
 RPA, is an Innovation & Knowledge Centre (IKC) led by the Universities of Southampton,
 Nottingham (Camara, UoA5), Liverpool and Edinburgh. Arising from £26M funding commitment
 (from BBSRC, Innovate UK, the Hartree Centre, the four HEI partners and industry), it was
 established in December 2017 with 5 years of initial funding. NBIC’s vision is to create a fusion of
 world-class research and industry to deliver breakthrough technologies in the control and
 exploitation of bacterial biofilms. Since its creation a further 48 UK Universities (21 from the Russell
 Group) and Research Centres have formally joined the consortium, together with an industry base
 of more than 200 companies covering a wide range of sectors.

 The UoN Bio-Instructive Materials Institute (BMI) created in 2017 and aligned with the UoN
 Advanced Materials IRC is focused on designing and developing bio-instructive materials with
 immune-enhancing/modulating functionalities to promote healing and minimise the risk of
 infection. The multi-School initiative led by Ghaemmaghami (UoA5) and Morgan (Pharmacy,
 UoA3) includes Williams (UoA5), Pharmacy and Medicine, 10 postdoctoral researchers and 9 PhD
 students. Funding includes an EPSRC Programme Grant in Next Generation Biomaterials
 Discovery (£5.3M Ghaemmaghami and Williams 2015), FP7 Immodgel and H2020 PanBioRA
 (Ghaemmaghami), and an EPSRC grant (£2M 2017) for 3D OrbiSIMS: Label free chemical

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 imaging of materials, cells and tissues (Alexander and Williams). BMI has active collaborations
 and with academic (MIT, Rice University, Eindhoven University of Technology) and industry (Smith
 & Nephew) partners.

 Translational aspects of IIM research include analysis of meningococcal and other bacterial
 infections (Wooldridge, Turner, Oldfield), development of immune-competent and biomimetic
 tissue models (Ghaemmaghami), immune-instructive biomaterials (Ghaemmaghami), and
 vaccine development and evaluation (Turner, Oldfield [REF2021ICS]). Irving has been prominent
 in leadership of Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) Research UK, the national cohort of 12,000 patients
 with hepatitis C virus infection with an associated clinical database in Nottingham and
 biorepository based in Glasgow, set up to aid research in all aspects of HCV infection, including
 guidelines for clinical management [REF2021ICS].

 1.2.3 Cells, Organisms and Molecular Genetics (COMGEN) Research Division contributes
 35 research leaders and independent fellows that study molecular, cellular and whole-organism
 interactions using a broad range of natural and laboratory systems, and make strong contributions
 to the University’s Future Food and Green Chemicals Beacons of Excellence.

 COMGEN strengths include molecular evolution, genetics and genomics, with strategic new
 appointments complementing existing expertise. Horizontal gene transfer and pangenomes is a
 focus of the McInerney group. Yant studies genetic architecture determining physiological
 adaptation to the environment in plants, with a 2018 ERC-funded programme on hotspots of
 repeated evolution. The study of protein evolution and adaptation are a focus of both the O’Connell
 and Ravinet labs. Emerging antibiotic resistance in human pathogens and the human microbiome
 is the focus of work by Whelan (NRF). Production of commercially relevant microorganisms
 exploits techniques such as design of artificial chromosomes (Heap and Blount, both aligned to
 the Green Chemicals Beacon), and synthetic biology is also applied to vaccine development
 (Griffin).

 COMGEN hosts world-leading groups using genetics and genomics in human health and disease.
 Disease processes are studied at the cellular level in the groups of Tewari (malaria parasite
 development and proliferation) and Brook (cardiac development and myotonic dystrophy). A new
 NRF (Wilkinson) uses zebrafish to study the genetic control of blood vessel formation. Genomic
 research is supported by DeepSeq, the Next Generation Sequencing platform (Sections 3.3.3,
 4.1.3), led by Loose, a world-leader in the development of nanopore long-read methodology.

 UN Global Challenges and Sustainability are at the heart of COMGEN work on functional
 genomics of livestock species (Hanotte), with close links with the International Livestock Research
 Institute (ILRI) in Ethiopia and Kenya, and on fish-parasite interactions (Hartikainen). Yant and
 Goodacre collaborated with the Future Food Beacon to establish the ancient/low copy number
 DNA laboratory at UoN (Paleo-benchmarking for Agricultural Resilience). All this research aligns
 with the UN Sustainable Development Goal 2: Zero hunger. Sustainability characterises work in
 SBRC (below) and other work in synthetic biology (Blount) and in the study of traits under
 adaptation in orphan and underutilised crops (Yant). At the ecosystem scale, immunity and
 responses to diseases in natural rodent populations are a focus of the Bradley lab; fish speciation
 and adaptation to fresh water are studied by the MacColl lab; the Reader and Gilbert labs work on
 evolution of mimicry.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within COMGEN, the Nottingham Synthetic Biology Research Centre (SBRC) is one of six UK
 SBRCs created in a £300M investment by the BBSRC and EPSRC. SBRC Nottingham (Minton,
 Winzer, Soucaille, Griffin and Zhang) concentrates on engineering bacteria to make industrially
 useful products by recycling carbon with a particular focus on the single carbon (C1) gases carbon
 monoxide, carbon dioxide and methane. The centre’s activities have been bolstered by the award
 to Minton of two successive BBSRC NIBB (Network for Industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy)
 grants supporting UK-wide science in this area, C1net (£1M, 2014) and CCnet (£713K, 2019). The
 Centre has received over £25M in external funding, and has a portfolio of seven patent families
 with revenue-bearing licences based on these and on plasmid vector sales exceeding £150K
 gross income. The SBRC has published >130 academic publications in the REF period and will
 have trained over 100 PhD students in that time. The centre has worked with over 40 companies
 and has embedded relevant start-ups within its facilities, resulting in funded collaborative research
 and investment in the companies of over £4M to date. SBRC hosts Royal Society Entrepreneur-
 in-Residence, Chris Finnis, who facilitates the development of partnerships between industry and
 academics within the SBRC, and across UoA5 more broadly, including progress towards the
 commercialisation of synthetic spider silk (work with the Goodacre lab).



 1.3 Future UoA5 Research and Impact Strategy
 Continued development of our thriving and inclusive research culture, which represents a step-
 change from REF2014, will support UoA5 members across all levels of research engagement to
 achieve high quality research in a sustainable environment:
    • Supporting research vitality through strategic embedding of UoA5 researchers into
        the most enabling spaces – including the newly-constructed £100M BDI-2 (BioDiscovery
        Institute phase 2) Building, complementing and extending world-class research facilities
        already available in the former Centre for Biomolecular Science
    • Promoting individual research achievement and development through a Team
        Science ethos across UoA5, building confidence to commit to large-scale higher-risk
        higher-reward applications
    • Sustaining investment in UoA5 research and impact development with targeted
        funding and structured support from dedicated in-house experts in the Research
        Development Team and UoN Professional Services Teams
    • Valuing People and succession planning, including giving new academic colleagues
        and fellows recruited as part of our ambitious academic staffing strategy time to build
        research leadership capacity

 Implicit in these principles lies a goal to harmonise with the UoN’s commitments towards an Open
 Research environment [ILS2.3] as well as institutional benchmarks for assurance of Research
 Integrity [ILS2.4]. Major risks to implementing this strategy are financial uncertainty post-Covid, these
 risks being mitigated by our recent appointments and a strong research-led teaching portfolio.




                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. PEOPLE

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Following the strategic intentions described in the REF2014 Environment Template for UoA5,
 specific recommendations relevant to UoA5 were made in the 2016 SoLS Review to replace the
 20+ recent leavers/retirees with new research-active academic staff at all levels. Appointment
 processes took account of career breaks in shortlisting and appointment criteria, focussing on
 quality above quantity; for example, candidates were asked to highlight their four ‘best’
 publications, with emphasis on scientific content/value of impact in line with Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA) principles. Advertising materials highlighted flexible working
 options and encouraged diversity. Overall success rates from application to acceptance have
 improved to 7.4% for female (6.1% for male) and BAME applicants (from 2.3% to 3.8%) and this
 has impacted positively on our staff diversity. Between 2014 and 2019 SoLS (representative of
 UoA5) had increases in the proportion of female academics (25.8% to 31.9%), BAME staff (11.5%
 to 15.1%) and staff declaring a disability (2.3% to 4.0%). BAME researchers have increased
 (14.5% to 23.5%) building the foundations for a more diverse pipeline in the future.

 This phase of strategic recruitment included an external appointment of Prof James McInerney as
 Head of School of Life Sciences, in February 2018, and his arrival accelerated progress on this
 programme of new appointments. A further 20 appointments into UoA5 since January 2017
 include three chair positions, in Synthetic Biology and Metabolic Engineering (Soucaille), Cellular
 Pharmacology (Canals) and Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology (Veprintsev). There have been
 six appointments at Associate Professor level, in Computational and Molecular Evolutionary
 Biology (O'Connell), Evolutionary Genomics (Yant), Molecular Microbiology (Sloan), Molecular
 Pharmacology (Lane), Synthetic Biology (Heap) and Molecular and Cellular Metabolism (Amelio).
 There have also been seven Assistant Professor appointments, in Microbial Pathogenesis
 (Griffin), Adaptation to the Environment (Ravinet), Neuroscience (Sheridan, Steinert), Genome
 Dynamics (Gray), Evolutionary Ecology (Hartikainen) and Infection Immunology (Coleman). UoA5
 also hosts four newly-appointed (tenure-track) NRFs (Nottingham Research Fellows) and AMFs
 (Anne McLaren Fellows) (Wilkinson, Maiellaro, Blount, Whelan). These 21 new research leaders
 include 6 women, and in their time at Nottingham since their appointment they have already
 secured 26 new external research awards totalling over £2.95M, and together contribute 76 (of
 236) outputs to the UoA5 REF2021 return.

 Staff in UoA5 are prominent in research leadership in the wider University context, including the
 Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for the Researcher Academy (formerly Graduate School) and
 Researcher Career Development (Donaldson), Co-director of the Researcher Academy in FMHS
 (Tarr) and the lead for the University’s GRT on Health and Wellbeing (Section 1, Chapman).

 The 2016 School Review specifically recommended actively targeting the University’s tenure-track
 (NRF/AMF) fellowship schemes. This strategy was implemented by recruiting NRF and AMF
 fellows, with full support and mentoring provided to candidates with a strong track record to
 facilitate their success through the managed (central UoN) process. These fellowships provide
 SoLS/UoA5 research with a mechanism to build future research sustainability. In the 2018-19
 round we appointed NRF Rob Wilkinson (October 2019, previously at Sheffield), and AMF Isabella
 Maiellaro (March 2020, previously at Würzburg). Wilkinson has already established excellent
 collaborative links with the BioDiscovery Institute (BDI-2007, see below) and holds a BBSRC grant
 on control of vascular development. Maiellaro works in neuroscience using single cell expression

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Drosophila models; her start commences following a period of maternity leave. In the 2019-
 20 round we appointed NRFs Fiona Whelan (July 2020, whose research uses new methods of
 computational analysis to evaluate associations between genomic features of bacteria and their
 phenotypes), and Ben Blount (March 2020, whose research applies genome rearrangement
 technologies to create yeast strains with improved production of high-value products). Other
 PDRAs in the unit hold independent external fellowship awards from the Research Councils,
 charities, the European Commission and the Swiss National Science Foundation (Section 4.2.4),
 and applications are supported by the in-house Research Development Team.

 2.1.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy
 All of the activities to support People within UoA5 are underpinned by the SoLS EDI strategy.
 SoLS has made training in Equality and Diversity a key focus of staff training provision, with
 compulsory online training including a module on unconscious bias. Soon after its formation SoLS
 achieved an Athena Swan Silver Award in 2013, and the award was renewed at Silver level in
 2017 at the first attempt. The 2017 Athena Swan application specifies interventions covering key
 issues such as recruitment, promotions, staff development and workload allocation. Progress is
 initiated and overseen by the SoLS broadly-based EDI Committee, including members from
 academic, technical and administrative staff as well as student representation, and its Athena
 Swan SAT (Self-Assessment Team) sub-group.

 Examples commended by reviewers in feedback for the 2017 Silver Award renewal include actions
 to enhance shortlisting and appointment of women to academic positions (Section 2.1 above),
 systematic identification of, and response to, under-application for promotion by female staff,
 mandatory equality and diversity training for all staff (with 100% uptake of unconscious bias
 training across all groups), implementation of workload analysis, and additional support for staff
 returning from maternity leave.

 The success of support measures is reflected in the achievements and career progression of our
 staff. Of 34 successful promotion applications (success rate ~70%) 44% were female, above the
 proportion of female academic staff. Over the REF period 39 technicians have been regraded
 (73% female), with a 93.3% success rate. Within SoLS, there are specific practical measures for
 staff support providing for different needs, including availability of an EDI space, a breast-feeding
 room, prayer rooms, and car parking spaces reserved for after 9.15 a.m. (specifically timed to be
 available to staff arriving after delivery of children to school).

 2.2 Staff Development and Research Support [ILS3.1]
 Effective allocation of working time and opportunity for personal development is delivered through
 the University’s Workload Framework. For this, extensive and detailed data about individual
 responsibilities are collated to provide objective information about time allocated to staff for
 different tasks, with systematic adjustments made for maternity and other career breaks as well
 as newly appointed or part-time status.

 All staff have an individual annual appraisal under the University’s ADC (Appraisal and
 Development Conversation, formerly PDPR = Personal Development and Performance Review).
 This process provides the opportunity to reflect holistically on achievements through the year and
 identify training and development needs, with evaluation (but not grading) of performance.
 Importantly, ADC is an ongoing process with informal review meetings throughout the year.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustaining and increasing research income is a key part of the research strategy within
 SoLS/UoA5. A Research Development Team now comprising two Research and Business
 Development Managers (RBDMs), an Impact Development Coordinator and two Research
 Finance Managers support academics and ECRs with funding and impact development. They
 provide support through a flexible process including:
 •   Provision of regular, targeted funding alerts.
 •   Grant Clubs: senior academics that participate in grant panels provide feedback on new
     research project ideas and the RBDMs provide follow-up support. Since March 2018, 41
     colleagues have participated with successes including subsequent prestigious awards from
     BBSRC and the Academy of Medical Sciences.
 •   Application development: RBDMs support academics and ECRs through editorial or writing
     assistance, consortium building and facilitation, securing internal match-funding.
 •   Advice and guidance on opportunities for development of impact from an early stage.
 •   Costing, internal approval for submission to funders, award set up and budget monitoring of
     live awards.

 SoLS/UoA5 is a leading participant in the FMHS Mentoring Scheme overseen by a specialist
 member of Professional and Support staff with four academic colleagues on the steering group.
 An initial training session is run 6-9 times per year for potential mentors and mentees, after which
 applicants are paired up. By September 2020, 38 colleagues (21 female) had received guidance
 through the mentoring scheme, from a total of 26 mentors (11 female).

 Funding from the Wellcome Prime scheme (up to £50K over 2 years) can be used flexibly by
 awardees, including buy-out of non-research commitments, bridging funding for research
 continuity, or development of collaborative research. For this, SoLS receives funding from
 Wellcome through its Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF; £500K) with matched funding
 from the University (£500K) (Section 1.2.1 above). To date, 7 academics in UoA5 have received
 Wellcome Prime Scholarships (from a total of 17 awarded across the University). Wellcome Prime
 scholars have used the awards to support their research development in the variety of ways
 envisaged in the scheme’s design including:
 •   Teaching replacement to allow time to make significant progress with research aims
     (Wickstead, Loose, Woolard).
 •   Provision of bridging funding to help overcome the hurdle of moving from an applicant’s first
     significant research grant to the second (Gadelha, Friel).
 •   Funds to develop international collaborative research (Hume).

 With the agreement and support of Wellcome, in the most recent round of funding we have
 introduced a Fellowship Support Award alongside the Scholarships. This is designed to support
 postdoctoral researchers to develop their own independent lines of research in preparation for
 applications to major fellowship schemes. Two awards were made in January 2020, one to an
 ECR in UoA5 (Urbanowicz).

 Training for research staff is available through the University’s Professional Development Unit
 [ILS3.1], which offers a wide range of in-person and online training experiences, with female
 uptake (N=2298; 56.4%) being higher than male (N=1773; 43.6%). The Nottingham Research
 Leaders Programme is a competitive research-focussed year-long programme with an emphasis
 on collaboration and team working, led by the APVC for the Researcher Academy (Donaldson,
 UoA5). Seven contributors to UoA5 have completed this programme since 2013. Research

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Integrity courses are strongly recommended for all research-active staff in UoA5 and have high
 uptake [ILS2.4].



 2.2.1 Specific ECR Support [ILS3.2]
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 2008 and holds an HR Excellence in Research award, renewed in April 2020. The APVC for the
 Researcher Academy and Research Career Development (Donaldson, UoA5) leads on the
 implementation of the institutional action plan focussing on the principles set out in the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers, with oversight by the University Research
 Committee. SoLS also offers locally-arranged mentoring, specific events giving opportunities for
 seminar presentations by ECR staff and workshops highlighting career choices and giving
 guidance on fellowship and funding applications.

 Staff development and training is supported in the individual colleague’s ADC meetings, (see
 above). Training options available to doctoral students from the Researcher Academy and the
 Medical Faculty Training Programme are also available to ECRs (Section 2.3.4 below). Activities
 targeted to ECRs in UoA5 are coordinated within SoLS by a dedicated Postgraduate &
 Postdoctoral Research Development Officer. SoLS has a Postdoctoral Research Committee
 chaired by an ECR (Urbanowicz, UoA5), organising specific local events targeted to ECRs; these
 have included sessions on career progression and preparing successful grant and fellowship
 applications with School Directors of Research (Brook/Sockett), the Researcher Academy Lead
 APVC (Donaldson) and other colleagues (Hardie).

 All our ECRs have access to and are supported to engage with Researcher Academy training
 programmes, including the ECR Leadership Programme, part of the University’s talent
 management programme, run jointly with the University of Birmingham. ECRs are also able to
 access further leadership and management development opportunities, including further
 mentoring and coaching, through the UoN Leadership and Management Academy (LMA), and the
 highly successful Faculty Mentoring Scheme (see above).

 2.2.2 Specific Training for Research Technicians [ILS3.4]
 Research technicians in UoA5 are encouraged to engage with local ongoing research training and
 retain a degree of mobility within SoLS research Divisions, reactively supporting funded research
 projects. This approach ensures ongoing refreshment and updating of skills. Our ethos (reinforced
 through the ADC process) is to encourage engagement with professional development short
 courses, The LMA for technicians that are growing skills in leading a team, and the Midlands
 Innovation (MI) TALENT scheme (which includes a conference fund scheme, sharing equipment
 scheme and placement schemes where colleagues can learn how analyses are performed in other
 institutions). All of these are linked to the University’s vision for Technical Talent, and the
 Technician Commitment supported by the Science Council and the Technicians Make It Happen
 campaign (Section 3.2.2).

 2.3 Support, training and supervision of PGR students
 SoLS includes about 100 doctoral (PhD) students per year plus approximately 30 one-year
 research masters (MRes) students. In the interval August 2013-July 2020 a total of 525 doctoral
 awards were made to students supervised by staff returned in UoA5, rising from 71 in 2014-15 to
 81 in 2019-20. Postgraduate student recruitment, training and support within SoLS is regulated by

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School’s Postgraduate Research Strategy Committee. This Committee is led by three
 Directors of Postgraduate Study (all UoA5), two of whom oversee strategy (Leach and Allers), and
 one of whom coordinates operational aspects and leads welfare support (Wilson). The PGR
 Directors are supported by a full-time PGR and Postdoctoral Research Development Officer.

 About half of all PhD students are international, either sponsored by a government, another
 institution or self-funded. Among HEU students there are distinct cohorts in the BBSRC DTP
 (Doctoral Training Programme, Section 2.3.1) and Wellcome DTC (Doctoral Training Centre in
 Antimicrobials and Antimicrobial Resistance, Section 2.3.2), and Wellcome has recently
 funded an additional DTC in Drug Discovery and Team Science (Section 2.3.3). UoA5 PIs also
 supervise students on the MRC Impact DTP (Integrated Midlands Partnership for Biomedical
 Training, with Leicester and Birmingham) and the NERC Envision DTPs.

 2.3.1 BBSRC DTP
 The ongoing second phase of the Nottingham BBSRC Doctoral Training Program (DTP2) currently
 has 240 registered students, including iCASE and National Productivity Investment Fund (NPIF)
 students. Training is split approximately equally across three areas of Industrial Biology and
 Bioeconomy, Agricultural Food Security, and Basic Biomolecular Sciences. The £12.5M grant
 from BBSRC supported this Centre, which connects Schools from across the science, medical
 and engineering faculties at Nottingham and its key partner Rothamsted Research. DTP2 offers
 expertise in BBSRC priority research areas and vulnerable skills such as mathematical training
 and in vivo research, and includes a three-month placement (Professional Internships for PhD
 Students, PIPS) working in an area not related to the PhD. Typically, between 18 and 20 new
 DTP2 students of the annual cohort of 50 students registered each year in SoLS/UoA5.

 Students who completed their (DTP1 or DTP2) training have entered diverse careers in academia
 (>50%) and science-associated roles; 73% of students submitted their thesis within the 4-year
 period and 86% within 4.5 years. Students published high-quality papers (mean FWCI 1.73), 5%
 co-authored with industry partners and 36.7% of outputs with international collaborators (FWCI
 3.02). DTP students engaged with diverse PIPS opportunities, including placements in 23
 countries (6 on the Development Assistance Committee’s (DAC) list of ODA recipients), involving
 >70 different companies, and 6 students found employment with their PIPS host institutions.

 The third round of the Nottingham BBSRC DTP (DTP3, supported by a recent award of
 approximately £15M from BBSRC) recruited its first cohort of 42 annual students in 2020, and is
 led by groups at UoN and Nottingham Trent University, with overall leadership and coordination
 from UoN colleagues in UoA5 and UoA6. In DTP3 successful relationships with our current
 partners are continued, but add new academic (Nottingham Trent University), and industrial
 partners (National Biofilms Innovation Centre [NBIC, Section 1.2.2 above] and Biotech Industry).
 Recruitment in DTP3 was explicitly directed towards a more diverse cohort, through specific
 recruitment and support mechanisms, including (for example) the current SoLS cohort of PGR
 students actively mentoring prospective BAME students in making applications to the program.

 2.3.2 Wellcome DTC in Antimicrobials and Antimicrobial Resistance
 The Wellcome AAMR (DTP) combines the AAMR strengths at the UoN and the University of
 Birmingham (UoB). The Centre includes 77 (40 UoN and 37 UoB) supervisors with skills and
 expertise covering the AAMR field and hence can flexibly adapt to student-driven PhD project
 choices. Wellcome provided funding for 20x4 year studentships (1+3 MRes+PhD) matched by the


                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two Universities who provided 10 studentships each (total cohort - 40 studentships; 10 per year),
 with intakes in 2016-2019, with UoA5 playing a major role.

 2.3.3 Wellcome DTC in Drug Discovery and Team Science
 Wellcome has also recently funded (£4.45M) a new programme in ‘Drug Discovery and Team
 Science’ at Nottingham, led by Woolard and Donaldson (UoA5) which will recruit 4 students each
 year over a 5-year recruitment period. Projects are fully funded for 4 years, with additional funding
 in place for a ‘transition period’ following completion of the PhD programme. In line with SoLS
 strategy the management team have implemented measures to enhance diversity of recruitment,
 experience and talent that will result from a Team Science-driven approach (defined as promoting
 working with coordinated teams of investigators with diverse skills and knowledge). The
 programme will involve close collaboration between several Schools across UoN (including
 Medicine, Pharmacy and Maths) and students will be hosted in SoLS/UoA5. There will be close
 interaction with industry, SMEs and other partners to enhance collaboration and training. The
 programme focuses on the application of a multidisciplinary team science-driven approach to
 study membrane receptors in the most appropriate cell type and tissue, and each yearly entry of
 4 students will study one of a set of disease-related themes.

 2.3.4 Doctoral Student Support and Progression [ILS3.3]
 PhD and MRes students in UoA5 receive support, training and monitoring through the SoLS
 Postgraduate Research and Supervision framework, in parallel with the University-wide
 Researcher Academy. Students undergo annual progress reviews, which include written
 submissions and spoken examination or presentations. Accurate record keeping of PGR student
 supervision, annual progress reviews and training portfolios is facilitated by a bespoke database-
 driven application (PGRWeb), which was developed in-house in SoLS and is increasingly being
 adopted throughout the University.

 PGRs in UoA5 are supported by the FMHS PGR Training Programme, developed by Schools in
 the Faculty in conjunction with the Researcher Academy. This is delivered by academic staff and
 Researcher Academy professional training and development managers, and quality assured by
 the Researcher Academy. Doctoral Training Programmes also provide tailored training, some of
 which is available to PGRs not in the DTPs. Professional conduct is an important part of researcher
 training and development; Research Integrity courses are mandated for all PGRs at UoN and form
 an integral part of their training portfolio [ILS2.4]. There are dedicated careers advisors who hold
 appointments for individualised career development advice with our PGR and ECR communities.
 The Researcher Academy also provides reserved social and study space around the University
 Campuses, including a Graduate Centre within the Medical School; Graduate Centres were
 reconfigured during 2020 to provide hot-desk facilities for researchers who need to work on-site.

 The annual SoLS Postgraduate Conference is held at a venue outside the School (or successfully
 as an online conference in 2020) and is organised by a committee of postgraduate students with
 oversight by the PGR and Postdoctoral Research Development Officer. The conference includes
 the opportunity for oral and poster presentations for second and third-year UoA5 PhD students,
 forming an integral part of their annual progress review.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.1 Research Income
 Research income for UoA5 staff in the REF2021 reporting period amounted to £72.8M, including
 £39.9M from UK Research Councils, £13.8M from UK Charities, £5.5M from EU government
 bodies and £3.6M from industry, businesses and commercial bodies. The distribution across our
 portfolio for the period is indicated:




 Major research awards and investments in the reporting period include The Synthetic Biology
 Research Centre Nottingham: Sustainable Routes to Platform Chemicals (total £16.3M, 2014-
 2020 from BBSRC, Minton), Bdellovibrio – Bacterial Security Guards Against Dangerous
 Pathogens (£4.6M DARPA 2015, Sockett), Wellcome Seeding Drug Discovery Award (£2.8M
 2016, Brook), the National Biofilms Innovation Centre (£1.2M BBSRC 2017, Camara), £1.4M from
 the BBSRC for research on sustainable bacterial biofuels (Minton), a £1.8M BBSRC award 2013
 for GASCHEM: Optimising Industrial Gas Fermentation (Minton), £1.5M from the MRC 2016 to
 study fluorescence correlation in GPCRs (Hill), £1.1M from the MRC 2016 to study quorum
 sensing and virulence in Gram positive pathogens (Williams) and Wellcome Investigator Awards
 for Bacterial surface sensing (£933K, Williams 2014) and for Combating Gram Negative AMR
 Pathogens (£1.1M, Sockett 2018). Awards to the Pain Centre Versus Arthritis (£2.5M 2010-2015
 and £2M 2015-2020) were shared with the School of Medicine. These major awards evidence the
 success and vitality of the UoA5 research strategy (Section 1) and have yielded numerous high
 impact publications which are central to our Outputs return.


 3.2 Research Infrastructure

 3.2.1 Buildings and Space
 Major investments in the period have enhanced the buildings and space utilised for research in
 UoA5, complementing and extending the existing world-class facilities. The School has three main
 buildings occupied by UoA5 researchers: The Medical School Building in the Queen's Medical
 Centre (QMC) complex, is connected by a walkway to the Biodiscovery Institute (BDI), which
 consists of two buildings completed in 2007 (‘BDI-2007’) and 2020 (‘BDI-2’). The Life Sciences
 building is a short distance away in University Park. Distribution of staff broadly reflects their
 disciplines: BDI-2007 is an interdisciplinary research building with a major focus on industrial and
 medical bacteriology, hosting chemists and biochemists working on human pathogens and

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industrial anaerobic fermentation in CL2 and CL3 laboratories (CL = Containment Level); the
 Medical School hosts a diverse group of biochemists, molecular geneticists and cell biologists,
 many of whom collaborate with local clinical colleagues and Life Sciences houses organismal and
 ecological sciences. Selected UoA5 research leaders will be embedded into the £100M BDI-2
 building as a priority post-Covid to enable collaboration in line with our future strategy (Section
 1.3).

 SoLS occupies a total of 19,000 m 2 of floor space, about 95% of which is occupied by academics
 returned in UoA5 in REF2021. Our research laboratories total 9,600 m 2, plus 2500 m2 of adjacent
 offices, meeting rooms and social spaces for academics and research staff. Underpinning core
 research-support services, such as finance, media preparation, washing-up and stores, occupy
 2,500 m2. The remaining 4,400 m 2 is devoted to teaching laboratories, and computer rooms.

 Our research strategy recognises the importance of social spaces to seed discussion and
 collaboration. The BDI-2007, Life Sciences building and Medical School have their own dedicated
 social spaces, as well as cafeterias and snack bars; PGR students and postdocs have an
 additional Graduate Centre with writing and presentation areas and refreshment facilities.

 3.2.2 Research-Support Technicians [ILS3.4]
 SoLS maintains a cohort of centrally-funded Research Technicians (32 FTEs) ranging in
 experience from trainees to doctoral level, and encapsulating the full spectrum of skills to support
 the research of the School. The pool is dynamic and reassignments reflect SoLS research strategy
 and priorities (Section 2.2.2) but at any one time ~90% support UoA5 research. They have proved
 especially effective in supporting ECRs in establishing their independent careers, with all new
 appointments having access to dedicated technical support for the first three years.

 SoLS has been proactive in supporting and developing its core of Research Technicians, and in
 May 2017, The UoN, together with the University of Cambridge, were the first to pledge their
 support for the Technician Commitment Action Plan to further career development for technicians
 and technologists, supported by the Science Council and the Gatsby Foundation. This
 commitment was enacted following significant contributions from UoA5 technical staff.


 3.3 Facilities
 SoLS provides an extensive range of multi-user instruments and facilities available to all UoA5
 researchers. Specialised microscopy and imaging infrastructure underpins research in many
 areas across the unit, especially for cell surface receptor research in COMPARE. Equipment
 includes state-of-the-art super-resolution, high-content and cell tracking suites available through
 the SLIM platform (School of Life Sciences Imaging, Section 3.3.1). World-leading DNA
 sequencing is underpinned by DeepSeq (Section 3.3.3) and flow cytometry capabilities have been
 enhanced through the addition of cutting-edge imaging and spectral cytometers (Section 3.3.2).
 The BDI-2007 has specialised facilities for industrial and medical microbiology such as two
 bespoke DNA assembly/microbial manipulation robotic suites, gas fermenters and biolectors, 11
 anaerobic cabinets split between CL2 and CL3 laboratories plus a DNA Analyser, Q-Tof MS and
 Raman laser gas analysis. The One Virology initiative (Section 1.2.2) enabled the creation of a
 cluster of CL3 laboratories dedicated to virology research on the UoN Sutton Bonington campus
 available to UoA5 researchers.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SoLS maintains several core platforms with dedicated technical expertise that deliver UoA5
 research and provide services to external users. They are essential for the support of advanced
 research objectives and high-impact publications, and underpin successful grant applications and
 the success of the Impact Case Studies.

 During the REF period these platforms have supported many significant UoA5 projects in
 biomedically important areas. As selected examples:
    •   grants of >£13.8M to COMPARE and others to study cell surface receptors (BBSRC, MRC,
        Wellcome, EC, BHF, AMS, GSK and Promega) made extensive use of the SLIM facilities
    •   the multi-centre grant of £12.5M (2017) to Camara and others for the NBIC (BBSRC and
        IUK) relied on SLIM, particularly its Super Resolution Microscopy Facilities
    •   The Pain Centre Versus Arthritis relies on SLIM and BSU (Section 3.3.4) services and
        since 2015 has been supported by grants of £2M from Versus Arthritis.
    •   grants of £2.8M, £1.7M and £1.1M since 2013 to Brook and others to study myotonic
        dystrophy (Wellcome) and congenital heart defects (BHF) with resulting patent relied on
        SLIM (Section 3.3.1, below) and the Flow Cytometry Facility (FLOW, Section 3.3.2)
    •   grants of almost £2M to Loose from Wellcome and BBSRC supported DeepSeq nanopore
        sequencing activities (Section 3.3.3) which have also been a major contributor to UoA5’s
        ‘agile response to Covid’ (Section 4.1.3)
    •   grants to Avery relied on SLIM and FLOW to study fungal food spoilage (>£1M awarded
        since 2016 by BBSRC and LR Suntory Ltd., [REF2021ICS])
    •   DeepSeq services to aspects of the £14M BBSRC grant to the SBRC (Minton and others
        2013)

 3.3.1 School of Life Sciences Imaging (SLIM)
 The SLIM platform underpins advanced research in diverse aspects of cell biology and pathology
 and has benefited from £1.44M additional capital investment during the REF period. It has a Chief
 Experimental Officer and four full-time senior technical staff. SLIM is equipped with seven Zeiss
 microscopes including a top-end Super Resolution suite (below), four confocal and one Non-linear
 Optical microscope. There are also Zeiss and Nikon deconvolution and TIRF systems, and an
 Olympus LV200 for long-duration cell bioluminescence. Cell-tracking capabilities are provided by
 a Phasefocus Livecyte microscope. High-content imaging is provided by MDC confocal and wide-
 field plate readers with robotic handling and environmental controls. SLIM operates a mixed
 financial model with imaging staff supported by SoLS, and running costs funded through access
 charges. There have been >140 Outputs in peer-reviewed journals involving SLIM staff (all UoA5)
 as authors or as acknowledgements since formation of the facility. SLIM staff run a three-day
 workshop three times a year on the local instruments, including FIJI Image Processing and a
 dedicated lunchtime microscopy seminar series. Notably, SLIM hosts an Elyra PS1 super
 resolution with combined confocal system, the only super resolution system within UoN,
 purchased as part of a BBSRC Alert13 bid led by Camara (UoA5), and maintained by dedicated
 research staff. The facility provided support in the REF period for an EPSRC Biomaterials
 Programmes grant (Ghaemmaghami), MRC Programme grant (Hill), MRC and BBSRC project
 grants (Tewari), as well as projects in the Versus Arthritis Pain Centre (Chapman), NBIC
 (Camara), and the SBRC (Minton), as well as research more widely across other UoAs.

 An Electron Microscopy Suite is located within the centralised UoN Nanoscale and Microscale
 Research Centre (nmRC) with scanning and transmission electron microscopes as well as
 electron micro probe, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, confocal Raman microscopy, secondary
 ion mass spectrometry and spectroscopic imaging ellipsometry. In the most recent academic year
 for which data is available (2018/19) the facility had a total of 470 individual users from Schools

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including SoLS, with the majority of SoLS users from UoA5. In total approximately 250 staff and
 students attended courses, workshops and seminars organised and delivered by the nmRC which
 is also currently working with 6 SMEs and 3 HEIs.

 3.3.2 The Flow Cytometry Facility (FLOW)
 The FLOW platform has benefited from additional £1.4M capital investment during the REF2021
 period with an academic lead from UoA5 (Fairclough, chair of the Midlands Innovation Flow
 Cytometry group). Currently there are three analytical flow cytometers, a 5-laser Imaging
 Cytometer (Wellcome 2018, £335K) and two high-speed sterile cell sorters in CL2 cabinets. The
 Facility has recently secured funding for a 5 laser Cytek Aurora Spectral Cytometer (BBSRC 2020,
 £396K) with the potential for 40+ colour analysis.

 FLOW provides a comprehensive support and service plus regular introductory and data-analysis
 courses, and is extensively used by UoA5 members. One-to-one instrument training and
 continuous support for operation is offered, as well as access to analytical software Kaluza, FCS
 express and IDEAS through multi-user network licences. In 2018/19 FLOW had a total of 152
 individual users (84 groups from 5 Schools, dominated by SoLS/UoA5). FLOW is currently
 working with 8 local SMEs and 2 HEIs. The Facility operates a mixed financial model with two
 full-time staff supported by SoLS, and running costs funded through access charges. FLOW has
 contributed to > 144 Outputs in peer-reviewed journals over the last 8 years.

 3.3.3 DNA Sequencing and Mapping (DeepSeq)
 The DeepSeq DNA sequencing platform received £1.7M additional capital investment during the
 REF2021 period. It is directed by Loose who is a member of the UK BioBank Genomics Advisory
 Board, Genomics England and the Tree of Life Long Read Sequencing Group, and is the
 Nottingham lead for the SARS-CoV2 COG-UK consortium (Section 4.1.3). DeepSeq is staffed by
 a unit manager, two experimental scientists and two bioinformaticians, all SoLS-funded. They
 provide support to users from concept, through data acquisition and analysis. Sequencing services
 include MiSeq and NextSeq500 from Illumina, (£280K 2014, BBSRC), Chromium (10x Genomics)
 and the MinION, GridION and PromethION (£300K 2017, BBSRC) systems from Oxford Nanopore
 Technologies (ONT). DeepSeq is the only UK service provider for the PromethION system. It is
 also the UK's only service provider for the Bionano Saphyr, a non-sequencing-based genome
 mapping technology that images and analyses extremely long DNA molecules, and has made
 substantive contributions to national Covid-sequencing (Section 4.1.3). As an example of UoA5’s
 alignment to the UoN commitment to Open Research [ILS2.3], Loose made freely available the
 open-source software and codes ‘Read-Until’ and ‘minoTOUR’ which he developed in 2015-16.
 Read-Until software enhances the ONT reading devices, allowing selective sequencing of specific
 regions of DNA, while the minoTOUR is a suite of web-based applications providing control of a
 MinION and feeds data back to users. Both are extensively adopted by the nanopore sequencing
 community.

 3.3.4 The Bio-Support Unit (BSU)
 The BSU platform provides Home Office designated research animal facilities, which occupy three
 sites within the University and has a staff of 23 FTEs. The facilities relevant to UoA5’s in vivo
 research occupy 2,000 m2 of space within the Medical School building in close proximity to UoA5
 labs, housing rodents, rabbits, zebrafish and axolotls. Approximately 24,000 regulated procedures
 are conducted annually; approximately 43% of these involve breeding of genetically altered mice
 and fish, and about 90 SoLS staff (the majority UoA5) are personal licence holders authorised to
 work in the BSU. The unit has separate areas for Barrier Breeding of Genetically Altered mice;

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Experimental Rodents; Category 2 Containment Facilities and Aquarium Facilities; with a range
 of theatre, procedure and behaviour areas. Additional MRI, PET/CT, SPECT/CT and Optical
 Imaging are available to users of the facility. BSU operates as a cost-recovery service with income
 streams from both University of Nottingham research projects and commercial clients.

 3.3.5 UoA5 use of University Facilities and Infrastructure
 Serres and Irving are closely affiliated with the Sir Peter Mansfield Imaging Centre (SPMIC) and
 the UoN Precision Imaging for Medicine Beacon. The GE 3T SIGNA MRI scanners located in
 the Medical School used by Serres provides hyperpolarising technology with unprecedented
 signal gain; its high temporal and spatial resolution allows metabolic measurements on MRI scans
 of human patients and volunteers. Together with his co-investigator at SPMIC, Irving is part of a
 CRUK program investigating the early detection of liver cancer. Bonev (NMR and membrane
 modelling) and Loose (DeepSeq) are users of the Augusta high-performance computer (HPC),
 which has 4,720 cores, 31TB of RAM and 8 GPUs.




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE,
 ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 4.1 Interdisciplinary research; collaborations across and beyond UoN; influencing
 and supporting disciplines
 The wide range of expertise of individuals within UoA5 at Nottingham (Section 1.2) naturally
 enables inter- and multi-disciplinary collaborative programmes at a unit level, but also provides a
 research hub that actively engages and drives networks across and beyond UoN.

 4.1.1 Interdisciplinary research and collaborative research external to Nottingham
 Basic and translational research in the area of Pharmacology provides a prime example of UoA5
 researchers driving interdisciplinary collaborations. UoA5 researchers have major roles in
 COMPARE (Section 1.2.1), a flagship Signature Institute of the UoN and University of
 Birmingham, led in Nottingham by UoA5 members Hill (Director) and Woolard (Deputy Director,
 then Director from January 2021) and including colleagues in the Schools of Pharmacy,
 Mathematics and Medicine, including clinical academic Prof Ian Hall, Director of the Nottingham
 Biomedical Research Centre (hosted by the NUH Trust and UoN). Of 12 additional group leaders
 in Nottingham, over half are within UoA5 (Baker, Bates, Briddon, Canals, Charlton, Lane,
 Veprintsev; January 2021).

 The concept of Team Science is embedded within COMPARE’s research strategy with the
 Academy of Medical Sciences using the centre as a CASE study for their 2019 Team Science
 update report. Major examples of related interdisciplinary work within UoN are evidenced by: (a)
 a £2.4M MRC Programme grant to Hill, Briddon, Woolard (Life Sciences) with Kellam (Pharmacy,
 UoA3) in the use of fluorescent ligands for molecular pharmacology and single cell imaging (2016);
 (b) a £574K MRC Project grant to Hill with Stocks and Kellam in Pharmacy on the synthesis of
 novel P2Y2-receptor fluorescent ligands (2014) and (c) a £922K MRC MICA grant with Heptares
 Therapeutics for the design, synthesis and pharmacological profiling of orexin receptor agonists
 (Baker, Hill, Woolard with Fischer, Kellam (Pharmacy)); (d) Woolard, Donaldson and other
 colleagues from SoLS, Medicine, Pharmacy and Mathematics have also recently been awarded
 a £4.45M Wellcome 4-Year PhD programme in Drug Discovery and Team Science.

 Collaborative research external to Nottingham is evidenced by UoA5 pharmacologists having
 extensive international and industry collaborations. Hill and Briddon were members of the €20.8M
 consortium funded by the EU Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) for a study of “Kinetics for Drug
 Discovery (K4DD)” (2012-2017). This involved 20 academic institutions and companies (including
 GSK, Roche, Merck, Sanofi, AstraZeneca) throughout Europe. Hill, Canals, Briddon, and Woolard
 are members of the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions ITNs INSPIRE, ONCORNET and
 ONCORNET2.0 with participants from six other European countries.

 Hill and Woolard have extensive collaborative projects with the global biotechnology Promega
 Corporation (Madison) which have led to a BBSRC Link grant and major outputs in Cell Chemical
 Biology and Nature Methods. The UoA5 impact case study “Commercialisation of a novel
 NanoBRET assay” (Hill, Woolard) is an outcome of this industrial collaboration [REF2021ICS].
 Charlton and Baker hold an MRC DPFS grant in collaboration with Sygnature BioScience at
 BioCity, Nottingham (£686K 2020). Hill also holds a $1.8M NHMRC (Australia) project grant with
 Christopoulos (Monash) and a $500K Australian Research Council Linkage grant with Pfleger
 (Western Australia 2016), with a joint 4-year PhD degree run by SoLS/UoA5 in Nottingham and
 Monash.


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research in the Neuroscience area within UoA5 is also enabled by and drives interdisciplinary
 collaborations, a key example being work of the Pain Centre Versus Arthritis established to provide
 a translational research environment promoting forward and back translation between preclinical
 and clinical pain research (co-directed by Chapman and Walsh, Professor of Rheumatology,
 School of Medicine). Examples of further collaboration include grants with the Schools of
 Pharmacy, Medicine and Maths (PI Chapman, Versus Arthritis 2019, £349K) which stems from a
 longstanding collaboration between the Pain Centre and the Nottingham Centre for Analytical
 Chemistry (Barrett, Pharmacy), using in-house developed LC-MSMS methods to quantify levels
 of bioactive lipids in clinical and preclinical samples and mathematical modelling of complex
 datasets. The Pain Centre (with the MRC-Versus Arthritis Centre of Musculoskeletal Ageing
 Research and the Versus Arthritis Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis) contributes to the
 Nottingham Centre for Doctoral Training in Musculoskeletal Health and Pain in Ageing and
 Wellbeing (CDT MHPAW), providing PhD training for clinical and non-clinical scientists.

 Chapman also holds funded collaborative research with Lilly investigating the effects of aging upon
 pain processing (BBSRC £99K and Eli Lilly £21K, 2018) and the role of MMP1 in chronic pain (Eli
 Lilly 2019, £356K). During the REF period Chapman has held grant funding with Malcangio (KCL)
 to investigate spinal sensitisation mechanisms of inflammatory arthritis pain. Research projects
 with Pfizer Neucentis and Pfizer (US) led to the demonstration of the potential of new molecular
 treatments for arthritic pain. Chapman is an active member of the Biomedical Research Centre
 MSK theme, which funds translational lipidomic studies of specialised resolution molecules and
 associated enzymatic pathways in clinical samples from chronic pain patients.

 UoA5 also includes researchers in the Biochemistry area with significant interdisciplinary
 collaborations and collaborative research external to Nottingham. As specific examples, Layfield
 (Head of PPN Research Division from Jan 2020) leads interdisciplinary research into ancient bone
 diseases, combining protein analysis with osteoarcheology, with contributions from 7 partner
 universities across Europe; this work featured on the Channel 4 documentary series Bone
 Detectives (October 2020) and has resulted in outreach programmes funded by the University of
 Nottingham and the Paget’s Association (Educational Award). Other research on MND has helped
 attract ECR Scott to UoA5 as an MND Association Lady Edith Wolfson Junior Non-Clinical Fellow
 (£250K, 2019-22). Bennett has served as Director of the FRAME (Fund for Replacement of
 Animals in Medical Experiments) Alternatives Laboratory in Nottingham throughout the REF
 period, with numerous 3Rs-relevant research projects delivered through collaborations with
 clinical academics within the School of Medicine and the NDDBRC (Nottingham Digestive
 Diseases Biomedical Research Centre). Kerr maintains extensive collaborative research with
 Stephens (Engineering) and Lucite (Mitsubishi Research Chemicals). Similarly, Serres holds
 collaborative funding with colleagues in the School of Medicine totalling £350K, including from
 MRC-CIC (Confidence in Concepts, as PI). Hume developed collaborative research with
 colleagues at UCL and CNB-CSIC (Madrid), resulting in a joint output [Nature Communications
 2020] supported by Wellcome Prime (Section 2.2). Shaw was a recipient of US-DOD (Department
 of Defence) funding with Wayne State University Detroit (Ratnam; $419K to UoN, 2017-21) for a
 project to develop new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of androgen-resistant prostate
 cancer. Amelio is a new (March 2020) joint appointment with the University of Rome "Tor Vergata"
 where he is also an AIRC (International Cancer Research Fellowship) Start-Up Group Head.
 Maiellaro is a NRF who transfers expertise in optical mapping of intracellular signalling at the
 nanometer scale to Nottingham [Cell 2020]. Maiellaro’s work in Drosophila complements that of
 Georgiou, which supported by Cancer Research UK has led to an (inter)national collaborative

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study of novel tumour suppressors [iScience 2020]. This work underpins development of an online
 searchable database representing a fully open-access resource for the cancer biology field.

 In the area of Physiology, Leach (Honorary Secretary of the British Microcirculation Society)
 contributes to multi-disciplinary research projects, with recent seminal work with clinical colleagues
 describing for the first time the haemodynamics of the human placenta in utero [PLoS Biology
 2020]. Bates is Chief Scientific Officer and Donaldson founding scientist of Exonate, an early-
 stage biotech company spun out of the University of Nottingham that is focused on VEGF
 (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor) [REF2021ICS].

 Sockett FRS heads a major interdisciplinary collaboration with collaborative research external to
 Nottingham in the area of Microbiology, funded by a 5-year Wellcome Investigator award (£1.1M
 to UoN 2018) with Andrew Lovering at University of Birmingham on predatory invasion
 mechanisms to kill Gram-negative bacteria. This is complemented by a 3.5-year US DARPA
 Programme ($3.5M, 2014) with Lovering, DSTL Porton Down and Jamie Twycross (UoN
 Computer Sciences) on Predatory Prokaryotes. Williams held 5-year Wellcome Investigator award
 funding (£933K, 2014, with Alexander, Pharmacy) as well as leading (with Ghaemmaghami) a
 Next Generation Biomaterials Discovery Program, a 5-year collaborative EPSRC-funded program
 (2015-2020) with multiple European and International partners. Ghaemmaghami is a partner in
 the FP7 Immodgel programme (£512K to UoN) and the EC H2020-funded Panbiora project
 (£525K to UoN), to develop personalised and generalised integrated biomaterial risk assessment)
 while Camara leads the £1.2M Nottingham contribution to NBIC (2017, Section 1.2.2). Camara
 also led the JPI-AMR international consortium SENBIOTAR (£358K 2015-2018) on Sensitising P.
 aeruginosa biofilms to antibiotics and reducing virulence through novel target inhibition, with
 partners from Canada, Sweden and Denmark.

 Interdisciplinary collaboration between medical sciences and humanities arises from the work of
 Diggle, which as part of the AncientBiotics project recreated medieval remedies from textual
 sources towards the treatment of contemporary drug-resistant bacteria [mBio 2015]. Bonev held
 joint EPSRC awards with Kockenberger (Physics & Astronomy), including to develop high-field
 NMR approaches (£262K, 2014-18), and to maximise sharing of the facility (£162K, 2018-20) with
 relevance to microbiological research. Interdisciplinary research with practical benefits extends to
 work led by Hardie (with colleagues in Social Sciences and clinical research) to improve tracking
 of the spread of infection in patient settings [J. Infection Prevention 2019]. The team secured
 >£50K of research funding, a licence agreement (with Ravencourt Ltd), and contributed to
 production of an information film for the Royal Society 2019 Summer Exhibition.

 Collaborative research in Virology is a further strength within UoA5, with Irving part of the EU-
 funded HepaMAb project, involving seven research teams from across Europe, including
 collaboration with NDDBRC. Irving also co-chairs the Hepatitis C Virus Research UK (HCVRUK)
 consortium, which included as of November 2020 clinicians from 59 NHS Trusts; this is a national
 research infrastructure that integrates a database of detailed longitudinal clinical information of
 12,000 HCV-infected patients and a patient sample biobank resource [REF2021ICS]. Turner, in
 collaboration with Dr Christopher Bayliss (University of Leicester) has translated epidemiological
 research into Public Health England guidance (2016) on the prevention and management of
 meningococcal disease in Higher Education Institutions across the UK [REF2021ICS]. Ball leads
 the Nottingham Centre for Global Virus Research (One Virology), recently established with £250K
 funding from the Wolfson Foundation, holds EU (PaleBlu consortium, 19 partners in 15 countries)

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and National Institute of Health Sciences (Japan) funding, and with numerous media appearances
 during the Covid pandemic has contributed widely to public information and debate on the subject.

 Research in the area of Immunology is highly collaborative, with Martinez-Pomares part of an
 MRC-funded collaboration (with Leicester and Oxford) exploring-antimicrobial therapy to prevent
 sepsis in pneumonia patients. Further immunology research with practical, health and economic
 impact is evidenced by Impact Case Study from Sewell [REF2021ICS] who in collaboration with
 the School of Medicine has development of a blood test for early detection of cancer in high-risk
 patients, commercialised by the former University of Nottingham spin-out company Oncimmune
 Holdings PLC [REF2021ICS]. Vinkemeier and Coleman work on fundamental research into
 immune signalling, with Coleman’s expertise recently contributing to the debate on the broad use
 of hydroxychloroquine in COVID-19 patients [Nature Communications 2020]. Ghaemmaghami, in
 collaboration with the School of Pharmacy, has developed a new generation of immune-instructive
 materials, some of which are now the basis of an industry (Smith & Nephew) funded project for
 developing bio-instructive wound dressings.

 In terms of interdisciplinary collaborations and collaborative research external to Nottingham in
 Cells, Organisms and Molecular Genetics, the SBRC (Griffin, Minton, Soucaille, Winzer, and
 Zhang, Section 1.2.3 above) is part of a collaborative network of six RCUK-funded units across
 the UK (Bristol, Edinburgh, Manchester, Cambridge/Norwich and Warwick) with strong links to
 industry (over 40 documented collaborations and the incubation of five companies: DeepBranch
 Biotechnology Ltd, Phenotypeca, Zuvasyntha, Chain Biotechnology Ltd and Phase BioLabs Ltd).
 Under Minton’s directorship of the C1net and CCnet NIBBs, the SBRC oversees the funding of
 UK-wide efforts in gas fermentation, has participated in four European ERA-NETs and coordinates
 the Marie Curie ITN, CLOSPORE. Griffin has active collaborations with collaboration with GSK
 on mucosal administration of vaccines against infectious diseases for C.difficile, and with KyMAb
 (Cambridge) towards the development of therapeutic antibodies against infections. Brook’s work
 on therapies for muscular dystrophies has involved cross-disciplinary collaborations with the
 School of Chemistry (Hayes) supported by Wellcome Seeding Drug Discovery funding (£2.8M
 2016). Goodacre’s work on producing synthetic spider silk has also seen collaborations with
 Chemistry (Thomas) and collaborators overseas (Scandinavia). Reader collaborates with
 Computer Sciences on a UKRI-funded virtual reality project. Tewari’s seminal collaborative
 research on malaria involves significant funding from overseas agencies with Hanotte focussing
 on developing African talent in genomics, in the context of global food security.

 4.1.2 Broader Contributions to the Discipline
 Broader contributions to the discipline have been made from UoA5 Pharmacology researchers’
 significant roles with the British Pharmacological Society (BPS) including from Hill (President-Elect
 2016-2017; President 2018-2019). Woolard was awarded the BPS Bill Bowman Prize in 2019.
 Canals (2015) and Lane (2019) have been awarded the BPS Novartis Prize. UoA5 researchers
 also play leadership roles with the British Journal of Pharmacology published by the BPS, with
 Alexander a senior editor. The BJP also publishes the bi-annual Concise Guide to Pharmacology
 (www.guidetopharmacology.org), a database of ~1700 drug targets and >3,500 ligands, collated
 by >150 collaborators from 22 countries (2018) that represents a resource for the drug discovery
 community (academic and industrial). The database is ‘fed’ in large part from a Nomenclature
 Committee of IUPHAR, chaired by Alexander, which has ~90 subcommittees with ~500 scientists
 worldwide involved.



                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Broader contributions to the discipline(s) of Microbiology include Sockett’s numerous
 public/media engagements and stimulation of debate, including appearance as a guest on Radio
 4’s Life Scientific, contribution to the Science Museum’s ‘Superbugs’ exhibition, Ball also guesting
 on Radio 4 Life Scientific.

 In the field of Synthetic Biology, undergraduate teams supervised by SBRC have won Gold
 Medals at the International Genetically Engineered Machine (iGEM) competition, a worldwide
 synthetic biology competition, in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Other ECR contributions to the broader
 research environment have included UoA5 PhD students joining the outreach programme Pint of
 Science, which in the REF period had engaged audiences of ~1000 people/year, involved 40 PhD
 students/year, and had contributions from up to 30 UoN academics/year. The SBRC has delivered
 over 170 local, national and international outreach events since 2014, including an annual
 presence at New Scientist Live in London. Communication initiatives in Molecular Genetics and
 Ecology include Open Air Laboratories (“OPAL”), in which more than 1 million members of the
 UK public surveyed the biological environment as part of a citizen science project. British Science
 Association media fellow (Davison) has also been involved in extensive public engagement
 activities following work on body asymmetry in molluscs, and has been extensively involved in
 activities such as Pint of Science.

 4.1.3 Covid-19: A Case Study of UoA5 Environment Enabling an Agile Research
 Response to the Global Pandemic
 Prior support for One Virology and the DeepSeq platform meant UoA5 researchers were ideally
 placed to rapidly respond to the pandemic and a strategic decision was made by SoLS Research
 Committee to re-focus in house genome sequencing, virology and immunology expertise towards
 tackling immediate Covid-19 research questions. Rapid-response funding (Wellcome £393K
 2020; Public Health England £626K 2021) was secured by Loose (DeepSeq) with core platform
 facilities in SoLS prioritised for return to research to enable this rapid transition. In March 2020
 Loose was invited to join the COVID-19 Genomics UK consortium study group (COG-UK,
 reporting to SAGE), the UK-wide network consisting of the NHS, the four Public Health Agencies
 of the UK, the Wellcome Sanger Institute and other academic partners. Loose is part of the COG-
 UK management board (and the sequencing workflows steering group) which coordinates rapid,
 large-scale whole genome sequencing and analysis of SARS-CoV-2. DeepSeq alone has
 analysed and contributed in excess of 4700 viral genomes to COG, including rapid-response data
 that enabled a targeted local lockdown in Leicester, and supports 24-hour turnaround of critical
 Covid sequences for PHE. Genomic sequencing of archived hospital patient respiratory samples
 (Ball, Loose and Irving) showed the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the UK from January 2020 with
 early cases from a distinct viral lineage and widespread community circulation in February from
 multiple introductions. The Chair of the House of Lords Select Committee has invited Ball to collect
 evidence on the first peak of Covid-19 for a report to inform policy for future pandemics. Ball also
 co-leads (with Prof Chris Denning, School of Medicine) a SARS-CoV-2 testing service on the
 University campuses to detect and study asymptomatic transmission (MRC £80K 2020) and is
 also involved in several other Covid studies, including understanding the role of plastic surfaces
 in transmission and prophylactic treatment in care homes (with Coleman).

 Turner is part of the Oxford ChAdOx1 nCOV-19 vaccine trial where the ACWY meningitis vaccine
 (REF2021ICS) is being used as an active control. A review in the British Journal of Pharmacology
 (Alexander, 2020) urges repurposing of existing drugs is cited by The Publications Office of the
 European Union in a report: Lifting Coronavirus Restrictions: The role of therapeutics, testing, and

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contact-tracing apps. Coleman, Ball and Urbanowicz (ECR) joined a consortium led by Scancell
 (Innovate UK) to adapt their existing cancer vaccine to a SARS-CoV-2 DNA vaccine and with
 Tighe, Fairclough, Loose, Irving and Tarr pursue ongoing immunological research to stratify
 interventions and design and validate a new Covid-19 antibody assay (MRC Proximity to
 Discovery award) that is cheap (25p/test) and rapid (12 hours). The test was used in the UKRI-
 funded PANTHER study to track and understand infection and immune responses to Covid-19 in
 healthcare workers, and to screen 600 volunteers in the Nottingham arm of the Oxford vaccine
 trial (Turner). Fairclough (with Tighe) is leading an asymptomatic testing programme in the student
 population (UKRI £246K 2020). UKRI-funded collaborations are examining how macrophage-
 dependent inflammation drives organ damage in SARS-CoV-2 (Martinez-Pomares),
 environmental sampling of Covid and self-sterilising masks (Coleman).


 4.2 Journal Editorships and Research Leadership
 Across the REF2021 period, UoA5 academics have acted as Editors/Associate Editors at scientific
 journals including Gilbert, Editor-in-Chief, Ecological Entomology; Brookfield, Editorial Board,
 Current Biology; Hardie, Section Editor, Journal of Medical Microbiology; McInerney, Associate
 Editor, Journal of Experimental Zoology; Amelio, Associate Editor, Cell Death Discovery.

 4.2.1 International and National Advisory Board Membership
 The expertise of UoA5 staff is further reflected in membership of numerous national and
 international advisory boards during the REF period, with selected highlights including:

  Alexander      The Barriers to Research and the 2016 Amendment to the Misuse of Drugs
                 Act
  Alexander      The Neurochemistry Working Group, Advisory Council on the Misuse of
                 Drugs (ACMD)
  Alexander      The Medicinal Cannabis Re-Scheduling Working Group
  Alexander      Chair of the Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification
                 of the Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (NC-IUPHAR)
  Bates          Advisor to the South African Medical Research Council
  Bates          Chair of the Finnish Academy of Sciences Cancer Panel
  Brookfield     Scientific Advisory Board, Institute of Biology, Université Pierre et Marie
                 Curie, Paris
  Camara         European Cystic Fibrosis Society Steering Committee
  Camara         Cystic Fibrosis Trust Strategic Implementation Board
  Ebling         Scientific Advisory Board of The Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh
  Irving         National Strategy Group for Viral Hepatitis
  Irving         Advisory Committee on the Safety of Blood, Tissues and Organs
  Irving         Royal College of Pathologists Standing Advisory Committee on Virology
  MacColl        US National Evolutionary Synthesis Centre Working Group (Chair)
  Sockett        2020 Gordon Research Conference on Bacterial Cell Surfaces (Co-Chair)
  Sockett        Strategic Advisory Board of Max Planck Institute of Terrestrial Microbiology
                 Marburg
  Williams       Scientific Advisory Board of the European Union Joint Programming Initiative
                 on Antimicrobial Resistance




                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.2 Committee Membership of Professional Bodies, Charities and Trusts
 Again UoA5 staff made major contributions during the REF period with memberships in these
 areas, with highlights including: Armour, Trustee of the Frozen Ark (a conservation biobanking
 charity); Bates, Fellow of the Physiological Society (2017), President of the British Microcirculation
 Society (2020–2022); Brook, Trustee of the Myotonic Dystrophy Association; Goodacre, Vice-
 President of the European Society for Arachnology; Hardie, Chair of the Prokaryote Division
 Microbiology Society and Council Member of the Royal Society of Biology; Hill, President-Elect
 2016-2017 and President 2018-2019 British Pharmacological Society; Layfield, Trustee of the
 Paget’s Association; Leach, Honorary Secretary of the British Microcirculation Society; McInerney,
 Secretary of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution; Sockett, member of the Royal
 Society Diversity Committee; and Williams, Member of the European Academy of Microbiology.
 McInerney was elected in 2020 to be the President of the Society for Molecular Biology and
 Evolution, beginning in 2022.

 4.2.3 Membership of Grant and Fellowship Awarding Bodies
 UoA5 members have contributed significantly to the assessment of funding applications, most
 prominently by membership of national grant and fellowship awarding bodies. Throughout the REF
 period this translates to 30 different panel memberships from 20 different staff, with highlights
 (panel Chairs) including: Hill, Chair UKRI Future Leader Fellowship sift and interview
 panels; Layfield, Chair of the Paget’s Association Research Sub-Committee; and Bates, Chair of
 the Stoneygate Trust Children’s Brain Tumour Research Fund.

 4.2.4 Honours, Fellowships and other Awards
 From numerous awards to UoA5 members throughout the REF period, highlights include:
  Sockett FRS, first at UoN since 2009 and first ever female FRS at UoN (2019)
  Leverhulme Trust International Academic Fellowship (MacColl 2017)
  Fellowships of the American Academy of Microbiology (McInerney 2015, Sockett 2017)
  Fellow of the Linnean Society (McInerney, 2016)
  Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award (Minton, 2015)
  Fellow, Royal College of Pathologists (Ghaemmaghami, 2020)
  Membership of the European Academy of Microbiology (Williams 2017)
  Dutch Pharmacological Society’s Ariens Award and Lecture (Hill 2019)
  Raine Visiting Research Professor, University of Western Australia (Hill, 2015-2016)
  Honorary Fellowship of the British Pharmacological Society (Hill 2020)
  British Science Association Media fellowship (Davison, 2018)
  Academy of Medical Sciences Professorial Fellowship (Canals, 2019)
  British Association for the Study of the Liver Recognition of Service Award (Irving, 2019)
  Outstanding Scientific Achievement Award, Proteomass Society (Bates, 2018)
  MND Association Junior Non-Clinical Fellowship (Scott, 2019)
  Marie Curie Fellow and Nottingham Anne McLaren Fellowship (Whelan, 2018 and 2020)
  Nottingham Anne McLaren Fellowship (Maiellaro 2019)
  Nottingham Research Fellowship (Wilkinson 2019, Blount 2020)
  Swiss National Science Foundation Mobility Fellow (Huwiler, 2018)
  Jonathan Ball (2019) and Liz Sockett (2017) were each the subjects of episodes of BBC
  Radio 4’s “The Life Scientific” radio programmes
  SuperBiomaterials to Fight Superbugs Stand 2019 at Royal Society Summer Exhibition
  (Hardie, with Morgan Alexander (Pharmacy))


                                                                                               Page 26
