Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 26 (Modern Languages and Linguistics)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How research is structured
 Modern Languages and Linguistics at Birkbeck has a long-established reputation for innovative
 and creative research characterized by its interdisciplinary approaches and a shared
 understanding of language and text (both verbal and visual) as cultural phenomena. REF2014
 confirmed the excellence of our research and established our strategy to continue to build on our
 global standing, to develop new directions through interdisciplinary research (especially in new
 forms of intercultural and transcultural research), to engage effectively with the public and with
 stakeholders in our research as a precursor to real world impacts, and to play a leading role in
 supporting the emergence of practice-based research in the discipline.
 During this census period, the unit has included two departments across two Schools: the
 Department of Cultures and Languages (CL) in the School of Arts and the Department of
 Applied Linguistics and Communication (ALC) in the School of Social Sciences, History and
 Philosophy. The creation of CL was anticipated in our REF2014 strategy, deriving from the
 merger of three pre-existing clusters (European Cultures and Languages and Iberian and Latin
 American Studies merged at the start of 2014/15, while Japanese Studies joined in 2015). This
 reconfiguration facilitated the deepening and expansion of the unit’s research range, enabling
 the growth of comparative and transnational research. In fact, this strategy has been so
 successful that the merger of the remaining distinct Departments (CL and ALC) into one unit is a
 key post-REF2021 strategy.
 Having maintained a headcount of ~24 across the census period, the unit supports research
 across historical periods from the early modern to the present day, while maintaining a wide
 variety of disciplinary orientations and interdisciplinary practices: applied linguistics, educational,
 personality, social and cultural psychology, pragmatics, literature, word and image studies,
 political, intellectual, military and cultural history, critical theory, philosophy, theology, gender
 studies, film, urban studies, art history, cultural geography, visual culture and environmental
 humanities. The unit’s research also has a distinctive international scope, spanning across the
 UK, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Ecuador, Japan, Mexico,
 Portugal, Spain, Serbia, Syria and the United States.
 A key strength of our unit is our continuing dedication to contributing to the creation of new
 philosophical and theoretical paradigms. This is tangible in our critical engagement with, for
 example:
    •   culture, society and politics in literature: e.g. the question of ‘evil’ (Catani); the self-
        reflexivity of narrative (Kawakami); animal rights as it intersects with feminism (Richards);
        the relation between literary and state forms (Kraniauskas);
    •   translation studies: e.g. cultures of translation (Zhu Hua);
    •   economic/mathematical modelling: informing language policy theory and practice
        (McEntee-Atalianis);
    •   inter- and trans-cultural studies: e.g. intercultural dialogue (Walker); transcultural
        exchanges (Centeno, Martins) and transnational film (Leal);
    •   intermediality: e.g. book illustrations in their relation to literary reception and reading
        practises in Lewis; intersections between contemporary Japanese women’s theatre and
        visual arts in Anan;
    •   education, pedagogy and professional practice: emotions in language teaching and
        learning and multilingualism in psychotherapy (Dewaele); supervisory meetings (Petrić);
        content and language integrated learning (Morton)


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   productive and receptive communication: e.g. translanguaging (Zhu Hua); intelligibility
         (Saito).
 Meanwhile, as evident in our publications and on-going projects, our intercultural, comparative
 and historical research continues on, e.g.:
    •    the neoliberal cultural economy of urban development (Balibrea)
    •    the linguistic landscape as a cultural and material resource for gentrification (Lou)
    •    contemporary forms of ‘orientalism’ (Walker)
    •    Japanese calligraphy in the French imagination (Kawakami)
    •    Anglo-German cultural relations (Damrau, Weber)
    •    the comparative study of European decolonization (Shipway), including the history of the
         French Foreign Legion (Michels)
    •    slavery and visual art (Fracchia)
    •    historical insights into the neuroanatomy of language representation (Lorch)
 Similarly, research on translanguaging, everyday multilingual creativity and emotions (Dewaele,
 Lou, Zhu Hua), as underpinned by research grants, continues to produce stand out results in the
 field, as does the work at the interface with non-academic institutions such as on raising
 awareness among psychotherapists of clients using foreign languages (Dewaele), amongst
 others.
 The research centres and groups located in the Departments, the Centre for Iberian and Latin
 American Visual Studies (CILAVS), Birkbeck Research in the Aesthetics of Kinship and
 Community (BRAKC), the Eighteenth-Century Research Group and the Centre for Multilingual
 and Multicultural Research (CMMR) help create research synergies in these areas across ALC
 and CL and beyond, giving further impetus to the merger of the two units into one department in
 the near future.
 1.2 Research objectives during the assessment period
 In 2014 we committed: to enabling all staff to remain research active; to supporting the broadest
 possible range of research focus in terms of both historical depth and interdisciplinarity within the
 framework of Modern Languages and Linguistics; and to using our research centres and groups
 to drive innovation and to provide a forum to engage with audiences beyond HE. That these
 objectives have been met is evidenced by the inclusion of outputs from all staff in the current
 REF submission. These publications and the activities listed elsewhere below testify to the
 historical and interdisciplinary range and depth of our research. Both also indicate the level of
 our engagement with audiences in and beyond HE in professional, cultural and familial contexts.
 We also committed to a focus on particular areas of research, the majority of which remain
 central to our UoA: 19th and 20th c. history, the history and politics of literary form, the culture of
 emotions, transnational kinships and communities (a theme that has diversified into innovative
 strands – Anan, Balibrea, McEntee-Atalianis, Petrić, Zhu Hua), multilingualism, social cognition
 and creativity, lingua franca communication and global languages in professional and
 institutional contexts.
 Some areas of focus became less central as colleagues moved elsewhere in the School as a
 result of the reconfiguration of the languages departments in 2014-15, e.g. memory and
 museum studies. Conversely, others have taken on a greater significance than originally
 expected as a result of research synergies created by the new departmental configuration: e.g.
 visual cultures and intercultural and comparative cultural studies.
 Over the census period, our increasing commitment to visual studies broadly conceived
 (Fracchia, Lewis, Martins), and research on film in particular (Centeno, Martins, Leal), has
 expanded into filmmaking practice (Centeno, Martins). In line with our focus on intercultural and
 comparative studies, staff have produced outstanding research on key topics, such as migration
 and migrants’ interrelation with residents and their mutual transformation. This research focuses
 on a variety of key social and political spaces, from the home (Petrić) to the city (Balibrea,
 Gardner-Chloros, Kawakami, Lou, Zhu Hua), from families (Zhu Hua, Leal) to the workplace
 (McEntee-Atalianis). It includes a focus on cultural spaces – media (Vessey), theatre (Anan) –

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and virtual spaces (Placencia), as well as the political and historical spaces of exile (Balibrea,
 Petrić), the late colonial and post-colonial empires (Shipway) and the marginalized hinterlands
 (Centeno, Kraniauskas, Martins, Shipway) as sites of transcultural and migratory experience.
 In these studies, multi-lingual and multi-cultural conditions (as well as transdisciplinarity across
 various fields of knowledge) are understood as the norm, rather than an exception. Crucial too
 are the histories and experience of language learning and use in classrooms, at home and in
 everyday encounters as it intersects, for example, with cognition (Saito), neuroscience (Lorch),
 emotions (Dewaele), ideologies and policies (Lou), and as it is part of the literary and disciplinary
 fields in the US and UK to which we contribute (Damrau, Weber).
 In 2014 we also committed to retaining the geographical spread of our research across a wide
 variety of German-, French-, Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking contexts. This we have done
 while also expanding the geographical reach of our research with the inclusion of Japanese
 Studies within CL, bringing a new source of creative and collaborative energy to our research
 environment.
 1.3 Research objectives over the next five years
 Building on our success since 2014, our research strategy will be to continue to:
    1. strongly support the research activities of staff, fostering individual research curiosity;
    2. support the intellectual synergies created by our research centres and study groups:
    3. embed research on translation and transculturation across a wide variety of discursive
       and visual texts in contexts of social transformation and cultural conflict, as well as of
       diverse historical periods and geographical locations;
    4. enhance interdisciplinary research, notably in sociolinguistics, multilingualism,
       transcultural exchanges and environmental humanities both within the College and
       beyond;
 New strategic emphasis will be given to:
    5. developing our intercultural and comparative research through methodological and
       conceptual innovations in research areas such as transnational and transcultural
       exchanges; visual and inter-medial studies; migration, identity and exile;
    6. increasing our global visibility through the establishment and maintenance of research
       partnerships with other institutions;
    7. expanding practice-based research, particularly into counselling, film, curatorial practice
       and supranational organisations.
 These strategies are dynamic: they will continue to evolve, in order to retain relevance, while
 effectively shaping our future development over the next five years.
 1.3.1 Visual and inter-medial studies
 In relation to objective 5, our research is expanding into film and TV and other aspects of visual
 studies, including visual arts (Fracchia), illustration, adaptation and intermediality (Lewis),
 photography (including the history of its technologies; Kawakami, Martins), and digital
 humanities associated with material culture (Martins). This is demonstrated, for example, by the
 development of a new research programme on Digital Amazon with non-academic partners in
 both the UK, Brazil and Germany. This partnership strategy has worked well over the census
 period and will evolve over the next REF cycle.
 1.3.2 Global visibility
 In relation to objective 6, we will continue to maintain a formal collaboration agreement with
 Georgetown University Centre in Multilingualism, the Communications Department of the
 Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and the Department of Hispanic Languages & Literatures of
 the University of Pittsburgh. We will proactively build new global collaborations through
 opportunities presented such as by funded projects e.g., members from the Centre for
 Multilingualism in Society across the Lifespan, University of Oslo sit on the international advisory
 board of the ESRC-funded Family Language project and AHRC-funded Translation and
 Translanguaging project; Dewaele and Petrić took part as UK representatives or team leaders in

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the EU-funded COST Action research networks ‘Study Abroad Research in European
 Perspective’, ‘New Speakers in a Multilingual Europe: Opportunities and Challenges’ and
 European Literacy Network; a GCRF networking grant, which was awarded by the Academy of
 Medical Sciences, enabled experts from China such as Nottingham University Ningbo China
 campus to work closely with ALC members.
 Our unit attracts and welcomes visiting scholars from all over the world and hosted more than 50
 visitors from China, USA, Brazil, Japan and Europe during this REF period. Our objective is to
 increase this number over the next census period.
 1.3.3 Practice-based research
 In relation to objective 7, practice-based research is an expanding area and will continue to form
 part of our long-term planning. Centeno’s full-length documentary Ainu. Pathways to Memory
 (2014) was awarded six prizes and was screened in forty film festivals. Martins’ short film The
 Many Lives of a Shield (2017), available online, has been part of the exhibition Plantae
 Amazonicae (see below) and was screened in Bern, Rio de Janeiro, Paris, and several other
 venues in the UK. In the field of linguistics, Lou deconstructed and recomposed the linguistic
 landscape of Covid-19 as poems, in a collaborative short film Limehouse Cuts, which was
 premiered at the Poplar Union Digital Arts Festival.
 Zhu Hua’s work on the ‘visual turn’ in translanguaging led to the exhibition by Ella McCartney
 entitled To Act. To Know. To Be. (at the Lychee One Gallery, London, March 2017), supported
 by a Leverhulme Artist in Residence award. The expansion of research on the visual archive of
 travel into artistic practice (Martins) has resulted in two exhibitions supported by Arts Council
 England: El Encanto (by Birkbeck’s artist-in-residence Freddy Dewe Mathews, Peltz Gallery,
 2017) and Plantae Amazonicae (by the Royal Botanic Gardens Kew’s artist-in-residence Lindsay
 Sekulowicz, Shirley Sherwood Gallery, 2017-2018). The Peltz Gallery also exhibited, in 2014,
 Family Ties: Reframing Memory (Leal, Wourm), in which six invited artists reflected on the
 intersections of memory and imagination in the re-telling of family histories; and Replaced Lives,
 in which four artist printmakers created unique visual responses to the ‘Replacement’
 conference held at Birkbeck in 2016 (Wourm). In addition, research into Victorian and present
 day understandings of neurological disorders that affect language and thought (Lorch) helped to
 shape The Embroidered Minds Epilepsy Garden, sponsored by the Epilepsy Society, as part of
 the RHS Chelsea Flower Show (2018), which has been awarded a prized Silver Gilt medal. All
 these six exhibitions included a programme of talks and other academic events.
 1.3.4 Other strategic objectives post-2021
 With the strategic appointment of a new post in Japanese and East Asian culture and history in
 2021 (see people strategy), we will extend our research specialism beyond Japanese literature
 and the visual arts, strengthening the area of non-European languages in the unit.
 We will grow PGR numbers, actively seeking ways to fund students with research interests
 across our full range of expertise, for example through AHRC CHASE consortium, AHRC CDP
 scholarships, ESRC UBEL DTP Linguistics pathway, ESRC UBEL DTP co-funded awards and
 Sasakawa PG studentships for Japanese Studies.
 We will seek to expand our postdoctoral research community through relevant externally funded
 Fellowship schemes, e.g. British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowships, Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships etc., and by including postdoctoral researchers on grant applications when
 appropriate. We currently have two applications for postdoctoral positions in Japanese Studies
 and Global Englishes being considered by The Leverhulme Trust.
 1.4 Impact objectives during the assessment period
 In REF2014 we committed to using our research centres as a forum for engaging with audiences
 beyond HE. We further committed to increasing the impact of research on the education and
 well-being of transnational individuals, families and communities and the social policies and
 practices associated with them. Our research centres continue to engage non-HE audiences
 with our work through seminars, conferences and exhibitions, often held in collaboration with our
 non-HE partners. Our impact case studies testify to the achievement of the second aim..

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Impact objectives over the next five years
 We aim to build on our REF2014 objective to foster collaborative research with non-academic
 organisations and the public, expanding boundaries across the sciences and humanities and
 exchanging knowledge both to strengthen our research and to maximise its public benefits. Our
 research centres will continue to perform a key role in this strategy as we work to strengthen the
 ties that helped take our research beyond HE and allowed it to impact on transnational
 communities. We will seek to build new partnerships as new areas of research emerge and their
 impact are felt. We are particularly supporting in this area promising partnerships emerging from
 Fracchia’s work on slavery and visual art, Martins' research on the repatriation of biocultural
 collections, Centeno's research network on Japanese transnational cinema and Lou's mapping
 of the linguistic landscapes of London.
 1.6 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 Major new areas of interdisciplinary research which have been mainstreamed in the UoA over
 the last census period include the digital humanities (Martins), narco-culture (Kraniauskas),
 transcultural film studies (Leal, Centeno – a new appointment since REF2014 – on the
 transcultural history of Japanese cinema) and psychology (Dewaele). In addition, ALC has
 consolidated its research on multilingualism, leading to a significant expansion in methodologies
 and interdisciplinary research through the strategic appointment of new members of staff (Lou:
 linguistic landscaping; Petrić: narrative interviews; Saito: behavioural and neurophysiological
 experimental measures; Vessey: corpus-mediated discourse analysis) and methodological
 innovations from existing staff (Zhu Hua: sociolinguistic ethnography and multimodality; Lorch:
 archiving; McEntee-Atalianis: mathematical modelling; Lou: visual and mobile methodology;
 Dewaele: intercultural pragmatics).
 Our long-term strategy of supporting individual researchers to pursue areas of interest, while
 maintaining an awareness of unit-level strategies and exploring research synergies with others
 within and beyond the UoA means that our commitment to interdisciplinarity is now constitutive
 of most of our research, individually and collectively. We anticipate we will follow a similar path
 with continued success over the next census period.
 1.7 Research integrity and progress towards an open research environment
 Following the policies and practices developed at College-level, the UoA works in accordance
 with the principles in the Concordat for Research Integrity. Departmental Directors of Research
 are members of Schools’ Ethics Committees which report to the College Ethics Committee.
 Schools’ Ethics Committees provide a forum in which questions relating to the rigour and
 integrity of research can be discussed, with conclusions and examples of good practice
 disseminated to all researchers. They also review and approve ethics applications and identify
 and facilitate training needs. Departmental and UoA research days also provide a context in
 which research integrity can be discussed as appropriate and necessary. Any member of staff
 has the opportunity to discuss the rigour and integrity of their own research with their mentor
 and/or the relevant Director of Research, also allowing for developmental needs to be identified
 and implemented by the Ethics Committee. In the case of an allegation of research misconduct
 we would follow the College’s research misconduct procedure (see the Institutional Environment
 Statement for details).
 All staff members are required to deposit publications accepted in the last three months in
 Birkbeck’s green Open Access system BiRON and benefit from access to the work of colleagues
 via this repository. It is possible to apply for School-level funds to pay for open access charges.
 Distribution and monitoring of the use such funds is undertaken by the School Research
 Committee, overseen by the School’s Assistant Dean for Research. Any ethical considerations
 that arise in relation to open access are referred to the School’s Ethics Committee. The UoA
 benefits from the work of the College Open Research Group (of which the CL Research Director
 is a member) which disseminates its work on open access, open data and reproducibility to the
 benefit of individual researchers. In addition, we have several colleagues who actively support
 an open research environment through their work on the editorial boards of journals which are
 completely open access or have strong open access policies (Leal, German as a Foreign


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Language; Petrić, Journal of International Students; Placencia, Pragmática Sociocultural; Lorch,
 Cortex).
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 2.1.1 Staff development
 The unit has an active staff research mentoring system in place to support individuals’ grant and
 output writing and holds regular research staff meetings where individuals receive peer support
 to develop current research. The unit holds two Research Days a year to discuss and develop
 research strategy and, in response to remote working during the pandemic, we set up an online
 staff group for sharing announcements of events and initiatives of common interest.
 Birkbeck has clear procedures on academic career progression and reward and an annual
 appraisals process, Academic Review. During AR all staff review research goals with a trained
 colleague and discuss the support needed to meet them. Progression panels annually consider
 applications for promotion, discretionary and accelerated increments for all staff, including fixed-
 term and part-time staff. All staff are automatically informed of the procedure each year and
 Deans and Heads of Department actively encourage applications from those showing
 exceptional levels of performance. Since 2014, four colleagues in the UoA have been promoted
 to Professor, seven to Reader and two to Senior Lecturer.
 In keeping with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, all academic
 staff have access to the Department of Learning and Organisational Development’s career
 development programme and to the academic career-building seminars offered by the Birkbeck
 Institute for the Humanities and the Birkbeck Institute of Social Research.
 2.1.2 Effectiveness of the unit’s staffing and recruitment policy
 There is a recognised crisis in modern languages in the UK (from A Languages Crisis?: (HEPI
 Report 123) “only 32 per cent of 15-to-30-year olds from the UK can read and write in two or
 more languages (including their first language). This is less than half the level in the second-
 placed EU country (71 per cent in Hungary), and far behind France (79 per cent), Germany (91
 per cent) and Denmark (99 per cent”)).
 The unit has returned 21.7 FTE, only slight lower than for REF2014 (25.4 FTE). With
 appointments pending, we expect a higher FTE return for the next census period. Our staffing
 strategy has been to further increase the scale and reach of our research through the
 appointment of excellent staff in key strategic areas, specifically Language/TESOL, English
 Language and Linguistics and Japanese Studies. In general, to enhance the sustainability of the
 UoA, and in recognition of the need for new ideas to refresh our research environment, we have
 prioritised the appointment of junior staff to replace outgoing senior members. New staff have all
 been appointed on long-term contracts.
 Post-REF21, we will consolidate and further expand our expertise in Japanese Studies and will
 look to develop Global Englishes, Global South Studies and Latin American cultures through
 further strategic appointments.
 2.1.3 Support for individuals at the beginning of their career
 All new appointees receive induction and training, including the opportunity to gain a
 Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education. During their first three years they are assigned a
 research mentor (who advises, e.g. on developing their publication and grant application
 strategies) alongside a probation advisor (who advises on their academic career more broadly).
 Probationary staff are given lighter teaching and administrative loads. New colleagues are
 encouraged to present their research at UoA Research Days and to contribute to the
 development of the unit’s research strategies.
 2.1.4 Sabbatical leave policy
 The College recognises that research requires dedicated time away from other academic
 responsibilities and is committed to providing research leave and to encouraging academics to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gain research grants. All academic staff are entitled to one term’s study leave after nine terms of
 service. Those who take on substantial roles at School level (e.g. Head of Department) have
 three terms of leave after three years of service. All eligible colleagues have taken leave during
 the census period. Staff can also apply to the School of Arts Research Committee for funding to
 support a short period of leave to complete large funding bids, e.g. from the AHRC, Leverhulme
 Trust, Horizon2020, Wellcome Trust or ERC. Colleagues have used (or have active plans to
 use) this support to develop applications for AHRC Networks and Leverhulme International
 Networks.
 2.1.5 Exchanges between academia, business, industry or public or third sector bodies
 AND 2.1.6 Support for impact
 The departmental Research Leads advise all staff on research grants and impact activities,
 including the strategic use of internal funds to support them:
    ●   an annual £700 School research fund for each member of staff;
    ●   an annual opportunity to top up that fund with up to £1,200 (CL) or £2000 (ALC) through
        a competitive application to the School; these funds support not only research trips and
        conferences but also pilot projects and environment activities;
    ●   a College Impact Seed Fund, with up to £10,000 available per UoA;
    ●   a competitive alumni-funded Research Innovation Fund accepting applications for up to
        £5,000 as seed-funding for new projects;
    ●   the Birkbeck Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF), supporting
        activities within medical humanities.
 Vessey and Lou have received awards from the Research Innovation Fund and funding from the
 Impact Seed Fund has supported our REF2021 case studies.
 The School Impact Officer is a dedicated post to provide specific advice to academics about
 developing knowledge exchange links with external bodies (including how to set up staff
 exchanges) and delivering impacts from research.
 2.2 Research students
 2.2.1 Recruitment of doctoral research students
 Birkbeck’s mission is to provide an inclusive learning environment for students from diverse
 social and educational backgrounds, most of whom balance study and work or other family
 commitments. Since 2014, there have been within the unit a total of 51 PhD awards and the size
 of our PhD student cohort has grown by 4% over this census period, something we are
 particularly proud of given the pressures on our subject area nationally. Our PhD student body is
 diverse in terms of their national origins. Within our current cohort we have 22 international and
 18 EU students.
 2.2.2 Funding
 CL has an excellent track record of successful AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards, including
 the V&A, the Royal Society, and the Pitt Rivers Museum at Oxford, which aligns with our
 objective to enhance collaborative research with non-academic organisations. In addition, the
 studentship with the Pitt Rivers Museum is also a practice-based PhD, an area of planned
 expansion. We have obtained Sasakawa PG studentships for Japanese Studies, and hosted
 PhD students with scholarships from Chile, Brazil and Portugal.
 Three of ALC’s PhD students were awarded six-month Postdoctoral fellowships funded through
 the College’s Wellcome ISSF award (the Institutional Strategic Support Fund – awarded by
 Wellcome to the ca. 30 institutions it awards most funding to). One student received a three-year
 postdoctoral Fellowship from the British Academy and two others obtained three-year
 postdoctoral Fellowships (University of Mannheim and Chalmers University of Technology in
 Gothenburg).



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Following Birkbeck’s entry as a full member of the CHASE consortium in 2018/19, the UoA has
 been able to put forward PhD applicants to the CHASE Doctoral Training Studentship
 Programme.
 2.2.3 Monitoring and support mechanisms; progression and completion
 Students follow their School’s induction programme, consisting of research seminars, research
 skills workshops, critical theory sessions and lectures. Alongside regular meetings with their
 supervisor, students have a yearly progress interview with two colleagues outside their
 supervisory team who report to the Postgraduate Director any measures needed to facilitate
 progress. The upgrading procedure from MPhil to PhD (requiring 20k words plus a complete
 thesis outline and bibliography) provides another point at which to identify progression problems
 and put remedial measures in place.
 The unit offers PhD students subject-specific training. CL runs two fortnightly research seminars.
 One seminar, led by staff members, is thematically and theoretically informed, so as to
 familiarize students with key debates in the field beyond individual research projects. Each year
 staff and students choose a theme, most recently: ‘Revolution’, ‘Myth’, ‘Crisis’, ‘Empire’,
 ‘Migration’ and ‘Time’. The second seminar is student-led. Students give presentations and get
 feedback and support from staff and peers. Students also organise an annual Postgraduate
 Research Conference to present work-in-progress, one of the highlights of the year, extending
 their research expertise and adding vibrancy to the departments’ research environment. ALC
 PhD students present their research at bimonthly seminars. These are attended by staff and
 academic visitors from across the world who also present their work. Since 2014, these included
 4 visiting MA students, 15 visiting PhD students and 12 visiting Scholars.
 We are committed to offering training and experience in teaching. Before teaching, students take
 our bespoke courses 'Teaching the Arts in Higher Education' and/or ‘Teaching Languages in
 Higher Education’.
 Since 2018, the unit has increased its emphasis on employability and on providing guidance to
 students looking for employment after their studies. They can attend a variety of events such as
 general skills for job applications, discussion panels with alumni, employers and recruitment
 agents in sectors relevant to the Arts, Creative and Education industries, and information
 sessions for international students wanting to work in the UK / students interested in working
 abroad, in addition to the standard offers from our careers service.
 CL students received support for fieldwork and to attend conferences from CILAVS, Santander,
 the Society of Latin American Studies) and Birkbeck’s extraordinary research expenses funds.
 They were also granted the following prestigious awards in the census period: Guest
 Researcher at the Ibero-Amerikanisches Institut in Berlin, an AHRC International Fellowship at
 the Harry Ransom Center of the University of Texas at Austin and a Leverhulme Trust Study
 Abroad Studentship.
 In addition, CL students have contributed actively to the School of Arts’ broader research
 environment, through (for example) organization of events during Arts Week (and a Peltz Gallery
 internship. Most ALC students have presented their research in conferences sponsored by the
 departmental incentive fund, the SSHP Postgraduate Support Fund and the Martha C.
 Pennington fund (3-year funding scheme, so far about 10 PhD students were funded to present
 at national and international conferences). The Department hosts one student funded by the
 Council of At-Risk Academics (CARA). Many research students have also published research
 papers and book reviews jointly with their supervisors or as single authors.
 The student-led Birkbeck College Applied Linguistics Society organise regular social and
 academic events (such as walking, quizzes, fund-raising for charities working with translators,
 helping out with Linguistics Olympiad marking) to enrich the students’ experience. In
 collaboration with staff (McEntee-Atalianis), they won the national ‘Giving Back Award’ in 2019’s
 WhatUni Student Choice Awards for their ‘Lives in Translation’ campaign in support of
 interpreters and translators who work in high-risk settings.
 The available research skills training and resources are enhanced by our DTP memberships: the
 unit has been part of the AHRC Consortium for the Humanities and the Arts South-East England

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (CHASE) DTP since 2018, adding to the training and resources available via the relevant
 linguistics pathway in the ESRC DTP programme in operation in the period (the Bloomsbury
 DTP until 2016, the UBEL consortium since then). Examples of training provided include the
 CHASE-supported ‘Eighteenth-Century Femininities’, a one-day workshop led by Birkbeck
 (Lewis) in collaboration with the University of Kent, the two-day symposium ‘Thinking Home’,
 organized by Birkbeck (Petrić) and hosted by Essex University, and a one-day workshop on
 ‘Researching Interculturally’ led by Birkbeck (Petrić, Zhu Hua) in collaboration with Goldsmiths
 and Sussex.
 Birkbeck Graduate Research School also coordinates a programme of generic training for PhD
 students with over 1500 registrations each year. BGRS provides a Moodle site with an overview
 of these training opportunities as well as online video resources such as Linkedin learning. In
 order to identify initial training priorities, students carry out Training Needs Analysis beginning at
 the start of Term One each year. These opportunities are in addition to the long-established
 Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, which offers enhanced access to training within
 universities in the Bloomsbury area.
 Students from the unit are actively encouraged to take up these many different training
 opportunities and each supervisor is responsible for ensuring that their student has the most
 appropriate skills training for their research and future career.
 2.3 Equality and diversity
 The UoA has a diverse staff body including 16 women and 9 men, with 5 out of 6 professors
 being female, and the majority are of non-British origin, including 14 different nationalities and a
 variety of ethnicities.
 We are committed to the College’s Equal Opportunity and Diversity Statement in relation to our
 staff and student body. Birkbeck holds an institutional Athena SWAN award at Bronze level, and
 is also a Disability Confident Employer, a Mindful Employer Charter signatory, and a Stonewall
 Diversity Champion and holds the HR Excellence in Research Award, which monitors and
 supports our implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Each School has an Assistant Dean for Equalities who leads on equality and
 diversity issues, supporting the embedding of institutional equality initiatives, as well as
 developing and implementing local equality initiatives. The College has also established five
 Diversity100 PhD studentships for BAME students, one per School, for studies beginning in
 autumn 2020.
 Within the unit we are committed to promoting women in leadership, attending the programme
 Aurora: Women into Leadership Roles, an initiative by the Leadership Foundation for Higher
 Education aimed at addressing the under-representation of women at senior levels in the sector.
 Departments also have Disability Coordinators who work with Assistant Deans for Equality to
 ensure equality of experience for staff and students.
 We are strongly committed to decolonising the curriculum, this being a regular item on
 Departmental Teaching Day agendas, where we share best practice of our research-led
 teaching. We bring to the classroom critical thinking on the Western canon, dominated by Anglo-
 American scholarship, debating concepts such as ‘epistemic freedom’, ‘provincialisation’,
 ‘deprovincialisation’, and ‘epistemological decolonisation’, among others. In our PhD student
 research forum, we regularly include readings by authors outside the Western canon, while a
 focus on equality and diversity in relation to disability, gender and sexuality informs the syllabus.
 Our work in this area will be enhanced by the visit of Leverhulme Visiting Professor Jerome
 Branche in 2022-23, who will teach MA and BA modules on Afro-Hispanic and Caribbean
 literature, as well as lead a cross-college workshop on decolonising the curriculum. Colleagues
 also attend the new School of Arts’ Decolonial Pedagogies Reading Group to explore and share
 difficulties and good practice in order to ensure an inclusive curriculum and research practice.
 In constructing the REF submission, including the selection of outputs, the Department has
 implemented the policies laid out in the College’s Code of Practice, to ensure that due regard
 has been paid to potential issues around equality and diversity.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 At the start of this census period, the unit acknowledged a historic issue with our approach to
 generating research income, which had led to a 0% success rate for grant applications
 submitted in 11/12 and 13/14 and only one successful application in 12/13.
 Our focus for this census period was therefore to build capacity and capability, focussing on
 application quality rather than on substantially increasing application numbers in the first
 instance. Our strategies to drive up quality included: peer mentoring of grant applications,
 drawing in expertise across the Schools where necessary to have experience with a given
 funder; mentoring for junior colleagues to help them identify fundable projects and complete
 grant applications (including the strategic use of internal funding opportunities, internal funding
 competitions still being highly competitive but providing the opportunity for detailed feedback at
 every stage as a learning opportunity); access to a School of Arts database of successful
 funding applications and the support of a dedicated School Research Manager and access to
 funding for teaching buy-out to allow time for completing grant applications (see above).
 The strategy’s success is demonstrated by our 46% success rate in 18/19, including the
 following successes with major funders:
    •   ‘Drawing together: the visual archive of expeditionary fieldwork’ (Leverhulme Research
        Fellowship);
    •   ‘Digital repatriation of biocultural collections: connecting scientific and indigenous
        communities of knowledge in Amazonia’ (British Academy Knowledge Frontiers award);
    •   ‘Family Language Policy: A Multi-level Investigation of Multilingual Practices in
        Transnational Families’ (ESRC);
    •   ‘Translation and translanguaging: investigating linguistic and cultural transformation in
        superdiverse wards in four UK cities’ (AHRC);
    •   ‘To Act, to Know, to Be’ (Leverhulme Trust).
 We have also had success in funding applications to smaller UK and global bodies, including:
    •   ‘Japanese Transnational Cinema’ (Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation, £3K, 2018-20;
        Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation, £1K, 2019);
    •   ‘Increasing the visibility of linguistic diversity in an international school’ (British
        Association for Applied Linguistics, £3K, 2018-19);
    •   ‘Capacity building for developing standardized and computerized speech and language
        assessment tools in China’ (Academy of Medical Sciences, £6K, 2019-21);
    •   ‘Calligraphic Forms: Japanese Writing in the French imagination’ (Japan Foundation,
        £3K, 2019-21);
    •   ‘Measuring the impact of watching video fragments in English as a foreign language’
        (Euronews, £26K, 2016-17);
    •   ‘Migration, host-country language learning and the influence of global English’ (Swedish
        Research Council, £5K, 2019-22);
    •   ‘Which vocabulary factors are crucial for assessment & development of successful
        second language speech?’ (Kansai University, Japan, £8K, 2018-19);
    •   ‘Introducing Video-Based Interaction Activities into British Students Learning Japanese
        as a Foreign Language’ (Japan Foundation, £8K, 2017-18).
 CL also obtained funding for a visiting researcher in Japanese Studies through the SRUK/CERU
 International Mobility Programme “On the Move” 2019-20.
 Building on these successful foundations, our strategy for the next census period will be to
 increase the size of award and the number of types of funder we apply to, driving up the number
 of applications whilst maintaining the quality and approach we have developed in this census
 period.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure support
 The School of Arts employs a School Research Manager who liaises with academic staff to
 identify funding opportunities, supports funding applications and oversees the day-to-day
 financial running of projects post award. The SRM works closely with the School Impact Officer
 who directly supports academics to build and maintain relationships with stakeholders and can
 provide advice about follow-on funding opportunities and how effectively to engage the public
 and stakeholders with the research. This local support is in addition to that provided by the
 College Research Office, which is responsible for assessing funders’ terms and conditions,
 costing research, obtaining institutional approval for applications to be submitted, contract
 negotiation, post-award financial reporting as well as questions of research governance and
 evaluation more broadly defined.
 Our research centres and study groups help to manage research and drive research agendas,
 embedding our staff, postdoctoral and PGR students in vibrant research communities. The
 College’s infrastructure has enabled their development as recognized and funded entities
 outside of the departmental/School structure, facilitating the development of research clusters
 across the UoA and beyond in areas that are key to the development of our research. Each of
 these groupings – CILAVS, BRAKC, CMMR and The Eighteenth-Century Research Group – has
 been, and will continue to be, central to the consolidation and expansion of the unit’s research
 as well as to the achievement of our strategic aims for research and impact.
 In addition to directing these research centres, staff members actively participate in steering
 committees and advisory boards for research across the College, including the Centre for
 Museum Cultures (Martins), the History and Theory of Photography Research Centre (Martins),
 Peltz Gallery (Martins), Birkbeck Institute of the Moving Image – BIMI (Balibrea, Centeno, Lou),
 the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities (Walker), the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research
 (Gardner-Chloros, Petrić) and the Birkbeck Knowledge Lab (Martins), and in emerging hubs of
 interest, for example the Cities research cluster (Balibrea, Lou), the ‘Home and Exile’ working
 group (Petrić), and the big data network (Birkbeck Institute for Data Analytics; Vessey).
 3.3 Research Facilities
 Full- and part-time staff have offices in dedicated School spaces across Birkbeck’s Bloomsbury
 campus. Computer facilities and meeting spaces are also available for PhD students.
 Our Bloomsbury location allows access to many relevant research collections. The British
 Library, the collections of the former Institute of Germanic Studies, the Institute of Historical
 Research, the German Historical Institute, the Wiener Library and The Leo Baeck Institute are all
 close.
 The School of Arts research facilities, such as the Peltz Gallery, Birkbeck Cinema, and the
 Derek Jarman Lab, have enabled the unit to engage effectively in public-facing activities and
 have supported impact in many fields, as described in the section below. The College’s External
 Relations team and the School/departmental Events Coordinators and Web and Digital Editor
 help to organise and disseminate the work of the centres, providing invaluable support for our
 research and impact strategies.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 # This list of collaborations and contributions is selective, designed to communicate the range
 and quality of research activities across the unit.
 4.1 Research networks and collaborative projects
 All staff participate in research networks and collaborative projects within and beyond our
 institution, in the UK and internationally. Our research centres play a key role in supporting many
 of these collaborations. Significant examples include: Balibrea: ‘Asociación de Estudios Manuel
 Vázquez Montalbán’ (Founding member and president,); Centeno: ‘Japanese Transnational
 Cinema’ network (funded by Daiwa Foundation and Sasakawa Foundation, PI) and ‘Projekts
 Yasujirô Ozu und der westliche Film’ (Goethe-Universität Frankfurt, partner); Dewaele: the EU-

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded COST Action ‘Study Abroad Research in European Perspective’, COST Action ‘New
 Speakers in a Multilingual Europe: Opportunities and Challenges’ and ‘Migration, host-country
 language learning (the UK rep on the Management Committee), and the influence of global
 English’ funded by Swedish Research Council (partner); Lewis: ‘Illustratio’ network, France;
 Lorch: ‘The values of French language and literature in the European Middle Ages’ funded by
 European Research Council Advanced Grant (Interdisciplinary Member of Seminar and Advisory
 Steering Committee); Petrić : COST Action European Literacy Network ‘Strengthening
 Europeans' capabilities by establishing the European literacy network’ (Leader of the Academic
 Literacies research team); Trindade: ‘Modern Mediations’ research online, Institute for
 Contemporary History, New University of Lisbon and ‘Culture, Identity and Power’ Institute for
 Contemporary History, New University of Lisbon; Wourm: ‘European researchers on the
 Aesthetics of Community’; Zhu Hua: the AHRC-funded ‘Translation and Translanguaging:
 Investigating Linguistic and Cultural Transformations in Superdiverse Wards in Four UK Cities’
 (a collaboration between four UK universities, CI); the ESRC-funded ‘Family Language Policy: A
 Multi-Level Investigation of Multilingual Practices in Transnational Families’ (a collaboration
 between three UK universities, CI); the GCRF Networking Grants funded by Academy of Medical
 Science ‘Capacity building for developing standardised and computerised speech and language
 assessment tools in China’ (in collaboration with University of Nottingham Ningbo China, the UK
 PI).
 We have been awarded a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship for Prof Jerome Branche
 (University of Pittsburgh; delayed to 2022-23 because of the Covid-19 pandemic) to extend our
 expertise in Afro-Hispanic America and Caribbean Studies.
 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences and wider
 contributions to the economy and society
 We have also developed relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences through
 our work with public institutions such as museums and exhibition spaces, including Kew
 Gardens (Martins), Lychee One Gallery (Zhu Hua), British Museum (Weber), Museu Nacional
 Centro de Arte Reina Sofía in Madrid (Balibrea), as well as public festivals e.g. Chelsea Flower
 Show (Lorch), Bloomsbury Festival (Zhu Hua & Lorch), Essex Book Festival (Petrić), and Poplar
 Union (Lou).
 We have engaged with other key stakeholders, making wider contributions to the economy and
 society: government organisations e.g. computer-assisted text analysis in detection of Islamist
 extremists for police (Vessey); educational institutions such as international schools funded by
 the BAAL Applying Linguistics Fund (Lou); cultural and community organizations, including
 Polish community organisations (Zhu Hua); and NGOs.
 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 A significant contribution has been made by the (co-)organization of conference, symposia,
 roundtables and workshops which also evidence the extent of our collaborations with UK and
 international partners within and beyond HE, as well as the significant role our research centres
 play in the sustainability of the discipline.
 2014: ‘The Bloomsbury Round Table on Communication, Cognition and Culture annual
 conference’ (2014-2018, CMMR); ‘Adapting the Canon’ (Lewis, MHRA/IMLR); ‘The British in
 Brazil’ (Martins, Birkbeck); ‘The Carnation Revolution between African Anti-Colonialism and
 European Rebellion’ (Trindade, Birkbeck).
 2015: ‘Celebrating 50 years of Applied Linguistics at Birkbeck’ (ALC); ‘Portraiture and the
 Unworthy Subject in the Early Modern World’ (Fracchia, University of East Anglia); ‘Migrants and
 Language’ (Gardner-Chloros, McEntee-Atalianis, Birkbeck); ‘Digital Amazon’ (Martins, Kew
 Gardens); ‘Thinking Home’ (Petrić, University of Essex); ‘When were the 1980s?’ (Trindade,
 New University of Lisbon).
 2016: Bilingual Therapist & Interpreter Forum’ (2016- ongoing, Dewaele, Costa, Birkbeck); ‘Have
 You Heard...? Navigating the Interstices Between Public and Private Knowledge' (Lewis,
 MHRA/IMLR); Bloomsbury Round Table: ‘Multilingualism, Multiculturalism and Emotion’
 (Dewaele, Birkbeck); ‘Picturing the Eighteenth-Century Novel Through Time: Illustration,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Intermediality and Adaptation’ (Lewis, British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies); 'Mobilising
 the Value of Biocultural Collections in Brazil’ (Martins, Jardim Botânico do Rio de Janeiro).
 2017: ‘Border Subjects/ Hispanisms’ (Fracchia, Birkbeck); ‘Telling object stories: film, peoples
 and plants in the Amazon’ (Martins, Birkbeck); ‘Landscapes of Abandonment’ (Martins,
 Birkbeck); ‘Language Policy & Planning in Multilingual Organisations: Exploring Language
 Regimes’ (McEntee-Atalianis, Birkbeck); ‘Language, the Sustainable Development Goals, and
 Vulnerable Populations’ (McEntee-Atalianis, UN, New York); ‘9th biennial conference of
 the ‘European Association for the Teaching of Academic Writing’ (Petrić, Royal Holloway);
 ‘Inaugural symposium of the BAAL SIG: Professional, Academic and Work-Based
 Literacies’(Petrić, Open University); ‘Beyond National History’ (Trindade, New University of
 Lisbon); ‘Corpus Linguistics and Multilingualism’ (Vessey, Birkbeck).
 2018: The Michel Blanc Annual Lecture in Applied Linguistics (2018-ongoing, ALC);
 'Transatlantic Spain: The Afro-Hispanic Experience of Slavery and Freedom’ (Fracchia,
 Birkbeck); ); Bloomsbury Round Table: ‘Individual differences in Second Language Acquisition’
 (Dewaele, Birkbeck); ‘Plantae Amazonicae: art, ethnobotany and biocultural artefacts’ (Martins,
 Birkbeck); ‘The Politics of Memory of the Last European Empire’ (Trindade, Birkbeck); ‘Global
 68’ (Trindade, Institute for Contemporary History - ICH, Lisbon).
 2019: ‘História da Cultura em Portugal no século XX (Trindade, ICH, Biblioteca Nacional,
 Lisbon); ‘Michaël Ferrier’ (Kawakami & Wourm, Birkbeck); ‘Signs of Urban Change’ symposium
 (Lou, Birkbeck); ‘Reanimating collections, sharing knowledges’ (Martins, Birkbeck); ‘Digital
 Repatriation of Biocultural Collections’ (Martins, Kew Gardens); ‘The United Nations at 75:
 Listening, Talking and Taking Action in a Multilingual World’ (McEntee-Atalianis, New York);
 ‘Japanese Transnational Cinema’ (Centeno, Waseda University; Birkbeck); ‘Depicting Donbas:
 creative and critical responses to the war in Ukraine’ (Wourm, Birkbeck).
 2020: ‘Engaging with Multilingualism in Psychotherapy’ (Dewaele); ‘Transnationality in Japanese
 Screen Image: People, Culture, Society’ (Centeno, Birkbeck); ‘Study Group of Language & the
 UN conference 2020: Language and Migration: Experience & Memory’ (McEntee-Atalianis, New
 York and Princeton); ‘Signs of Urban Change’ (Lou, Birkbeck).
 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Staff serve on journal editorial boards across the disciplinary range of the UoA.
 They act as editor/associate editor/book review editor for: International Journal of Bilingual
 Education and Bilingualism; Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development (Dewaele);
 Cortex; History of Neurosciences Topic/Frontiers in Neuroanatomy (Lorch); Linguistic
 Landscape: An International Journal (Lou); Language Problems and Language Planning
 (McEntee-Atalianis); Journal of English for Academic Purposes (Petrić); Applied Linguistics (Zhu
 Hua); German as a Foreign Language (Leal).
 Staff also serve as editorial board members for 44 journals, including Journal of Spanish Cultural
 Studies; MVM: Cuadernos de Estudios Manuel Vázquez Montalbán; Journal of Romance
 Studies; International Journal of Iberian Studies; Journal of Urban Cultural Studies; Bulletin of
 Hispanic Studies (Balibrea); Revista de Antropología Visual; Revista Digital de Iconografía
 Medieval; Archivo Ibero-Americano (Fracchia); Contracampo: Brazilian Journal of
 Communication (Martins); Placencia: Studies in Hispanic and Lusophone Linguistics; Applied
 Pragmatics; Revista Estudios Discurso Digital; Sociocultural Pragmatics; International Journal of
 Spanish Linguistics; Journal of Pragmatics; Linguistics Applied; International Journal of
 Linguistics and Applied Linguistics; Euroamerican Journal of Applied Linguistics and Languages
 (Placencia); International Journal of Multilingualism; AILA Review; Estudios de Linguistica
 Inglesa Aplicada; Vigo International Journal of Applied Linguistics VIAL; Canadian Modern
 Language Review; International Journal of Language and Culture; International Multilingual
 Research Journal; Russian Journal of Linguistics; IAFOR Journal of Education; Journal for the
 Psychology of Language Learning; Journal of the European Second Language Association
 (Dewaele); Historiographia Linguistica; Journal of the History of the Neurosciences (Lorch);
 Language and Society, Language in Society; Sociolinguistic Studies; Cahiers de l’AFLS (Journal
 of the Association of French Language Studies) (Gardner-Chloros); Journal of International

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students (Petrić); TESOL Quarterly; Language Teaching Research; International Journal of
 Applied Linguistics; Journal of Second Language Pronunciation (Saito); Contrastive Pragmatics,
 Language, Culture; Society, Language, Culture and Curriculum; Chinese Language and
 Discourse; Chinese as a Second Language Research (Zhu Hua).
 Staff are editors/co-editors of 10 book series: EUROSLA Yearbook, Language Acts and
 Worldmaking Book Series (Dewaele); Book Practices and Textual Itineraries, PUN, Presses
 Universitaires de Lorraine and MHRA New Translations and European Translations series
 (Lewis); Advances in Pragmatics and Discourse Analysis, Cambridge Scholar Publishing and
 Monografias IULMA- Instituto Interuniversitario de Lenguas Modernas Aplicadas de la
 Comunidad Valenciana (Placencia); Bithell Series of Dissertations, IMLR (Walker and Richards);
 Routledge Series on Language and Intercultural Communication and Cambridge Key Topics in
 Applied Linguistics, Cambridge Elements (Zhu Hua); International Exchanges on the Study of
 Writing book series by the WAC Clearinghouse/Parlor Press (Petrić).
 In addition to presenting papers in 60 international conferences, CL members of staff have been
 invited to give over 90 keynote lectures and plenary talks. Among them were: Balibrea
 (Jornades La Cultura que ve, Fundació Miró, Barcelona, 2017); Catani ('Héritages' conference,
 University of Saint Andrews, 2015); Fracchia (Facultad de Letras y Filosofía, Universidad
 Nacional Autónoma de Mexico-UNAM, Mexico, 2015); Kawakami (University of Tokyo, Tokyo,
 2015); Martins (Visualising the Americas, University of Kent's Third Annual Americanist
 Symposium, 2019); Placencia (1st Symposium on Ecuadorian Spanish. University of Guelph,
 Guelph, Canada, 2018); Trindade (Política, Poder Estatal y Constructión de la Historia del Arte
 después de 1945, Conferência, Museu Reina Sofia, Madrid, 2015); Wourm (Contemporary
 French Poetic Practice: An Interdisciplinary Approach, the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific
 Institution, 2014). ALC members of staff gave more than 85 keynote and invited lectures at
 international conferences and high-profile events; e.g. Dewaele (Annual Conference of the
 British Association of Applied Linguistics, Cambridge, 2016; International Symposium on
 Bilingualism 11, Limerick, 2017); Lorch (International Society of the History of the
 Neurosciences, Cleveland, USA, 2018); Lou (Sociolinguistics Symposium, SS23, Hong Kong,
 2020); McEntee-Atalianis (My Story My Words: A Symposium on language, migration and
 culture in Ireland. NUI Galway, 2017); Saito (International Conference on Best Practices and
 Innovations in Education, İzmir, Turkey, 2017); Vessey (ILPE 4 - Les idéologies linguistiques
 dans la presse écrite: l'exemple des langues romanes, Messina, Italy, 2019), Zhu Hua (Biennial
 conference of Nordic Association of Chinese Studies, Aarhus, Denmark, 2017).
 Colleagues received the following prizes and awards: Centeno: Kokoro Journal Prize for the
 Dissemination of Japanese Culture (2014 and 2018); Best full-length documentary awarded by
 National Museum of Anthropology and CSIC, The Spanish National Research Council (2014);
 Best Film, Category of “Human Rights”, FICVI, Puebla, México (2014); Best Director of a
 Foreign Film, Zlatna Ethnographic Film Festival, Romania (2014); Audience Award, Clam
 Festival, Barcelona (2014), Special Mention, Intimate Lens Film Documentary, Caserta, Italy
 (2014); Dewaele: Robert C. Gardner Award for Excellence in Second Language and
 Bilingualism Research from the International Association of Language and Social Psychology
 (2016); Best paper prize, Journal of the European Second Language Association (2017);
 Excellent Research Paper award by Renmin University of China, Beijing (2019); Birkbeck Public
 Engagement for Engaged Practice Award (2018, special commendation); Martins: Birkbeck
 Public Engagement for Engaged Practice Award (2018); Gold Standard Letter in recognition of
 outstanding contributions to the AHRC Peer Review College (2019); Walker: DAAD Visiting
 Scholarship, Marc Bloch Centre for Intercultural Communication (2018); Zhu Hua: Fellowship of
 the Academy of Social Sciences.
 Colleagues are members of peer review colleges and learned societies nationally and
 internationally, including: AHRC Peer Review College (Balibrea, Martins, Petrić); AHRC
 Strategic Review Panel (Martins, Zhu Hua); ESRC Peer Review College (Dewaele, Zhu Hua);
 The Nuffield Foundation (Dewaele), Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (Dewaele), The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Dewaele), Fonds
 voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, Belgium (Dewaele), Hong Kong Humanities and Social
 Sciences Panel of the Research Grants Council (McEntee-Atalianis, Zhu Hua); UoA 26 Modern

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 languages and Linguistics, REF 2021 (Lorch); CONICYT Chile (Placencia); German Academic
 Exchange Service - DAAD (Centeno, Leal, Michels); University Professors and Heads of French
 (Kawakami).
 Colleagues participate in the following associations: International Association for the
 Psychology of Language Learning (Scholarships and Awards Officer, Dewaele); International
 Association of Multilingualism (Former president, Dewaele); The International Academic Forum
 (IAFOR) (advisory board member, Dewaele); the AILA Research Network Multilingualism
 (convenor, Dewaele); Modern Humanities Research Association (Conference Grants Officer,
 Lewis); Henry Sweet Society for the History of Linguistic Ideas (Executive Board, Lorch);
 International Society for the History of the Neurosciences (Executive Board, Lorch); Learned
 Societies and Subject Associations Network, British Academy (Representative, Lorch); Institute
 of Modern Languages Research, School of Advanced Studies, University of London (Advisory
 Board, Lorch); University Council of General and Applied Linguistics (Board member, Lorch; Zhu
 Hua); Archive, Library and Museum, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery (Co-
 opted Member of the Board, Lorch); Linguistic Ethnography Forum, BAAL (Network Manager,
 Lou); SIG Professional, Academic and Work-Based Literacies, British Association for Applied
 Linguistics (Board member and Treasurer, Petrić); European Association for the Teaching of
 Academic Writing (Deputy Chair, Petrić); Communauté des Chercheurs sur la Communauté
 (Executive member, Wourm); British Association of Canadian Studies (Council member,
 Vessey); British Association of Applied Linguistics (Executive Committee member, Zhu Hua).




                                                                                        Page 15
