Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University

 Unit of assessment: 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure
 At Bath Spa University the disciplines of Communication, Cultural and Media Studies play a
 hugely significant role in enabling industries and communities to rethink the media as a force
 for social change. The Centre for Media Research, itself this unit’s structural mechanism for
 enabling our research and impact strategy, instils precisely this philosophy in its approach to
 research excellence and innovation. Based in the School of Creative Industries and comprising
 staff from its subject areas of Film, Media and Creative Computing, the Centre puts film, media
 and computing at the heart of social, community and environmental dynamics that affect daily
 life. Its core membership of 17 staff brings together media artists and researchers, filmmakers,
 game and app developers, and well as researchers from Sociology, Theatre and Heritage.
 Structurally, research strategy in the unit is led by Freeman as UoA Leader, with Tweed and
 Freeman as Co-Directors of the Centre for Media Research. Farrar and Levy act as Public
 Engagement Champions for the unit, with Steele leading on work-in-progress initiatives.
 Research strategy
 The unit’s research strategy until 2030 focuses around the development of excellence and
 innovation in socially-engaged media research. We aim to creatively rethink what film, media
 and computing can achieve in diverse communities, driving forward innovative approaches to
 collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement, and community/industry impact.
 Since 2014, we have evolved our previous areas of research strength – cultural experience,
 creative practice, and social contexts – into three new areas of strategic interdisciplinary focus:
 Digital Ecologies, Film & Social Context, and Play & Multiplatform. These three themes
 have been transformed into active, operational research clusters within the Centre for Media
 Research, structuring the research activity of our established and early career researchers.
 The Digital Ecologies cluster, led by Tweed, comprises the experimental work of 4 staff (Clark,
 Manton, Tweed, Wilkins), and develops practice-based research interrogating the
 environmental and social conditions of contemporary digital culture. The cluster explores the
 connection between the physical and the virtual using experimental arts practices and creative
 technologies (see Impact Case Study UoA34-1 NET). The Film & Social Context cluster, led
 by Farrar, brings together the work of 7 staff (Brown, Cresswell, Farrar, Feasey, Levy, Steele,
 Turner), and aims to creatively examine contemporary transnational questions of gender,
 community and culture. Seeking to unearth the sorts of representations that go beyond the
 reach of the mass media, such as research into small national cinemas and diversity across
 the global film industry, researchers in this cluster also explore the shifting relationships
 between such representations and the art of filmmaking, translating social content via
 documentary and environmental film practice. The Play & Multiplatform cluster, led by
 Freeman, brings together 6 staff (Curry, Freeman, Hobbs, Newman, Scott, White), and
 concentrates on innovative, community-targeted multiplatform and game-centric media
 strategies. This cluster explores the creative and technological opportunities arising from
 participatory and playable convergences between multiplatform storytelling and gameplay
 interfaces, between social media channels, story apps and mobile media, for example in multi-
 media histories (see Impact Case Study 2 UoA34-2 MMH).
 Supporting interdisciplinarity
 Our approach to supporting interdisciplinary research is shaped by our established areas of
 excellence in videogames, gender and representation, metal studies and transmedia studies,
 and our emerging areas of creative practice innovation, such as experimental media arts. In


Page 1
 effect, our unique approach to facilitating interdisciplinarity across theory and practice enables
 colleagues to do the kind of creative research that they would not be able to do otherwise.
 For example, emerging out of the Film & Social Context research cluster was the Infertility, the
 Media and Me project (2018-19). Here, Levy and Farrar responded to Feasey’s monograph
 dealing with representations of (in)fertility in the media (2019) by exploring how participatory
 documentary methods can reveal new ways of engaging with this social issue. Producing a
 short film and participant-led video diaries that screened at Fertility Fest 2018, the research
 evidenced a change in perception for how (in)fertility is represented in the media. Based on this
 work, Scott has partnered with MyFertilityMatters, a social enterprise devoted to raising
 awareness for infertility. This will augment the work of Feasey, Levy and Farrar even further, in
 this case by developing an app-based game for child audiences that aims to improve fertility
 education. The entire project was captured in a curated special issue of In Media Res in 2020.
 Interdisciplinarity is further enabled via the Centre for Media Research’s structured working
 relationships with the University-wide Strategic Research Centres, including the Centre for
 Environmental Humanities. Tweed is on this Centre’s steering group, allowing him to facilitate
 interdisciplinary collaboration between researchers interested in media-engaged environmental
 humanities. The activity is structured through the biennial Digital Ecologies symposia series,
 co-hosted by the Centre for Media Research and the Centre for Environmental Humanities.
 The Digital Ecologies symposia series exemplifies our cutting-edge interdisciplinary approach
 to exploring relationships between contemporary digital technologies and human life, bringing
 together researchers from across the fields of digital media, environment humanities, and art
 and design practice to explore the role of creative practice in critiquing today’s digital cultures.
 For example, Tweed’s research combines approaches from the field of art to explore ideas of
 post-humanism, integrating reflexive references to populist genre cinema, experimental essay
 film, and ecology theory, which altogether lead to new insights for the field of digital ecologies.
 Similarly, Feasey’s research combines gender studies from media communications with
 scientific medical literature to develop new understandings of the role of media in wider social
 dynamics. Elsewhere, White has developed a social media-led walking-arts practice – bringing
 digital media and heritage together as a new form of social justice intervention, developing
 participatory tools for enhancing resonance with local heritage (see ICS UoA34-2 MMH).
 Impact strategy
 Our approach to impact stems from our core approach to excellence and innovation in socially
 engaged media research, and equally from the Centre’s aforementioned research production
 process, which embeds impact from the beginning before bringing together a mix of scholarly
 and practice-based researchers as collaborative partners in the UK’s creative community.
 As with the unit’s research, our impact strategy is thus geared towards creatively-motivated,
 technology-based and community-centred activity. Clark, for example, uses her immersive
 theatre company, Raucous, as a hub for pioneering new kinds of technology based impact. A
 recipient of Arts Council England awards worth GBP227,000 and GBP197,000 respectively,
 Clark’s The Stick House (2015) and Ice Road (2017) productions made use of a network of
 creative technologists and theatre makers, pushing forward immersive theatre practices by
 asking how digital technology can be embedded in performance delivery (see ICS UoA34-1
 NET).
 Meanwhile, the creatively motivated and community centred nature of our impact strategy has
 been key to developing new media practices of direct benefit to community stakeholders. The
 research of Freeman and Newman has led to new participatory education sites, the former for
 teaching the Colombian armed conflict, the latter the UK game sector. Specifically, Freeman’s
 research has developed new understandings for how transmedia storytelling can communicate
 history across media, utilised by 22 teachers and reaching circa 600 students in Colombia (see
 ICS UoA34-2 MMH). Newman has developed models for the preservation and exhibition of
 videogames, co-authoring White Papers that share current best practice with the UK museum
 and game development sectors on preserving videogames as cultural heritage (2018, 2020).



Page 2
 As was also promised in our REF2014 Environment Statement, we have strengthened the
 impact of our research through strategic partnerships with the creative industries. This has
 been achieved partly through Freeman’s role as Deputy Director of the University-wide Centre
 for Cultural and Creative Industries (CCCI), where he was Co-Investigator on the AHRC
 Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership (2018-2020), a GBP6.8 million collaboration between all
 four Bath and Bristol universities that connects university research and creative businesses to
 develop the future of the south west’s creative industries (see Institutional Level Environment
 Statement IES 4.1.2). Freeman’s role involved supporting colleagues across the university
 whose interests align with the creative industries, for example by developing funded
 fellowships.
 Beyond Centre for Media Research structures, impact is further considered when planning
 research at an institutional level. It is prioritised in the university’s core strategy for research,
 which specifically promotes engaged research with impact. Staff are supported in developing
 impact plans when bidding for external research funds through the Research Support Office,
 which reviews draft proposals against impact requirements of specific funders. The university’s
 Impact Research Fellow supports staff in planning impact (IES 2.4), such as in gathering
 evaluation and evidence for Impact Case Studies. The unit’s UoA Leader also supports impact
 by identifying beneficiaries for external funding bids.
 Open research and integrity
 The unit’s strategy for open research is guided by the institutional strategy, policies and
 processes that are described in the REF5a Institutional Environment Statement. The
 university’s REF Code of Practice gives the UoA Leader responsibility for ensuring that
 colleagues ‘keep their details on ResearchSPAce [institutional open access repository] up to
 date’. Visibility of the unit's outputs allows the Library repository team to gather full text or
 datasets, as appropriate, for open publication. The UoA Leader is able to monitor open
 research compliance by metrics provided through the university’s annual Quality Review.
 The unit closely collaborates with the Library repository team. SRR staff are offered annual
 refreshers to maintain understanding of open research requirements and there are open
 access progress reports at the bi-monthly UoA Leaders’ meetings. The unit's online staff
 profiles are automatically populated with publication data from the open access repository,
 incentivising academic engagement. The Library team monitor the open access status of the
 unit's outputs, requesting full text content where publisher policies allow. The BathSPAdata
 repository is available to host accompanying research data from the unit's outputs, including all
 e-portfolios, in keeping with the UK Concordat on Open Research Data.
 Within the university’s institutional strategy there is scope for the unit to develop its own
 approach to open research, going beyond the minimum requirements of REF2021. For this
 unit, the research team has taken practical steps in support of 'Plan S’, anticipating the next
 phase of open research by pushing forward the accessibility and public availability of creative
 media research. The unit’s International Journal of Creative Media Research was conceived
 from the start as an online, fully open access title, with no APC charges and a default Creative
 Commons BY-NC-ND licence. IJCMR is registered in the Directory of Open Access Journals,
 an online directory that indexes and provides access to open access, peer-reviewed journals,
 and the Open Access in Media Studies database, which aims to promote open access
 publishing in the field of media studies. The Library supports the Open Library of Humanities, a
 publishing model intended to drive the transition to full and immediate open access for
 scholarly journal titles (‘Plan S’). This includes popular titles such as Open Screens journal.
 The unit supports the principle that monographs developed with public funds should be made
 publicly available. Within resource limitations, the unit is taking practical steps to realise this
 principle by supporting new funding models for open access monographs and by increasing the
 number of book chapters made openly available by the unit’s authors (utilising ‘green’ open
 access publisher policies). Examples of whole monographs made openly available include
 Feasey’s Mothers on Mothers: Maternal Readings of Popular Television (2016) and Brown’s
 Global Metal Music and Cultures: Current Directions in Metal Studies (2016). The Library has


Page 3
 pledged funds to the Knowledge Unlatched project, a consortia initiative to ‘unlock’ books for
 open access publication, including a diverse collection of Media and Communication titles.
 The unit supports a culture of research integrity through a formal research ethics process,
 reporting to the University Ethics Panel. At School level, research ethics is led by Newman,
 who supports colleagues in developing ethical projects, and reviews ethics applications that
 consider responsibilities to: participants and stakeholders in research, the community of
 educational researchers, publication and dissemination, and the wellbeing of researchers.
 Future research strategy
 Building on our accomplishments in developing an innovative, socially engaged research
 culture built on collaboration across theory and practice, public engagement and related
 industry/community impact, our strategic objectives for the next five years are as follows:
 1. Be at the forefront at creative media research internationally
 Our International Journal of Creative Media Research already has an international readership
 from 12 countries, but we will continue to develop the unit’s capacity to lead researchers
 everywhere in new approaches to creative media research. We will do this in part by launching
 the Multi-Media Methods Café, a planned collaboration between Bath Spa University and
 Cardiff University that will form a network of researchers. Led by Levy, the Café emerges most
 out of the unit’s approach to creatively motivated, technology based and community targeted
 media research, but more specifically out of our distinctive use of video, audio, photography,
 drawing and walking as creative media research methodologies (see ICS UoA34-2 MMH).
 Our aim to be at the forefront of creative media research internationally will also be achieved by
 establishing an Award in Creative Media Research, which will act as an off-line extension for
 our International Journal of Creative Media Research. The award, open to researchers from
 around the world, will provide academics with a peer-reviewed opportunity to produce creative
 media research for the MediaWall, an architectural scale portrait gallery consisting of thirty 55"
 screens across a canvas 7.5m high and 4m wide. The MediaWall, occupying the triple height
 atrium space of Commons building at Newton Park campus, offers a framework for colleagues
 to explore how their practice could develop when reconceived for this unique platform.
 Linked to our strategic focus on leading the field of creative media research, we will build the
 Conference of the International Journal of Creative Media Research into a flagship
 enterprise for the university, one that supports its wider ambitions to be a global leader in
 creative practice research. The inaugural online conference in 2021 will focus on the theme of
 creative technologies and immersive audiences, and indeed going forward this conference will
 serve to develop and disseminate new methods and approaches to creative media research.
 2. Develop creative technology as a research theme
 Our focused collaboration with the CCCI has led to a new area of strength in creative
 technology. New creative technologies such as virtual reality, artificial intelligence and
 binaural sound have been identified as an ‘exciting opportunity for a further wave of growth and
 innovation’ in the UK creative industries (Bazalgette, 2017). We have enterprising success
 stories emerging in this area already, such as Raucous and Immersive Promotion Design Ltd.,
 the latter of which builds on Freeman’s research grant awarded by StoryFutures Academy.
 This research theme will be further enabled by the CCCI’s Bristol+Bath Creative R+D (B+B
 R+D) and will build on the South West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN), a GBP6.5
 million project that aims to expand the use of creative technology across the South West. It will
 be supported in part through our Artswork Media Roundtables, a knowledge exchange group
 led by Farrar that brings together industry practitioners interested in immersive technologies.
 3. Grow our international partnerships and research funding
 The unit’s external funding during the current REF period stands at GBP1,151,000 (as
 recorded in HESA returns), with an additional GBP605,466 coming from researcher esteem)
 (see ‘Section 3’). We will build on this success by targeting calls that align with the unit’s
 creatively motivated, technology based and community centred approach, namely our primary
 focus on socially engaged media research and our emerging area of strength in creative
 technologies. For the latter, we will deepen our focused collaboration with the CCCI, as above;
Page 4
 for the former, we will establish more strategic partnerships with other liberal arts universities,
 enabled through the Global Academy of Liberal Arts (GALA) at Bath Spa, a global network of
 creativity spanning national boundaries to broaden the experience of students and staff (see
 IEC 4.2.4). Examples of prior partnerships through GALA include: EAFIT University, Colombia,
 which led to the co-hosted Transmedia Earth Conference in 2017 and Freeman’s research into
 transmediality in Latin America (see ICS UoA34-2 MMH), and Concordia University, Canada,
 which partnered on Clark’s research into creative technologies (see ICS UoA34-1 NET).
 Additional international partners such as these will enhance the global impact of our socially
 engaged media research, exemplifying our research strategy.
 4. Establish new outreach mechanisms
 We will establish new means of communicating our research, specifically in ways that align
 with our focus on socially engaged media research. For example, we will develop our We Make
 Podcasts platform into a university-wide initiative. We Make Podcasts is a Centre-led venture
 that allows our academics to reflect on their research and disseminate it more publicly.
 5. Build our postgraduate community
 Aforementioned targets concerning creative media research, emerging creative technologies
 and a focus on socially engaged media research will be at the heart of our future postgraduate
 strategy. Going forward, we aim to recruit 10 new PhD students over the next five years. This
 will be achieved by aligning the Centre’s distinctive themes of digital ecologies, film & social
 context, and play & multiplatform with the university’s strategic university-wide Centres and
 forming distinctive PhD course profiles: (i) PhD in Digital Ecologies, run in collaboration with the
 Centre for Environmental Humanities, (ii) PhD in Socially Engaged Film Practice, run in
 collaboration with the Centre for Transnational Creativity and Education, and (iii) PhD in
 Creative Technology, run in collaboration with the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries.
 These PhDs will support engagement with communities and the creative technology sector.


 Section 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 We can demonstrate substantial progress and success since REF2014. The unit has returned
 17 staff to REF2021, increasing from 8 in the last REF cycle. During the REF2021 period, 11 of
 the 17 submitted staff have published in journals or monographs/edited collections with leading
 international publishers; 8 of the 17 have produced externally-funded, nationally or
 internationally shared practice outputs; and all of our early career researchers have completed
 or are undertaking PhDs. The university has funded the PhDs of Levy, Scott and White.
 These successes can be attributed to the unit’s staffing and staff development strategy. The
 School and subject-based academic plans of the unit aim to position research as a core focus
 of its activity. As promised in our REF2014 Environment Statement, we continue to recruit staff
 with a track record of research publications and/or practice-based outputs, and all but one of
 the unit’s Category A eligible staff are employed on permanent contracts. The absence of
 precarious employment contracts in the unit explains why we have retained all but one of the
 staff submitted to REF2014. In fact, since 2014, our healthy and increasing student numbers
 on undergraduate programmes have led to the recruitment of a substantial number of new
 academic staff in the unit (including Curry, Farrar, Freeman, Hobbs, Levy, Manton, Scott,
 Steele, Tweed, Wilkins). Four of these posts were strategically intended to build capacity for
 the School’s growing BSc Creative Computing programme, while others reflected the UK
 higher education sector’s growing demand for practice-based film and media programmes.
 Altogether, the shift in our unit’s staffing appointments towards practice-based colleagues has
 certainly informed our strategic emphasis on enabling innovation in creative media research.
 The effectiveness of this strategy is demonstrated most immediately by the increase in the
 number of practice-based outputs we have submitted compared to the previous REF period,
 and by our two Impact Case Studies, both underpinned by creative media research.



Page 5
 More specifically, and in order to support and facilitate creative media research activity, the
 Centre for Media Research runs an innovative three-stage ‘research production process’ for
 driving forward collaborative projects that encompass socially engaged collaboration across
 theory and practice, public engagement, and impact. The first stage is Thinking Out Loud, our
 work-in-progress seminar series (led by Steele), where staff pitch ideas for new research
 projects. The second stage is We Make Stuff, our Centre-led public engagement series, where
 up to 50 people from the local creative sector are invited to engage and collaborate with our
 research. The final stage is Let’s Make Stuff, our-Centre led hackathon series, which sees staff
 and students working with a creative industry partner to prototype research-led media content.
 An example of this Centre-led activity includes partnering with Bathscape in 2019, a Heritage
 Lottery-funded organisation who attended an earlier We Make Stuff event about new ways of
 using multiplatform media to narrate stories of place and community. Staff and students came
 together for a two-day Let’s Make Stuff hackathon to prototype research-informed film, 360-
 degree video and social media content, all of which was published on Bathscape’s website.
 This activity has furthered our aim to develop research events as instruments of knowledge
 exchange and public engagement, as was set out in our REF2014 Environment Statement.
 Through this structured research production process, the unit’s research becomes creatively
 motivated, technology based and community centred. We have longstanding areas of
 excellence in videogame preservation, metal studies and gender and representation, and have
 since developed world-leading research in newer areas including transmedia studies, small
 nation cinemas, and media arts practices. We have actively nurtured the development of
 creative media research in the unit, in particular innovative forms of media practice that span
 artistic and experimental categories such as participatory documentary production, social
 media-led walking practices, multi-media installations, and film festivals as a research method.
 Further supporting our ambition to be at the forefront of creative media research, the Centre
 established the International Journal of Creative Media Research (IJCMR) in 2018. IJCMR is
 an interdisciplinary, peer-reviewed and fully open access academic journal devoted to pushing
 forward the approaches to and possibilities for publishing creative media research. The journal
 exemplifies how the unit is leading in this area, providing staff and the wider academy with new
 possibilities for publishing this kind of creative research, such as DOI-accompanied portfolios.
 The journal’s editorial board includes academics from Canada, China, Australia, and America.
 Staff development
 The unit is focused on the development of existing staff and the support of new appointments.
 Our strategy encompasses continual professional development of the careers of established
 researchers, the mentoring of emerging researchers with industry backgrounds to help build
 upon their professional practice to become active academics, and the training of PhD students.
 Formal mentorship has been at the core of the unit’s growth strategy since 2016. Our mentors,
 comprising Brown, Feasey, Freeman, Newman and Tweed, are drawn from the most
 experienced members of the Research Centre. The mentees have been primarily either early
 career researchers (Steele, Farrar, Hobbs and Scott), or colleagues whose professional
 experience stems primarily from the creative industries (such as Levy, Manton and Wilkins).
 Within the unit, staff are encouraged to take part in the Centre-led researcher development
 activities, namely our Thinking Out Loud, We Make Stuff and Let’s Make Stuff event series.
 Across these activities, staff develop skills in presenting research, forging collaborations,
 building public engagement into research, and planning and enabling research impact.
 Meanwhile, the research performance and ambitions of all staff are monitored systematically
 through annual Staff Development Reviews (with Line Manager) and through one-to-one
 support from the UoA Leader and Research Centre Co-Directors and Public Engagement
 Champions. Research Centre members are invited to attend REF Surgeries with the unit’s
 external REF advisors to strengthen research outputs, with a mix of conferences, symposia,
 public and industry-facing events organised around projects and themes (see ‘Section 4’).
 Beyond the Centre for Media Research at School level, staff development also occurs through
 our focused collaboration with the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries at university-

Page 6
 level. For example, the unit’s nurturing of research into creative technology has led to a number
 of our staff being awarded funded fellowships on both B+B R+D and SWCTN. Manton and
 Clark were awarded Academic Fellowships (2018) (with Manton also securing follow-on
 prototype funding (2019)) through SWCTN, and both Scott and Clark were awarded Narrative
 & Emerging Technology Fellowships through B+B R+D (2019 and 2020 respectively). Going
 forward, we will develop this support structure further via focused initiatives that bring together
 the Centre for Media Research with CCCI. Aiming to push forward cutting-edge advancements
 for how creative technologies such as virtual and augmented reality can be embedded into film,
 media and gaming practices, wider cross-institutional activity comes from the CCCI’s Narrative
 & Emerging Technologies Lab (NET), a research group co-chaired by Freeman that engages
 with the shifts afforded by new forms of audience interaction, from digital fiction, live
 performance, film and TV, through to virtual and augmented reality (see Impact Case Study
 2). NET provides staff with a structure to develop funding bids, engaging with CCCI’s partners.
 More broadly, the unit follows university-wide procedures on staff development. For example,
 in line with Vitae RDF, the University employs a Researcher Development Manager through
 the Research Support Office that provides bespoke training programmes, workshops, online
 materials and events to suit the individual needs of our researchers and allow them to engage
 in continual professional development (see Institutional Level Environment Statement 3.3.2).
 Early career researchers are also given the opportunity to be allocated a mentor from across
 the university’s wider research leadership community, with external coaches regularly brought
 onto campus to offer colleagues one-on-one coaching for the development of their careers,
 publications and profiles. All staff are encouraged to apply for the HEQR research funding
 scheme and the public engagement seed fund to support their research and impact activities.
 The university operates a transparent system for research promotion. Colleagues preparing
 applications are provided with advice from the UoA Leader before applications are considered
 by the university’s Promotions Board. Since 2014, the unit’s research achievements have led to
 two promotions to Readership (Freeman and Farrar) and one to Professorship (Newman).
 Research students
 We have recruited 20 PhD students since 2014, far exceeding the target of 5 stated in our REF
 2014 Environment Statement. The unit recruited 3 PhDs during the previous REF period, which
 points to our substantial growth and development as a blossoming research culture for talented
 postgraduate students. 5 of these PhDs have since been completed and awarded, with another
 15 currently underway. One of these 20 PhD students secured Bath Spa’s fully-funded
 Studentship as part of the AHRC Bristol+Bath Creative R+D Partnership, while another was
 awarded a Collaborative Doctoral Award with The British Library through the AHRC South,
 West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW2), where the unit’s core subjects of Film,
 Television and Media are represented (see IES 3.4.4). A further Studentship was secured on a
 second-supervisor basis through SWW2.
 Our approach to recruiting PhD students has been to publish calls for expressions of interest
 on our Research Centre webpages, aligned to our specialisms of digital ecologies, film & social
 context, and play & multiplatform. We have attended Information Days for SWW2, promoted
 the Research Centre at postgraduate conferences, and invested in social media marketing.
 In terms of structures for providing support to postgraduate students, the unit’s PhD students
 are all co-supervised by a Director of Studies and a second supervisor, with supervision
 meetings taking place approximately once per month. The unit’s PhD students are integrated
 into the activities of the Centre for Media Research. Examples include paid Research Assistant
 roles, co-organising our public events, and editorial, peer-review and guest editing roles on the
 IJCMR. The unit also benefits from the SWW2’s core skills training and student-led activities,
 which support the development of research skills according to a student’s development needs.
 The unit also makes use of university-wide procedures, led by the Graduate School and the
 Researcher Development team, to support the training and supervision of all postgraduate
 research students. The Researcher Development team runs a comprehensive programme of
 training, workshops and events which address the development needs of this community.


Page 7
 Equality and diversity
 The unit deploys university-wide procedures concerning equal opportunities (see IES 3.5).
 These include enrolling all new colleagues onto the UK’s Professional Standards Framework
 for teaching in higher education (FHEA), where colleagues are required to ‘engage in
 continuing professional development in subjects/disciplines and their pedagogy, incorporating
 research, scholarship and the evaluation of professional practices.’
 All colleagues in the unit and across the university are also required to complete a range of
 online learning modules, such as in ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’, which
 aim to provide an understanding and confidence to deal positively with diversity in the higher
 education workplace. University-wide initiatives to support equal opportunities and diversity
 also include the Women’s Mentoring scheme and an equality working party, ‘Equali-Teas’,
 which provides an open forum for developing action plans to make the university a more
 inclusive space for all. The university is also a formal partner on Fika, a R&D-informed app
 inspired by Scandinavian culture that aims to mainstream emotional wellbeing by bringing a
 daily emotional workout to universities around the world through digital media technology.
 Following the process set out in the university’s Code of Practice, the unit established a Unit of
 Assessment Advisory Group, made up of colleagues from across the unit’s subject areas. The
 Unit of Assessment Advisory Group had responsibility for considering output submissions for
 inclusion in REF2021, ensuring transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusivity.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The unit’s external research funding during the current REF period is almost nine times higher
 than it was in 2014, rising from GBP135,440 during the last REF period to GBP1,151,000 in
 2021. This includes major grants from ESRC, AHRC and Wellcome Trust. The unit has also
 secured a further GBP605,466 from individual researcher esteem, including consultancy and
 other awards.
 Funding strategy
 Our funding strategy underpinning this success connects closely with the unit’s primary
 research strategy of developing socially engaged media research, and also aligns with our
 impact strategy, our submitted Impact Case Studies, and our future research plans. The unit
 has targeted funding bodies and calls explicitly geared towards social, cultural, environmental
 and heritage dynamics of media, including Wellcome Trust, GCRF-partnered AHRC calls, and
 Newton Fund. These funding bodies lend themselves to compelling articulations of the social
 impact of our research, namely on diverse cultural and community groups. Equally, our close
 collaboration with CCCI and our nurturing of research into emerging creative technologies has
 led to successful grants for Freeman, Clark and Manton, whose cutting-edge research has
 advanced the use of creative technology in performance, writing, museums, and games.
 Research Grants awarded across the REF 2021 period:
  Project                        Lead Researchers    Funding Body                    Amount
                                                                                     Awarded
                                                                                     (GBP)

  Next Generation. Preserving,   James Newman        ESRC-AHRC UK-Japan SSH          49,532
  Curating, and Exhibiting                           Connections grants
  Videogames: A UK-                                  (31/01/19 - 31/07/20)
  Japanese Collaborative
  Approach

  British Games Institute        James Newman        National Videogame              25,000
  research collaborations                            Foundation
                                                     (01/09/17 - 31/07/20)



Page 8
  Bristol+Bath Creative R+D       Matthew Freeman       AHRC - Creative Industries   642,379
  (led by University of West of   (Co-I) with UoAs 27   Cluster programme
  England)                        and 32                (01/10/18 - 31/03/23)

  Game Over? Preserving           James Newman          ESPRC Sustainable Society    24,927
  videogames as educational                             Networks (SSN) Researcher
  resources for the next                                Mobility Grant
  generation of game                                    (5/1/15 - 30/3/15)
  developers

  South West Creative             Matthew Freeman       HEFCE/Research England       551,847
  Technology Network              (collaborator) with   (01/04/18 - 31/03/21)
  (led by University of West of   UoA 27
  England)

  StoryFutures Academy            Matthew Freeman       AHRC - Creative Industries   20,000
  Research Fellowship                                   Cluster programme
                                                        (01/10/18 - 31/03/23)

  South West Creative             Coral Manton          HEFCE/Research England       15,000
  Technology Network -                                  (01/10/18 - 31/12/20)
  Academic Fellowship
  (led by University of West of
  England)

  South West Creative             Ron Herrema           HEFCE/Research England       15,000
  Technology Network -                                  (30/03/19 - 31/12/20)
  Academic Fellowship
  (led by University of West of
  England)

  South West Creative             Coral Manton          HEFCE/Research England       28,800
  Technology Network -                                  30/03/19 - 31/07/19)
  Prototype Grant: Decoding
  Complexity
  (led by University of West of
  England)

  South West Creative             Lee Scott             HEFCE/Research England       7,000
  Technology Network -                                  30/03/19 - 31/07/19)
  Narrative & Emerging
  Technology Fellowship
  (led by University of West of
  England)

  An interdisciplinary approach   Nigel Newbutt         ESPRC Sustainable Society    28,720
  to social skill development                           Networks (SSN) Researcher
                                                        Mobility Grant
                                                        (01/01/2015 - 6/04/2015)




Page 9
 Other associated research income:


  Project                       Lead Researchers   Funding Body                       Amount
                                                                                      Awarded
                                                                                      (GBP)

  (i) ‘The Stick House’         Sharon Clark       (i) Arts Council England           (i) 227,000
  (ii) ‘The Ice Road’                              (ii) Arts Council England          (ii) 197,000
  (iii) Jerwood Arts project                       (iii) Jerwood Arts – Development   (iii) 17,000
  (iv) ‘Digital                                    Programme Fund
  Theatre Innovation and                           (iv) Royal Shakespeare             (iv) 15,000
  Audiences of the Future’                         Company: Magic Leap
                                                   Fellowship 2019

  (i) ‘The Internet of Things   John Curry         (i) KPMG 2015                      (i) 618
  and Financial Services’                          (ii) IQPC CDANS 2015               (ii) 579
  (ii) ‘Demonstrating Current                      (iii) Pentagon (Office of Net
  Practice in Cyber Gaming’                        Assessment) 2018                   (iii) 5,200
  (iii) ‘Gaming Uncertain                          (iv) Australian Government
  Futures’                                         funded contract through
                                                                                      (iv) 1,457
  (iv) ‘Cyber Storm’                               University of New South Wales
  (v) ‘Automating Gaming                           2019
  Procedures for                                   (v) BAE Systems Ltd 2018-2020      (v) 62,720
  Games Run by Maritime
  Warfare Centre’

  (i) ‘Dear Carnegie Hall’      Ruth Farrar        (i) Carnegie Hall 2015             (ii) 27,200
                                                   (ii) British Film Institute Film   (ii) 2,000
                                                   Audience Network 2019

  (i) ‘Transmedia Earth’        Matthew Freeman    (i) Newton Fund 2017               (i) 1,000
  (ii) ‘Desarmados’                                (ii) Santander Pioneer Award       (ii) 5000
                                                   2017
                                                   (iii) Media, Communications and    (iii) 2,000
                                                   Cultural Studies Association
                                                   2017

  (i) ‘Women Reclaiming AI’     Coral Manton       (i) Arts Council England           26,442

  (i) ‘Silent Signal’           Charlie Tweed      (i) Wellcome Trust Large Arts      (i) 12,000
                                                   Award 2015-2017
                                                   (ii) Media, Communications and     (ii) 750
                                                   Cultural Studies Association
  (iii) ‘Notes from the                            2017
                                                                                      (iii) 500
  Subsurface’                                      (iii) EarthArt Fellowship 2019

  (i) ‘Sweet Waters’            Richard White      (i) Arts Council England/Bath      (i) 2,000
                                                   Festival Fringe 2017




Page 10
 Infrastructure and facilities
 At unit level, the Centre for Media Research plays an important organisation role in helping to
 raise staff awareness of research support resources, bidding opportunities and internal events,
 promoting such support through a dedicated Virtual Learning Environment. The three research
 clusters within the Centre for Media Research also serve as significant operational function in
 enabling research activity, such as the aforementioned Digital Ecologies symposia series,
 which emerges out of the staff meetings and showcase activity of the Digital Ecologies cluster.
 The Centre annually receives internal HEQR funds that finance its core organisational activity,
 namely our We Make Stuff and Let’s Make Stuff initiatives, as well as an annual symposium
 and online hosting subscription costs for the International Journal of Creative Media Research.
 This comprises GBP8,490 devolved to the School of Creative Industries annually, with
 additional funds secured by the unit’s staff through our public engagement and seed funding
 sources. Since 2015, the unit has invested in: Levy’s production of the Infertility, the Media and
 Me documentary, and Scott’s creation of its app-based game; Steele’s archival research into
 Wallimage’s production data; Tweed’s multimedia exhibition of work stemming from his
 EarthArt Fellowship; Clark’s prototyping of new digital performance technologies; Freeman’s
 research into cross-sector uses of immersive technologies; conference travel costs for Levy,
 Freeman, Brown, Newman, Scott, White and Curry; and allocating start-up funds for Farrar to
 establish the Shextreme Alliance. We further benefit from the support of the University’s other
 internal funding: Scott was recipient of the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries Funding
 Award in 2019, which supported his fertility-themed mobile game for My Fertility Matters.
 As a way of directly enabling our strategy to embed community and industry impact into our
 practices, we have developed Artswork Media – Bath Spa’s student-led media production
 company and digital agency based at Paintworks, Bristol – into a hub for all Bristol-based
 Centre-led public and industry engagement initiatives. For all Bath-based Centre-led initiatives,
 we make use of Burdall’s Yard, the university’s venue for music and performing arts located in
 the historic centre of Bath. Both Artswork Media and Burdall’s Yard provide the unit with a
 strategic opportunity to extend our research into the South West’s thriving creative community.
 Elsewhere, the scholarly infrastructure for the unit includes Library subscriptions to high impact
 and internationally excellent journals (SCImago international journal rankings), such as New
 Media and Society, Digital Journalism, Journal of Advertising, Journal of Broadcasting &
 Electronic Media, and Mobile Media & Communication. The unit has also recently purchased
 the full physical archives of three music magazines to support Brown’s research: Melody Maker
 (1970-74), New Musical Express (1970) and Sounds (1970-76). Library collections directly
 relevant to the unit include more than 450 journal subscriptions, 18,000 books and 3,000 e-
 books. The Library’s digital collections include Gale OneFile: News, Film & Television
 Literature Index, Rock's Backpages, and Box of Broadcasts, an archive of over two million off-
 air television and radio broadcasts. Library resources for the unit are underpinned by a team of
 Subject Librarians, who provide a defined point of subject-specific contact for research needs.
 The International Journal of Creative Media Research also has a dedicated Vimeo account for
 its video publications. The Commons Asset Store, encompassing audio and edit suites as well
 as two television studios, is regularly utilised by our staff, such as for our Let’s Make Stuff and
 We Make Podcasts series. More specifically, Levy and Farrar’s aforementioned Infertility, the
 Media and Me project made direct use of these facilities, filming parts of the documentary in
 the university’s studio, as well as conducting participant-led video diaries at Artswork Media.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Key Partnerships
 Our key partnerships during the current REF period have been instrumental in the work of our
 two selected Impact Case Studies, in particular. Central to the community targeted research of
 Freeman and White have been collaborations with EAFIT University and the Colombian
 Ministry of Culture, as well as key heritage sites in the south west like the Holburne Museum
 and Bath Preservation Trust (see ICS UoA34-2 MMH). Meanwhile, central to Clark’s creatively
Page 11
 motivated, technology based research is her work in and with the creative industries, which
 comes together through Raucous, her own immersive theatre company. Raucous acts as a
 space to collaborate across academia and industry, with academics, theatre makers and
 technologists investigating how theatre can be more immersive (See ICS UoA34-1 NET).
 Elsewhere, Newman’s ongoing partnership with the National Videogame Museum (NVM) has
 led to research during the current REF period that underpins Pixel Heads, the NVM’s latest
 educational outreach programme, as well as the Game Inspector exhibits (2015-present). Also
 emerging from Newman’s partnered research activity with the NVM is the Videogame Heritage
 Society, the first Subject Specialist Network dedicated to videogame history. Its founding
 members include the British Film Institute, National Science and Media Museum, Museum of
 London, C64 Audio, Centre for Computing History, RetroHour Podcast, and the British Library.
 Beyond those already named, we have developed partnerships with: BBC, Bristol VR Lab,
 Limina Immersive, IBM, Great State, Conducttr, StoryCentral, Create Studios, and Redbrick
 House. These organisations partnered with us for Centre-led events, such as We Make Stuff,
 in order to explore and embed wider practices growing out of our cluster activity. For example,
 our partnership with Redbrick House – a Bristol-based social enterprise aiming to support
 young people to develop a career in the creative industries – led to the Tetris Wall of Creativity
 in 2017, a training event based on Farrar’s research designed to support emerging creatives.
 Collaboration
 Since 2014, the unit has facilitated interdisciplinary collaboration partly by hosting a number of
 high-profile conferences. These have supported our strategic aim to develop creative media
 research, such as hosting the annual Journal of Media Practice and Education and MeCCSA
 Practice Network symposium in 2017 (attended by 75 people) and MIX Digital in 2017 and
 2019 (co-hosted with the Centre for Creative Writing, and both attended by over 100 people).
 MIX Digital has established itself as an innovative forum for the interdisciplinary exploration of
 media and technology, attracting contributors from the UK, Australia, Europe and America.
 Other hosted conferences have been a way of facilitating collaboration with other researchers
 focused on our themes of digital ecologies, film & social context, and play & multiplatform.
 For example, Freeman organised three symposia during the current REF period: Kick-Starting
 Media: Cultures of Funding in Contemporary Media Industries (2016, Bath Spa, 70 attendees),
 Transmedia UK: Sector by Sector (2017, Bath Spa, 45 attendees), and Transmedia Earth
 (2017, EAFIT University, 150 attendees), all emerging from the Play & Multiplatform cluster.
 Also stemming from this cluster was Scott’s Interactive Children’s Narrative: From Picture
 Books to Story Apps symposium (2019, Bath Spa, 50 attendees), and three conferences co-
 organised by Newman: Ludomusicology (2017, Bath Spa, 90 attendees), Replaying Japan
 (2018, National Videogame Arcade, 45 attendees) and All Your Bass Video Game Music
 Festival (2018, Royal Concert Hall and Antenna, 50 attendees). Meanwhile, the Digital
 Ecologies cluster has organised three symposia at Bath Spa: Digital Ecologies and the
 Anthropocene (Tweed 2017, 70 attendees), Digital Ecologies: Fiction Machines (Tweed 2019,
 75 attendees) and Marking the Space: Immersion and Audiences (Clark 2018, 60 attendees).
 Contribution
 The diversity of the unit’s research has allowed for a breadth of contributions to wider society,
 but our strategic focus on creatively motivated, technology based and community centered
 research has become key to the creation of innovative media practices and methods of benefit
 to diverse community groups and of relevance to wider UN Sustainable Development Goals.
 For example, Farrar’s Shextreme Film Festival (2015- ) exemplifies the unit’s focus on
 creatively rethinking what media can achieve in diverse communities. This community centred
 action research project commissions and disseminates films about marginalised women in
 adventure sports. Attracting 100 people in its first year in 2015, the film festival grew to well
 over 1000 people by its third year. Supported by the British Film Institute, the project takes
 place every year in Bristol, alongside Shextreme Film Tours in the UK and France, reaching
 circa 1600 people. Emerging out of the film festival, Farrar established Shextreme Film School,
 which provides unique year-long training about the making of adventure sport films, and which
 has benefitted nearly 150 women to date. The project’s online community, Shextreme Alliance,

Page 12
 with 36 subscribers currently registered, acts as the world’s first international industry network
 for female adventure filmmakers, and which serves as a platform for professional knowledge
 exchange and mobilisation of women’s voices in film. Taking an approach based on public
 engagement methodologies, Shextreme’s push for more opportunities for women adventure
 filmmakers has shaped the advertising practices of two global companies, Rab and Roxy.
 Elsewhere, our strategic engagement with partners that bring creative technology and social
 priorities together can be demonstrated by Manton’s research into conversational Artificial
 Intelligence (AI). Manton’s technology based work plays a leading role in the emerging field of
 AI, itself an international funding priority for the creative industries (Gov.uk), and has been
 showcased at the Bath Digital Festival and the British Library. The research addresses the lack
 of diversity in the development work of AI by using participatory workshops and art installations
 to ‘reclaim’ conversational AI systems as a medium for social justice. Her Women Reclaiming
 AI project (2019) rewrites the cultural myths of AI by developing a new feminist AI voice
 assistant that critiques the commercial pursuit of today’s humanising AI technologies while
 challenging the bias and stereotyping influence embedded within these technologies.
 We are similarly proud of Tweed’s research, which again considers how creatively motivated
 research into digital media can impact wider social understandings, in this case of ecology.
 Tweed’s The Signal and the Noise (2016), for example, was commissioned by Animate
 Projects and funded by a Wellcome Trust Large Arts Award (GBP12,000). The project was a
 collaboration with scientist Dr Darren Logan at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, exploring
 the parallels between DNA coding and computer coding through a fictional script and film. This
 was part of Tweed’s larger research endeavour over the past five years to develop new forms
 of collaboration across the science/art divide, and to identify a range of new shared critical
 toolkits and research practices that bring the science and art disciplines together. The Signal
 and the Noise led to Tweed being awarded a prestigious EarthArt Fellowship in 2019 at Bristol
 University, where he collaborated with scientists in the School of Earth Sciences to research
 the evolutionary history of life and deep underground ecosystems through film form.
 Our staff also make substantial contributions to the research base through leading roles in
 subject associations and journal editorial, as well as through awards and other appointments.
 Leading positions in subject associations
 The following roles bring greater international visibility to the Centre for Media Research:
         Brown was a one of a group of scholars that formed ‘Metal Studies’, out of which
          emerged the International Society for Metal Music Studies (ISMMS).
         Freeman is Co-Chair of the Society for Cinema and Media Studies Transmedia
          Scholarly Interest Group (2018-2021), is on the Executive Board of the British
          Association of Film and Television Studies Society’s Screen Industries Special Interest
          Group (BAFTSS) (2017- ), and was on the Executive Board of the Media,
          Communications and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA) in 2019-2020.
         Newman is a member of: International Games Developers Association Game
          Preservation Special Interest Group; Digital Games Research Association (DiGRA);
          European Federation of Games Archives and Museum Projects (EFGAMP);
          International Digital Game Preservation Group; Society for the Study of Sound and
          Music in Games (SSSMG); and is a juror on the Strong Museum of Play ‘Hall of Fame’
          Selection Committee.
 Journal editorial
 Our editorial roles in leading journals have helped to formalise relationships with key research
 audiences, namely those also researching in our fields of excellence: videogame preservation,
 gender and representation, metal studies, transmedia studies, small nation cinemas, and
 media art practices. Colleagues serve in editorial capacities for journals in four ways:
         The Centre for Media Research is home to the International Journal of Creative Media
          Research, co-edited by Freeman, Tweed and Newman (2018- ), which published 5



Page 13
          issues during the REF period and serves as a mechanism through which we innovate in
          creative media research.
         Freeman is Series Editor for the Routledge Advances in Transmedia Studies book
          series (2018- ), which serves as a publication outlet for Play & Multiplatform activity.
         Tweed edited the ‘Digital Ecologies and the Anthropocene’ issue of Screenworks (8:2
          2018) and the ‘Digital Ecologies: Fiction Machines’ issue of the International Journal of
          Creative Media Research (5 2020), which published outcomes from the Digital
          Ecologies symposia; Freeman guest edited the ‘Practice and/as Media Industries
          Research’ issue of Media Practice and Education (19:2 2018) and the ‘Funding and
          Management in the Media Convergence Era’ issue of the International Journal of Media
          Management (19:2 2017), which provided publishing platforms for Play & Multiplatform
          colleagues; and Steele edited the ‘Trespassing Borders / Crossing Borders’ issue of
          Trespassing Journal: An Online Journal of Trespassing Art, Science and Philosophy (7
          2018), which furthered the global reach of the Film & Social Context cluster.
         Staff within the unit also sit on the editorial boards of eight academic journals, which
          further raises the profile and visibility of all three clusters. These journals comprise:
          Metal Music Studies (Brown); Celebrity Studies (Feasey); Convergence: The
          International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies (Freeman); Game
          Studies: The International Journal of Computer Games Studies; Replaying Japan;
          Journal of Sound & Music in Games; Romchip: A Journal of Game Histories (Newman).
 Awards and external appointments
 Our strategic emphasis on socially engaged media research, together with our developing
 strength in creative technology, has led to a number of high-profile fellowships and prestigious
 awards and appointments. Clark won the Bruntwood Judge’s Prize for Playwriting, and both
 her Ice Road and The Stick House works were awarded Theatre Production of the Year (2015
 and 2017 respectively) by Bristol 24/7. Tweed was recipient of an EarthArt Fellowship at the
 University Bristol (2019). Farrar partnered with the British Film Institute to design a public
 engagement programme devoted to women in adventure film (2018-2019). Newman is part of
 the International Advisory Group for the ILMS-funded Game Metadata and Citation Project, and
 is Director of the All Your Bass Festival (2018- ). He was part of the International Advisory
 Group for the Game Metadata and Citation Project (2014-2016) and is a member of the
 research team at the National Videogame Museum (2015- ). Freeman was Visiting Professor at
 both EAFIT University, Colombia (2015) and Masaryk University, Czech Republic (2016).




Page 14
