Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: C21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Sociology at Manchester Metropolitan University has evolved into a mature and confident
 research community that demonstrates sustained growth in strategic areas underpinned by
 considerable institutional investment. This assessment period has seen a substantial growth in
 staff numbers (from 23 in REF2014 to 47 in REF2021) and a threefold increase in research
 income, with major awards from funders including ESRC, Nuffield, European Commission, and
 Innovate UK, and we are the first UK university to receive research funding from Comic Relief.
 We are the only modern university with a Q-Step Centre, we hosted the European Sociological
 Association Conference (2019), and we have won national awards for our policy impact in
 reinvigorating high streets (see Impact Case Study (ICS) 1) and youth justice (ICS 2). We are
 only the second modern university in the UK to receive Leverhulme Trust doctoral funding
 (£1.35m), which will underpin our ongoing postgraduate research student (PGR) strategy.

 1.1 Context and structure
 Sociology research is hosted by the Research Centre for Applied Social Sciences (RCASS), one
 of 14 University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange (UCRKEs) established to
 deliver Manchester Metropolitan’s ambitious RKE Strategy (see REF5a). Located in the Faculty
 of Arts and Humanities (one of the UK’s largest with 530 academic staff), it includes staff from
 the Departments of Sociology; History, Politics and Philosophy; Languages, Information and
 Communication; Human Geographers from the Department of Natural Sciences; staff from the
 Institute of Place Management (IPM); and Law scholars from the Business School. There are
 also 25 RCASS members who contribute to C20 Social Work and Social Policy.

 RCASS is led by a Director (Prof. Young) with an Advisory Board comprising two Deputies
 (including a KE ‘lead’), our Research Development Manager, the Postgraduate Arts and
 Humanities Centre (PAHC) Director (Prof. Miles), two academic leads (including Prof.
 Smithson), and representatives for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) (Dr Neate),
 Internationalisation (Dr Wong), and PGRs (Drs Bowman and Peter).

 Areas of expertise
 The progress Sociology at Manchester Metropolitan has made over this assessment period has
 been unprecedented, with significant investment in new staff and infrastructure enabling us to
 grow critical mass and additional specialist capacity while developing existing areas of expertise:

 Youth, Wellbeing, and Justice
 Led by Prof. Smithson’s award-winning Manchester Centre for Youth Studies (MCYS),
 established through strategic investment in 2014, this area is recognised for its innovative youth-
 led participatory research methods. The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) between MCYS
 and Greater Manchester Youth Justice Services won Best Knowledge Exchange Project of the
 Year at the 2019 Times Higher Awards (ICS 2). Major external funding comes from the
 European Commission, Innovate UK and Comic Relief (their first research grant to a UK
 university). Research into the criminalisation of young BAME people has impacted on national
 policy (ICS 4).

 Space, Place, and Identity
 This interdisciplinary group of geographers and sociologists focuses on contemporary socio-
 cultural, economic, political and environmental change and is recognised for cutting-edge
 research in socio-cultural geographies (e.g. outputs 1935, 1915). Place and consumption are
 key interdisciplinary foci and include influential activity in China, India and Europe. Major funding
 comes from the European Commission, ESRC, AHRC and international funders such as the
 Swedish Research Council. There is considerable policy impact including by Dr Millington who


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has transformed UK high street policy (ICS 1) and Dr O’Hare’s NERC-funded secondment as
 Resilience and Adaptation Lead to Manchester City Council’s Climate Change Agency.

 Music, Media and Popular Culture (MASS)
 The interdisciplinary MASS group, led by Dr Peter, develops new ways of understanding the
 production, reception and aesthetics of music and sound. MASS explores the sociological
 aspects of music culture and heritage. The group collaborates with youth organisations, schools,
 archives and museums. Funding from the ESRC and the Heritage Lottery Fund underpins
 impact around the cultural significance of electronic dance music, alongside Dr Dale’s research
 influencing national school music curricula (ICS 3).

 Digital Society (DISC)
 DISC undertakes critical research on the impact of digital technologies on society. DISC is a
 newly emergent cluster bringing together researchers from Sociology, Human Geography,
 Information Communications, and Politics through significant investment in new staff (Drs
 Kuntsman, Brock, Joseph, and Alexis-Martin). International networks in France, Finland, the
 USA and Canada have underpinned a focus on data and society, digital environmental politics,
 and the sociology of e-sports, gaming and gambling. Awards have come from EPSRC and the
 British Academy.

 Intimacy, Gender and Sexuality
 The Contemporary Intimacies, Sexualities and Genders Research Group (CISG) led by Drs
 Klesse and van Hooff provides an interdisciplinary space for ground-breaking research into non-
 binary relationships, including concepts of polyamory, which have been highly influential in the
 wider academic field (outputs 1889, 1891). The group’s work on sexual discrimination,
 reproductive rights and (trans-)gender identity has resonated internationally. External funding
 includes a £163,000 Marie Curie International Fellowship for cutting-edge work on non-
 monogamous relationships.

 Quantitative Methods in Social Research
 Expertise in quantitative methods is underpinned by our status as the only modern university to
 host a Q-Step Centre (a national initiative to promote a step-change in quantitative social
 science training). Established in 2013 with £1.12m funding from Nuffield/ESRC/HEFCE, and led
 by Prof. Scott Jones, our Q-Step Centre is a national leader in numeracy and data literacy
 research. It supports quantitative research more broadly, including political analyses by Dr Luo
 (output 2000), long-term cohort analyses in the EC-funded work of Prof. Pollock (output 1951),
 and the relationship between sexual wellbeing and social class by Dr van Hooff (output 1987).

 1.2 Research strategy 2014-20
 Our objective during this assessment period has been to ‘deliver research that has a real impact
 on current and future global challenges’. We have developed a supportive and innovative
 research environment, as evidenced in the increase in research-active staff, high-quality
 research outputs, volume and quality of external awards, PGR numbers and significant impact.

 The focus has been on accelerating and optimising the evolution of our research culture,
 especially the recruitment and development of new talent through a staffing policy incentivising
 and rewarding high levels of performance. Career progression is a priority, including promotion
 to Reader and Professor. Clear and accessible systems of research support, supported by a
 well-resourced research infrastructure, have instigated a significant step-change in research
 capacity:

    100%+ growth in staff, from 23 in REF2014 to 47. 20 new staff including 5 ECRs. Only one
     staff member from REF2014 has left (excluding retirements). Five staff have been promoted
     to Professor and four to Reader;
    Threefold increase in research income from £1.1m in 2014 to £3.2m in 2021, with
     funding/head/annum maintained despite staffing increase;


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Significant growth in the volume and quality of research outputs, with 40 books, 315 journal
     articles, 145 book chapters, and 50 reports since 2014;
    Articles in top social science journals including Information, Communication and Society,
     Sociology, British Journal of Sociology, and Transactions of the Institute of British
     Geographers, and books with prestigious publishing houses including Bloomsbury and
     Stanford University Press;
    A vibrant community of 68 PGR students affiliated to RCASS;
    Award-winning impact – such as the Times Higher Education Prize for Knowledge Exchange
     Initiative of the Year (2019) (ICS 2).

 1.3 Future aims, objectives and strategy
 Our mission is to continue to produce the highest-quality sociological research that ‘lives in the
 world’ while extending its size, scope and sustainability. We aim to sustain our research using
 external income and by creating one of the most inclusive research environments in the UK
 through investment in PGRs and a passionate commitment to equality and diversity.

 Four key intellectual principles will guide future investment in our research as it:

     1. Delivers progressive social change using evidence to make a positive impact on policy
        and society locally, nationally and internationally;
     2. Explores themes of identity and the contribution that social science can make to a more
        progressive and equal society;
     3. Pioneers methodological innovation using both qualitative and quantitative approaches to
        deliver creative and intelligent solutions to real-world problems;
     4. Engages with communities through a commitment to ‘open research’ and responsible co-
        creation.

 Recent significant awards will provide the future investment to carry out this ambitious agenda,
 specifically to:

 a. Grow our international collaborative research
 Developing large-scale, interdisciplinary projects, targeting new international opportunities, and
 building on achievements in international collaborative research. For example, Prof. Pollock has
 been awarded £3m from the European Commission for the Coordinate project with 22 partners
 from 14 countries. Dr Luo has gained UKRI-MRC funding to work with Glasgow and Beijing
 Universities on Chinese Government measures to contain COVID-19. Other strategic
 partnerships include links with Columbia, Finland, India, Bangladesh, Nepal, and China using
 funding from Royal Society, British Council, Newton Fund and GCRF.

 b. Align research with emerging theoretical developments and needs of policymakers
 Our submission demonstrates an established reputation for applied research that drives world-
 leading innovation in key fields. We will continue to carry out research into funders’ strategic
 priority areas through investment in increasingly influential groups such as MCYS, DISC and
 MASS. For example, £870,000 has been invested to align MCYS with the wider funding
 environment for national youth justice provision. We will continue to develop our distinctive
 methodological expertise, including MCYS’ Youth Participatory Action Research (YPAR)
 approach and quantitative methodological innovations pioneered by our Q-Step Centre.

 c. Increase the value, diversity and sustainability of research
 We will maintain our success with external research income by working closely with our
 Research Development Team to identify future opportunities aligned to our specialisms. The aim
 is to continue to attract large-scale funding through our extensive European networks while
 diversifying our funding portfolio, for example through increasing the number of UKRI awards
 where we have already enjoyed notable success. Mentoring and bid-writing away days will
 support staff development in this area.

 d. Support research impact, KE and public engagement

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will maximise engagement with local, national and international networks via staff exchanges
 and secondments using mechanisms such as the MetroPolis Chancellor’s Fellowship scheme.
 Resource needs for KE and impact will be costed into funding bids. A new focus will be the
 inclusion of ‘people of experience’ into collaborative bids and co-creative research design. Policy
 engaged and applied research will be developed by working with our in-house Policy Evaluation
 Research Unit (PERU). We will continue to break down barriers between social scientists and
 the public through our long-term partnership with the ESRC Festival of Social Science, use of
 our new (2020) award-winning £46m Arts and Humanities building, participation in the new All
 Saints Campus-based Arts and Creative Quarter, and the Faculty’s award-winning external
 engagement programmes. We will expand the digital events programme we set up in response
 to COVID-19, which enabled us to reach a larger audience, improve accessibility, and facilitate
 collaboration.

 e. Grow and strengthen our PGR communities
 We aim to optimise the PGR experience through working closely with the University Graduate
 School and the Faculty Post-Graduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC), increasing PGRs
 from 68 (on the census date) to 100 by 2025. A major step in this direction is the recent (2020)
 £1.35m Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships award to Prof. Miles, offering 15 PGR scholarships
 for interdisciplinary projects on the ‘Design of Cities of the Future’. We are only the second
 modern university to be awarded such funding.

 1.4 Support for Enabling Impact and Link to Impact Case Studies
 We have a clear strategy for achieving impact with policy makers and community partners,
 enabled by a combination of outstanding academics and support staff, specific training and
 imaginative use of resources.

 External relationships are supported by an award-winning KTP team (ICS 2), Business
 Development Manager, Partnership Manager, and a Public Engagement Assistant. £80,000 of
 internal funding has been allocated to supporting KE leading to impact. An ‘Impact Champion’
 (Dr Klesse) leads our Impact Academy (formed in 2014) which delivers training in impact-
 focused research design, impact capture, and evaluation, and staff can work with two Impact
 and Public Engagement Managers and an Impact Capture Assistant. This infrastructure helps
 staff execute ‘theories of change’ around their research. For example, MCYS worked with the
 impact team to create a theory of change that incorporated young people’s perspectives into the
 lifecycle of their projects (ICS 2).

 MetroPolis is a research-led think tank established in 2016 to amplify policy-relevant research.
 Its patron is the University’s Chancellor, Lord Mandelson. Offering professional policy training
 from specialists such as the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology and Dods Training,
 MetroPolis hosts visits from policy makers, organises discussion events, coordinates responses
 to Select Enquiries, and supports presentations to All Party Parliamentary Groups.

 The MetroPolis Chancellor’s Fellowship Scheme provides buyout time and £9,000 to enable
 staff to translate their research into policy impact. Dr Millington worked alongside Jake Berry MP
 (then Minister of State for the Northern Powerhouse and Local Growth) and the Local Growth
 Unit of the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government leading to policy impact
 affecting the vitality of the UK high street (ICS 1). Dr Arun used her award to translate her
 research on female entrepreneurship into positive policy impacts in Bihar, India’s third-largest
 state.

 External funding has been used creatively for impact. MCYS mobilised its KTP for their award-
 winning impact on youth justice (ICS 2) and Dr Peter’s ‘Lapsed Clubber’ project developed
 through a funded ESRC Festival of Social Science followed by £38,000 of Heritage Lottery
 funding (ICS 3). Dr Williams received funding from Stopwatch for his report on the Metropolitan
 Police’s ‘Gangs Matrix’ which was shown to infringe the rights of young black men (ICS 4).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement activities represent a key pathway to impact through utilising and
 recalibrating high-quality research via pioneering new partnerships. Sociology researchers have
 contributed to the Faculty’s highly successful public engagement initiatives Humanities in Public
 (HiP) and Research in the Arts and Humanities! (RAH!), which have benefited from internal
 funding and support. Notable examples include 2014’s Contesting Youth event, organised by
 MCYS and featuring talks by Camila Batmanghelidjh CBE and Dave Haslam (international DJ);
 2017’s Manchester as Cosmopolis: Global Migration in a Changing UK, organised by Dr Arun
 and Prof. Miles featuring a keynote by Prof. Saskia Sassen, University of Columbia, USA; and
 Drs Binnie and Klesse’s work with international queer film festivals such as 2016’s
 Queer Film Festivals as Activism: An International Symposium.

 Our support for impact will be sustained after REF2021 by four permanent Professional Services
 posts, a continuing programme of training in impact literacy, and the early identification of
 interdisciplinary areas of impact closely aligned with RKE strategy.

 1.5 Support for Interdisciplinary research
 Based in an Arts and Humanities faculty, Sociology researchers interact with architects, artists,
 designers, creative writers, poets, linguists, historians, philosophers, fashion designers and
 criminologists, complemented by human geographers, law, and place management researchers.
 This rich interdisciplinary environment is nurtured by a vibrant events programme which
 introduces colleagues to each other across disciplinary boundaries. Multi-disciplinary PGR
 supervision is encouraged (e.g. human geographer Prof. Young and sociologist Prof. Miles co-
 supervise a PhD on the consumption of tourism death spaces). Interdisciplinary teams also form
 to develop external funding applications e.g. Reader in Digital Politics Dr Kuntsman collaborates
 with human geographer Dr Alexis-Martin on digital environmentalism in Russia. Dr Binnie
 (human geography) and Dr Klesse (sociology) have a long-standing collaboration that has
 resulted in a superb body of high-quality interdisciplinary research on LGBTQ+ transnational
 politics. Dr Khan works with Prof. Kettle (Manchester School of Art) – a world-leading textile
 artist – on participatory research using crafts to explore identity among young British and
 Pakistani Muslims. The European Commission bids led by Prof. Pollock engage multi-
 disciplinary teams including international experts in demography, economics, psychology, and
 statistics. Dr Brock works with a political scientist on video game streaming. Many of our ECRs
 are at the forefront of this interdisciplinarity. Dr Alexis-Martin has published pioneering research
 with an international sociologist on social movements in uranium-mining communities. Human
 geographer Dr Millington works with colleagues in retailing and business on externally funded,
 high-impact research on UK high streets (ICS 1).

 1.6 Open Research
 Our research is compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data and REF Open Access
 policy. OA training is provided. Journal articles are deposited in the University’s institutional
 repository, e-Space, and often achieve significant downloads, for example: ‘Polyamory: Intimate
 practice, identity or sexual orientation?’, Sexualities (output 1891) by Dr Klesse (over 1750
 downloads) and ‘Insurance as Maladaptation: Resilience and the “Business as Usual” Paradox’,
 Environment and Planning C by Dr O’Hare (613 downloads).

 Colleagues publish in journals supporting Green OA. Staff can access funding (including a UKRI
 OA grant) or build costs into external grants, to make outputs immediately accessible via Gold
 OA. A paper by Dr Gray in Addiction Research & Theory on the use of the synthetic cannabinoid
 spice among homeless people, published in March 2020 supported by an APC of £2,350, has
 had 2,000 views and been cited in a major UK Government report on drugs policy. Similarly,
 ‘Populism…and Young People’s Identity’ in Sociological Review (output 1905), by Prof. Pollock
 and Dr Brock, funded through the EU MYPLACE project, has been viewed 900+ times.

 Our researchers also make use of other OA routes. For example, Prof. Young’s co-author is at
 Stockholm University who are members of the Bibsam consortium enabling articles to be
 automatically OA (outputs 1995, 2003, 2004).


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several staff have written for The Conversation and national newspapers. Dr Alexis-Martin has
 written in The Guardian and The Independent and has featured in BBC Futures and Newsweek
 on her research into the sociological aspects of nuclear communities. Dr Peter’s research into
 clubbing culture and heritage has led to the co-creation of a publicly accessible online interactive
 map of clubbing memories and a Facebook group with more than 700 members that regularly
 receives media coverage (ICS 3).

 1.7 Research Integrity
 Research is compliant with the Concordat for Research Integrity, and our staff contribute to the
 Faculty’s ethics review processes. Dr Gray is Deputy of the Faculty Research Ethics and
 Governance Committee, and Prof. Smithson and Prof. Scott Jones are former Heads of Faculty
 Research Ethics and Governance. Currently nine staff are members of the Research Ethics and
 Governance Committee. Applications for ethical approval are submitted via EthOS, the
 University’s online system for ethical review.

 Ethical and legal considerations are core to our research development programme and are
 addressed in mentoring discussions at the earliest stage of project development. We have
 access to online training and 1:1 support from a dedicated Research Ethics and Governance
 Manager. Clear procedures are in place for reporting and investigating allegations of research
 misconduct.

 Our research often involves vulnerable people and ‘people with experience’ and addressing
 distinct methodological challenges surrounding sensitive subjects. Many staff have pioneered
 innovative approaches to complex ethical situations. Dr Calvey’s work (output 1948) explores
 the challenges of covert ethnographic research, while Dr van Hooff’s research into contemporary
 intimacies investigates topics such as infidelity and sex work (output 1920, 1967). Prof. Young’s
 ‘Encountering Corpses’ ESRC series investigated the ethical dimensions of talking about and
 representing the dead, while Dr Latham explores ethics around regulating cosmetic surgery
 (output 1888). Our ECRs are at the forefront of negotiating these challenges. Dr Whittington’s
 paper on co-producing sexual consent in participatory research with young people (output 1966)
 illustrates how our researchers demonstrate the highest levels of compliance with the
 Concordat.

 2. People

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our aim is to attract – as well as to support, value, reward and retain – high-calibre researchers.
 We have invested significantly in new appointments and the infrastructure required to enable
 staff to achieve their full potential, underpinning a 100% growth in critical mass from 23 staff in
 REF2014 to 47 in 2021. Our recruitment policy emphasises the importance of high-quality
 research, and our workload categorisation scheme incentivises and rewards good performance.
 Our commitment to the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers, support for
 ECRs and clear research-based pathways to promotion is demonstrated by a wide range of
 staff-development initiatives.

 2.2 Recruitment
 We work closely with Heads of Departments and Faculty planners to recruit to our areas of
 expertise reflecting our commitment to ‘real-world’ sociology. The reputation of our research is
 evidenced by our ability to attract international, high-quality talent. Considerable financial
 resources have been invested to accelerate growth in new specialisms. Between 2017 and
 2020, for example, we invested £870,000 in the creation of six new posts in MCYS, thereby
 expanding our capability in youth-related research, generating increased income and award-
 winning policy and practitioner impacts (ICS 2).



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Twenty new staff have been recruited (including five ECRs and 11 women). Drs Bowman (ECR),
 Jump, Khan, Nunn, and Whittington (ECR) have driven the focus on youth, wellbeing and
 justice. Three human geographers were appointed: Drs Neate, Alexis-Martin and Di
 Feliciantonio. The work of Drs Bindman, Brock, Jackson, Kuntsman, Nunez, Luo (ECR) and
 Schmid (ECR) progresses international political research. Dr O’Shea boosts our popular music
 research and Dr Joseph brings additional digital expertise. Dr Snee’s appointment develops
 contemporary class analysis and Dr Wilkinson’s (ECR) adds geographical expertise to youth
 studies.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are embedded in recruitment processes, and we support
 staff at every stage of their academic career, as reflected in our staffing profile (Table 1).

  Professor                  Principal Lecturer    Senior Lecturer          Lecturer, Research
                             and Reader                                     Fellow
  13%                        13%                   53%                      21%
 Staff contract level profile (Table 1)

 All of our submitted staff are on permanent employment contracts (with one three-year Marie
 Curie Fellow). The stability of our staffing base throughout the assessment cycle demonstrates a
 high level of satisfaction with our research environment. Only one member of the 2014
 submission has left (excluding retirements). Two ECRs who joined in 2015–16 have
 subsequently taken up posts at Strathclyde and QMUL.

 2.3 Staff development
 Staff development and training are central to our activities. The University is a signatory to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and colleagues are provided
 with 10 days/annum for professional development. We organise a vibrant programme of activity,
 including ‘Show and Tell’ events where staff (including ECRs and PGRs) share details of their
 research and build collaborative networks within RCASS and beyond, and a number of long-
 standing seminar series. The University has held the EU HR Excellence in Research award
 since 2013 (see REF5a).

 Mentoring and five-year plans
 All staff are assigned a Research Mentor who provides support, informal peer review of papers
 and proposals, and general career guidance. Mentors support staff in developing five-year
 research plans establishing objectives for outputs, external funding and academic citizenship.
 Personal circumstances and wellbeing are balanced alongside career development. These plans
 form part of our annual review process and are aligned to RKE priorities, the REF cycle, and
 career development. They feed into departmental Professional Development Reviews (PDRs)
 ensuring that research strategies align with departmental goals. All staff who have a significant
 responsibility for research in line with our REF Code of Practice receive a minimum of 20% time
 allocation for research. The annual Researcher Categorisation process rewards high-performing
 staff with additional research allowances e.g. external funding that includes staff time is added
 onto their research allowance.

 Colleagues at the top of Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, and Reader scales can apply for additional
 ‘Contribution Zone’ increments designed to reward excellent research or impact. Professors
 undergo an annual pay review so that the Faculty can reward outstanding contributions.
 Promotion from Lecturer to Professor is guided via two Academic Career Pathways – Education,
 Pedagogy and Citizenship and Research, Knowledge Exchange, Education and Citizenship.
 Staff applying for promotion discuss applications with their mentors, RCASS Director, and
 Faculty RKE Head. Information workshops are delivered by the Faculty Head of RKE and Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor for RKE, including for BAME and female colleagues, ensuring the process is
 open and inclusive.

 During the assessment period we have achieved five promotions to Professor and four to
 Reader.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 The Faculty assigns ECR status to staff within six years of their first substantive non-casual
 academic appointment at Grade 8 or above with research as a significant element of their role.
 Under the slightly different REF2021 definition, we currently have five ECRS (10% of our
 submission).

 New ECRs are assigned a mentor and complete a five-year plan as part of their probation
 period, and benefit from a reduced workload with a 25% uplift in preparation time for new taught
 units. Expectations around research outputs and external research income are adjusted to
 ensure that ECRs are treated fairly and adequately supported. ECRs have access to the same
 support for career development as other colleagues.

 RCASS has an ECR Lead (Dr Neate) who has membership of the University’s ECR Forum.
 During the March 2020 COVID-19 lockdown, Dr Neate organised virtual output and bid-writing
 events for ECRs and PGRs. She also organises regular showcase events, which provide a
 platform for ECRs to present their work to senior Faculty and University colleagues, thus refining
 skills and boosting confidence while raising the profile of researchers.

 We have an excellent track record of supporting ECRs and see this as vital to the sustainability
 of our research culture. A good example is Dr Jump, recruited as Lecturer in 2015 and awarded
 an internal £6,000 Research Accelerator Grant for research into women and gangs the following
 year. This led to the award of £286,000 from Comic Relief for her ‘Girls in Gangs’ project. Dr
 Jump was subsequently promoted to Senior Lecturer and is now Head of Youth Justice in
 MCYS.

 2.5 Internal investment and support schemes for professional development

 Five-year plans also guide the deployment of internal funding available to all RCASS members,
 including ECRs and PGRs, supporting a range of initiatives:

 a. RCASS internal funding schemes

 Funding for conferences and events: Staff (ECRs and PGRs) can access £150,000 per
 annum (shared across three UCRKEs, usually equivalent to c.£2,000/year/head) for attendance
 at international and national networking events and conferences, running workshops, inviting
 external speakers to events and developing KE and public engagement. PAHC invests a further
 £10,000/annum for PGRs, plus an additional £5,000/annum for PGR-led collaborative initiatives
 and co-production.

 Writing Retreats: Regular two-day, off-site residential writing retreats provide staff at all career
 stages with collegiate support in developing publication strategies and outputs. We have
 expanded this highly successful approach to provide more specialised bid-writing retreats. A
 number of writing partnerships have developed producing high-quality outputs, including cutting-
 edge co-authored work by Drs Binnie and Klesse on transnational LGBTQ+ activism and
 publications on young people, boxing and criminal justice by Dr Jump and Prof. Smithson, and
 an article on women’s football and society by Drs Themen and van Hooff. During the COVID-19
 pandemic these retreats were moved online.

 Innovative Research Projects awards: Staff – particularly ECRs and mid-career staff who wish
 to pursue new research directions – can access awards of £5,000 for innovative exploratory
 research.

 ‘Showcase’ Award: Supporting an annual high-profile event with an international keynote
 speaker in an area that showcases our research expertise. For example, in 2017 the
 Contemporary Intimacies, Sexualities and Genders Group organised the symposium ‘Dirty Work:


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sexuality and Research in Higher Education’ with a keynote by Prof. Janice M. Irvine,
 Department of Sociology, University of Massachusetts, USA.

 International Research Partnership Fund: Staff compete for competitive Faculty awards (up to
 £50,000 for two-year projects) to internationalise their research. Prof. Pollock developed links
 with the University of Helsinki resulting in the award of external collaborative funding, while Dr
 Goswami and Prof. Smithson established the South Asian Research Network for Childhood and
 Youth Studies (SARN-CYS) with partners in India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka.

 b. Research leave arrangements

 RCASS Sabbatical Scheme: Staff can access three-month sabbaticals to focus on significant
 outputs, large external funding applications, impact, and international collaboration. Sabbaticals
 are offered on a competitive basis and include £8,500 for teaching relief or the recruitment of a
 Research Assistant (RA). 19 sabbaticals have been awarded to staff in this submission.
 Sabbaticals have resulted in high-quality outputs, for example in the area of genders and
 sexualities.

 The sabbatical scheme has also supported the career development of RAs. For example, Dr
 Popan was originally employed as a part-time RA during Dr Themen’s sabbatical. He was
 subsequently recruited onto Dr Arun’s EC MiCreate project, and then (supported by Drs Themen
 and Brock) he won a three-year Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship (from September
 2020).

 c. RKE Directorate Internal Funding

 RCASS staff have accessed considerable resources from the University’s RKE Directorate (see
 REF5a). For example, Drs Jump, Neate, and Bowman received a combined £19,000 in
 Research Accelerator Grants to undertake preparatory work leading to external grant proposals.
 Dr Brock was awarded £4,000 for an international research placement in Canada exploring how
 gambling practices are disguised in video games, and £10,000 of GCRF funding has helped
 establish links with Nicaragua, Colombia and India.

 The RKE Future Leaders Scheme (see REF5a) supported Dr Arun and Dr Kuntsman, both of
 whom were subsequently promoted to Reader. The Good to Great scheme, designed to
 advance mid-career researchers by developing their professorial leadership capability, is
 currently supporting Drs Klesse and Arun who have been able to access a combined £64,000 for
 bespoke training.

 Dr Arun provides a good example of how these schemes support career trajectories. She was
 initially awarded £3,000 to support her international research, which she developed further with
 £3,400 from GCRF for her evaluation of gender-sensitive disaster management plans in Kerala,
 India. She was subsequently awarded a MetroPolis Chancellors Fellowship to work alongside
 the Indian State Government in Bihar, and then accepted onto the RKE Future Leaders
 programme. In 2018, Dr Arun was promoted to Reader and accepted onto the Good to Great
 scheme. This support led to the €2.9m Horizon2020 MiCreate (Migrant Children and
 Communities in a Transforming Europe, 2019-22) project.

 2.6 Research Students

 Strategy
 PGRs are a vital part of our research community. Our strategy is to recruit high-quality students
 and support their career development in a nurturing yet challenging environment. We aim to
 develop our PGRs as researchers and advance their skills and employability through in-depth
 personalised support and development.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RCASS works closely with the University’s Graduate School and the Faculty’s Postgraduate Arts
 and Humanities Centre (PAHC) led by Prof. Miles. PGRs are represented on the RCASS
 Management Board by Drs Bowman and Peter. A generous proportion of the RCASS budget is
 ring-fenced to support their activities.

 Recruitment and funding
 RCASS has 63 PGRs (46 Home/EU and 17 Overseas) and 18 PhD awards in the assessment
 period. 57% of our PGRs are women, 27% BAME, 49% part-time, and 21% disabled, evidencing
 a mature approach to supporting reasonable adjustments as reflected in our ranking in the top
 quartile for the overall quality of the PGR experience in responses from disabled students
 (Postgraduate Research Experience Survey PRES 2019).

 Studentships are funded from various sources. Our Nuffield/ESRC-funded Q-Step Centre has
 invested in three PhDs, one of whom has secured a Lectureship in our Sociology Department.
 We have one AHRC-funded studentship from the North West Consortium Doctoral Training
 Partnership (AHRC-NWCDTP). We have successfully competed for internally funded
 scholarships, including seven from the University’s Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship scheme and
 three of the Faculty’s five Graduate Research Assistants. Staff have been funded to complete
 PhDs (Drs Porter, Themen and Williams). Other PhD funding has come from international
 students with bursaries from their own countries. We are already recruiting our next generation
 of PGRs, facilitated by a £1.35m Leverhulme Trust doctoral programme award focused around
 the Design of Cities of the Future led by Prof. Miles, offering 15 PhD studentships from 2021
 with a commitment to cross-disciplinary supervisory teams and creative methodologies. We are
 only the second modern university to secure this prestigious Leverhulme funding.

 Management of PGRs
 PGRs have a Director of Studies and at least one other academic supervisor who provide advice
 on their research and professional development. 100 hours of annual supervision is divided
 among the supervisory team, who set deadlines and give detailed feedback on progress and
 drafts. Our processes are designed to encourage cross-disciplinary supervision arrangements
 wherever possible, for example, Prof. Smithson supervising an AHRC/NWCDTP-funded student
 with the Manchester Pupil Referral Unit, and Prof. Steve Miles as the Institutional Lead for our
 NWCDTP students. According to the results of PRES 2019 Sociology are in the top quartile in
 terms of support, guidance and feedback, as well as development of theses (87% of students
 responded positively to questions about their ‘Dissertation’ and 83% to ‘Organisation’).

 The SkillsForge system supports student progress and development (see REF5a) by recording
 official milestones, training and actions from supervisory meetings. An Application for
 Registration takes place after three months and a Progression Review/Transfer of Registration
 after 12 months (full-time). Independent reviewers scrutinise these applications.

 PGR Support and Training
 The Faculty Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC) provides interdisciplinary
 research training, well-being support, events and online discussion fora, as well as a meeting
 space for 380 PhD students from across the social sciences, arts and humanities. PAHC is
 committed to a culture of collaboration and co-production and operates as a multidisciplinary
 community of practice. Its Research Training Programme, designed around the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework, comprises over 50 annual sessions including advanced
 methods training, digital research and EDI. The programme is reviewed annually with RCASS to
 ensure our students’ developmental needs are met. PAHC also provides funding for PGR
 students to devise their own training initiatives (e.g. reading and writing groups, specialist
 research interest groups) with the aim of nurturing independent-minded researchers.
 Employability training is provided through workshops offering students hands-on advice for job
 applications and interviews, and via the University’s Postgraduate Passport scheme.

 PGRs automatically have full membership of RCASS and can access most of the staff research
 support outlined above, including support to attend major national and international conferences.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students can access the PAHC Research Fund and the Graduate School Research Award for
 conference attendance and research trips (c.£200 per full-time student per year), as well as the
 Student Initiative Fund which enables them to devise their own collaborative research training.

 2.7 Equality and Diversity (EDI)

 EDI within the submission
 We have improved diversity within the unit, particularly in leadership roles. 51% of staff are
 women (compared with 34% in REF2014). 30% of our Professors are women (none in
 REF2014), including the Head of the Department of Sociology and Director of Q-Step Prof. Scott
 Jones, and Head of MCYS Prof. Smithson, who were both promoted during the assessment
 period. Three out of seven Readers are women (Drs Arun, Kuntsman and Latham) and female
 staff are in the majority of those promoted to Reader.

 We have seven BAME staff (15% which is the same as the total eligible population) and 11 staff
 (23%) from EU countries (France, Germany, Portugal, Holland, Italy and Ireland), reflecting the
 international profile of the unit in terms of recruitment and subject specialisms. 10% of submitted
 staff have declared a disability against a sector average of 6.8% according to the latest Advance
 HE Equality report (2019).

 University-level management of EDI
 The University’s commitment to EDI (see REF5a) is outlined in our Equality and Diversity Policy
 and Vision for Equality and Diversity. The Diversity and Equal Opportunities Committee (DEOC)
 oversees five Staff Equality Forums (disability, gender, LGBTA+, race, and working parents and
 carers) and has invested in a comprehensive Employee Assistance Programme (EAP)
 addressing staff mental health and wellbeing. This commitment has been widely recognised:

    The first university (2017) to achieve ‘Gold’ status in the Business Disability Forum’s
     Disability Standard;
    Recognised by the government’s Disability Confident scheme as a Disability Confident
     Leader;
    Institutional Athena SWAN award (Bronze) (2018);
    Second in the English education sector on Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index (WEI)
     (2019) (a measure of LGBTQ+ inclusion in the workplace), and 22nd in the WEI national Top
     100;
    1 of only 14 Stonewall Top Trans Inclusive Employers (2019);
    The UK’s first Manchester Pride Role Model Organisation (2020);
    Our gender pay gap for 2019 was 6.3% (mean)/5.7% (median) compared to HE averages of
     15.1%/14.8% respectively;
    Race Equality Charter member (2019) (preparing an application for 2021).

 Arrangements for supporting flexible working
 Our flexible working processes facilitate temporary part-time working, compressed hours, job
 sharing, homeworking, and career breaks, all of which are acknowledged in the promotions
 process. Timetabling arrangements support colleagues with caring responsibilities. We
 recognise the effect of equality-related circumstances on an individual’s research productivity.
 Disclosure of an equality-related issue leads to adjustment in expectations regarding research
 outputs. Similar adjustments are made for colleagues with caring responsibilities, chronic
 disabilities including mental health issues, and return to work after sickness or family-related
 absence. For example, one member of our submission was given six months’ teaching relief
 following her return from maternity leave, and now works full-time compressed hours over four
 days. The impact of COVID-19 on staff working at home, particularly with caring or childcare
 responsibilities, is currently being fully considered in the promotions round, and a COVID
 Recovery Scheme is being prepared to support staff whose research has been interrupted.

 Career pathways and other forms of support


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff have equal access to mentoring, funding, sabbatical and career-development
 opportunities. Career pathways are equitable for part-time and full-time staff. Research
 Assistants/Fellows receive mentoring within their units (e.g. MCYS), participate in Research
 Centre activities, and are eligible for funding. Recruitment processes are inclusive and EDI is
 reflected in the diverse composition of recruitment and assessment panels. Women are
 encouraged to engage in leadership development programmes, such as RKE Future Leaders
 and Good to Great. Drs Jump, Milestone, Nunn and van Hooff participated in a Developing
 Women Research Leaders programme. Dedicated progression workshops support the
 promotion of female and BAME colleagues. We encourage participation in Aurora and Stella HE
 programmes. PAHC’s PGR Research Training Programme includes an EDI Stream.

 EDI considerations in the REF submission
 RCASS has aimed to be fair, transparent and inclusive, complying with the University’s Code of
 Practice to ensure that EDI is reflected in the REF submission. All colleagues with significant
 responsibility for research and independent researcher status are included. Staff preparing the
 submission completed training on ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’ and
 ‘Unconscious Bias and REF2021’. The Sociology REF2021 Coordination Group, and the team
 who prepared this environment narrative, had equal gender representation. The four impact
 case studies are led or co-led by female staff, one of which focuses on BAME identities in the
 criminal justice system (ICS 4) and another on youth (ICS 2).

 We have taken positive steps to maximise EDI in output selection. Colleagues could request a
 reduction in outputs due to individual circumstances. However, we have not reduced the overall
 volume of outputs in our submission because we think there is enough scope for us to manage
 the impact of individual circumstances.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Strategic investment in staff and comprehensive support for funding proposals has driven a
 threefold increase in external research income from £1.1m in REF2014 to £3.2m in REF2021.
 Despite a 100% increase in researchers we have maintained research funding per FTE
 compared to REF2014.

 We have won an increasingly diverse set of awards (Table 2) including UK Research Councils
 such as ESRC, AHRC, MRC, NERC and Innovate UK, international funders such as the
 European Commission and the Swedish Research Council (Vetenskapsrådet), and charities
 such as Comic Relief, Leverhulme Trust, Heritage Lottery Fund and the British Academy. In
 2014 a relatively small proportion of our researchers brought in external funding, whereas now
 50% of our staff are PIs or Co-Is on externally funded projects, reflecting the increasing maturity
 and dynamism of our research environment.

 Diversity of Income Sources

  Source of          BEIS               UK Charities,   UK Govt,     European        Non-EU
  Income             Research           Open            Industry &   Union
                     Councils           Competition &   other UK
                                        Other           Sources
  Percentage         5%                 47%             15%          33%             0%
  of Income
 Table 2: Diversity of Income Sources

 Strategy for external research income generation:

 The development of fewer, larger bids from successful staff: Prof. Pollock’s series of large
 European awards are a good example of our successful approach here.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting ECRs to develop from small individual proposals to Co-Is on larger
 collaborative projects, then PIs in their own right: Dr Peter started out with modest ESRC
 Festival of Social Science funding before becoming PI on a £38,000 Heritage Lottery Fund
 project (ICS 3).

 Identifying where our strengths contribute to collaborative proposals: Our successful
 £1.35m Leverhulme Trust award for the doctoral training programme was led by Prof. Miles in
 this submission but drew on synergies across the Faculty.

 Investment in emerging clusters to attract funding aligned with our strengths in policy
 impact: MCYS have already secured external awards from UKRI, Innovate UK, and Comic
 Relief that are worth more than the initial institutional £870,000 investment and delivered award-
 winning policy impact (ICS 2).

 Strategic collaborations with research-intensive universities: Dr Williams is Co-I on the
 University of Manchester-led ESRC Centre on the Dynamics of Ethnicity (CoDE), while Prof.
 Pollock leads a large £3.8m consortium that includes UCL and the University of Bologna.

 Accessing other national funding through international partnerships: Prof. Young’s
 partnership with Stockholm University has attracted funding for over a decade, starting with
 smaller grants (from the Riksbankens Jubileumsfond, The Swedish Foundation for International
 Cooperation in Research and Higher Education, the UK Royal Geographical Society and
 ERASMUS+) and culminating in a £300,000 award from the Swedish Research Council
 (Vetenskapsrådet – Sweden’s largest state funding agency). Dr van Hooff has had similar
 success with an £80,000 award with Tel Aviv University from the Israeli Science Council, while
 Dr Cheng has had numerous China National Science Foundation (NSF) awards through Visiting
 Professorships in China.

 The use of internal investment to support external income generation: High levels of
 internal funding have been invested to support external grant capture (see Section 2.5).

 Exceptional support from the RKE Directorate: We have a strong relationship with our
 Research Development Team who work with us on our long-term funding strategy. We also work
 with an International Research Development Manager and an experienced Research Delivery
 team. These relationships are key to our success by providing us with high levels of expert
 knowledge and support.

 Major competitive awards include:

 The Manchester Metropolitan Q-Step Centre – Nuffield/ESRC/HEFCE £1.15m plus £123,000
 (2013).
 Prof. Scott Jones is PI on this major initiative promoting quantitative methods. We are the only
 modern university to receive Q-Step funding.

 Migrant Children and Communities in a Transforming Europe (MiCreate) – EC (GA822664)
 €2.84m (€357,996 to Manchester Metropolitan) (2018).
 Dr Arun is Co-I on this 15-partner transnational consortium facilitating the inclusion of migrant
 children in Europe.

 European Cohort Development Project (ECDP) – EC (GA777449) €2.048m (€424,622 to
 Manchester Metropolitan) (2018).
 Prof. Pollock coordinates this 15-partner consortium that created the specification for a
 European Research Infrastructure that will provide a 25-year longitudinal study into child and
 young adult well-being. This project extended ideas in Prof. Pollock’s €1.493m European-funded
 feasibility study MYWEB (2013) leading to the award of £3.8m for COORDINATE (2021–25).

 Girls in Gangs – Comic Relief £286,473 (2017) with £150,000 extension (2020).

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Jump (MCYS) leads this project (the first time that Comic Relief provided research funding to
 a UK University) which works alongside at-risk young women and girls across Greater
 Manchester (ICS 2).

 Greater Manchester Youth Justice Partnership KTP – AHRC/ESRC-funded Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership £117,000 (2015).
 Led by Prof. Smithson (MCYS), this was the first of its kind in the field of youth justice and aimed
 to transform GM’s Youth Justice Partnership by engaging young people in its pioneering Youth
 Participatory Action Research (YPAR). It won a 2019 Times Higher Education award for best KE
 initiative of the year (ICS 2).

 Consensual Non-Monogamies and Social Movements (CNM Moves) – EC Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie €212,000 (GA845889) (2019–22).
 Dr Klesse won funding to host Dr Cardoso to conduct a comparative transnational analysis of
 activism and social movements around consensual non-monogamies in Portugal and the UK.

 We have already secured significant awards to ensure the long-term sustainability of our
 research environment beyond REF2021:

 COVID-19: Understanding Chinese Government Containment Measures and Their Societal
 Impacts – UKRI-NIHR £334,000 (2020–21).
 Dr Luo will work with the University of Glasgow, Beijing and Beijing Normal Universities.

 The Youth Justice System’s Response to the Covid-19 Crisis: Implications and Impacts - UKRI-
 ESRC Covid Response Fund £363,138 (2020–22).
 Prof. Smithson leads this study in partnership with the Standing Committee for Youth Justice,
 which aims to understand the unprecedented implications that COVID-19 has had on children in
 the youth justice system.

 COhort COmmunity Research and Development Infrastructure Network For Access Throughout
 Europe (COORDINATE) – European Commission £3.8m (£559,000 to Manchester Metropolitan,
 2021–25).
 Prof. Pollock leads this 22 partner/14 country consortium to extend the development of a
 longitudinal survey of inequalities facing children and young people.

 The Leverhulme Unit For The Design Of Cities And Communities Of The Future (LUDeC) –
 Leverhulme Trust £1.35m (2021–25).
 Prof. Miles leads this multidisciplinary doctoral programme that will fund 15 PhD studentships.
 We are only the second modern university to receive this funding from Leverhulme.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate (RKE)
 RKE offers ‘full service’ support incorporating the Graduate School, support for grant bidding, IP,
 commercialisation and contracts. This includes a dedicated Research Development Team, an
 International Research Development Manager and a Research Delivery Team including post-
 award specialists and legal professionals supporting procurement, logistics and financial
 management. The Research Impact and Engagement Manager manages a team of impact and
 public engagement professionals, and a Research Ethics and Governance Manager offers
 guidance and training. Engagement with business is supported by a Business Development
 Manager, a Partnership Manager and an award-winning KTP team.

 RKE Systems manage Symplectic, to maintain records of outputs, OA compliance, and web
 profiles; Worktribe, for the online management of external funding applications; EthOS, for
 research ethics and governance; and SkillsForge, to manage the PGR student journey. RKE
 Systems also provide management reports for annual review processes.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Administrators in the University’s Graduate School work closely with our Research Degrees lead
 and the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Research Centre (PAHC). We also have a dedicated
 press officer, an HR business partner, ISDS support, and Finance and Legal Services.

 Library
 The University Library is open 24/7 and offers access to extensive online resources for staff and
 PGRs. A subject-specific librarian advocates for extra resources and updates journal provision,
 and contributes to training in InfoSkills and Open Research. Journal titles, monographs, and
 online resources are reviewed annually. Inter-Library Loan requests are free. The SCONUL
 network facilitates access to other university libraries. International research methods packages
 are available e.g. SAGE Research Methods. New subscriptions to SAGE Premier and extra
 Taylor & Francis collections have expanded online journal access. The Library also manages
 Green OA through the e-Space repository and funding for Gold OA APC charges. The provision
 of online resources has been particularly significant during the pandemic, and the Library has
 invested additional resources into e-books. It also offers access to our Special Collections and
 other specialist resources such as the North-West Film Archive.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support and effectiveness of collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our academic partnerships span the world, rooted in our commitment to scholarly excellence
 and applied sociology, and we have successfully built long-term national and international
 partnerships through externally funded research programmes. Prof. Pollock’s research into
 youth wellbeing has attracted almost £5m in FP7 and Horizon2020 funding for multiple projects
 delivered by more than 30 partners from most EU member states. University partners include
 UCL, UCD and the Universities of Essex, Debrecan, Bremen, Bologna, Lisbon, Jyvaskala,
 Helskini, Tallinn, Ivo Pilar, Pompeu Fabra and the Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences. Non-
 university partners include Ipsos (Germany), Kantar, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts
 and Sciences, and the European Centre for Social Welfare and Policy Research (Austria).
 These networks are now operating as a nascent European Research Infrastructure, and
 outcomes are included in the UK’s research infrastructures roadmap. Our Q-Step Centre is part
 of a national network with 17 partners, including the Universities of Bristol, Manchester,
 Sheffield, Nottingham, Essex, Oxford, UCL, Cardiff, and Southampton, which has influenced 81
 degree programmes, the development of 236 modules, and in 2018–19 offered 304 placements
 with employers. MCYS has developed the South Asian Network for Childhood and Youth
 Studies with universities and civil society organisations in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and
 India. GCRF funding enabled initial research to take place in Islamabad on gender equality in
 partnership with Quaid E Azam University's Sociology department and their Centre for
 Excellence in Gender Studies. Sociology participates in the NWCDTP via the Cultural Studies
 pathway.

 The unit hosts a large number of international Visiting Professors/Fellows who participate in
 specific research projects and provide master classes for PGRs/ECRs. Key examples include Dr
 Nicholas Hookway, University of Tasmania; Dr Kinneret Lahad, Tel Aviv University; Prof. Leanne
 Dowse, Professor and Chair in Intellectual Disability and Behaviour Support, UNSW Sydney; Dr
 Liutauras Labanauskas, Kazimieras Simonavičius University, Lithuania; Dr Khayaat Fakier,
 University of Stellenbosch, South Africa; Dr Rajeev Verma, Chandragupt Institute of
 Management, Patna, India; Dr Marina Riera-Retamero, University of Barcelona; Prof. Anandhi
 Shanmugham, Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai. In addition, we regularly host
 visiting scholars from China including from Wuhan University, Central China Normal University,
 Shandong University, Nanjing Normal University, Anhui Normal University, Nanning Normal
 University, Chongqing University of Technology and Business, Northwest University, and the
 Guangxi University of Finance and Economics.

 How staff developed relationships with key users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop
 impact and enrich research environment


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our staff have been particularly adept at using KE mechanisms in creative ways to develop
 relationships that have led to impact. For example, MCYS mobilised a Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership (KTP) to deepen their links with the Youth Justice Board and each of the ten Greater
 Manchester Youth Justice Services. Unusually for a KTP, this was funded by both the AHRC
 and the ESRC, which provides further evidence of MCYS’ innovative outlook and approach.
 Aside from the award-winning impact (ICS 2) this partnership also opened further doors to
 collaboration with other youth justice providers and government across the UK and overseas.

 Staff have also made successful use of exchange opportunities and secondments. For example,
 Dr O’Hare won £60,000 from NERC to conduct a placement with Greater Manchester’s Climate
 Change Agency to improve the future resilience of the city. This will lead to various
 environmental and social impacts which will be tracked as the project develops.

 Wider contributions to economy and society, including impact not in impact case studies
 Research by Drs Binnie and Klesse on queer film festivals has developed into a partnership with
 the Queer Film Network, a professional body that supports film festivals across the UK and
 Ireland. The research has resulted in the creation of an interactive toolkit to support QFFs, which
 is hosted on the Queer Film Network website and will be widely utilised by film festivals,
 particularly as they look to reconstitute themselves in a post-COVID environment. The Q-Step
 Centre works with a wide range of community organisations who provide services for difficult-to-
 reach groups. Q-Step carries out pro-bono research for organisations to help them gather the
 quantitative evidence they need to demonstrate their sustainability in external funding proposals.

 How the unit engages with diverse communities and publics
 To ensure that our outstanding Sociology research ‘lives in the world’ we directly engage a
 diverse set of ‘hard to reach’ communities and ‘people of experience’ in our research and draw
 in diverse audiences through high-profile, innovative public engagement.

 Members of the Contemporary Intimacies research group engage a range of LGTBQ+ groups
 and organisations, including people in non-binary relationships and older gay migrants. Work
 featured in the Electronic Dance Music impact case study (ICS 3) engages older ex-clubbers
 and schoolchildren. Dr Patrick Williams works alongside civil rights and advocacy groups to
 combat social injustice in the criminal justice system surrounding BAME men and women (ICS
 4). Other projects work with young people, the homeless, substance users, atomic testing
 veterans, and individuals practising different forms of intimacies. In this way, we seek to give a
 voice to people that are acutely under-represented in academic research.

 Public engagement is led through Research in Arts and Humanities! (RAH!). RAH! was
 shortlisted in the Best Research Marketing category at the 2018 Heist Awards for its diverse
 programme, aimed particularly at people who might not normally engage with academic
 research. The programme seeks to reach out to research end users via fashion shows, film
 screenings, pub quizzes, club nights, and public lectures, panels and symposia. Building
 relationships is at the heart of RAH! which encourages collaboration with Greater Manchester’s
 diverse community groups, subcultures and cultural venues. With a budget of £50,000 per year it
 typically attracts over 3,000 guests annually.

 4.2 Contribution to the discipline and indicators of influence
 Our Sociology researchers shape the discipline locally, nationally and internationally, making
 significant contributions to the vitality and sustainability of sociology and related disciplines:

 Editors/Editorial Board Members of peer-reviewed journals:
 Prof. Edensor - Co-editor/Editor Emeritus,Tourist Studies; Prof. Miles - Editor-in-Chief, Journal of
 Consumer Culture; Prof. Smithson, Editor-in-Chief, Safer Communities; Dr Dale - Associate
 Editor, Journal of Punk and Post-Punk; Dr Di Feliciantonio, Co-Editor, ACME: An International
 Journal for Critical Geographies; Dr Lalor, Feminist Legal Studies; Prof. Young - Editor-in-Chief,
 Eurasian Geography and Economics; Dr Brock, Book Reviews Editor, Journal of Consumer
 Culture.

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Editorial Board memberships:
 Sociology (Dr van Hooff); Feminist Critique, Journal of Environmental Media (Dr Kuntsman);
 Qualitative Research (Dr Calvey); Work, Employment and Society, Migration and Development
 (Dr Arun); IASPM (International Association for the Study of Popular Music) Journal (Dr Peter);
 Gender, Place & Culture (Dr Di Feliciantonio); Journal of Contemporary Crime, Harm and Ethics
 (Dr Jump); Feminist Legal Studies (Dr Lalor); British Journal of Community Justice, Safer
 Communities (Dr Gray); Journal of Punk and Post-Punk (Dr Dale); Critical Gambling Studies,
 International Journal of Esports (Dr Brock); East European Politics (Dr Bindman); Journal of
 Youth Studies (Dr Smithson); International Review for Spatial Planning and Sustainable
 Development (Dr Cheng); Cultural Geographies, Emotion, Space and Society, Mobilities, and
 Senses and Society (Prof. Edensor).

 Guest Editors of international journal theme issues:
 Journal of Environmental Media (Dr Kuntsman); Extractive Industries and Society (Dr Alexis-
 Martin); International Journal of Film and Media Arts, (Dr Carduso); Migration and Development
 (Drs Brahic and Arun); Sage Open (Dr Goswami); Urban Geography (Prof. Young)

 Membership of external advisory boards:
 Our sociologists make significant contributions to the sociological community through their
 service on external advisory bodies:
 Prof. Smithson, Chair of the Standing Committee for Youth Justice and the Youth Justice
 Board's Academic Advisory Panel for Serious Youth Violence; Prof. Miles served on the Higher
 Education Funding Council for England’s (HEFEC) National Advisory Committee on Research
 and Knowledge Exchange; Dr Peter, Member of the Executive Committee of the International
 Association for the Study of Popular Music, UK & Ireland; Dr Alexis-Martin, Scientific Advisor,
 British Nuclear Test Veterans Association Board and Education Advisor, Campaign for Nuclear
 Disarmament Board; Prof. Young, Committee Member, Association for the Study of Death and
 Society; Prof. Scott Jones was a Member of the International Editorial Board of Experts, SAGE
 Encyclopaedia of Research Methods and Member, Advisory Board for the CORE International
 Economics Quantitative Skills Project; Dr Cheng, Member, Advisory Board for the Smart City
 Association, Guangxi Province, China; Dr Arun, Advisory Board for the Evaluation of Gender
 and Socially Inclusive Flood Relief Camps in India; Dr Brock, Committee of the Digital Games
 Research Association; the Historical Geography Research Group of the Royal Geographical
 Society-Institute of British Geographers benefits from the service of Dr Neate; Dr Snee, Co-
 convenor, British Sociological Association’s Youth Study Group.

 Fellowships and Prizes:
 The international reach and significance of our sociological research has been recognised by the
 award of numerous prestigious fellowships:
 Dr Kuntsman, International Visiting Fellow at the prestigious Aleksanteri Institute, Helsinki,
 Finland; Dr Alexis-Martin held a Hiroshima City University Peace Fellowship; Dr Di Feliciantonio
 was a Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellow and recipient of the Juan De La Cierva Early
 Career Fellowship from the Spanish State Research Agency; we host Dr Cardoso as a Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Incoming International Fellow; a Liss Jeffrey Award, a Rogers Fellowship at
 Ryerson University, Canada, together with a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
 of Canada Partnership Engage Grant supported international research and exchanges by Dr
 Joseph; Dr Lalor won a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship and Dr Bindman was also
 honoured by a Leverhulme Trust Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship; Prof. Smithson won a
 Visiting Scholarship at the Sydney Institute of Criminology, University of Sydney, Australia;
 Visiting Research Fellowships were held by Prof. Edensor at the Institute of Advanced Studies,
 Durham University, Roskilde University, Denmark, and Wollongong University, New South
 Wales, Australia; a Visiting Fellow appointment at the Alberta Gambling Research Institute,
 University of Alberta, Canada recognised the work of Dr Brock.

 The quality of our research has been recognised through numerous prizes, for example:


                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Alexis-Martin’s book Disarming Doomsday won the British International Studies Association
 (BISA) L.H.M. Outstanding First Book Prize (2020 – output 1970); Dr Di Feliciantonio won the
 Association of Italian Geographers ‘Gabriele Zanetto prize’ for Best Early Career Geographer; Dr
 Cardoso was awarded a European Union H2020 Seal of Excellence in 2018; Dr van Hooff was
 shortlisted for the 2016 British Sociological Association SRO SAGE Prize for Innovation and/or
 Excellence and the 2018 Sociological Review Foundation Award for Outstanding Scholarship; Dr
 Snee’s book Cosmopolitan Journey? was shortlisted for the BSA Philip Abrams Memorial Prize;
 MCYS were 2020 Finalists at the KTP Best of the Best Awards for Societal Impact, Finalists at
 the Criminal Justice Alliance Awards, 2018, and Organisation of the Year Award winners for the
 Greater Manchester Youth Justice University Partnership THE Awards 2019 - KTP Project of the
 Year (Youth Justice) (ICS 3); Dr Luo was awarded the Graduate Student Best Paper Prize by
 the China and Inner Asia Council of the Association for Asian Studies (AAS), 2014; Dr Goswami
 was awarded the International Society for Child Indicators Impact Award, 2019.

 Conference Chair and Keynote presentations:
 The reputation of our Sociology research was demonstrated when we hosted the 2019
 European Sociological Association Conference in Manchester (Prof. Pollock Chaired the
 Organising Committee), the largest sociological conference in Europe with 3,000+ delegates.

 Staff in the unit have organised and chaired a vast number of panels and sessions at
 international conferences, and have been Conference Chair/Organiser for international events,
 including:
 Dr Millington Chaired the IPM International Conference in 2017 (Manchester) and 2019
 (Adelaide); Dr Brahic organised the conference Brexit Wounds (2018) at Manchester
 Metropolitan and The Migration Conference (2017) at Harokopio University, Athens, Greece; Dr
 Peter was Co-Chair (2019) of Sonic Waves: Music and Sound Beyond Borders, Manchester
 Met.; Prof. Young was PI and Chair of nine events on the ESRC Research Seminar Series
 Encountering Corpses, including a final two-day conference in Manchester (2014-17); Dr Di
 Feliciantonio was Co-Chair of the 3rd European Geographies of Sexualities Conference,
 Sapienza-University of Rome (2015); Dr Snee was Member of the Scientific Committee for the
 2015 International Journal of Youth Studies Conference and Lifecourse Stream Co-ordinator for
 the 2018 British Sociological Association Annual Conference; Dr Luo was Chair for the 2015
 Information Gathering in Contemporary China in Comparative and Historical Perspective,
 Association for Asian Studies Annual Conference and Representation and Propagation on
 Digital Platforms, Modes of Connection: The 16th Chinese Internet Research Conference
 (2018); Dr Arun Co-Chaired H14: Women's Inequalities and Global Progress in Work: Access,
 Dignity, Decency of Women's Work at the Development Studies Association Annual Conference,
 The University of Manchester (2018); Dr Cardoso Co-organised the 1st, 2nd and 3rd Non-
 Monogamies and Contemporary Intimacies Conference (2015, Lisbon, Portugal; 2017, Vienna,
 Austria; 2019, Spain).

 Similarly, the unit can demonstrate a huge number of keynotes and plenaries at national and
 international conferences, key among which are:
 Keynote presentations at major international sociological conferences include Dr van Hooff,
 Keynote Speaker at the 2017 BSA Conference Romantic Relationships in a Time of Cold
 Intimacies, Canterbury Christ Church University; Dr Peter and Prof. Miles at the Leisure Studies
 Association Annual Conference; Dr Di Feliciantonio, invited keynote speaker at the IV European
 Geographies of Sexualities Conference, Barcelona (2017); Dr Dale gave a keynote presentation
 at the International Centre for Music Studies, Newcastle University (2017); Dr Brock presented a
 keynote to the Polish National Esports Congress, Katowice, Poland; Prof. Smithson’s keynotes
 include one to the 2018 National Autistic Society Annual Conference and several invited
 presentations to meetings of the Youth Justice Board, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Probation,
 Ministry of Justice, and the Standing Committee for Youth Justice; Prof. Edensor at the Critical
 Tourism Studies Asia-Pacific conference, Yogyakarta, Indonesia; Dr Goswami at the 2019
 International Symposium on Child Well-being, Seoul National University Asia Centre, South
 Korea; and Dr Arun’s keynote on her book Development and Gender Capital in India (output
 1934) at the Institute of English and Cultural Studies, University of Kerala, India; Dr Calvey

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presented keynotes at British Sociological Association events including Ethnography in Action:
 Bouncers, Boxers and Drug Dealers BSA Early Career Forum Regional Event, Manchester
 Metropolitan and the BSA Early Career Event Ethics as Practice and Praxis, Bangor University;
 Dr Cheng, invited Keynote Speaker at the International Conference on Public Safety and Urban
 Health (2020), Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.

 National and international peer review:
 Staff in the unit have been members of national grant award bodies, including:
 Drs Kuntsman and Dale, Prof. Miles - AHRC Peer Review College; Prof. Scott Jones, Dr Cheng
 and Prof. Young - ESRC Peer Review College and Dr Cheng Secondary Data Analysis Grants
 Panel; Prof. Scott Jones - White Rose DTC Advanced Quantitative Methods Award Committee.

 Sociology staff regularly act as international reviewers for key funding agencies, including:
 French National Research Agency (ANR); Nuclear Community Charity Fund; Italian Ministry of
 Education, University and Research; British Academy; Leverhulme; ESRC; HEA; Nuffield
 Foundation; Health and Care Research Wales Social Care Grants; Horizon2020; British Council;
 NERC; Independent Social Research Foundation; AHRC; Newton Fund/British Council; Swiss
 National Science Foundation; Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek - Vlaanderen (FWO -
 Flanders Research Foundation, Belgium); Georgian Rustaveli National Science Foundation;
 HERA (Humanities in the European Research Area); Leibniz Junior Research Groups, Leibniz
 Association, Germany; Romanian Executive Agency for Higher Education, Research,
 Development and Innovation Funding; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada; Slovenian Research Agency.

 Researchers in the unit contribute to the discipline by conducting numerous reviews for a
 significant, multi-disciplinary range of over 200 individual international journals. Regular reviews
 are conducted for key sociological journals including the British Journal of Sociology,
 Sociological Research Online, Cultural Sociology and Sociology. Major inter-disciplinary journals
 are also reviewed for, including the Environment and Planning A, B, C and D series, European
 Journal of Social Work, Oxford Development Studies, Gender and Society and Emotion, Space
 and Society. Staff also contribute reviews to specialist regional journals shaping international
 research agendas, such as East European Politics, The China Quarterly, The East Asian
 Journal of Popular Culture, New Zealand Geographer, Rivista Geografica Italiana and the Nordic
 Journal of Migration Research, as well as journals with a methodological focus, for example
 Child Indicators Research, Qualitative Research and Urban Research Practice.




                                                                                             Page 19
