Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: KING’S COLLEGE

 Unit of Assessment: 21 SOCIOLOGY

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1.1   Overview – context and structure
 The Department of Global Health & Social Medicine (GHSM) at King’s College London brings
 social science perspectives to bear on the most pressing global health challenges (i.e. the complex
 social determinants of health, illness and ageing), understanding their local specificities and social
 consequences and leading to actionable impacts (see Figure 1 for organisational structure within
 King’s). Founded in 2012, GHSM has made a unique contribution to the social science of health
 and medicine through conceptually innovative and empirically rich research, multiple
 interdisciplinary collaborations, engagement beyond academia with diverse global and local
 actors, and the facilitation of the translation of social science research into clinical practice and
 health policy.

 GHSM has 37 interdisciplinary research-active staff and hosts 258 undergraduate, postgraduate
 and research students. HESA grant return income for UoA 21: Sociology during the REF period
 since August 2013 has been £11M (see REF4b).

 GHSM research has focused on four key areas, each supported by a research group: Ageing and
 Society deploys innovative quantitative research methodologies to understand the growing
 challenges of global
 ageing;
 Biotechnology and
 Society explores the
 social, legal, political
 and             ethical
 implications of our
 capacities to re-
 engineer life itself;
 Culture,     Medicine
 and            Power,
 supported by major
 awards from the
 Research Councils
 UK (RCUK), National Institutes of Health (NIHR), and The Wellcome Trust, challenges the
 hegemony of western biomedicine in understanding global health and illness; Mental Health and
 Society, now linked to the Centre for Society and Mental Health (CSMH), funded by a major
 Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) centre grant (£8M full value), illustrates GHSM’s
 capacity to innovate through collaborations with the health disciplines, using state-of-the-art social
 theory and research methods to understand the lived experience of mental health in social
 adversity, and is already providing critical evidence on the mental health impacts of the COVID-
 19 pandemic, influencing key debates on the impact of contemporary social changes on mental
 health.




Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2     Research and impact strategy
 GHSM’s current and future research and impact strategy has four key strands:

      nurturing a vibrant and supportive research culture, using grant income to create
       collaborative research teams that attract further grants, visiting scholars and research
       networks;

      building major interdisciplinary collaborations between the social sciences, arts and
       humanities and biomedical, reproductive and neuro-technologies to provide innovative
       sociological contributions to global health and medicine;

      achieving societal impact by engaging with key stakeholders to translate research findings
       into policy and practice, creating new North–South partnerships for knowledge exchange and
       mutual learning to ensure that knowledge arising from GHSM research informs key debates
       in global health and medicine;

      assuring research integrity through a robust Departmental research infrastructure that is
       integrated with College- and Faculty-level policies and procedures.

 Over the period of this REF, GHSM has made significant contributions to the sociology of health
 and health inequalities; the sociology of science, technology and medicine; and the sociology of
 ageing. GHSM promotes empirically grounded, and conceptually and methodologically rigorous
 sociological research that addresses vital social and ethical problems in global health and social
 medicine. GHSM spans qualitative and quantitative approaches, emphasising new ways of
 working to involve user groups in defining the goals, methods and approaches of research,
 ensuring research has a positive impact on end users, and pioneering advanced longitudinal,
 quasi-experimental methods to evaluate the causal impact of social policies.

 Each strand of GHSM’s strategy is described below.

 1.2.1    Nurturing a vibrant and supportive research culture

 Initiatives and infrastructure at Departmental and College level to support research activities (see
 Section 3) underpin an impressive increase in research income for UoA 21 – from £35k per FTE
 per year in HESA grant return income in 2013/14 to £63k per FTE per year in 2019/20 (see
 Section 3). Project funding has enabled us to grow GHSM’s community of postdoctoral
 researchers and postgraduate researchers (PGRs), thus increasing critical mass in GHSM’s four
 main areas of concentration and providing platforms for early career researchers (ECRs) to
 develop their own research trajectories.

 All research staff, PGRs and visiting scholars are affiliated to at least one research group in GHSM.
 There is considerable cross-group collaboration, and activities to support research excellence are
 organised at both group and Departmental level (see Section 2.2). GHSM also acts as a hub for
 a larger group of health-related sociologists across King’s via GHSM’s affiliates scheme, through
 workshops, events and research activities.

 The vibrancy of GHSM’s research is best illustrated with examples drawn from its four research
 groups:

 The Ageing and Society Research Group (led by Avendano) is pioneering the use of advanced
 quantitative methods that link longitudinal data to social policy to assess how government
Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 institutions shape individual experiences of ageing and health in the UK and Europe. Two large
 international research projects (both with full values of over £5M) funded by European
 Commission (EC) Horizon2020 highlight this work:

    Mindmap –creating a unique data infrastructure of ageing studies in more than 12 cities across
     Europe, the USA and Canada, linked to key urban policies and environmental factors, for
     example investigating the impact of urban transportation policies on the mental health of older
     people (Avendano);

    Lifepath – using data from 1.7 million individuals in 48 cohort studies to show that the years of
     life and disability lost to poor socioeconomic circumstances are comparable to or greater than
     those lost to smoking, hypertension, obesity or diabetes (Avendano).

 Key strategic goals include:

 a) developing a global data infrastructure for comparative research on ageing across countries
    and cities, building on Mindmap and Lifepath;

 b) generating data infrastructure to study the impact of public policies for ageing societies across
    Latin America and Asia;

 c) establishing a programme of research on the implications of demographic and social change
    for connections across generations and perceptions of intergenerational fairness and
    solidarity.

 The Biotechnology and Society Research Group (led by Hinterberger and Camporesi)
 investigates the social, ethical and legal questions arising from emerging and digital
 biotechnologies.

 Key achievements include contributions to:

    examining how human organoids and interspecies chimera are redrawing the limits and
     boundaries of the conceptualisation of the ‘human’ in biomedicine (Hinterberger);

    investigating emerging digital and medical technologies and their impact on changing
     landscapes in healthcare, precision medicine and forensic medicine, pregnancy and childbirth
     (Prainsack, Samuel, Camporesi);

    elucidating the process of regulation of pharmaceutical innovation, safety and cost-
     effectiveness (Abraham, Davis); and understanding medicines’ regulation with patient and
     consumer health groups across the EU (Davis);

    establishing the Foresight Lab on responsible research and innovation, funded through the
     EC’s €1.3billion (full value over 10 years) flagship Human Brain Project (HBP) (N. Rose,
     Aicardi, Mahfoud (leaver), Datta (leaver)).

    identifying global fertility chains (Parry, Prainsack, Vertommen (leaver));

 Key strategic goals include:

 a) establishing GHSM as the UK reference point for sociology and science and technology
    studies of the ‘human’ in biomedicine and biotechnology;

Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 b) consolidating existing expertise on digital technologies and artificial intelligence to become the
    UK reference point for the ethical and social evaluation of big data in healthcare and
    neuroscience;

 c) pioneering ethical analysis on synthetic embryos, organoids and human/animal chimeras and
    their potential as a complementary model to animal research ethics, which is in need of a clear
    ethical and regulatory framework.

 The Culture, Medicine and Power Research Group (led by Caduff) undertakes high-quality
 interdisciplinary research on the social, cultural, political and historical dimensions of health and
 illness, aiming to reframe public debates and inform policy-making.

 Key achievements include:

    co-leading research programmes on mental and physical health in Palestine and sub-Saharan
     Africa (Kienzler, Patel, Kelly) funded by major grants from the RCUK GCRF and NIHR;

    leading major Wellcome-Trust-funded projects to improve the accessibility of cancer care in
     India (Caduff) and examine non-communicable disease interventions in sub-Saharan Africa
     (Reubi), focusing on health initiatives to control the smoking epidemic;

    formulating emergency outbreak research and response protocols (Kelly) and studying the
     social and political drivers of infectious diseases, including emergency outbreak response in
     sub-Saharan Africa (Kelly); pandemic preparedness in the USA and India (Caduff); drug
     discovery for HIV, TB and malaria in South Africa (Pollock); and vaccine development in the
     USA (Jain).

 Key strategic goals include:

 a) extending research on inequality and social justice through the Global Social Medicine
    Network, by consolidating strategic academic partnerships between the global North and
    South, with the aim of re-imagining and decentering social medicine through engagement with
    traditions of social medicine outside the global North.

 b) collaborating with non-academic stakeholders (e.g. Médecins sans Frontières) to rethink how
    we pursue ‘health for all’ as a collective global project in the wake of new and emerging
    planetary threats such as SARS-CoV-2, which clearly demonstrate that individual and societal
    health cannot be understood outside socio-cultural framings, economic vulnerabilities and
    socio-political strategies;

 c) consolidating and expanding a social science research programme on cancer in South Asia
    and sub-Saharan Africa to improve accessibility and affordability of cancer care in low- and
    middle-income countries.

 The Mental Health and Society Research Group (led by N. Rose) undertakes sociological and
 ethnographic research to transform dominant individualist biomedical approaches to mental
 health. The goal of the group is to underpin public policies to mitigate the ‘social gradient’ that
 characterises the distribution of both ‘common’ and ‘severe’ mental disorders.

 Key achievements include:



Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    bringing sociology together with health disciplines through the recently awarded ESRC CSMH
     (first phase 2020–24, Co-Director: N. Rose, Co-Is: Manning, Avendano, Kienzler, D. Rose and
     Dowd (leaver);

    leading an interdisciplinary research programme funded by the Wellcome Trust on Mental
     Health, Conflict and Justice (Kienzler, full value £1.9M) in the UK, Palestine and Ghana.

    pioneering ‘ecosocial’ theoretical approaches to lived experience of mental distress, using
     innovative research that combines ecological momentary assessment with GPS mapping of
     experiences, digital diaries and deep ethnographies (N. Rose and D. Rose);

    demonstrating the mental health impacts of early-life adversity (Read, Pentecost);

    critically examining the implications of social neuroscience (N. Rose);

    leading the ESRC-funded Urban Brain Lab on conceptual and empirical research with migrant
     communities in emerging megacities (Béhague, Manning, N. Rose);

    developing the international Neuroscience and Society Network (N. Rose, Mahfoud, McLean),
     funded by the European Science Foundation (N.Rose, McLean, Mahfoud (leaver)), bringing
     together psychiatric practitioners and researchers from the social and human sciences, with a
     recent focus on developing new interdisciplinary understandings of the effects of psychoactive
     substances and of the roots of opioid addiction in social despair.

 Key strategic goals include:

 a) doubling the generous initial ESRC funding for the CSMH, consolidating GHSM’s role as an
    international centre of innovative social science research on the impact of major social,
    economic and demographic transformations on mental health;

 b) shifting public debate about mental health away from a focus on individualised interventions
    toward an approach grounded in ‘social medicine’ that prioritises the social practices and
    policies that promote and sustain good mental health;

 c) generating new and powerful research paradigms based on an ecosocial approach to mental
    distress and mental well-being that can influence social, human and medical sciences beyond
    mental health.

 1.2.2   Building major, interdisciplinary international collaborations

 A core GHSM strategy, since inception, has been to traverse disciplinary boundaries and global
 spaces and develop ambitious, interdisciplinary collaborations within and beyond King’s. These
 research collaborations provide critical opportunities for stimulating conceptual and
 methodological advances in sociological research, while simultaneously enhancing sociology’s
 influence in the fields of global health and medicine.

 Since REF2014, our success in attracting external grant funding (see Section 3) has facilitated
 exciting new collaborations with researchers across the globe: in South Africa, Sierra Leone,
 Kenya, the Ivory Coast, Palestine, Brazil, India, China, the USA, Canada, Australia and a number
 of European countries (see Section 4). GHSM leads several international networks of sociologists
 and related disciplines that aim to increase social science capacity and advance sociological
 theory and methods in global health and social medicine, for example a project delivering
Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 qualitative methods training for health science students in Sierra Leone (Kelly); and GHSM’s
 Global Social Medicine Network noted in Section 1.2.1, which involves scholars from across the
 world (see Section 4) organising workshops, conferences and exchanges to support capacity-
 building in social science.

 Large-scale, international collaborations include:

    ESRC CSMH (see Section 1.2.1) – a collaboration between GHSM and the Institute of
     Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN), with partners in the USA, Canada and
     Germany;

    R4HC-MENA – a £6M RCUK GCRF project that has influenced health research in settings of
     war and conflict through capacity-strengthening for research methods that generate locally
     relevant and much-needed health research and evidence, with partners in Jordan, Lebanon,
     Palestine and Turkey (Kienzler, Patel).

 GHSM is a leader in cross-faculty research, with King’s funding initiatives (e.g. King’s Together
 Awards) that further accelerate interdisciplinary collaborations across the College. Since 2016,
 GHSM has been awarded £253,919 for nine King’s Together Awards to pump-prime collaborative
 projects, many of which have resulted in further large-grant, external funding. For example, the
 R4HC-MENA project noted above was based on previous collaborations between GHSM, King’s
 Health Partners, the Department of War Studies and the African Leadership Centre. Similarly,
 CSMH built on multiple earlier collaborations between GHSM and IoPPN, for example through
 research grant support awarded to N. Rose by the Faculty Research Fund (since 2015, GHSM
 has received nine awards to support research grant development from this fund, totalling £89k).

 GHSM collaborates with the Centre for Medical Law and Ethics, to understand the legal and ethical
 consequences of developments in biomedicine and biotechnology; with the Departments of
 Political Economy and International Development, to examine ethics and governance of assisted
 reproductive technologies in India and the Middle East; with the IoPPN to understand the impact
 of poverty reduction programmes on the mental health of young people in Africa and Latin
 America; and with the Health Schools, to understand the mechanisms of ageing and improving
 health-span.

 1.2.3   Achieving societal impact

 GHSM places great emphasis on policy-relevant and socially engaged research with the
 involvement of users and key partners to benefit society. We collaborate with diverse non-
 academic stakeholders, governmental and non-governmental organisations, social policy
 professionals, planners and regulators, and lay communities. Engagement and impact activities
 are supported by resources and staff at Departmental, School and Faculty levels (see Section 3).

 Notable examples of impacts of GHSM’s research during this REF cycle include:

    Strengthening early biomedical and public health research by embedding ethical, locally
     relevant and culturally sensitive approaches to:

     o   the design of research, response protocols and interventions during infectious disease
         outbreaks (Kelly, Rid (leaver) in the Ebola outbreak, Kelly in the Zika outbreak);



Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     o   public health research in conflict and post-conflict settings (Kienzler).

    Strengthening the ethical, legal and scientific regulation and use of biomedical, reproductive
     and neurotechnologies by:

     o   working within the EU’s flagship Human Brain Project to embed principles of responsible
         research and innovation within the project, and develop and implement world-leading
         practices for data protection and governance (N. Rose);

     o   engaging with regulators, civil society groups and patients to influence WHO
         recommendations on the inclusion of new cancer drugs in its Essential Medicines List
         (Davis’s impact case study);

     o   providing expert advice and evidence to Baroness Cumberlege’s Independent Inquiry on
         Review of Medicines and Medical Device Safety (Abraham);

     o   working with policy-makers, legislators and lawyers to shape the regulation of assisted
         reproductive technologies in the UK and India (Parry), providing expertise to the World
         Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) (Camporesi);

     o   working with the United Nations and other international bodies to secure compliance with
         international treaties on biological weapons programme (Lentzos’s impact case study).

    Improving clinical practice and patient care by:

     o   collaborating with under-represented patient groups (dementia support, mental health
         service users, Black, Asian and Ethnic Minority (BAME) and homeless service users), to
         place the patient and user’s voice at the centre of clinical and social services, including
         working with Service User Research Enterprise (SURE) (D. Rose) and developing
         strategies for addressing the poverty and temporary homelessness of patients receiving
         cancer care in India (Caduff);

     o   working with policy-makers to improve the quality of long-term care in both urban and rural
         regions in China (Yang);

     o   developing context-sensitive mental health diagnosis and treatment in Brazil, Palestine,
         Ghana and Nepal (Béhague, Kienzler, N. Rose, Rose-Clarke);

     o   working with regulators and politicians to improve detection of poor-quality healthcare
         (Rothstein and Demeritt’s impact case study).

    Influencing public policy on the social determinants of health by:

     o   evaluating the impact of old-age public policies (retirement, long-term care, social
         protection) on the health and well-being of older people (Avendano, Glaser, Tinker);

     o   advising governments and other organisations on designing mental-health-friendly and
         age-friendly cities in Brazil, China, the UK (Manning, N. Rose, Tinker) and Europe
         (Avendano);

     o   working with local governments to address young people’s mental health in the design of
         anti-poverty policies in Latin America and Africa (Avendano, Kelly).


Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Developing innovative strategies for public engagement through public exhibitions, art and
     other social media, for example collaborating with artists and community members in public-
     facing science communications, serving as Advisors at Science Gallery London, exploring the
     themes of GENDERS (Pollock) and Artificial Intelligence (Aicardi).

 To further strengthen societal engagement and impact, the Department is running a suite of
 training sessions and workshops to aid GHSM and affiliated researchers in planning, evaluating
 and evidencing impact throughout the research lifecycle. We will continue to provide financial and
 other support for impact activities at Departmental, Faculty and College level, with impact leads
 and advisors continuing to work with researchers on projects from early stage planning through to
 project completion and dissemination.

 1.2.4   Assuring research integrity and open access compliance

 Research quality and integrity is assured through mentoring, review and leadership from senior
 faculty. Research Integrity Champions at Faculty level act as a visible point of contact for
 researchers (see REF5a). King's is also a signatory to the Concordat for Research Integrity (2019),
 and has governance structures in place to ensure that research and the dissemination of the
 results of research are conducted properly: all human subject research is subjected to an
 appropriate level of ethical scrutiny, and fieldwork conducted in pursuit of research is also subject
 to full health and safety review through a Safety Committee at Faculty and College level. In
 addition to a Research Integrity Officer (Kelly), GHSM staff are active members on the Social
 Sciences, Humanities and Law Research Ethics Subcommittee. Tinker, a renowned specialist on
 university research ethics committees, is Ethics Champion for GHSM, providing staff and students
 with research ethics advice.

 Open Access is centrally supported by a block grant that enables any member of staff whose
 research is funded by RCUK/COAF to publish in fully open access journals.




Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 GHSM’s people strategy centres around three core principles:

      recruiting outstanding scholars at all levels;

      building an environment that supports rapid and continued development of GHSM students
       and staff;

      creating an ever more inclusive, diverse and supportive research environment.

 2.1     Recruiting outstanding scholars
 Since REF2014, the department has continued to recruit scholars of international standing at
 Reader and Professorial level (57% submitted staff FTE are non-UK), including in science and
 technology studies (Hinterberger, Jain, Pollock) and in the consequences of social policies and
 programmes for physical and mental health (Avendano).

 GHSM has attracted ECRs with impressive research profiles (McLean, Reubi, Pentecost, Rose-
 Clarke, Wester, Yang) in strategically important areas, notably in history and philosophy of science
 and medicine, global health governance, science and technology studies, global mental health,
 and social care policies for older people in low- and middle-income countries.

 GHSM’s international reputation also attracts ECRs holding prestigious international fellowships
 in key areas, such as the political economy of assisted reproduction (Vertommen (leaver) and
 Lucivero (leaver), both Marie Curie Research Fellows.

 2.2     Developing GHSM’s people
 2.2.1    Training, supervision and support of postgraduate research students

 Since REF2014, GHSM and associated academics have recruited 94 PGR students to doctoral
 studies at King’s, of which 43 were awarded PhDs (in comparison to 18 PGRs in the previous
 REF). Most PGRs are supported by funded studentships (ESRC +3, and 1+3), awards from
 charities (e.g. Fulbright, Wellcome Trust and Dunhill Trust) and overseas governments (e.g.
 CONYACT Chile, Mexico and Colombia), and prestigious College scholarships (e.g. King’s China
 Scholarships).

 GHSM has a number of specific mechanisms in place to support PGRs:

      The ESRC-funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Pathway (LISS
       DTP), led by King’s College, in partnership with Imperial College London and Queen Mary
       University of London, provides studentships in the social sciences, allowing students to work
       with some of the world’s leading experts in areas that include health, well-being and social
       inclusion, a key area of focus in GHSM.

      PGRs have at least two academic supervisors, both of whom are required to complete
       supervisory training to ensure that they provide high-quality support. A Departmental PGR
       committee led by the PhD Tutor oversees PGR progression. PGRs are subject to bi-annual
       Progress Reports; permission to proceed to the next year is dependent on successful
       completion of requirements (Year 1: Aims and Methods essay; Year 2: 3 chapters and a thesis
       plan examined by viva for upgrade to PhD). The Faculty Associate Dean (Doctoral Studies)

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     oversees this process, and students with concerns about supervision, funding or pastoral care
     can contact her directly.

    GHSM has its own Doctoral School, funded by the Department, which includes seminars,
     workshops and writing retreats: providing venues for students to discuss and share their work;
     facilitating collaboration across research fields; offering bespoke methods training and
     research community building; running an annual writing retreat and a three-day master class
     with leading international scholars (e.g. Professor Landecker, University of California, Los
     Angeles); and organising workshops on teaching, writing, publishing strategies, grant
     applications and job applications. The Department supports fieldwork and conference
     attendance for PGRs through a dedicated fund (with up to £500 per year available to students).

    All PGRs are assigned to a Research Group that provides further specialised support and
     training, and via roundtables, reading groups and/or seminars where researchers and PGRs
     can present early drafts of their work. PGRs are also provided with teaching opportunities, by
     acting as graduate teaching assistants (GTAs). In addition to Departmental training, the King’s
     Academy offers a GTA Development Programme and Higher Education Authority (HEA)
     recognition for GTA accreditation.

    At College level, the recently established Centre for Doctoral Studies aims to ensure that all
     PGRs, regardless of funding from across the institution, have a ‘DTP-like’ experience,
     benefiting from a range of tailored training courses and initiatives, as well as bespoke support
     and networking opportunities. GHSM contributes several advanced intensive research
     methods modules, including one-week intensive modules in Data Management and
     Manipulation and Researching Vulnerable Populations.

 The successful management and support provided to PGRs is evidenced through the high
 completion rates (with 100% completion within 5.5 years among entrants to the GHSM doctoral
 programme from 2012/13–2015/16) and prestigious prizes received by some students, including:

    First Prize in the ESRC’s 50th Anniversary Celebrations Essay Competition (Fletcher);

    Dan David Prize for Bioethics in 2018 (Cavaliere);

    Young Scientist Awards at the World Association for Medical Law (Diedericks).

 GHSM doctoral training has contributed to work being published in leading academic journals
 including Sociology of Health & Illness, Ageing & Society, Social Science & Medicine, Journal of
 Medical Ethics, Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, Health Care Analysis and Medical
 Anthropology Quarterly.

 Many former doctoral students are now in academic, postdoctoral or other academic-related
 positions at universities in the UK and abroad (e.g. King’s College London, University of
 Edinburgh, University of Essex, Lancaster University, Stockholm University, McGill University
 (Canada), Universidad San Francisco de Quito (Ecuador)), in senior research positions in NGOs
 (e.g. Alzheimer’s Society) or in leading academic positions globally (e.g. Dean of Faculty of
 Economics and Finance at ICESI University, Cali, Colombia).




Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.2    Developing and supporting all staff

 Policies and mechanisms that develop and support staff at all levels are highlighted:

    Developing ECRs. At GHSM we develop ECRs (25% of submitted staff FTEs are ECRs)
     through careful evaluation and mentoring of publication strategies and research plans through
     annual reviews by senior academic staff. Additional professional development support for
     research staff is provided by the King’s Centre for Research Staff Development (CRSD). The
     College also provides a wide range of bespoke mentoring schemes and programmes to
     support early career researchers in the crucial transition phases of their careers, as well as
     more targeted schemes including the cross-institutional B-Mentor programme for BAME
     academics and postdoctoral researchers.

    Actively promoting all staff. All staff are allocated to a senior academic responsible for
     overseeing their academic development through annual reviews, identifying support and
     access requirements, reviewing publication and grant strategies, and career development
     options. GHSM also has an Academic Performance Framework that provides clear merit-
     based pathways to promotion. This strategy has led to internal promotion successes during
     the REF period, including two promotions to Professor (Avendano, Glaser), five promotions to
     Reader (Béhague, Caduff, Davis, Dowd (leaver), Kelly) and four promotions to Senior Lecturer
     (Behrouzan (leaver), Camporesi, Corna (leaver), Kienzler).

    Staff also benefit from wider staff development opportunities within the College, including
     the King’s Leading Researchers Programme, designed to support rising stars. Both Dowd
     (leaver) and Kienzler have benefited from the programme.

    Equity in loads, protected research time and use of GTAs. GHSM strives to achieve equity
     in loads across career stages, with a workload modeller that includes all teaching, research,
     administrative responsibilities, supervisory and leadership roles. To ringfence research time,
     GHSM employs GTAs to ensure that teaching loads are kept relatively low. Teaching and
     administrative responsibilities are covered for those staff who receive buyouts as part of their
     grant awards.

    Encouraging and supporting an inclusive research culture. As well as ensuring that research
     activity is explicitly factored into workloads via the workload modeller (noted above),
     recognising the time required to produce quality research output and research grant
     applications, GHSM also:

     o    maintains a one-year-in-seven allowance for study leave, based on application, with a
          focus on large grant applications and publishing projects, reviewed on completion;

     o    grants all staff access to a proportion of research overheads to fund research-related
          activity through a Faculty-run Principal Investigator Incentivisation fund that gives those
          with active grants up to £3000 annually to support research activities and scholarship: this
          can be used to support additional fieldwork, travel or subsistence costs; purchase of books
          or datasets; or employment of a research assistant;

     o    gives all teaching and research staff conference allowances of around £1000 annually to
          support travel and accommodation associated with professional networking activities
          related to research dissemination;

Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       o    supports staff applications to the King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowship scheme,
            which allows staff to employ undergraduates as researchers on a £1000 bursary: 11
            awards have been made to GHSM since 2013–14, allowing developmental research to be
            carried out to the mutual benefit of students and staff;

       o    provides peer review and GHSM Grant Academy events for those making applications.
            Peer review of all grants more than £100,000 is mandatory at the College level, and mock
            interviews are conducted in support of these as appropriate. ECRs are encouraged to
            submit early drafts of applications to the Department’s Grant Academy to receive detailed
            feedback.

 2.3       Promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 King’s has active policies and mechanisms to ensure equality of opportunity for all to benefit from
 career development and research support in order to create an inclusive research environment.
 GHSM ensures that both staff and students are able to participate fully in the Department’s
 research culture irrespective of disability, ethnicity, gender or caring responsibilities. The new EDI
 Strategic Plan enshrines equality of opportunity as a priority for the College.

 The long-term commitment to EDI has delivered a more diverse research environment since
 REF2014. GHSM has appointed eleven HEFCE academic staff: eight women, two men and one
 non-binary. The UoA is also now majority women (65% of submitted staff FTE), including at senior
 levels. In the most recent recruitment round, Pollock successfully led an international search to
 diversify applicants. Pollock, a renowned scholar in the field of critical race studies, also leads a
 workstream on the Faculty’s EDI committee focused on closing the BAME Achievement Gap, and
 has overseen student-led research (through nine Department-funded undergraduate Summer
 Research Internships last Spring) to map existing best practices at institutions across the UK and
 ways in which those can be implemented locally.

 Since REF2014, the Department has introduced several practices and processes to empower
 individuals and to promote a more inclusive and diverse research environment:

      GHSM was a Gender Equality Charter Mark trial winner in 2014, achieving a Bronze award in
       recognition of its progress in advancing gender equality in the social sciences and reflecting
       the importance of gender diversity as a strategic priority.

      A Faculty Disability Liaison Officer works between the University Support Team, GHSM and
       students to ensure needs are identified and support is implemented. SSPP Disability co-Lead
       (McLean) is overseeing actions to address mental health needs amongst staff across Faculty.

      The Department recently created an Anti-Racism Steering Group. A key aim of the group is to
       improve BAME representation among its staff in accordance with the EDI Strategic Plan.
       Pollock is taking the lead on actions to ensure the ethnic diversity of GHSM staff reflects our
       student body (11% of submitted staff FTE are from BAME groups compared with 52% of King’s
       undergraduates). The completion of advanced EDI training (currently in development, due to
       be launched in 2020–21) will become a criterion for career progression for all staff.

      The Department has policies and mechanisms in place to ensure equality of opportunity for
       all, such as a compassionate system of flexible working arrangements for staff (regardless of


Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    gender) with caregiving commitments and encouraging colleagues to keep meetings and other
    communications within core working hours.

    Promotion requests are assessed by GHSM’s Senior Management Team and all staff are
    considered for promotion once a year regardless of whether they have put themselves forward.




Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1     Research income
 The total funding secured by UoA
 21 academics over the period
 amounts to £30.5M awarded to
 King’s (£10.7M HESA grant return
 income; Figure 2 shows UoA 21
 HESA grant income per FTE per
 year). Funding to each research
 group over the REF period is
 discussed below (highlighting
 notable grants not previously
 mentioned where HESA grant
 return income was £60k and
 above; grant income to King’s presented).

 3.1.1    Ageing and Society

 Research funding of approximately £6.2M has been spread across three key priority areas:

 a. Social policies, health and ageing: ESRC Consortium Grant project showing how lifetime
    employment and family histories influence health trajectories and the decision to work in later
    life (PI: Glaser, Co-Is: Price (leaver), Corna (leaver), £617.8k); the Joint Programme Initiative
    (JPI) ESRC-funded project demonstrating the implications of increasing the state pension age
    on physical and mental health of older people (Co-I: Avendano, £193.4k); European-funded
    grants, including from the European Research Council (ERC) and the two Horizon2020
    projects (see Section 1), demonstrating how economic recessions and social policies have
    long-lasting consequences for health in older age (PI and Co-I: Avendano, £705k).

 b. The causes of inequalities in health and long-term care: Co-leading a Wellcome Trust
    grant supporting the Twins UK Cohort Study, an epidemiological and genomic resource (Co-
    I: Dowd (leaver), £2.8M); leading an ESRC-funded project examining the health and well-being
    of grandparents caring for grandchildren (PI: Glaser, £156.8k).

 c. Long-term and social care systems: Two projects illustrate the group’s research in this area:
    an open research agreement (ORA) ESRC-funded project showing how larger investments in
    long-term care systems lead to smaller socioeconomic inequalities in informal care across
    Europe, and how rules and regulations of eligibility for long-term care have profound
    implications for the mental health of older Europeans (Co-PIs: Glaser, Avendano, £486.5k);
    an ESRC-funded project using agent-based simulation methods to demonstrate how publicly
    funded long-term care insurance in China needs to be directed towards promoting and
    improving the availability of home-based care services to address inequities (PI: Yang,
    £227.2k).

 3.1.2    Biotechnology and Society

 In less than two years since the research group merged from two previous research groups
 (Biotechnology, Pharmaceuticals and Public Policy; and Biomedicine, Ethics and Social Justice),

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the group has built a broad funding base, with £6.7M in research income in this REF period. Key
 areas include:

 a. Ethical, social and legal approaches to biotechnology and biomedicine: An EC-funded
    research project examining forensic DNA phenotyping, which is part of a consortium
    comprising partners from academic, police and justice institutions from eight European
    countries (PI: Prainsack, £244.4k); an ESRC-funded study exploring the socio-political
    dynamics of health technology assessment in relation to new drugs to treat diabetes (PI: Davis,
    £165.2k); an EC-funded project exploring the opportunities and challenges of risk-adapted
    approaches to regulating biomedical research (PI: N. Rose, Co-I: Rid (leaver), £176.3k). The
    group also provided key ethical input for the Twins UK Cohort Study (Co-I: Prainsack, £1.2M).
    The group has received several Wellcome-Trust-funded PhD studentships in these areas, for
    example in preimplantation genetic diagnosis and eugenics (PI: Prainsack), the ethics of
    synthetic embryos in Germany and the UK (Co-PIs: Camporesi, Hinterberger) and the
    construction of the environment in epigenetics research (PI: Prainsack).

 b. Research on public policy and regulation: Funds to introduce Responsible Research and
    Innovation (RRI) practices in the Imperial-College-led Innovation and Knowledge Centre (IKC)
    in Synthetic Biology, SynBiCITE (PI: N. Rose, £453.3k), and the establishment of the Foresight
    Lab at GHSM to create an integrated Social and Ethical Division. The Lab (directed by N.
    Rose) was funded by the HBP (£292.5k) and the HBP’s Specific Grant Agreement 1 (£581.4k)
    and 2 (£538.7k).

 c. Local and global impacts of biotechnologies: A number of postdoctoral awards, including
    Marie Curie Postdoctoral Fellowships for exploring the ethical, social and political
    underpinnings of portable devices for healthcare (PI: Prainsack, Co-I: Lucivero (leaver),
    £172.8k), and for a project on global fertility chains (PI: Parry, Co-I: Vertommen (leaver),
    £122.9k).

 3.1.3    Culture, Medicine and Power

 The group has established a large funding base (£7M), in collaboration with King’s Health Schools
 and Health Partners. Key areas include:

 a. Mental health in conflict: R4HC-MENA, a RCUK GCRF for research and capacity building
    on mental health in conflict-affected areas of the Middle and Near East (Co-PIs: Kienzler,
    Patel, £2.4M); NIHR for a Global Health Unit investigating the equity impacts of strengthening
    health systems in sub-Saharan Africa, particularly South Africa and Sierra Leone (Co-PIs:
    Avendano, Kelly, £2.9M).

 b. Global health interventions, politics and practice: Wellcome Trust Investigator Award for
    a project on cancer care in India (following an earlier Wellcome Trust award of £93.6k)
    examining whether oncology can be decentralised, standardised and digitalised for the benefit
    of patients (PI: Caduff, £867.1k); Wellcome Trust Fellowship for work exploring global health
    initiatives to control the smoking epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa (PI: Reubi, £183.2k); PI and
    Co-investigator roles on other collaborative projects, including from ERC to explore the role of
    diagnostic devices in transforming health systems in Sierra Leone (PI: Kelly, £86.5k).




Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1.4    Mental Health and Society

 The group has a diversified funding base (£9M), working in close collaboration with other research
 groups:

 a. Research on the social bases of mental distress in adversity: Played a key role in
    obtaining funding for the £6.2M ESRC CSMH to support a 15-year programme of
    interdisciplinary research (see Section 1.2.1).

 b. Engagement of mental health service user researchers: D. Rose (CSMH Co-I) has led
    work to transform engagement of mental health service users in research and policy, and has
    taken the lead in user involvement in projects across King’s, recognised through a Wellcome
    Investigator Award (£614.8k) for EURIKHA, a global research project to explore social
    movements that privilege the rights and perspectives of people with severe mental distress.

 c. Urban mental health: A grant from the ESRC/NSFC Newton Fund, for a study of mental
    health and migrant workers in Shanghai (Manning, N. Rose, £425.7k); extended to a further
    megacity through funding for FAPESP/King’s Partnership Fund with international partners
    managed by Global Engagement for a study of mental health and migrant workers in São
    Paulo (N. Rose, Manning, Béhague, £531.4k for phase 1, £537.9k for Phase 2).

 d. Critical study of mental health interventions: Medical Research Council (MRC) research
    grant on group interpersonal psychotherapy for depression and anxiety among adolescents in
    rural Nepal (PI: Kelly, £125.4k).

 3.2     Infrastructure and facilities
 GHSM research activity is overseen by the Departmental Research Committee (RC), which
 includes representatives from each research group, the Grant Academy Co-ordinator, the Impact
 Lead, School-level professional staff specialising in research support, a representative of non-
 HEFCE-funded research staff and PGRs. RC provides financial support for each research group
 to run research-related events and seminars, and facilitates collaborations and global network-
 building activity. RC also offers seed-corn funding for novel research initiatives to encourage
 development of large-scale future grant applications.

 3.2.1    Grant applications

 Researchers are supported in the development and delivery of research grant applications by a
 network of interrelated expertise at King’s-, Faculty- and School-level, which has been extensively
 developed since REF2014. This network provides colleagues with expert support for the whole
 lifecycle of the application-to-award process. It also links researchers with a wide variety of internal
 funding sources: Faculty Research Fund, King’s Together Awards etc.

      The Senior Research Development Manager (SRDM) supports the development of high-
       quality grant applications by: raising awareness of programmes, opportunities and strategic fit;
       building capacity in core skills and confidence with different elements of research grants;
       commenting on proposals and providing funder-informed critical feedback; organising peer
       review across the Faculty; organising mock interviews and selection panels; liaising with
       representatives from key funding agencies to understand their upcoming priorities and to
       advocate our own.


Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    The SRDM works closely with the Faculty Research Manager (FRM) and the Vice-Dean
     (Research). The FRM holds a budget for research development activities, both regular (the
     annual Faculty Research Fund, £150–170k per year, to support new grants and
     networks/collaborations) and ad hoc (in response to specific external opportunities, or to
     support interview preparation, etc.). The FRM leads the network of locally based professional
     research support colleagues in Schools and Departments. School Research Managers
     support application delivery, including costings, sign-off/approval and submission via funder
     portals.

    At Department level, GHSM’s termly Grant Academy assists in pre-grant development of
     funding applications, especially for ECRs. Monthly department research seminars support the
     presentation of research in progress and encourage lively critical debate between members of
     different research groups.

 3.2.2    Impact

 Research impact is supported at University (see REF5a), Faculty (e.g. Faculty Impact Support
 Fund, £100k per year), School and Department level (e.g. GHSM Impact Support Fund) and
 through bespoke training offered by the Policy Institute at King’s.

 GHSM’s impact lead is responsible for impact activities, including REF impact case studies, the
 organisation of departmental training to increase impact literacy, and providing one-on-one
 support to colleagues in planning, realising and evidencing impact.

 A School Policy and Engagement Manager also supports impact by targeting press releases,
 publicising research via social media and assisting with networking events to identify opportunities
 for translational research.




Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1     Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 GHSM’s links with international academic partners support research collaboration and educational
 exchange, including:

      Avendano’s adjunct appointment at Harvard University involving collaboration on a USA
       National Institute on Ageing (NIA) grant on the role of social policy in explaining diverging
       trends in life expectancy;

      Abraham and Davis’s collaboration with scholars from Universities of Sydney, Copenhagen,
       British Columbia and George Washington on international drug safety policy;

      Davis’s work with US colleagues on the social, ethical and health implications of scientific
       standards for regulating new cancer medicines, and on the adequacy of information for cancer
       patients, and with Dalhousie University, Canada, on clinical trial data transparency policies in
       Europe and North America;

      Jain’s extensive collaboration with colleagues at the University of Wisconsin on research into
       the history of vaccine development and animal research in Liberia.

 Established partnerships with European universities include:

      Avendano with Erasmus University Rotterdam in the Netherlands, involving joint co-ordination
       of the Mindmap project and collaboration in the Worklong and Lifepath projects on the impact
       of public policies on mental health and healthy ageing;

      Glaser and Avendano with the Vrjie Universiteit Amsterdam involving long-standing
       collaborations on long-term care use and the association between care use and health;

      N. Rose with colleagues in Denmark, including Aarhus University, where he is Visiting
       Professor.

 Partnerships with strategic regional partners in Brazil, China, Colombia and India include:

      Béhague’s long-standing collaboration with the Federal University of Pelotas in Southern Brazil
       on a unique interdisciplinary epidemiological birth cohort;

      Yang’s work on long-term care financing in China with colleagues in Fudan University, China;

      N. Rose and Manning’s research on urbanicity – the connections between the social and the
       neurological lives of urban citizens, with particular attention to mental health – with academics
       at the University of São Paulo Medical School, Brazil, and Fudan University, and with
       colleagues at the Institute of Social Medicine, State University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

      Avendano’s research on mental health and poverty in Colombia (University of Los Andes) and
       Brazil (University of São Paulo), to examine the impact of cash transfer programmes on the
       health of young people. Fairley-Murray’s links with colleagues in Jawaharlal Nehru University
       investigating the drivers of the contemporary global healthcare economy and its domestic
       effects in emerging economies;


Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Caduff’s involvement in research on cancer care with the Tata Memorial project in Mumbai to
       analyse the emergence of the National Cancer Grid of India as a powerful new actor that seeks to
       redraw the map of cancer care in India.

 GHSM is also developing a focus on the Middle East, with Kienzler’s work with colleagues at
 Bierzeit University on mental health in Palestine.

 It is expanding its reach into sub-Saharan Africa, with strong ties to the University of Cape Town
 through Reubi’s work on the cartographies of cancer care in Africa, involving colleagues in the
 African Cancer Registry Network, Kenyan Medical Research Institute and the Ministry of Health,
 Ivory Coast; Pentecost’s participation in the Medical Health Humanities Africa collaboration with
 University of Cape Town and Stellenbosch University; and Avendano and Kelly’s work in Sierra
 Leone and with several universities in South Africa.

 4.2       Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 GHSM staff are outward-looking and concerned with issues of social justice in relation to social,
 economic and health challenges around the world and determined to make a difference. Most of
 GHSM’s work is ‘applied’, making a significant contribution to policy, addressing the challenges of
 ageing populations, etc. This is manifest in that members of GHSM play active roles as advisors
 to governments, NGOs and other health-related organisations worldwide. Notable examples
 include:

      international civil society, especially NGOs and the UN family:

       o    Avendano: expert advisor on the relationship between ageing, health and work, for the
            WHO Observatory of Health Systems;

       o    Kelly: member of WHO’s Scientific Advisory Group in Emergencies (SAGE) Working Group
            on Ebola Vaccines and Vaccinations;

       o    Lentzos: author of numerous reports and policy briefs for international organisations,
            including the: WHO Health Security Interface Technical Advisory Group; UN Institute for
            Disarmament Research (UNIDIR); the Women’s International League for Peace and
            Freedom;

       o    Camporesi: provides expertise as a member of WADA Expert Ethics Advisory Group;

       o    N. Rose: advised the OECD and officials of the EC on the regulation of the dual-use
            potential of emerging neurotechnologies;

       o    Patel: expert advisor to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), providing
            recommendations on securitisation of aid by the UK and its impact. She is also an expert
            advisor for Global Fund for AIDS, TB and Malaria on Defining its Support for Resilient and
            Sustainable Systems for Health (RSSH) in Challenging Operating Environments (COEs);

       o    Davis: advises European consumer health advocacy groups, including the European
            Public Health Association (EPHA), the EU Consumers Association (BEUC) and Health
            Action International (HAI) on issues related to the early licensing, accessibility and cost-
            effectiveness of new medicines in the EU. She is also a member of the European
            Medicines Agency’s Patient and Consumer Working Party, and acted as panel chair for a
            high-level policy retreat attended by members of the European Parliament, leaders of
Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

          national ministries of labour and health, and EU medicines regulators on the affordability
          and access to medicines debate in Europe organised by the Open Society Foundation and
          the European Public Health Alliance (2018);

     o    Prainsack: member of the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies
          (which advises the European Commission) and an elected member of the Academy of
          Europe, which promotes European research and advises governments and international
          organisations in scientific matters;

     o    Abraham: expert advisor to SPG Law International on drug safety regulation in the UK, the
          EU and the USA, and has chaired workshops of the Open Society Forum in New York on
          new models of pharmaceutical innovation.

    national government departments and agencies, including those from overseas governments:

     o    USA: Avendano was a member of the MacArthur Foundation Network for an ageing
          society, which promoted policy options to respond to the ageing of the US population;

     o    Hinterberger worked on recommendations for US National Institutes of Health (NIH)
          research regulation as a member of its Actionable Ethics Oversight for Human–Animal
          Chimera Research working groups;

     o    Canada: Tinker is appointed by the National Research Council of Canada to advise on
          their Ageing in Place Challenge Programme;

     o    UK: Abraham worked with the Cross-Party House of Commons Parliamentary Group on
          Hormone Pregnancy Tests, and provided public expert advice and evidence to Baroness
          Cumberlege’s Independent Inquiry on Review of Medicines and Medical Device Safety;

     o    D. Rose served as Co-Chair for NICE GUIDELINE 136 on improving the experience of
          service users in NHS Mental Health Care;

     o    Prainsack is a member of the Ethics Group of the UK National DNA Database (NDNAD);

     o    Austria: Prainsack was elected to the board of the Austrian Platform for Personalised
          Medicine and the Austrian National Bioethics Commission;

     o    Norway: Wester is a member of an expert committee to support the Norwegian Institute of
          Public Health in advising the Norwegian government on the allocation of the corona
          vaccine;

     o    Sweden: Davis worked with the Swedish National Audit Office as part of their 2016
          investigation into how the Swedish government manages pharmaceutical industry
          influence over drug regulation and its knowledge management;

     o    China: Yang is on the expert panel to review the performance of a pilot on long-term care
          insurance in Qingdao – the first such scheme in the country;

     o    India: Parry advised the Indian Department of Health on how to reduce exploitation of
          vulnerable consumers and producers of fertility services and cancer care respectively.

    local actors, including national NGOs community groups, local government and business:


Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       o    Glaser: has close links with Grandparents Plus and AgeUK on grandparents and long-term
            care;

       o    Avendano and Glaser: the Pensions Policy Institute, Centre for Ageing Better and Age UK
            on extending working lives;

       o    Patel: member of the Global Health Advisory Board at the Royal Society of Medicine and
            Strategic Advisor to Save the Children and Merlin;

       o    D. Rose: works closely with mental health service users in the UK (National User and
            Survivor Network) and internationally;

       o    N. Rose: works closely with the Thrive organisations for urban mental health, including
            Thrive London.

 More widely, many members of the UoA are active in disseminating research through both
 traditional news media and social media. Notable appearances in television documentaries, news
 and radio programmes include:

      Abraham on pharmaceutical safety in Sky TV documentaries;

      Béhague on BBC Radio 4 exploring the medicalisation of mental illness and the influence
       culture has on mental health, and on the BBC World Service debating issues of psychiatry and
       culture with Vikram Patel;

      Lentzos on NBC and Channel 4 news on the Wuhan lab coronavirus theory and participating
       in the BBC4 TV documentary on secret weapons research at Porton Down as well as on BBC
       Radio 4’s Inside Science and BBC World Service’s The Science Hour;

      print coverage, for example comments on: unretirement (Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Sun
       and Financial Times) (Glaser); new cancer drug approvals (The Independent, The Guardian,
       Daily Mail, The Sun, Telegraph) (Davis); and biosecurity (Daily Telegraph, The Atlantic, Der
       Spiegel, New Scientist, The Irish Times and Newsweek) (Lentzos).

 4.3       Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy, and society
 In addition to providing research that supports policy-making in the UK and beyond, GHSM’s
 researchers make significant contributions to sociology and cognate academic disciplines, not only
 through their research outputs but through wider service to professional societies, stewardship of
 journals, peer-reviewing, conference organisation and keynote contributions to conferences, as
 well as collaborations with researchers from other institutions. Given the interdisciplinary nature
 of much of GHSM’s work, these contributions are also interdisciplinary:

      Journal editorships and editorial boards: Staff edit, or have edited, leading sociology,
       gerontology, science and technology journals as well as academic health and medical journals
       including: Economy and Society (Parry, Co-Editor; N. Rose, Editorial Board); BioSocieties (N.
       Rose, Founding Editor; Lentzos and Pollock, Associate Editors); Science, Technology and
       Human Values (Pollock, Editorial Board); Social Science and Medicine (Avendano, Advisory
       Editor); Journals of Gerontology: Series B (Glaser, Editorial Board); Journal of Epidemiology
       & Community Health (Avendano, Associate Editor); Global Mental Health (Béhague, Editorial
       Board); Journal of Mental Health (D. Rose, former Editor); Catalyst: Feminism, Theory,

Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Technoscience (Pollock, Lead Editor Team); Journal of Medical Ethics (Parry, Co-Editor);
     International Review of Psychiatry (D. Rose, Editorial Board).

    Services to professional associations or learned societies of sociology and cognate
     disciplines: Acting as co-convenors ‘STS for pharmaceuticals and public health policy’ stream
     at 4S/EASST Conference (2016) (Davis, Abraham); Co-convenor, BSA Sociology of Mental
     Health Study Group, 2019 onwards (Manning); Secretary of the Royal Anthropological Institute
     Medical Anthropology Committee, and the Geography of Health Research Group, Royal
     Geographical Association, London (Reubi).

    Peer-reviewing and support to Research Councils: Staff are heavily involved in the
     refereeing of research council grants, serving in multiple Research Council Panels and
     committees, including the ESRC’s Peer Review College (Glaser), the Joint Health Systems
     Research Committee at Wellcome/ESRC/MRC DfID (Fairley-Murray), the ESRC’s Research
     Methods Development panel (Avendano); the French National Research Agency (ANR) panel
     for public health funding (Avendano); and in-person review panels for the US National Science
     Foundation (Pollock).

    Conference organisation and research-based Continuing Professional Development:
     Faculty have been active in organising conferences and workshops for, and on behalf of,
     professional and learned societies, for example: the Global Social Medicine Conference (N.
     Rose, Caduff); an international conference on Global Ageing with the Royal Society of
     Medicine (Glaser); an international conference on Race and Biomedicine Beyond the Lab
     (Pollock); and events organised with the British Sociological Association (e.g. Society and
     Neuroscience, planned for October 2020 postponed due to COVID) (N. Rose).

    National and international networks: The Global Social Medicine Network (see
     Section 1.2.2) (N. Rose, Caduff, Pentecost) is revitalising work in the interdisciplinary field of
     social medicine across the global North (e.g. Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University)
     and the global South (e.g. Jawaharlal Nehru University, Universidad do Estado do Rio de
     Janeiro). Other important networks include the Neuroscience and Society Network (N. Rose,
     Mahfoud, McLean, Ermansons), noted in Section 1.2.1.

    Keynotes: As well as keynotes in the UK, GHSM academics have delivered many invited
     international keynotes. Notable examples include: Avendano, ‘Can social policy reduce
     inequalities in mental health?’ at the National Academy of Sciences (France) and Karolinska
     Institute (Sweden); Caduff, ‘In the Name of the Next: Notes on a Political Imaginary’, McGill
     University, Canada; Lentzos, US State Department conference on biosecurity, Kuala Lumpur,
     Malaysia; N. Rose, invited keynotes at Aarhus University, University of Vienna, Australian
     National University and the University of Melbourne, State University of Rio de Janeiro, the
     Universities of Valparaiso and Talca, Santiago, Chile, and the Holmes Lecture at the University
     of McGill, Canada; Jain, University of California; Irvine, L’ Ecole des Hautes Etudes en
     Sciences Sociales, University of Pennsylvania, Rice University, University of Chicago, Haus
     der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, and Medellin, Colombia; Abraham, ‘Convergent corporate bias:
     pharmaceuticals and public health policy’ for ‘Pervasive Powers’ International Conference,
     Dauphine University, Paris; Fairley-Murray, global governance and health at Jawaharlal Nehru
     University, New Delhi, India; Tinker, evidence on long-term care to the Health Committee,



Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Northern Ireland Assembly, and address on age-friendly cities at the Greater London
     Assembly Older People’s forum.

    Awards: Jain received the Wenner Gren Research Award 2019, June Roth Memorial Award
     for a Book in Medical Writing 2016, American Society of Journalists and Authors 2016 Fleck
     Prize; N. Rose received honorary doctorates from Aarhus University, Denmark, and University
     of Sussex; Glaser, Manning, N. Rose and Tinker are elected fellows of the Academy of Social
     Sciences; N. Rose is an elected foreign member of the Danish Royal Academy of Sciences
     and Letters, and an elected Fellow of the British Academy, the Academy of Social Science
     and the Royal Society of Arts.



LIMIT: 8800




Page 23
