Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Overview
 Our world-leading interdisciplinary research transforms the quality and effectiveness of health
 and care services, providing evidence-based solutions to today's most pressing healthcare
 problems. Our findings have been applied nationally and internationally to inform guidance,
 create national standards, influence policy, and change practice with widespread impact. As a
 result, in 2020, for the second year in a row, QS ranked us 5th in the world for nursing and
 midwifery.

 1.2 Structure and management
 The School of Health Sciences encompasses two departments: Nursing, Midwifery & Health,
 and Allied Health Professions with four interdisciplinary research themes: ‘Active Living’, ‘Health
 Needs’, ‘Fundamental Care’ and ‘Health Work’ , (Fig.1). The leadership, resources and expertise
 within each theme enable high quality applied research to thrive and nurture a vibrant and
 expanding research community. Named champions provide School-wide support for: early
 career researchers; equality, diversity and inclusion; clinical academic careers fellowships;
 research ethics; open science; outputs; and impact.
                   Fig.1: Research themes, groups and research-active staff




 Each theme hosts groups of interdisciplinary researchers and provides a supportive context for
 the scientific and personal development of researchers at every level through: mentoring; an
 active programme of meetings, seminars, and PGR showcases; and hosting visiting international
 academics to foster a stimulating intellectual environment. Research funded by our NIHR

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) is integrated across the themes and extends our reach
 into the region through partnerships with NHS Trusts (§3).
 Research strategy is led by the Deputy Head of School Research who chairs the School
 Research and Enterprise group – comprising leads from research groups and champions – and
 research support services (REF5a§1.5, 3.7).

 1.3 Research strategy (2014-2021)
 Building on our successful RAE in 2008, the unit’s strategy prior to 2014 was to invest in people
 and facilities. This created the research framework and leadership needed to achieve an
 outstanding REF2014 result (ranked 3rd overall for GPA). Since 2014, our strategy has been to
 ensure the sustainability of our research themes through gaining key infrastructure grants and
 new platform awards (>£25M). We have built on our research strengths by developing talent
 across the four themes, to increase our volume of high-quality research and outputs, as well as
 their reach and significance. The achievements and successes that have resulted from this
 strategy are outlined in §1.5.

 1.4 Impact strategy (2014-2021)
 As a School focused on applied health research, ensuring our findings have an impact on health
 and care is integral to what we do. Our strategy to maximise impact has been to plan, support,
 and drive its delivery, in every theme and at every stage of research. To achieve this, a School-
 level guidance framework ensures staff embed impact objectives into appraisals, and the School
 also funds impact activities. We use the services and structures created through the University
 Enterprise and Impact strategy, together with strong regional, national and international
 partnerships, to generate impact.
 Led by Foster, impact is strategically planned and supported from the conception of research
 through to adoption and application of findings. Bi-monthly School impact meetings bring
 together Foster, research theme leads, Faculty impact support lead, School enterprise
 champion (Metcalf), and University impact lead to set strategy and allocate resources for future
 impact activities. Termly impact workshops and bi-monthly drop-in sessions encourage all staff
 to exchange strategies for impact and develop case studies.
 We are supported by the University’s Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) and Public
 Policy Southampton (PP|S) (REF5a§2.9) which provide training and collaborate on grants to
 shape effective pathways to adoption and impact, including preparing policy briefs, submitting
 evidence to parliamentary committees, and contacting key policy makers.

 1.5 Key Achievements since 2014
   •   FUNDING: Increased our research income nearly threefold during the last 7 years (from
       £12.5M to £34.5M) including three major infrastructure grants: NIHR Applied Research
       Collaboration (ARC); Macmillan Cancer Support; Centre of Excellence for Sport, Exercise
       and Osteoarthritis Research Versus Arthritis.
   •   PEOPLE: Increased the number of REF-eligible staff by 75% from 38 to 64 (77% women;
       30% part-time); attracted and created a substantial pipeline of 29 independent post-
       doctoral researchers; successfully supported the moves of 15 staff to tenured research-
       education contracts; transitioned 75% of our fixed-term contract researchers to open-
       ended contracts; no gender pay gap. We have also extended and expanded capacity for
       Clinical Academic Careers (45 awards 2014-20).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   INFRASTUCTURE: Invested £3M in co-locating our Highfield Campus research staff into
       a single building with new facilities and social spaces, including a biomechanics/gait lab
       and PGR study suite.
   •   OUTPUTS: Published 2,363 papers since 2014; 44% in collaboration with international co-
       authors and >90% are interdisciplinary.

 Achievements of each research theme are summarised:
 THEME 1: Active Living
 This theme comprises the Active Living for Health Group with research programmes that
 optimise neuro-musculoskeletal health across the life-course, to enable active living and healthy
 ageing. Awarded a further 5-year infrastructure fund 2018 for the Centre of Excellence for Sport,
 Exercise and Osteoarthritis Research Versus Arthritis (£5M; £450k Southampton), this
 interdisciplinary group hosts the International Movement Screening and Interventions Group
 (USA, Australia, Europe, Africa, Japan) led by Stokes. Their findings have led to changes in UK
 military policy, altering routine movement screening of recruits, and work continues to develop
 exercise programmes in elite and recreational sports to prevent injury and osteoarthritis.
 Stokes also led the European Space Agency (ESA) Topical Team (2014-16), producing
 recommendations for rehabilitation of astronauts and others following long-term inactivity
 (Stokes et al 2017). Together with Warner, Stokes plays a key role in the £50M Myotones
 project led by ESA and supported by NASA and UK Space Agency (funding Southampton,
 £198k). Projects contributed to robust protocols for novel technologies that made real-time
 inflight monitoring of the health of astronauts’ muscles possible for the first time in microgravity
 on the International Space Station. The work has had practical applications on Earth e.g.
 objective measurement of muscle tone in neurological patients; remote guidance of astronauts
 via videoconference provided lessons for virtual clinics with patients during the Covid-19
 pandemic.
 The Group’s work on ultrasound imaging has influenced policy and practice in podiatry and
 physiotherapy worldwide (ICS03-04). Research from the foot and ankle research team (Bowen,
 Cherry, Gates) underpinned the introduction of Diagnostic Ultrasound Imaging (DUSI) to
 podiatry. Ultrasound imaging (USI) research in physiotherapy (Stokes, Warner, Whittaker,
 Worsley) has led to increased adoption of USI in the UK, and internationally in 50 countries.
 Adams’ programme of patient education and exercise for inflammatory and degenerative
 arthritis has tested splints in the OTTER II trial (£417k) and the SARAH trial. Adams received an
 international award from the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), as one of the five best
 physiotherapy trials across the globe published 2014-19.
 Burridge, Hughes and Turk’s work on neurorehabilitation involves collaborations with UCL and
 the University of Maryland (USA), and focuses on upper limbs. An NIHR-i4i grant (£1.05M)
 funded the development of M-MARK (Burridge, Turk, Stokes), a wearable sensor system to
 provide a home-based rehabilitation programme. A web-based interactive system to support
 patients using Constraint Induced Therapy for upper limb recovery following stroke has been
 developed and is undergoing clinical trials in the USA. Kunkel’s work builds on Ashburn’s
 home-based sensor technologies developed through the EPSRC funded SPHERE project
 (£11.7M) and falls prevention for people with Parkinson’s Disease.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 THEME 2: Health Needs
 2a) Cancer and Life Limiting Conditions Research Group
 Foster and Darlington co-lead this group, who have undertaken exploratory and definitive trials,
 large prospective cohort studies, qualitative research, and developed new approaches to
 analysing large datasets. The group hosts the Macmillan Survivorship Research Group (MSRG,
 led by Foster) which has grown significantly since 2016 (>£5M in programme funding). MSRG
 established UK-wide prospective cohorts (n=6,000 patients) (Foster, Calman, Richardson) to
 understand the impact of cancer on quality of life. Strong partnerships have been built with >100
 UK hospitals, NHS Alliances, leading clinicians, academics and charities, particularly Macmillan
 Cancer Support (ICS03-03).
 Quality of life outcomes for cancer patients have been measured in other large national
 (Wagland) and international studies including the European Organisation for Trials in Cancer
 (EORTC >£1M; n=40 international collaborating centres, Darlington) and Movember Global
 Registry (£500k, 14 countries, Foster UK co-lead).
 Research that enables the identification of those most at risk of poorer outcomes has impacted on
 practice, by allowing support to be targeted to where it is most needed.
 The group has created interventions to support self-management for cancer survivors (TrueNTH;
 Richardson, Foster, Frankland); people experiencing fatigue (MSRG-RESTORE; Foster,
 Calman, Grimmett); cancer survivors in primary care (NIHR Programme Grant £4M
 Richardson, Foster); and for children, through online games (Kidney-Care-UK & BRS £46k
 Darlington). Research has led to new models of care, including digital solutions (Foster,
 Richardson), highlighted as a good practice exemplar by NHS England and adopted
 internationally (ICS03-03).
 New approaches created and tested by Foster, Brindle, Darlington, and Wheelwright support
 complex decision-making including patients’ decisions regarding genetic testing (CRUK-
 Catalyst-Award of >£4M), earlier cancer diagnosis (CRUK £125k, Brindle), and choice of
 treatments (PCUK £285k, Brindle).
 Brindle developed evidence-based e-learning to improve patient-clinician communication about
 possible cancer (ESRC impact £11k). Our research has examined support for decision-making
 at end of life (Duke, Richardson), and organ donation through a £720k NIHR-HSDR funded
 study (Long-Sutehall).
 2b) Ageing and Dementia Research Group
 Led by Bridges, in its first five years this group has developed into a vibrant interdisciplinary
 community and secured >£3.5M funding. Strong partnerships with NHS, social care and
 communities of older people shape the research; e.g. Associate Clinical Professor of Older
 People and Frailty (Sadler) is co-funded by NHS partner Southern Health NHSFT. A key
 achievement has been the establishment (by Bartlett, Bowling, Bridges) of a doctoral training
 centre in dementia care (>£700k, NIHR, Alzheimer’s Society) with five graduations to date.
 Additionally, a unique dementia care bridging fellow scheme has supported postgraduates to
 transition to research careers. Bridges is Deputy Ageing and Dementia lead for NIHR ARC
 Wessex, the national lead ARC for ageing, dementia and frailty research (£1.88M national NIHR
 programme).
 The “Creating Learning Environments for Compassionate Care” (CLECC) intervention
 developed and evaluated by the Group has supported compassionate care delivery by general
 hospital nursing teams caring for older people. With support from the Chief Nursing Officer
 team/NHS England, CLECC is being adapted and evaluated in mental health settings, with plans

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for national adoption in NHS in-patient and care home settings. CLECC findings informed
 international evidence-based guidelines, co-authored by Bridges, targeted at preserving nurses’
 psychological wellbeing during Covid-19. Bridges’ ARC research further supports CLECC scale-
 up and roll-out, and ECR-led applied research projects. Walsh was awarded £766k (NIHR) to
 investigate trends in the progression of frailty and the dynamics of frailty-related healthcare
 demand in the older population, to inform the design and delivery of future healthcare services.
 2c) Long-Term Conditions Research Group
 Led by Portillo since 2019, this Group builds on 10 years (>£6M) work in Europe and South
 America. The person-centred assessment tool “Living with Chronic Illness Scale” developed by
 the Group, has been tested and implemented in clinical practice with >4,000 people with long-
 term conditions. Hislop and Serrano are adapting it for use in the UK, to improve the referral
 process for people with different long-term conditions and multi-morbidity. Portillo and
 Frankland are working with commissioners, professionals, managers and front-line staff to
 enhance communication skills and programmes to underpin personalised care (>£300k Dorset
 and Portsmouth CCGs, Hampshire and IoW-STP).
 Building from the ReNACE programme in Spain and FP7 EUWISE project across Europe,
 Portillo and Kunkel have built further collaborations between Denmark, Norway, Spain and UK
 to develop and test multiagency interventions and a care pathway to mobilise resources for
 people with Parkinson’s Disease and carers (Optim Park project, Joint Programme for
 Neurodegenerative Disease, €975K EU; participating country funders).
 THEME 3: Fundamental Care
 3a) Medicines management Research Group
 Collaborating with leading academics from medicine, pharmacy, psychology and health
 economics, as well as clinicians, Latter has led research that is influencing policy and practice
 on health professionals’ roles in supporting medicines management, and optimising medicine-
 taking by patients. Major awards since 2014 have been secured from NIHR (£1.1M+), including
 grants to fund research on: developing and testing interventions for self-management of end-of-
 life medicines at home, and evaluating access to medicines at the end-of-life; improving
 antimicrobial stewardship in hospital settings (Latter, Merck-Sharpe-Dohme £323k); industry-
 funded studies on patient experience and outcomes of biosimilars for Irritable Bowel Disease
 (Latter, Biogen-Idec £1.3M). Latter, Campling, Richardson and Ewings’ recent research on
 experiences of accessing end-of-life medicines from community pharmacies is informing NHS
 England (NHSE) service provision and community pharmacist provision nationally in Wales.
 3b) Continence Management Research Group
 Working with product users, microbiologists, engineers and designers to understand the
 limitations and problems of current products, Fader and team (Macaulay, Murphy, Wilks,
 Prieto, Lwaleed) have analysed the needs of users worldwide to develop new ways of
 managing incontinence, online resources and new products based on science. Key
 achievements include: development and testing of cleaning methods for urinary catheters
 (NIHR-PGfAR £2M), development of resources and products for men with incontinence after
 prostate cancer (Movember £800k) and development and testing of new catheter designs and
 devices (NIHR-RfPB £220k; NIHR-i4i £750k).
 Industry funding in partnership with the National Biofilms Innovation Centre (Nanovibronix; JVS
 Products Ltd) is leading to development of methods and products to reduce catheter-associated
 urinary tract infection. Collaborations with organisations have led to development of resources



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for people with dementia (Alzheimer’s-Research-UK £240k), and product procurement
 specifications and training for those from low-income countries (World Health Organisation).
 Based on our quadrennial review published in the International Consultation on Incontinence,
 since 2012 we have designed and implemented a continence product website which provides
 uniquely independent, evidence-based, comprehensive information to help product selection.
 This incorporates a validated continence ‘Product Decision Aid’ (PDA) demonstrated to improve
 user confidence in product selection. The website is listed on NHS.org and websites such as
 USA Continence Central, receiving more than a million visits (ICS03-02).
 3c) Skin Health Research Group
 Bader and Worsley have led research on the prevention of pressure ulcers, with funding from
 UK Research Councils, NIHR, charities and industrial collaborations (~£3M since 2014). A
 multidisciplinary approach involving healthcare professionals, engineers and biomedical
 scientists has supported the development of innovative technologies for skin health. Research
 has attracted international internships and research personnel (Netherlands, Israel, US,
 Sweden, Canada and Australia), growing substantively since the Group was established in
 2010. Schoonhoven and Worsley have led international guidelines (NPUAP/EPAUP/PPPIA
 2016 & 2019), supporting translation of research into clinical practice.
 Bader and Worsley led the first EPSRC-NIHR funded International Network of Medical Devices
 and Vulnerable Skin (2014-19, £650k). Through NetworkPLUS, they funded 14 external projects,
 partnering with colleagues from >30 academic, industrial, and clinical disciplines. This has
 involved a range of applications including work to assess the impact of respiratory face-masks in
 intensive care units (a major consideration during the Covid-19 pandemic). Bader and Worsley
 also collaborated with engineers (Jiang and Dickinson) to monitor shape changes and loading
 conditions at the interface between the stump and socket of amputees (2016-20, £1.5M).
 Other work has examined the performance of support surfaces on skin health, resulting in new
 mattress systems (>200,000 units sold internationally since 2014). Bader and Worsley have
 continued this research through a large multidisciplinary H2020-MSCA-ITN-2018 EU Innovation
 Training Network project “STINTS: Skin Tissue Integrity under Shear” (2019-23). This has
 enabled wider impact, with new international industrial partners including Phillips (Netherlands),
 Unilever (UK and Ireland) and Essity (Sweden), (ICS03-05).

 THEME 4: Health Work
 4a) Health Workforce and Systems Research Group
 Bringing together techniques and skills from economics, epidemiology, and operational
 research, this Group addresses key questions about safe and efficient deployment of the health
 workforce. Led by Griffiths and Ball, the Group also provides leadership for the related theme in
 the NIHR ARC (Griffiths). Research has centred around two related strands:
   •   Firstly, understanding how the size and composition of the healthcare workforce
       influences quality of care, patient experience and outcomes. Griffiths’ NIHR-HSDR
       (£491k) study was the first to use patient level longitudinal data to model the costs and
       consequences of variation in nurse staffing. It identified missed vital-signs observations as
       a key factor in the relationship between nurse staffing and patient mortality, established
       that substitution with support workers had adverse outcomes at increased cost. An
       extended replication now underway (Griffiths, Ball, Saville, Dall’Ora, Jones, NIHR-
       HSDR £713k) develops the economic models to better inform policy, considering
       multidisciplinary staff and a broader range of outcomes.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Secondly, identification and evaluation of factors and interventions which can support
       healthcare teams to deliver care safely and effectively, including shift systems, rostering,
       workload assessment, quality improvement programmes. Dall’Ora’s work on 12-hour
       shifts has challenged assumptions about them being a cost-effective mode of work,
       revealing sickness absence increases and unintended consequences. Saville and
       Griffiths identified patterns of nursing workload variation and assessed the performance
       of the NICE endorsed ‘Safer Nursing Care Tool’. Results showed that planning to meet
       average demand results in frequent critical understaffing (NIHR-HSDR £513k). Research
       in the ARC has created opportunity for ECRs (Dall’Ora, Saville ) to further develop their
       work in this area as independent researchers.
 In collaboration with KCL, Griffiths evaluated the long-term impacts of Productive Ward - a
 quality improvement programme that was implemented across the NHS (NIHR £308k). In
 collaboration with colleagues at the Centre for Health Informatics (at UoPortsmouth) Jones &
 Griffiths are working to establish the workload, costs and consequences of different approaches
 to scheduling nursing vital signs observations using the National Early Warning Score, to identify
 optimal monitoring regimes from routine data (NIHR-HSDR £867k).
 Successful collaboration in Europe resulted in becoming the lead for England of the 6-country
 Magnet4Europe study, a cluster randomised controlled trial implementing principles of the
 Magnet® programme to improve staff wellbeing in hospitals (Ball, Bridges, Griffiths, Horizon-
 2020 €4M/€487k-UoS). Research findings have influenced national policy on safe staffing in the
 UK (NHS-Improvement, NICE, Wales legislation review) and internationally (ICS03-01). Ball, in
 partnership with Bangor, led a PRP-funded study to examine the implementation of safe staffing
 policies in England (£484k).
 Evidence Briefs disseminated through the ARC and published online and by Nursing Times
 ensure findings are disseminated beyond academia to healthcare professionals.
 4b) Social Networks, Health and Well-being Research Group
 Self-directed support for self-management for long-term conditions is part of NHS England’s
 personalised care strategy, which aims to give people more control over how their care is
 planned and delivered, and enable ‘joined-up’ provision.
 Vassilev & Rogers’ work has explored the nature of social networks and work undertaken
 outside formal health services in community and domestic settings, and developed methods and
 tools for assessing network structure (network typologies), network capacity for support (network
 work, collective efficacy), and network change. They have developed and implemented a social
 network, web-based, tool, “Genie”, which reduces the utilisation of traditional services (making it
 cost-effective) whilst improving outcomes and being valued by users. It has been promoted by
 NHSE’s personalised care division as an exemplar of good practice. Genie has been adopted for
 use by Southampton City Council, and has been used in research studies across the UK,
 Canada, and Australia. Work on social networks continues with the Project About Loneliness
 and Social networks (PALS) study (NIHR Public Health Research Programme, 2018-21, £976k).
 5) Collaborations for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) and
 Applied Research Centre (ARC)
 The CLAHRC and ARC embody our strength in collaboration for applied research. Hosted jointly
 with the Faculty of Medicine, NIHR CLAHRC Wessex (2014-19) was led by Director Rogers,
 with theme leads Griffiths/Fader, Richardson, Rogers, Vassilev. It represented a five-year
 collaboration, created a portfolio of 91 studies, with 3,874 participants, generated new



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge disseminated through 206 publications, and seeded the next generation of
 researchers by supporting 22 healthcare professionals.
 The NIHR ARC Wessex (2019-24) brings together the Hampshire & Isle of Wight and Dorset
 Integrated Care Systems which represents all Wessex Trusts, Southampton and Portsmouth
 City Councils and four university partners (Southampton, Winchester, Portsmouth and Dorset)
 (§4). School staff Bridges, Griffiths, Portillo, and Stokes play leading roles in the ARC, which
 is led by Director Richardson.

 1.6 Our core values
 a) Valuing people (§2).
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI): With the support of our EDI group (chaired by Stokes)
 we provide an environment that allows talent from a diverse range of perspectives and
 backgrounds, and people with varied personal contexts, to thrive equally in their research
 careers.
 Interdisciplinarity: our staff, students and collaborators reflect a wide range of perspectives
 and paradigms. We draw on different disciplines, professions, communities, and methodologies
 to deliver research. In addition to our core disciplines of nursing, physiotherapy, podiatry and
 occupational therapy, our community includes economists, engineers, biological scientists,
 operational researchers, psychologists, pharmacists, statisticians and social scientists.
 b) Engagement and Involvement
 We are committed to working with members of the public and patients as active collaborators
 and partners across our work programmes. All three of our infrastructure grants have mature
 PPI/E groups to support the design, development, dissemination, and implementation of
 research for maximum impact. Active collaboration extends to regularly including lay
 collaborators as co-investigators on grants to help co-create research that is meaningful and
 important for the public and patients (§4).
 c) Open Research
 The University is recognised as a leader in open research (REF5a§2.4). Health Sciences
 actively supports researchers to ensure all outputs are made open access (OA), with dedicated
 administrative support provided for green archiving in the University's ePrints repository. From a
 high baseline, most of our research outputs are open access, rising from 73% (pre-2017) to
 >90% (2019/20). With dedicated Library support, we monitor use of open access and provide
 supportive feedback to all staff.
 The School’s Open Science Champion (Griffiths, an editor with Elsevier) has been instrumental
 in changing policies towards open access and has published guidance. He contributed to a
 University review of the sustainability of gold OA which informed the decision to negotiate ‘no-
 additional-cost’ deals with journal publishers. The Faculty has progressively provided financial
 support where the Library could not solely fund a deal (e.g. PLOS). This benefits all researchers,
 particularly ECRs and PhD students.
 We hold seminars for PhD students, ECRs and more experienced staff addressing the latest
 developments in open science and have mandatory data management training, which includes
 issues of archiving and open data. Research Groups make use of ePrints to archive and make
 pseudonymous data publicly available for use by other researchers (e.g.
 https://eprints.soton.ac.uk/435408/). Following University policy on responsible metrics, all
 appraisers are fully briefed to avoid the misuse of journal impact factors and other metrics when
 judging performance and setting objectives.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d) Research Integrity
 The highest standards of research integrity are ensured by the implementation of robust policies
 based on the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a§2.8). Research leads enact this
 through mentoring and appraisal processes which focus on excellence, transparency,
 accountability and responsiveness. Health Sciences has a research ethics sub-committee,
 overseen by the Faculty Ethics Committee (which includes a lay member; Warner is Vice-Chair)
 supported by a central research integrity and governance team of six staff. Their work is
 administered through an on-line ethics approval system (REF5a§2.8) which serves as a portal
 for all applications.
 e) Collaboration and Partnerships
 Over 90% of our grant income and publications are interdisciplinary collaborations (§4). We
 collaborate with University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institutes (REF5a§2.6): Institute
 for Life Sciences, Web Science Institute, Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute
 and Southampton Marine & Maritime Institute. Beyond the School we jointly lead, contribute to,
 and supervise research across Schools and Faculties, and collaborate with academic and
 industry partners globally (§4).

 1.7 Future strategy
 Building on the success across the four research themes, our future strategy focusses on
 realising staff potential to enable progression and succession planning. In 2014-2020 we
 transformed our staff profile (Fig.2), to invigorate and grow our talent pipeline. We will continue
 to proactively support research staff to further develop their expertise, enabling progression to
 leadership of research programmes.
 Over the next five years we will build on our strengths and interdisciplinarity to create two new
 world-leading cross-University research centres with the Institute for Life Sciences, to meet
 pressing societal challenges in these areas:
   •   Mental Health (in partnership with the School of Psychology), and
   •   Child and Adolescent Health (in partnership with the Faculty of Medicine; led by recent
       appointment of Barker).
 University investment in infrastructure – at University Hospital Southampton (UHS) and the joint
 Medicine and Health Sciences building at Highfield – will create new facilities that enable
 strengthening of clinical focused work in partnership with Medicine.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy has been to grow and develop our interdisciplinary research-active staff to
 produce world-leading research and transform healthcare. It is underpinned by our core values
 (§1.6), EDI (§2.4) with staff development at its heart.
 In this REF period we have focused on attracting, developing, supporting, retaining and
 promoting talented early career researchers and promoting able candidates to senior posts. Our
 objective has been to take advantage of natural turnover to reinvest in building new critical
 mass, creating a platform and pipeline of able junior researchers to ensure succession planning
 and the sustainability of our research themes. We have achieved this by generating a lively,
 enquiring, impact-focused learning culture to nurture and develop our existing staff, combined
 with making a small number of key external mid-career staff appointments.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Promotions, pathway changes and internal appointments
 A central part of our people strategy has been to develop our own skilled researchers and to
 move them to permanent academic posts either through internal promotions/pathway or
 equitably and transparently advertised internal appointments. This also provides a platform and
 pipeline of expertise into our research themes.
 Through active development and support we have created a new generation of research leaders
 of exceptional talent and promise. Since 2013/14 we have supported 9 promotions to Chair
 (8F:1M) (Adams, Ball, Bowen, Bridges, Darlington, Foster, Lwaleed, Portillo, Roberts) and
 Calman and Worsley to Associate Professor (1F:1M); 84% of our professors are women.
 We have actively mentored and supported a total of 15 post-doctoral staff (9F:6M) to tenured
 appointments (Brooks, Calman, Campling, Cherry, Dall’ora, Ewings, Hope, Hunt, Kunkel,
 Turk, Wagland, Warner, Wilks, Worsley and Vassilev including 1F (Turk) from education and
 1M (Warner) from technician pathways.
 2.1.2 New appointments and cross-disciplinary joint-appointments.
 Four strategic appointments have been made at Associate Professor level (2F:2M) for Portillo,
 Ball (both since promoted to Professor) and Sadler, all recruited from KCL, and Vassilev from
 Manchester. Portillo’s expertise in long-term conditions (specifically Parkinson’s Disease)
 strengthens leadership of our Long-term Conditions Group within Health Needs while Ball brings
 international workforce and safe staffing expertise to Health Workforce and Systems. Sadler
 brings unique frailty and implementation science clinical academic expertise (§2.1.3) to the
 Ageing and Dementia Group and is a joint-appointment with Southern NHS Trust, and Vassilev
 brings national and international expertise in social network research.
 We have made two strategic joint-appointments with other Faculties/Schools. Wilks joined us as
 a microbiologist (2014) with the School of Biological Sciences bringing expertise in biofilms from
 the National Biofilms Centre. As a member of the Fundamental Care Bladder and Bowel
 Management Group, she has built on their work in urinary catheters and devices. Psychologist
 Barker is a joint appointment (2020) with the Faculty of Medicine as Professor of Adolescent
 Behaviour. She will be leading the new Child and Adolescent Health Research Group (§1.7).
 2.1.3 Clinical Academics
 The School has long and pioneering history of developing clinical academics. Roberts leads the
 Clinical Academic strategy group which supports the development of new posts and plans, and
 delivers our co-funded doctoral fellowship scheme with 6 Trusts and other clinical partners
 (§2.4). Our clinical academics have a purpose-built Clinical Academic Facility (£1.3M investment
 in REF2014 period) at University Hospital Southampton (UHS) for their co-location. Most of our
 clinical academics have completed NIHR clinical academic fellowships and all have joint
 appointments with a Trust partner: Richardson (UHS), Roberts (NIHR Senior Clinical
 Lectureship; UHS), Prieto (NIHR Senior Clinical Lectureship; UHS), Sadler (Southern Health),
 Cherry (NIHR Clinical Lectureship; Solent).
 Fifty-one NIHR, ARC and School/Trust partnership funded clinical academic PGR students have
 been awarded during this REF period (§2.4)
 2.1.4 Investment in co-location
 To further support our strategy of fostering collaboration and interdisciplinarity we consolidated
 on one main site at Highfield (§3). This has enabled staff from two distant buildings to be co-
 located to foster strong communities of researchers within their themes and promoting inter-
 theme synergies.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of our overall strategy is shown in the growth and constitution of our REF-eligible
 staff with a transformation in the profile of our staffing structure. In REF2014 we returned 38 staff
 (30F:8M) compared to 64 staff (49F:15M) in REF2021. The proportion of women has remained
 constant at ~78% but staff enabled to work part-time have increased from 8 (21%) to 20 (31%).
 Changes in staff levels are shown in Fig. 2.
 Fig.2: Staff Growth




 L7 Professors and Professorial Fellows (Research); L6 Associate Professors and Principal
 Research Fellows; L5 Lecturers and Senior Research Fellows; L4 Research Fellows (light blue).
 2.1.5 Appraisal and mentorship
 Supportive and developmental appraisal has been the cornerstone of our staffing strategy. As
 part of our Athena SWAN action plan, following REF2014 we have developed a consistent set of
 objectives for use in appraisals. These objectives include income, outputs and impact, and
 include the planning process for supporting staff development needs and providing career
 development reviews, tailored for special circumstances. A key responsibility of the appraisal
 process is to nurture staff to their next promotion or pathway move and identify support and
 development needs which require study leave, financial support or development opportunities
 (§2.1.6) so that resources can be equitably distributed. All line managers have received
 University line management, appraisal and ED&I training, and ED&I and appraisal completion is
 monitored (100% excluding those on extended leave).
 Mentors are vital for career progression and the Faculty has a mentorship development
 programme to grow, train and support mentors. Health Sciences alone has more than 30 trained
 mentors and all staff have a mentor (usually an experienced professor) identified as part of their
 induction process. The mentorship programme comprises experienced staff with a range of
 characteristics and expertise (including impact development) from across the Faculty. This
 enables staff and ECRs (§2.3) to find suitable mentors from a wide range of disciplines to
 support their needs at different stages during their career. To further support promotion, the
 Faculty organises several workshops annually which are open to all staff and include the
 opportunity to ‘buddy’ with staff who have recently been promoted.
 Following appraisal, achievement of research and impact objectives is rewarded annually using
 the University Reward and Recognition framework and there are three advertised opportunities
 every year for further reward (through achievement awards and additional increments) with
 applications reviewed and moderated at Faculty panels.
 2.1.6 Career development, support, and wellbeing
 Health Sciences ensures staff have the time and resources they need to flourish and protect
 their wellbeing, and we pay particular attention to issues of equity and circumstances when
 allocating resources:
    i) Workload Management. Our Athena Swan action plan highlighted the need for an
    equitable and transparent workload model to protect research time and ensure staff
    wellbeing. Our model has been developed following a year of consultation with staff
    (2017/18) and examination of national workload models, and takes account of part-time


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    working, joint appointments, administrative, management and leaderships roles. The model
    ensures that all balanced (research and education) pathway staff have, in every year, a
    substantial minimum amount of protected time (≥40%) to undertake research. This baseline
    can be adjusted upwards, by reducing teaching and administrative responsibilities, for staff
    with special circumstances (e.g., following periods of illness or parental leave). Workload
    levels and allocation processes are transparent, allowing gender benchmarking and fairness
    in the allocation of work. For the most recent academic year (2018/19 pre-Covid) female staff
    spent on average 41% of their time on research compared to 40% for male staff.
    ii) Financial Support and study leave is openly available through an annual budget and
    application process to all staff including post-doctoral research assistants. A departmental
    level panel monitors and collates staff and career development information from line
    managers and reviews requests for financial support and study leave with around £210k
    spent during this REF period. Staff with external grants also retain a proportion of overheads
    which, together with consultancy funds, can be carried over from year to year. These
    mechanisms support activities such as conference attendance and other CPD. Staff with
    Directly Allocated hours on external grants that exceed the baseline research allocation are
    eligible for an equivalent reduction in teaching/administrative duties.
    iii) Support for career development is provided by the University’s Centre for Higher
    Education Practice (CHEP, REF5a§3.5). Dedicated training supported by key on-line
    resources is offered in both specialist and transferable skills aligned to the Researcher
    Development Framework, including leadership and management training. All staff on
    research pathways are offered an education development mentor and supported to gain
    experience and skills in education to meet the attributes required for a pathway move
    (§2.1.1). Development of impact skills is supported by a Faculty impact team who hold
    regular impact development workshops open to all staff.
    iv) Support for research fellowships is designed to maximise the success of staff including
    ECRs and post-graduate research students (§2.4). Fellowships Champion (Bowen
    previously Bruton) and Clinical Academic Champion (Roberts) together with a Fellowship
    Strategy group provide support for applications. A systematic and transparent internal
    process ensures equitable access to organisational support before, during and after
    fellowships. Supported by Research and Innovation Services (RIS, REF5a§1.5), this process
    is seen as a model in talent management which is being replicated across the University.
    There have been 23 applications with 15 awards from 7 funders (2014-20) including a Turing
    Fellowship (Monks) and Alzheimer’s Society junior fellowship (Murphy). Bruton was the first
    physiotherapist to be awarded an NIHR Senior Research Fellowship and Bowen the first
    podiatrist in the UK to have been awarded an NIHR Career Development Fellowship.
 In partnership with UHS (2016) we established the Southampton Academy of Research offering
 a career development programme from pre-doctoral level to joint clinical academic post-doctoral
 appointments. 152 UHS/UoS staff have participated and 4 fellowships have been awarded.

 2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The University’s Equality Plan (REF5a§3.8) provides operational frameworks and training to
 ensure active engagement with equalities legislation and University processes. The University of
 Southampton was a founding signatory of the Athena SWAN Charter in 2005, achieving Silver in
 2016.The School of Health Sciences achieved Athena Swan Bronze status in 2018 and is
 working towards achieving Silver by 2022. Our gender pay gap has improved during the REF
 period and is now less than 1%, favouring women.



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professor Stokes chairs the School ED&I group of 19 staff and 6 students with several protected
 characteristics being represented. A monthly working group plans strategy and is delivering an
 ambitious action plan. The group reports to Faculty ED&I, Athena SWAN self-assessment team,
 and to the School Board. Stokes is also a member of the University ED&I Committee.
 Infrastructures and programmes to support women researchers are well-developed and have
 good up-take from staff; they include Athena SWAN events, Women in Science Engineering and
 Technology Group (chaired by Walker), Faculty ED&I Network and a University-wide
 Springboard programme for women led by Pope (49 attendees leading to 10 successful
 promotions).
 Pregnancy, maternity and family support: Our family-friendly culture supports parental leave
 (16 maternity; 6 paternity; 3 adoption leave during REF period); 81% were still in the School 12
 months after their return. Staff on parental leave are offered up to 10 ‘keeping in touch days’
 (100% take up) and maintain access to the intranet to stay informed with Faculty news. A private
 rest room for breast-feeding is available for staff and students. Staff have regular meetings with
 their line-manager to ease the transition back to work and discussions include their return-to-
 work plan, career aspirations, workload and flexible working options. In 2019 we implemented a
 Family and Caring Leave Support Policy to ensure support for ERE staff throughout periods of
 extended leave and to minimise the impact on academic activities. An annual budget is set aside
 to support staff who require bridging between grants to further support return from maternity
 leave. This is available to all staff and has been requested and awarded twice.
 Part-time, flexible hours and remote working: We recognise that staff have a range of needs
 such as family commitments or caring responsibilities and support this by facilitating part-time
 and flexible working. The proportion of staff who work part-time has increased by 50% since the
 previous REF period (now 31%). The freedom to work flexibly is supported both formally and
 informally and all line-managers have training in managing flexible working patterns. More
 than150 formal applications to changes in working hours have been made since 2014 and all
 were approved.

 2.3 Early career researchers
 The University implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 in 2009 and achieved the HR Excellence in Research (HR-EiR) award in 2012, becoming a
 signatory to the revised Concordat in 2020. Fader led the University Concordat Steering Group
 from 2015-18 including the renewal of the HR-EiR award in 2016, which was subsequently
 renewed in 2020. The three principles of the revised Concordat (2019) are currently being
 enacted within the School:
    i) A supportive and inclusive research culture is championed by the Deputy Head of
    School Research and Enterprise and the Faculty Concordat Champion together with our
    Early Career Research Concordat representative (ECR Gates) who is a member of the
    School Research and Enterprise Executive Group. An ECR team represents ECRs on School
    committees and activities (Allen: Engagement group; Fogg: Clinical Academic Strategy;
    Dall’Ora: Fellowship committee). A designated ECR resource and meeting room supports
    ECR communications on policies (including research integrity), events and practices together
    with a bespoke SharePoint site. An annual survey of ECRs informs development needs and
    training which are co-developed and organised within the School in addition to dedicated
    training in both specialist and transferable skills (including writing workshops, grant gaining,
    career development events) aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, along
    with key on-line resources managed by CHEP, for example Working as a Researcher
    website, ECR Development Hub, and Gateway to Teaching. The annual Health Sciences and

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Faculty of Medicine Research Conference brings together ECRs and post-graduate
    researchers from different disciplines.
    ii) Researchers are recruited, employed and managed under conditions that recognise
    and value their contributions. The School introduced the open, transparent and merit-
    based recruitment (OTM-R) checklist in 2016, to support University policies to ensure fair and
    inclusive selection and appointment. Policies are regularly reviewed via the HR and Athena
    SWAN processes; they include a transparent process of short-listing and interviewing,
    gender-mixed and unconscious bias training. The School staff induction programme is
    designed to enable new researchers to be integrated into the School research community,
    and familiar with policies and practices.
 Security of employment for fixed-term contract staff has been addressed using three methods:
   •    monitoring new awards and proactively internally advertising posts to fixed-term staff to
       enable redeployment through successive contract extensions;
   •   offering all academic and professional staff on successive fixed-term contracts extending
       beyond four years the opportunity to change to an open-ended contract. 75% of eligible
       staff have chosen to convert to open-ended contracts;
   •   creating capacity for pathway moves and internal appointments to balanced (research and
       education) pathway posts (§2.1.6) combined with meticulous attention to staff
       development so ECRs have the skills necessary to secure such posts.
 iii) Professional and career development is offered to all ECRs (§2.1.6). 200hrs of
 professional development time is protected (pro-rata) for career development and training
 activities. ECRs have access to Careers Services resources, drop-in and one-to-one advice
 sessions. Annual review of career development takes place at appraisal and all staff have at
 least one mentor (§2.1.5).

 2.4 Post-graduate Researchers (PGR)
 We have a large and vibrant postgraduate research community of 111 PhD students. Led by
 Doctoral Programme Director (DPD), Walsh, doctoral programmes are managed via the Health
 Sciences PGR Programmes Operational Group, which includes a Senior Academic Tutor for
 PGR programmes (Myall; also Athena Swan lead), and two PGR student representatives. Both
 Walsh and Myall are members of the School ED&I Group and have Mental Health First Aid
 training.
 Since REF2014 there have been 134 completions.

 2.4.1 Recruitment and Financial Support
 The Faculty and Health Sciences recruitment policy is consistent with recognised good practice
 for inclusive recruitment. PGR fellowships are advertised externally, and students are recruited
 through open competition adhering to University policies for equity and transparency. For
 externally-funded personal awards, students and supervisors work together on developing a
 proposal and funding (§2.1.6). All staff on interview panels are required to have undertaken
 unconscious bias and ED&I training. Applicants are assessed by two trained academics and
 undertake an interview with an independent Chair. The criteria for recruitment are competency
 focused, shortlisting is via ranking against pre-specified criteria, the decision to invite for
 interview lies outside the supervision team to reduce bias, and interviewees are asked about any
 specific accommodations for the interview. Funding of PGRs is derived from four main sources:
   1. Clinical academic fellowships: Funded by the NIHR, NIHR-ARC and the Health Sciences
      Clinical Academic Programme, these run in partnership with local NHS Trusts. The Health

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Sciences programme (launched in 2012) has enabled talented UG students to transition
       straight into a PhD which combines research and clinical practice over a 4.5 year period.
       We have developed a pipeline of clinical researchers and have partnerships with 6 Trusts
       who have invested £800k in the programme. 45 clinical academic fellowships have been
       awarded. Nineteen have graduated and 5 have since been employed by the School as
       ECRs.
   2. Doctoral Training Programmes (DTP): Bartlett and Bowling (2015) were awarded funding
      for a Doctoral Training College by Alzheimer’s UK (>£700k, six fellowships including two
      clinical academics). We also participate in the ESRC DTP (Brindle and Vassilev), two
      fellowships; and the Web Science DTP, two fellowships.
   3. International fellowships: We currently have 25 overseas fellowships (23 of whom are full-
      time, 15F:10M) supported largely by government agencies. They comprise 23% of our
      current Year 1-4 students and provide a significant component of the international culture
      of the School. We have three Marie Curie Fellowships through the EU STINTS project
      (£500k).
   4. Institutional Schemes: Competitive awards are allocated via the University’s Strategic
      Research Groups and Interdisciplinary Institutes (REF5a§2.6). We currently host 4 (4F)
      students who have won scholarships from the University of Southampton Vice
      Chancellor’s Studentships and two from the Institute of Life Sciences.
 Other external funders include industry-funded fellowships e.g. MediRest (£90k) and SuMed
 £33k) jointly with EPSRC (£68k).
 2.4.2 Training and Support
 Preparation for doctoral training and fellowship applications has been delivered through the
 Health Sciences MRes (supported by NIHR studentship funding until 2018, offering 15 fully
 funded places per annum with 72 (56F:16M) successful completions since 2013/14). Since 2019
 the NIHR has replaced this programme with the Pre-doctoral clinical academic (PCAF) scheme;
 Roberts is a panel member. The School has supported four (3F:1M) successful completions
 since 2018/19.
 Our MRes programme (led by Turnbull) forms a key component of doctoral training, with
 students having access to all modules including design and methods and conducting research in
 clinical settings.
 All PGRs follow a School Induction Programme and a Doctoral College PGR Handbook sets out
 policies, procedures and training requirements. Doctoral students undertake a training-needs
 analysis within the first three months, which is reviewed annually and at each progression
 review. All PGRs take general skills/research training courses, including the development of
 impact and Open Research, ethics, ED&I and Health and Safety, all of which are mapped to the
 UKRI sponsored Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
 The University Doctoral College (REF5a§3.7) coordinates generic skills training via the
 GradBook online booking system and runs an annual Festival of Research event, facilitating
 inter-disciplinary engagement. PGRs are expected to attend the School’s seminar programme,
 enabling interaction with external speakers. PGRs gain presentation skills by participating at the
 annual research conference (§2.3.i), at which prizes are awarded. Research students are also
 encouraged to attend external conferences and publish their work. A training grant of up to
 £1000pa per student is available.
 Students are linked to a research group, embedding them within a research-intensive culture
 and fostering peer support. Regular PGR forums led by the DPD enable regular feedback and

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement. Students can also raise issues through a termly Staff Student Liaison Committee
 (currently 3F:1M representatives). PGRs also have representatives on the main Faculty boards
 related to the Graduate School, teaching and research. International students are supported by
 a Faculty student representative and School student representatives.
 2.4.3 Supervision and Progression
 PGRs have a primary supervisor leading a supervisory team approved by the Graduate School.
 Junior staff are encouraged to co-supervise with more senior staff; all staff new to Health
 Sciences receive supervisor training. A senior tutor supports pastoral care in collaboration with
 the DPD.
 Progress is reviewed by an independent assessor and a member of the supervisory team to
 decide progression to the second year. At the end of Year-2, full-time students undertake a
 ‘Confirmation’ examination to progress to Year-3. This consists of a 30-minute presentation to an
 open audience and their examiners, followed by a viva voce examination conducted by two
 internal assessors. In Year-3, students undertake a final progression review with their
 supervision team before progressing to submission. The ‘PGR Tracker’ system provides an
 online record of training courses attended, supervisory meetings, reports, progress reviews and
 outcomes.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Funding
 Health Sciences has had an accelerating income-base spanning 20 years, with research income
 having increased nearly threefold since REF2014 (Fig.3.1).
                            Fig.3.1 Income per REF/RAE since 2001




 We have achieved sustained growth in research activity through a strategy of interdisciplinary
 collaborations and partnerships. This allows us to deliver high-impact research, which drives up
 our profile and reputation, reinforcing our relationship with the NHS, healthcare, industry and
 practice. We have a mixed research economy with ~25% of income coming from health charities
 (e.g. Macmillan; Versus Arthritis) and the remainder mainly from NIHR, Research Councils and
 other UK government funding agencies (Fig.3.2).




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                    Fig.3.2 Research income by source (2013/14 – 2019/20)




 Ninety percent of research applications and awards have interdisciplinary teams, exemplified by
 our outputs (§4). Funding achievements associated with each Theme are outlined in §1.5.
 Three infrastructure grants have been pivotal to delivering research against strategic goals:
    i) CLAHRC/ARC: NIHR CLAHRC Wessex received £10.8M grant plus an additional £12.9M
    was leveraged in matched funding to undertake practice-changing research. It enabled
    growth in expertise which has been carried into the ARC (2019-2024, £10.9M grant plus
    £3.3M matched funding), (§4).
    ii) Macmillan Survivorship Research Group received >£5M funding during this period.
    iii) Versus Arthritis awarded a further 5-years’ infrastructure funding in 2018 for the Centre of
    Excellence for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis Research Versus Arthritis (£5M; £450k
    Southampton).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 We continued to invest in infrastructure, both at our main University site (Highfield) and at
 University Hospital Southampton (UHS). The £3M Investment in Building 67 on Highfield
 Campus in 2018/19 created new office spaces for co-location bringing research staff previously
 distributed across multiple locations into one building with a lift to all floors. The new
 consolidated environment has been designed for inclusivity and developed for the needs of each
 research theme, ensuring the availability of facilities equally to all staff. As well as modern
 workstations, 9 meeting rooms, and 4 redesigned staff/student kitchens and eating areas, each
 open plan area has two ‘pods’ that enable interaction without disturbing others, and two ‘quiet
 rooms’. Staff individual needs are supported by providing specialist equipment including 13 sit-
 to-stand desks, dual monitors for all staff to support electronic marking, basic desk chairs
 replaced with 250 ergonomic chairs, 5 dedicated dyslexia software installations and 100
 installations of computer work-break software timers to ensure adequate rest breaks (2013/14-
 present).



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This investment included a new PGR ‘hub’ offering individual workstations, open plan space,
 administrative and printing facilities to create a supportive and collaborative community.
 Students also have access to nearby study space in the new Centenary Building and social and
 sports facilities across the campus. Students can access support and guidance on health, well-
 being and finance from the SUSU Advice Centre and the University Enabling Services. PGR
 students undertaking a clinical academic fellowship are based at our purpose-built Clinical
 Academic Facility at UHS.
    • ARC facilities: We have invested >£60k in the new ARC by leasing and refurbishing a
      dedicated facility at Chilworth Science Park adjacent to the Academic Health Sciences
      Network (AHSN) and the Centre for Implementation Science (CIS) to support further
      collaboration.
    • Macmillan Survivorship facilities: A new office suite for the 24 staff of this Group has been
      created, locating them next to staff in Groups within the same research theme i.e. Ageing
      and Dementia and Long-term Conditions.
    • Versus Arthritis facilities: A new biomechanical (movement) laboratory for the Active Living
      theme comprises state-of-the-art 3D motion capture systems, synchronised with
      electromyography (EMG) to investigate mechanisms of movement and evaluate
      interventions, such as exercise programmes. Portable technologies include: ultrasound
      imaging devices to support our podiatry and physiotherapy research (see ICS03-04);
      Myoton technology to assess mechanical properties of muscle (used to study muscle tone
      in astronauts and neurological patients); strength and balance testing equipment.
 3.2.1 School and Shared Facilities
  In addition to our dedicated facilities, our close relationship with the Faculty of Medicine and
  neighbouring trusts gives us to access to a range of additional facilities (Fig.3.3).
                   Fig.3.3 University and Regional Facilities and Partnerships




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These facilities include:
    • Excellent laboratory and equipment facilities to support our research into computerised
      lung sound analysis (electronic stethoscopes), breathing pattern analysis respiratory
      inductive plethysmography and respiratory therapy.
    • Our own general purpose category 2 wet laboratory, offering facilities ranging from
      analysis of biomarkers in blood, tissue and body fluid samples, to full cell and tissue
      culture (cell incubators, laminar flow cabinets).
    • The molecular and microbiology laboratories (managed by Medicine).
    • A biomechanical skin laboratory and an environmentally controlled laboratory for the study
      of skin function, co-funded (£240k) by our Skin Health Group with the NIHR Biomedical
      Research Unit (BRU). Equipment enables the study of microvascular function, skin barrier
      function and wound healing.
    • Respiratory BRU’s world-class facilities for respiratory diagnostics and imaging.
    • The NIHR Southampton Clinical Research Facility, a clinical environment dedicated to
      research, licensed for Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials. Users include Fader, Wilks and
      Murphy.
    • Southampton Clinical Trials Unit (Adams, Murphy, Ashburn, Richardson).

 3.2.2 University facilities
 As part of the Institute for Life Sciences and the Faculty of Environmental and Life Sciences we
 access the following facilities:
      •   Microbiology laboratories in Biological Sciences including the National Biofilms
          Innovation Centre (Wilks, Lwaleed).
      •   Engineering facilities for 3D modelling and printing (Donovan-Hall, Bader, Worsley,
          Macaulay, Fader).
      •   Secure data facility and supercomputing (Griffiths, Jones, Saville).

 3.2.3 Future developments
 A £50M investment in the next five years from the University is enabling major regeneration of
 the health and medical research facilities at UHS, creating joint facilities for collaborative
 research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations
 4.1.1 Global collaborations
 All research groups collaborate extensively with research and other institutions across the world.
 In total, 44% of our outputs were co-authored with international collaborators (SciVal 2020).
 Over the REF period, our co-authors came from 67 countries, 1015 academic institutions and
 699 non-academic organisations internationally, including hospitals, governments and
 companies, reflecting our partnership with end-users of research. Our co-authors are based at
 57 of the top 100 universities in the 2020 QS World University Rankings (Fig.4.1).
 From 2014, the School has hosted international visitors from a range of disciplines, including
 from universities: Auckland University of Technology (Podiatry); British Columbia
 (Physiotherapy); Crete (General Practice); Karolinska Institute (Nursing); Macquarie, Australia


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Health Systems); New South Wales, Australia (Medical Sociology and Medicine); Pennsylvania
 (Nursing); Tel Aviv (Engineering); UCLA (Nursing).

           Fig.4.1 Global collaborations (outputs co-authorship, Source: Pure, 2020)




 Our staff hold Professorial visiting research positions at universities worldwide: for example,
 Queensland University of Technology, Australia (Bowen); Chinese University of Hong Kong
 (Griffiths); Karolinska Institute, Sweden (Griffiths); University of Pennsylvania, USA (Griffiths);
 Deakin University, Australia (Latter); Temple University, USA (Long-Sutehall); University of
 Valencia, Spain (Portillo); University of Manchester (Rogers); University of Sydney, Australia
 (Rogers); University of Western Australia (Rogers).

 4.1.2 Partnerships with health and care providers
 Key to the delivery and implementation of transformative healthcare research is our partnership
 with the 11 NHS Trusts in the Wessex region (Fig.3.3). Our staff lead research on NHS-identified
 priorities in partnership with health and social care providers as a central part of Wessex
 CLARHC (2014-19) and ARC (2019-24) (§1.2, Fig.3.3). Our strong collaboration is reflected in
 joint-funded senior appointments as well as Trust-funded clinical academic doctoral fellowships
 (§2.1.3). Fader and Richardson are members of the Joint University Hospital Southampton
 Trust Research Strategy Board. Collaborations beyond local NHS providers include: charities
 (e.g. The Brendoncare Foundation, Bridges); NHS Blood and Transplant services (Long-
 Sutehall) Southampton and Portsmouth City Councils (Vassilev, Rogers) and Wessex
 hospices (Calman, Campling, Darlington, Long-Sutehall, Myall, Wagland, Wheelwright).
 We are also strongly connected to the Wessex Academic Health Sciences Network (AHSN)
 (Fig.3.3) (Fader and Richardson are Board members) with collaborations including for example
 on implementing compassionate care for older people (Bridges), and medicines optimisation
 (Latter). In collaboration with the AHSN we host the Centre for Implementation Science (CIS),
 which undertakes evaluations of service and research improvements within the NHS. The CIS
 Director is a member of the Health Sciences Research Executive Group, and Health Sciences’
 staff liaise with AHSN and CIS on research, as well as regional dissemination and impact
 activities.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.3 Partnerships with the public and patients
 At a national level, we collaborate with a range of patient-focused charities and third sector
 organisations, for example, Macmillan Cancer Support (Foster), Prostate Cancer UK and
 Movember (Foster, Richardson) to enable our research to inform charity and third sector
 strategic direction as well as evidence-based care and support.
 Local collaborations include School staff working closely with patients and the public on research
 via Wessex Public Involvement Network and Wessex Involvement in Service Delivery and
 Research (WISeRD) PPI advisory group, established by CLARHC and now advising ARC on
 PPI in research: Rogers was joint chair (2014-19) with ARC theme PPI links Hope and Myall as
 members. We work with the PPI lead, NHS Research Design Service (RDS) South Central for
 advice on PPI research design and recruitment of PPI study representatives.
 School staff actively engage with local patient groups (e.g. Cherry, Gosport Partners Through
 Pain; Hislop-Lennie, British Lung Foundation Breathe Easy support groups).
 To inform our research priorities and maximise our impact, all research groups actively work with
 patients and the public in all stages of research, from design to dissemination and impact. For
 example, MSRG led a UK research-prioritisation study involving people affected by cancer, co-
 created and delivered with patients and the public. This resulted in Macmillan’s 4-year User-Led
 grant scheme and informed international models of partnership-working with patients and the
 public (Foster).

 4.2 Contributions to the research base
 We contribute significantly to global research outputs. In the REF period, we have published an
 average of 338 outputs annually. Our outputs’ Field Weighted Citation Impact (2014-19) was
 2.52 (i.e. 152% more cited than the expected level in our field, SciVal 2020). Our interdisciplinary
 reach is reflected in the range of journals in which we publish (Fig.4.2) with 92% of our returned
 outputs (REF2) being interdisciplinary.
             Fig.4.2: Publications in different disciplinary Journals (SciVal 2020)




 4.2.1 Research funding bodies
 School staff contribute to and influence the research base nationally and internationally through
 leadership, advisory and member roles on a wide range of funding bodies, for example (excluding
 reviewer-only roles):
 a) National Institute for Health Research
 Developing and Enhancing Skills grants (Bowen panel member 2019-); Regional Advisory
 Committee for Research for Patient Benefit programme (Walker & Worsley South East and
 Central panel members 2017- & 2019-); Doctoral Research Fellowship (Richardson panel

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 member 2016-); Senior Investigator awards (Richardson panel member 2019-); NIHR/Health
 Education England Integrated Clinical Academic Programme Clinical and Senior Clinical
 Lectureship Awards (Stokes panel member 2020-).
 b) Government
 National Agency for Evaluation and Prospectus (ANEP), National Health Research Fund, Spain
 (Portillo panel member 2015-); Chief Nursing Officer for Scotland’s Scottish Nursing, Midwifery
 & Allied Health Professional Research Award (Latter panel member 2015-); Republic of Ireland
 Health Research Board Clinician Scientist Post-doctoral Fellowships (Stokes panel member
 2020-).
 c) National Charities
 Versus Arthritis Fellowships Committee (Bowen 2018-); Cancer Research UK Population
 Sciences Committee (Brindle panel member 2019); Stroke Association Awards (Burridge panel
 member 2010- and chair 2017-); Bowel Cancer UK Scientific Advisory Board (Foster member
 2017-); Marie Curie Research Strategic Advisory Committee (Latter member 2018-); INSPIRE
 Foundation National Scientific Committee (Kunkel panel member 2018-); Versus Arthritis
 Physical Activity Advisory Committee (Stokes panel member 2019-).
 d) International research organisations
 EU Joint Programme Neurodegenerative Disease Research Funding Programme (Bartlett panel
 member 2018, 2019); European Organisation for Research & Treatment of Cancer, Quality of
 Life (Darlington member 2012-18, elected Chair 2018-); International Consultation on
 Incontinence (Fader panel member 2009-); Irish Cancer Society (Foster chair 2018); French
 National Institute for Cancer Research Scientific Review Panel (Foster 2020); Research Council
 of Norway (Hughes chair 2016; panel member, 2018, 2019).
 4.2.2 Journal Editorships
 Staff at all levels contribute to the research base through influential appointments to international
 peer-reviewed journals. For example:
 a) Editors-in-Chief or equivalent
 Journal of Tissue Viability (Bader 2011-); Dementia: International Journal of Social Research and
 Practice (Bartlett Co-Editor 2019-); Journal of Foot and Ankle Research (Bowen 2018-);
 Executive Editor, International Journal of Nursing Studies (Griffiths 2005-); Founding Editor
 International Journal of Nursing Studies Advances (Griffiths 2020-); Founding Editor European
 Journal of Oncology Nursing (Richardson 2003-).
 b) Associate Editors
 Journal of Clinical Biomechanics (Bader 2016-); Human Resources in Health (Ball 2018-);
 Journal of Foot and Ankle Research (Bowen 2010-18); International Journal of Nursing Studies
 (Dall’Ora 2017-); Nursing Open (Portillo 2018–); Implementation Science (Rogers 2009-); BMC
 Geriatrics (Sadler 2018-19); Clinical Rehabilitation (Stokes 2003-); BMC Health Research
 (Walker 2018-).
 4.2.3 Learned Societies and Other Professional Organisations
 Significant contributions to sustainability of the national and international research and
 disciplinary base are made by staff at all levels through leading roles in learned societies and
 major scientific organisations, including:
 UK College of Podiatry Research and Development Committee (Bowen, Chair 2014-19);
 Association of Chartered Physiotherapists in Neurology (Burridge, President 2017-present);
 British Psycho-Oncology Society Executive Committee (Calman, member 2019-present);

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Standardization Committee for Continence Products (Fader, chair); British
 Psychosocial Oncology Society Executive Committee (Foster member 2016-present); American
 College of Sports Medicine Moving through Cancer Taskforce (Grimmett, behavioural science
 lead 2019-present); International Consortium of Rehabilitation Robotics Steering Committee
 (Hughes 2016-present); Joanna Briggs Institute Expert Reference Group on Infection
 Prevention and Control (Prieto 2020-23); Society for Back Pain Research (Roberts, President
 2016); European Spine Society Advisory Board (Roberts member 2015–present); European
 Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel Scientific Committee (Worsley, Trustee 2018-present; Chair
 2019-present).
 4.2.4 Academic Recognition and Honours
 The magnitude of our staff’s contribution to research and to the disciplines of nursing and allied
 health professions is reflected in national and international awards and prizes, including:
 College of Occupational Therapists Merit Award (Adams 2015); Institute of Physics and
 Engineering in Medicine Fellowship (Bader 2018); BioMedEng Legacy Prize (Bader 2018);
 Tissue Viability Society Fellowship (Bader 2019); Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of
 Nursing, (Ball); Fellowship of the European Academy of Nursing Science (Ball, Griffiths,
 Latter, Portillo); The College of Podiatry Meritorious Medal for outstanding contribution to the
 profession (Bowen 2014); NIHR Senior Investigator award (Griffiths 2017-22, Richardson
 2018-2023, Rogers 2008-18); Mechatronics Paper Prize Award Winner (Hughes 2014-16);
 Sigma International Nurse Researcher Hall of Fame (Latter 2020); NIHR 70@70 Senior Nurse
 Research Leader (Prieto 2019-present); Royal College of General Practitioners Research Paper
 of the Year Award (Rogers 2016); Fellowship of Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (Roberts,
 Stokes 2013); OBE for services to physiotherapy (Stokes 2018); European Pressure Ulcer
 Advisory Panel Novice Investigator Award (Worsley 2018).

 4.3 Broader contributions to the economy and society
 4.3.1 Economic and societal benefits
 Our impact strategy (§1.4) ensures that our research contributes significantly to broader
 economic and societal benefits. In addition to the national and international impact described in
 our ICSs, our contribution is further exemplified by: Bridges presented NIHR- and CLARHC-
 funded CLECC study findings to parliamentarians during Parliamentary Evidence Week (2020);
 Latter, Campling, Richardson and Ewings’ research on community access to end-of-life
 medicines is informing NHSE plans for new community pharmacy services across England and
 national competencies for community pharmacists in Wales, through the Royal Pharmaceutical
 Society Wales; Rogers, Vassilev and Portillo’s European Commission and CLARHC-funded
 programme of research on using a social network tool (GENIE) to manage long term conditions,
 has been endorsed by NHS England and is used by >30 organisations in Hampshire - including
 Age UK and Alzheimer’s Society - as well as internationally in multiple local authorities, hospitals
 and charities in Australia and Canada.
 More junior staff have actively contributed to societal impact: Campling and ECR Ewings’
 research (with Latter and Richardson) on community access to end-of-life medicines is
 informing NHSE plans for new community pharmacy services across England and national
 competencies for community pharmacists in Wales; Kunkel’s (with Ashburn) 2014 research on
 the benefits of dance for people with Parkinson’s Disease informed an NIHR award-winning
 YouTube video, viewed >3000 times; Murphy’s (with Fader) findings on the positive impact of a
 continence Product Decision Aid on confidence led to its inclusion in the Continence Product
 Advisor website, with >1M visits (ICS 03-02).



                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3.2 Shaping policy and practice
 School staff influence policy and practice through high-level representation in a range of national
 and international agenda-setting organisations and groups. For example NHS Improvement Safe
 Staffing Advisory Group (Ball, Griffiths 2016-17); Macmillan Geriatric Oncology Expert
 Reference Group (Bridges Workforce Lead, 2014-17); Health Education England (Fader,
 Richardson, specialist advisors on clinical academic careers 2017-19); Expert advisor to All-
 Party Parliamentary Group on Continence (Fader 2014-20); NICE Safe Staffing Advisory
 Committee (Griffiths member 2015); Council of Deans of Health Research Advisory Group
 (Latter 2018-); Association of UK University Hospitals National Clinical Academic Careers
 Development Group (Latter, Richardson 2012-17); Royal Pharmaceutical Society Expert
 Advisory Group Commission on future models of pharmacy (Latter 2014); International
 Movement Screening Interventions Group (Stokes, lead 2014-); National Cancer Research
 Institute Living with and Beyond Cancer Group, Methodology work stream (Wheelwright 2020-).
 4.3.3 Public engagement
 School staff’s public engagement activities promote dissemination, engagement with and impact
 of our research. We draw on the expertise of the University’s PERu to strengthen our
 engagement strategies and activities, including winning funding awards for engagement
 projects: Hughes’ (2017) project on connecting art students with stroke patients to produce a
 public artwork exhibition. Our research has regularly featured in national news, for example
 Griffiths, Ball and Jones’ ICS03-01 highlights how their research influencing safe nurse staffing
 guidance received widespread media coverage in 33 outlets, including The Guardian (2015;
 2019), Scientific American (2015) and El Pais (2015). Other examples include Vassilev’s (2016)
 BBC4 Thinking Allowed interview on chronic illness narratives in Bulgaria and the UK, and
 Fader’s (2015) interviews on catheter research broadcast on several BBC radio stations
 including Today on Radio4. We engage with the public using local media outlets: e.g. BBC
 Radio Solent on delayed prescribing research and public antibiotic use (Ellis 2016) and Covid-
 19 research study ENABLE (Calman 2020). Staff also connect the public with our research
 through engagement and hosting outreach events e.g. Smallpeice project (Warner, with School
 of Engineering) reaching ~250 primary and secondary school students, and LifeLab (Adams,
 Stokes with UHS and School of Education) as part of widening participation outreach, to ~170
 primary and secondary school students.
 4.3.4 Industry and Enterprise
 Examples of impact generated through the School’s industry collaborations and enterprise
 activities are exemplified in our ICSs, notably Fader et al (ICS03-02) focused on continence
 technology and Bader et al (ICS03-05) on technologies to maintain skin health and improve
 pressure ulcer prevention.
 Industry and enterprise collaborations are led by the Faculty Associate Dean for Enterprise
 (Slater-Jeffries) and facilitated locally by the School enterprise champion (Metcalf).
 Partnerships with industry are supported by RIS together with the Faculty Enterprise and Impact
 Board which supports exploitation of Intellectual Property through patent and licensing panels.
 The School has supported two patent applications: haptic stimulation apparatus (Metcalf 2015);
 and penile compression clamps (Bader, Fader 2018). The School has generated consultancy
 and commercial enterprise funding of £462k since 2014 and has gained enterprise funding from
 a variety of sources, e.g. Worsley funded by EPSRC impact accelerator funds (£21k) to develop
 public exhibits at Winchester Science Centre.
 Business incubators such as the SETsquared Partnership have supported staff to write grants
 on developing interventions for active living (Stokes) and to prevent biofilms (Wilks). Two staff

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Burridge, Fader) have successfully received ICURe (Innovation to Commercialisation
 REF5a§2.3) awards to develop entrepreneurial skills and strengthen links with industry.
 The University’s FortisNet industry collaborative partnership is hosted by the Institute for Life
 Sciences and directed by Adams (2016-19). This interdisciplinary network of 13 different sectors
 and >220 individual members of clinical, academic and industrial partners aims to develop
 research, products and services to transform musculoskeletal health. Since 2016, 48 new
 projects and 35 business partnerships have been developed, including: a penile compression
 device for male urinary incontinence (Fader, Macaulay 2020); a clinical tool for analysing 3D
 gait kinematics (Gavin, Warner, 2019); an automated method of measuring posture in the
 workplace (Stokes, Warner 2017); outreach and public engagement: visualisation of an
 interactive system for testing and training manual tasks in astronauts (Space M-Mark)
 (Burridge, Stokes, Turk 2017); and Spidersole: prosthetics and augmentation (Bowen 2016).




                                                                                           Page 25
