Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   a) Organisational structure of UoA

UoA 18 Law (UoA) is an interdisciplinary academic community focused on world-leading impactful
research aligned with the University’s mission of transforming lives, locally and globally. The UoA
comprises 30 researchers (26.8 FTE), drawn from the disciplines of Law, Politics and the Centre
for Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy (CEPMLP). Programmes in Law (Dundee Law
School) and in Politics span undergraduate and postgraduate levels, including Scots Law, English
Law, and International Human Rights. CEPMLP focusses on interdisciplinary postgraduate
education and research. Our vibrant connected research culture is fuelled by a large doctoral
community, with 69 postgraduate researchers (PGR) registered in the UoA at 31 July 2020.

The UoA has two complementary research themes: Law for a Sustainable World and Law for a
Just World, with four cross-cutting initiatives comprising two new research groups; the
Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group and the Human Rights Research Group, and two
longstanding research centres, CEPMLP and the UNESCO Centre for Water Law, Policy and
Science (CWLPS). The Unit is situated within the School of Social Sciences (School), one of 10
academic Schools created through University restructuring in 2015 to enhance critical mass and
connectivity across disciplines (see REF5a). Within the School, the UoA has flourished as the
organising unit for interdisciplinary research on Law.

Overall research leadership for the UoA has been provided by Belcher throughout the current REF
cycle, while collaboration with wider University networks is provided by Roeben as Co-Director of
the Institute for Social Sciences Research (ISSR), a cross-School vehicle bringing together
cognate interests across four academic Schools; Social Sciences, Education & Social Work,
Business and Health Sciences. Figure 1 illustrates how the UoA’s themes and research groupings
are nested within those of the University and the ISSR.

   b) Research Strategy

Early in the REF2021 cycle, the UoA came together to express its research strategy:

  We are committed to disciplinary excellence and interdisciplinary research that will benefit
  society locally, nationally, and internationally. We aim to maintain originality and rigour in
  research within University and School environments that train and support researchers from
  PhD students to Research Leaders. We aim to sustain our research capacity through
  underlying disciplinary strategies that enhance legal research, and through good succession
  planning.




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1: Alignment of UoA 18 Research Themes, Groups and Centres within the University and
ISSR Thematic Context

The research strategy is implemented with the help of the UoA’s staffing strategy and its culture of
collegiality, in which senior staff mentor and support Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
Operational plans that include research objectives and activities are developed annually.

To enhance our disciplinary excellence and impactful interdisciplinary research, the UoA
encouraged and supported the formation of agile research groups with flexibility to respond to
changes in the research landscape and to strengthen our research centres, ensuring vitality and
sustainability. The UoA’s research environment extends well beyond the UoA with collaborations
across the University and across the sector. Interdisciplinary collaboration across the University is
enabled by the ISSR, including events and seed funding, a global scholar programme and annual
conferences with opportunities for staff and PhD students to present papers and posters. Wider
University collaboration is enabled around the University’s four interdisciplinary thematic priorities
and the platform of the Dundee Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum (DIIF), which facilitates
collaboration aligned to the research funding environment for staff across the University and with
external partners. The UoA aligns mainly with the theme of Promoting social change to enhance
diversity, justice, and socio-economic prosperity.

Exemplars of successful collaborations across and beyond the University include, in the Scottish
context, Ferguson co-authoring on Scots Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure and Evidence with
Strathclyde, Stirling and Aberdeen, respectively; and in UK terms, Reid publishing on Brexit and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Environmental Law with colleagues in York, Sheffield, Belfast, Cardiff and East Anglia. EU
Citizenship was examined by Minnerop and Roeben along with colleagues in Finland. Policing
and global security issues were considered by Hartmann in collaboration with colleagues in
Geography in Taking Surveillance Apart? Accountability and Legitimacy of Internet Surveillance
and Expanded Investigatory Powers (NordForsk), joint with Universities of Stirling, Edinburgh,
Glasgow, University of Uppsala, Police University College Finland, and Norwegian Police
University College. McEleavy’s Oak Foundation-funded research Evidencing Violation of
Children's Rights in Brazil was conducted in collaboration with colleagues in Geography, Education
and Social Work.

The success of the UoA’s strategic aim to benefit society can be seen in the three Impact Case
Studies (ICS) chosen for submission to REF2021, and in the many other examples of impact and
public engagement noted in this document. The case studies comprise one with a focus on
Scotland’s criminal procedure (Ferguson on Eyewitness Evidence). Her recommendations for
legislation were accepted and have impacted on how Police Scotland must collect eyewitness
evidence, contributing to Law for a Just World. Ross’ ICS traces the route from her research on
sustainability to the enactment of Wellbeing of Future Generations (Wales) Act 2015, contributing
to Law for a Just and Sustainable World. Subsequently, that model for drafting legislation aimed
towards achieving sustainable development (anywhere in the world) has been acknowledged by
the WHO as ground-breaking. The third ICS (Page, Reid) shows the UoA’s ability to respond to
the UK’s and Scotland’s immediate needs in the wake of the Brexit referendum result with
elements of the impact being in constitutional law and environmental law, contributing to Law for a
Just and Sustainable World, respectively.

   c) Organisation

To sustain our research capacity in line with the research strategy, the UoA has complementary
structural themes and dedicated research centres to focus on our collective strengths. Respectful
to Law’s traditions as a hybrid, multi-disciplinary subject, colleagues collaborate for specific
projects and conduct research as individuals. Our centres and research groups are:

  CEPMLP (Director, Cameron) is the oldest energy-centre in the UK. It is explicitly
  interdisciplinary and is postgraduate only. For nearly 40 years, it has been a teaching and
  research unit of the University, distinguished for legal and socio-economic research into the
  global energy landscape. Energy was a priority theme in the UoA’s REF2014 submission and,
  reflecting the global drive towards Net Zero, this has evolved into a focus on the global energy
  transition over the current assessment period. CEPMLP conducted a major review of its
  teaching and research that resulted in a reframing of its major strengths in energy,
  sustainability, risk management and governance of just transition processes. Examples of
  outputs are Roeben’s monograph Towards the European Energy Union and Bastida’s
  monograph on The Law and Governance of Mining and Minerals: A Global Perspective
  (CEPMLP achievements appear in more detail in sections 3 and 4 below).

  CWLPS (Director, Allan) is the UK’s only UNESCO category 2 centre, established in 2008
  under the auspices of UNESCO, UK, and Scottish Governments. The interdisciplinary centre
  captures a university-wide community of cognate researchers with shared interests focussed on
  UN Sustainable Development Goal 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation). Internationally, Allan’s
  collaborative work, supported by UK Aid, NERC and ESRC, examined for example vulnerability
  to climate change in river deltas in Ghana, India and Bangladesh resulting in evidence-based
  advice to the three governments. Nationally, Hendry’s work has supported the development

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and implementation of water policy and associated legislation, funded by the Scottish
  Government’s independent advisory body the Centre of Expertise for Waters (CREW).

These two centres are major contributors to the Law for a Sustainable World theme with some
crossover into the Law for a Just World theme.

  The Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group promotes innovative interdisciplinary research with
  strong links to arts and humanities using theories from sociology (Giddens’ work on comics and
  the Law), continental philosophy (Siliquini-Cinelli), and feminism (Belcher and Ferguson as
  part of the Scottish Feminist Judgments project), among others. Expertise spans the areas of
  business, comics, education, history, human geography, law, literature, politics, and social work.

  The Human Rights Research Group was formed following strategic investment in the
  recruitment of Human Rights specialists spanning multiple disciplines across the University
  including law, political science, geography, and social policy. Current UoA members are
  Droubi, Hartmann, Mills, Olcay and O’Brien, whilst Jones, Rigney and Waldorf departed for
  promotions in other institutions. The group meets for internal seminars, involving visiting
  speakers, and its members regularly provide advice and assist human rights NGOs,
  international courts and governments.

These two groups are major contributors to the Law for a Just World theme.

In addition to centre and group-based research activities, other research is individually-driven, as
can be seen in monographs on Constitutional Law (Page), Insolvency Law (Xie), and Ferguson’s
work on Scots Criminal Law. The Centre for Freedom of Information (CFI) was established in
collaboration with Scotland’s first Information Commissioner. It has been running an annual
conference for practitioners for five years. With the appointment of Whittaker as Director in
January 2020, CFI will strengthen its research presence as a cross-cutting centre over the next
REF period, building on the ESRC-funded project on access to environmental information led by
Reid, whilst maintaining its practitioner network.

   d) Impactful Research

Impact is integral to the UoA’s research along with stakeholder engagement throughout the
research lifecycle. The UoA has put in place structures and processes to enhance impact, which
include peer review of funding applications to ensure strong pathways are framed to ensure
outcomes are achieved. The School conducts an Annual Research Review (ARR, see section 2),
which includes impact and Public Engagement as an attribute of researcher excellence. Taken
together, peer review and ARR mean that impact is a key concern for every researcher. Impact
training was provided in two masterclasses, organised through ISSR along with access to financial
support for activities that enhance the impact of research. Impact awards were made to six
members of the UoA, facilitating Research Assistant time and travel funds to interact with
stakeholders. The UoA encourages and supports staff to engage with policy-makers as an
important path to impact on the Law (see section 4).

   e) Interdisciplinary Research

CEPMLP and CWLPS are the UoA’s longstanding interdisciplinary centres. In the current
assessment period, the School and ISSR have been important drivers for more interdisciplinary
work within the School and in the wider University. Collaborations with colleagues from geography

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and environmental science has expanded through joint PGR supervision, e.g., disability and
access to graduate work; socio-legal impacts of emerging pollutants, glacial melt and water law in
Peru; and urbanisation in Africa. The Human Rights Research Group evolved through
collaborative engagement with researchers and PGRs from politics and international relations. The
Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group was launched with funding from the School’s Strategic
Development Initiative and has attracted staff and PGRs from English, Social Work, Philosophy
and Law, along with external speakers from across the UK. These initiatives have allowed
researchers in Law to deepen interactions with a wider range of scholars to address
interdisciplinary research questions.

   f) Future Research Objectives

The aim over the next five years is, in continuation of the established research strategy, to
enhance the UoA’s position at the forefront of interdisciplinary and impactful research building on
its strengths as embodied in its current research centres and groups using our two themes to
frame these efforts. Law for a Sustainable World will address areas such as energy transitions,
water research, environment, and climate change. Law for a Just World will include the work of
the Human Rights Research Group and the Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group along with
the networks associated with these groups. Law for a Just World will also be advanced by the
strengthening of the CFI under its new Director (Whittaker).

   g) Research Quality and Integrity

Research integrity is central to all research conducted in the UoA, consistent with the University’s
values and congruent with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. All PGRs are required
to complete the University’s ‘Responsible and Ethical Practice in Research and Publication’ course
and staff are strongly encouraged to do so. The School has two joint Research Integrity Leads who
are responsible for promoting a culture of research integrity within the UoA and provide an
independent and impartial source of advice on the responsible conduct of research.

The UoA’s research operates within the University ethics framework. All research involving human
participants by staff and students is subject to ethical review, ensuring that all interviews, surveys
and observations are undertaken with full regard for ethical standards and informed consent.
Consistent with guidance from the University Research Ethics Committee (UREC), the School
Research Ethics Committee (a joint Committee with the Schools of Business and Humanities)
operates a risk-based approach to ethical review, that allows research methods with low ethical
risks to be approved by a discipline lead (Allan), but requires additional review of projects with
higher ethical risks.

   h) Open research environment

The UoA works within the University’s open research policy and follows the guidelines of the
Concordat on Open Research Data. All outputs are recorded open access in the University’s
Discovery Research Portal supported by the Library and Learning Centre (LLC). Staff participate in
LLC training. Compliance of research outputs with the open research policy is checked at the ARR,
with follow-up discussions with individual researchers, including the open access requirements of
external stakeholders, such as research funders, where necessary. Openness in making research
data available is facilitated by University mechanisms for depositing research data either with the
University or as required by individual research funders, observing where required GDPR
requirements.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

   a) Staffing and Recruitment Strategy

The UoA’s staffing strategy over the REF2021 period has been to grow capacity by attracting and
retaining excellent staff embedded in a research-led collaborative environment. Recruitment is
informed by our research strategy and the needs of teaching programmes. Throughout the current
assessment period, the UoA recruited exclusively to Teaching and Research (T&R) contracts. All
T&R posts are permanent. Research Assistants/Fellows (RAs) are fixed-term, research-only posts.

The core criterion for T&R posts is excellence in research, or potential in the case of early career
researchers. The UoA’s broad strategic aims take account of the wide range of teaching required
by Law’s undergraduate programmes in Scots Law and English Law. Whilst Law does not recruit to
narrow research topics, it seeks applicants offering research expertise in areas that are cognate
with those of the UoA to protect against fragmentation of the research effort and the isolation of
individual researchers.

Recruitment by CEPMLP has been focussed on the Energy Transition with Heffron (Professor)
adding expertise in Energy Justice, and Roeben (Professor) expertise in Energy and Public
International Law. The appointments of Mills (Professor, Politics) and O’Brien (Lecturer, Law) are
part of the effort to strengthen research in the area of Human Rights. The UoA recruitment policy
demands applicants to demonstrate their capability to collaborate, internally and externally, and to
engage closely with non-academic stakeholders and audiences. A willingness to explore innovative
areas, often with an interdisciplinary element, is valued and accompanied by a supportive follow-
though. For instance, Minnerop was supported, with funding from the School and a grant from the
Society of Legal Scholars, to organise an international conference on climate litigation in 2019, with
a high-profile list of speakers, and considerable media coverage (e.g. BBC Scotland).

New appointments have been made at all levels from RA to Chair. In 2019, the UoA won two of the
University “Baxter Fellows” as investment in capacity building of growth areas. Jueptner
(University of Dundee Doctorate) was appointed to grow expertise in private international law,
while O’Brien brought specialism in Business and Human Rights to complement Mills (Chair in
Human Rights) who joined in 2017 to grow international Human Rights research. Hartmann
(promoted to Reader in the period) strengthened links across the socio-legal spectrum into political
science through joint research seminars. Hwaidi, Olcay, Siliquini-Cinelli and Whittaker
(Lecturers) added to the UoA’s research expertise in the comparative approach (already used by
Belcher, Page and Xie). Siliquini-Cinelli and Giddens (Lecturers) reinvigorated the UoA’s use of
interdisciplinary and theoretical perspectives in legal research.

New staff are welcomed agilely into our research culture. Succession planning for those
approaching retirement is supported by senior staff tapering their time commitments, as
exemplified by Churchill’s retirement early in the current assessment period and Page’s retirement
at the end of the period. ECRs feature prominently in recent appointments ensuring balance
between long-standing experience and new talent coming through (Table 1). School research seed
funding was provided to ECRs to build their research portfolio, e.g. funds for sustaining Droubi’s
research on Investment in Latin America and for Giddens and Siliquini-Cinelli to establish the
Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 1: UoA 18 Category A staff profile by age
 AGE                                        HEADCOUNT %
 30-39                                      24
 40-49                                      24
 50-59                                      35
 OVER 60                                    17

Part of the UoA’s research community are post-doctoral researchers on full-time, grant-funded
contracts, who often have been retained in a permanent post at Dundee or other institutions. For
example, Nsoh, a post-doc on Reid’s AHRC project, left in April 2014 to a lectureship post
elsewhere, and Whittaker, a post-doc on Reid’s ESRC project, was appointed to a lectureship
(2019). Post-docs have access to all the benefits available to the research community, such as
mentoring, peer review of their writing, support to attend conferences, training and development
opportunities and careers advice to prepare them for their future careers. Currently, two Research
Fellows, Nalule and Paim, are working for the Extractives Hub (PI Cameron) and enjoy these
benefits.

   b) Researcher development

Consistent with the University’s strategy of enabling our people to flourish, the UoA supports staff
development using the processes of the University’s annual Objective Setting and Review
(OSaR), where all staff are enabled to review their achievements against the University’s values
and aspirations, and the Annual Research Review (ARR), which reviews research and impact
achievements, plans and resource needs of T&R staff, overseen by a Panel of senior colleagues
chaired by the School’s Associate Dean for Research (ADR).

Staff development starts with clear objective setting and a development plan during the Probation
period for new staff. Probationary T&R staff are mentored by experienced research-active
colleagues through structured conversations about where to publish, funding opportunities,
external engagement/impact and network-building. Early career staff are supported in their aims for
career progression by senior staff who are available for advice and guidance on expectations and
on the University promotion process. Advice is provided informally and formally as part of
feedback from the ARR and at the OSaR meeting.

All ECRs, as well as mid-career academics seeking support, are assigned a mentor. ECR staff can
be assigned two mentors, if they wish, with one being external to the University through the cross-
institutional Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring (TRAM) Scheme, which is now in its 14th
year.

These mechanisms are supplemented in the UoA with a set of informal and well-used supports.
For grant proposals, internal peer reviewing is a requirement. Staff are also encouraged to read
each other’s writing in draft form before it is submitted for publication, which is part of the UoA’s
culture that has helped staff ensure the quality of their published work. Staff research workshops,
where work is circulated beforehand, allow detailed and specific discussion and feedback, whether
it is on technical legal points, presentational issues or publication strategy.

All staff have access to a comprehensive Occupational and Professional Development (OPD)
programme mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and in line with the
University’s HR in Excellence with Research Award held since 2011 and the revised
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The University OPD offering is
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supplemented by targeted researcher training organised by the School, for instance impact
masterclasses and data management training provided by external experts. ISSR organises
research writing retreats, and the University offers opportunities to attend funder visits.

   c) Research Time Allocation and Study Leave

Through the University’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM), all T&R staff have a minimum of 30%
of their time allocated to research, which can be increased subject to the staff member’s type and
level of external funding. Staff are eligible to apply for a semester’s study leave (sabbatical) at the
rate of one for every six semesters served under University policy. The UoA retains the flexibility to
permit extra research time for specific projects, external engagement and professional placements
by creating flexibility through periodic teaching-free semesters. Examples include Shields (until
2018), granted a semester’s leave to undertake a Fulbright Scholarship at University of California
Berkley in 2017; Page, granted a semester’s leave to Australia in 2018 as part of his Leverhulme
project Sub-state Constitutionalism in Comparative Perspective; Siliquini-Cinelli, granted leave for
article writing at University of Surrey in 2019 and at Max Planck Institute in 2020, the latter
postponed by COVID-19. Those taking advantage of creating teaching light semesters to focus on
research included Hartmann, Liao and Heffron. Part-time staff are treated as equally eligible for
all forms of research leave and support, indeed Page’s leave was at a time, when he was working
part-time.

   d) Support for Exchanges with Government and Organisations

The University supports staff undertaking secondments and other opportunities to work in
collaboration with external organisations. UoA collaborations come in many forms, including
secondments and staff working on advisory groups or committees, for example, Shields spent
a semester on a KE Fellowship working two days per week for the Scottish Parliament Information
Centre (SPICe), briefing parliament. Belcher has held various positions as non-executive director
(always a time-limited, part-time role). Reid has a long-term (18 month) appointment as adviser to
the Environment, Climate Change and Land Reform Committee of the Scottish Parliament
(see section 4).

   e) Rewards and recognition for research and impact

Rewards for research and impact are realised through a mixture of formal rewards, such as career
progression (e.g. Hartmann promoted to Reader), or confidential merit awards. Within the UoA,
research and impact achievements are publicised and celebrated in various ways: in
congratulatory e-mails, at School and discipline meetings that open with a “good news” section,
and in authorised tweets and other publicity. Achieving impact can be the basis for being rated
“outstanding” in the ARR. The University has various prizes that reward research and impact, such
as the Stephen Fry Awards and Reid’s 2015 receipt of the College of Arts and Social Sciences
award for Public Engagement. The University’s outward-facing culture was recognised in 2020 with
the University receiving a Gold Engage Watermark awarded by the National Coordinating Centre
for Public Engagement.

   f) Research students (PGRs)

The pattern of PGR completions is shown in Table 2. The UoA has 64 completions over the
assessment period (equating to 63.5FTE including one shared supervision with another UoA) and,
currently, a further 69 undertaking their postgraduate research. There were no research-based

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
professional doctorates awarded in the assessment period, but from 2021 members of the UoA will
supervise dissertations on the University’s Professional Doctorate programme, led by the
University’s Doctoral Academy, established in 2019 to enhance the PGR student experience and
build a cohesive interdisciplinary community providing PGR and supervisor support.

In line with the Research Degrees Quality Code, all supervisors are trained and undergo periodic
refresher training. ISSR researcher development programmes, now institutionally coordinated by
the Doctoral Academy, bring PGRs together for training including a very well-attended annual
residential retreat. The School PhD Programme publicises OPD workshops. It provides
administrative support for the School’s Thesis Monitoring Committee meetings and Upgrade
panels. A £500 allowance per student per year is provided to be used for conference fees, travel
and research expenses. Each student attends a PhD seminar series. These series are organised
by academics and include student presentations and discussions. Examples of research topics
aligned to the theme of Law for a Just World include Women’s inheritance rights in Pakistan, The
Right to Trial within a Reasonable time in Saudi Arabia and England, and Can a Democratic
Country Take Steps to Legally Dissolve a Political Party? Whilst illustrative topics under the Law
for a Sustainable World theme include Sustainable use of water resources at large-scale mining
sites; Sustainable Shared use of Rails and ports in Sub-Saharan Africa; and Cooperative
Governance of Transboundary Waters and Ecosystems.

Table 2: PhD completions (2014-2020)

 Year       2014       2015       2016       2017       2018       2019       2020       Total
 PhDs       10         7.5        7          8          6          16         9          63.5

   g) Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

The UoA takes a holistic approach to Equality Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) in relation to all
protected characteristics. ED&I is promoted in the UoA through formal mechanisms overseen by
the University and the School. Within the UoA’s culture of collegiality, ED&I issues are discussed
openly, and the outcomes achieved by the UoA are shared. ED&I training is mandatory for all staff
and completion is monitored as part of the probation process. The School achieved the Athena
SWAN Bronze award (prepared and submitted at School level during the REF2021 period; led by
Hartmann). It provided the opportunity for more in-depth discussion of equality issues in relation to
promotion and generated data at School level. The School ran two workshops on promotion
specifically for female staff. It also runs a Female Staff Support Network that functioned
particularly well during the COVID-19 lockdown and continues to meet frequently online.

The School’s ED&I committee organises a programme of events on ED&I issues e.g. for Black
History Month, and its chair convenes the Female Staff Support Network where issues are aired
and shared, even if they cannot be resolved, and brought to wider attention, e.g. the extra
pressures of working from home alongside childcare reported to the University COVID-19
Research Working Group. The UoA demands gender neutral language in student work. Finally,
the promotion of ED&I as an important value of the UoA can be seen in its outcomes. The UoA’s
PhD students come from a large number of countries including many from Africa and Asia. The
UoA’s current T&R staff, RAs and RFs have their origins in Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
China, Denmark, England, Germany, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Russia, Scotland, Turkey,
Uganda, and the USA. The range of nationalities still contains a limited variety of ethnic
backgrounds.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The UoA is 13% BME, 80% white and 7% other, which is comparable to the UK’s ethnicity
population profile (13% BME; 87% white).

   h) Construction of the REF submission

Throughout the construction of the UoA’s REF submission the University’s Code of Practice was
the guide for all decision-making. The UoA minuted reminders to refer to the Code at the start of
every meeting and the chair ensured there was a copy on the desk for meetings held in person and
available electronically when meetings went on-line due to COVID-19. Due regard to ED&I
included a review of outcomes: Category A staff in the UoA are 38% female and 62% male.
Outputs are attributed 38% to females and 62% to males. When Category A and B staff are
included, the attribution of outputs is 34% to females and 66% to males. The age profile of UoA
staff is 48% under 50s and 52% over 50s. This can be compared to the age profile of output
attributions which is 43% under 50s and 57% over 50s. For the protected characteristics of
disability and race the data are very low numbers and for disability confidential self-identification
prohibits analysis.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   a) Research income

The UoA’s research income over the REF2021 period was £2,075,548, and it achieved additional
research-related awards of £816k, notably from DfID and the World Bank in relation to provision of
expertise on the global Extractives Industry. The strategy for generating research income is
enabled by the ARR process as a way of ensuring that all researchers continue to plan their
research so as to put time and energy into applying for funding for projects which require it. The
aim is to ensure that applications for funding are well-targeted as to the funder and scheme and of
the highest quality possible. Quality has been supported through the culture of sharing work-in-
progress for the purpose of making improvements based on constructive criticism. Another part of
the strategy is to support applications for smaller amounts of funding for research activities that
could form the basis for further, larger, bids in the future. Some types of UoA research require
significant funding (e.g. empirical research). In other areas of research, grant funding is less vital,
but time allocated either within the normal workload model or extra time in the shape of unfunded
research leave remains crucial (e.g. theoretical, critical and doctrinal research).

The ARR process includes a review of grant capture, whilst the UoA’s ARR Panel is able to take
account of the sort of research being undertaken and planned, and there is no mechanistic
requirement for every researcher to be pursuing funding every year. However, obtaining funding at
an appropriate level and for activities where it enhances the outcomes and impact, even for a
theorist, is encouraged in ARR feedback and its importance is emphasised in relation to career
progression. Some of the highest quality submitted outputs have benefited from funded projects in
this or earlier REF periods. The submitted Impact Case Study on Sustainable Development Law
had its origins in an AHRC project National Sustainabilities in Scotland and Wales held by Ross
jointly with Jones (Aberystwyth). This is an example of grant income (awarded in 2013) linking
directly with excellent outputs and significant impact.

The UoA encourages collaborative projects where appropriate, such as projects undertaken by the
UNESCO CWLPS with multiple partner organisations. Other major awards include Hartmann’s
Taking Surveillance Apart? (NordForsk, Dundee share £285k); and Allan’s DEltas, Vulnerability
and Climate Change; Migration and Adaptation (Ghana, India and Bangladesh, Dundee share

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
£269k); Liao’s Chinese National Oil Companies and the Economic Development of African Oil
Producers (DfID-ESRC, Dundee share £253k); and Bastida‘s Strategic Dialogue on Sustainable
Raw Materials (EU Horizon 2020, Dundee share £112k).

Most of the UoA’s successful large-scale collaborations have a longer history beginning in
cooperation on a smaller scale built in the context of wider networking. An example of sustained
networking that has supported success in obtaining research funding is Cameron’s bid to lead the
continuation and refocussing of the Extractives Hub funded as part of DfID’s Releasing the
Transformational Potential of Extractives for Economic Development (RTPEED) programme. The
£700k funding of phase 2 extends to 2022 for the maintenance of the Hub’s information and data
platform, and for research on extractives law and policy. The end-users are government
departments and NGOs working in Low-and Middle-Income Countries (LMIC), which for the Hub’s
subject area are mostly in Africa. The Hub has engaged with LMICs throughout the COVID-19
pandemic by webinars.

The UoA, therefore, supports small scale projects and network-building activities, which have the
potential to lead to larger projects and significant outputs and impact. Xie’s paper on corporate
rescue in the US, the UK and a possible way forward for China won first prize from more than 200
presented at the very high profile 8th Chinese Bankruptcy Law Conference organised by Renmin
Law School (ranked no 1 in the PR of China). She was supported by the UoA to travel to the
conference and on other trips to China where she engaged with judges and academics. Senior
colleagues often help junior colleagues to find suitable sources of funding, either internally or
external to the University. Giddens, Minnerop and Siliquini-Cinelli have all been awarded small
grants of this type.

Following Droubi’s appointment as a Lecturer, School funding supported him to organise two
international workshops in 2018 that sustained his Latin American network of researchers working
on international investments and ecological sustainability in Latin America. In 2019, Droubi,
Heffron and Ross were supported by the School and University to present their research at an
international conference of researchers and policy makers in Buenos Aires. Droubi and Heffron
were supported financially and logistically to extend the Buenos Aires trip to work with multiple
institutions in Brazil, Argentina, and Colombia. They strengthened their links with policy-makers
whilst also connecting Droubi’s work on international investment law in Latin America with
Heffron’s Just Transition network extending into Uruguay and the West Indies, with funding of
£60k from the UK Energy Research Centre Whole Systems Networking Fund. The interdisciplinary
momentum created, supported Heffron’s appointment to an EU Jean Monnet Chair for 2019-
2022 on the Just Transition to a Low-Carbon Economy (c. £54k).

The results of Reid’s AHRC-funded (£212k) project on The Privatisation of Biodiversity? (see
monograph with same title) completed in 2014, pointed to the potential of a policy based on
conservation covenants that is now being implemented in UK law. Reid’s next major project,
Uncovering the environment: the use of public access to environmental information (ESRC, £354k
2018 - 2020), considered the actual use of the public’s right of access to environmental information
in collaboration with Mendel (Geography) and Whittaker working with the Scottish Information
Commissioner. Hendry has continued to attract funding through the Scottish Government’s CREW
programme to understand better and guide legal frameworks for equitable and increasingly low
carbon solutions for public drinking water supply. Her research results were presented in various
formats, including policy briefing notes.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Brexit has generated the need for focussed research into many areas of Law. Researchers in the
UoA were supported to respond in a timely way to funding opportunities with very tight deadlines.
Familiarity and confidence in the workings of Dundee’s support systems were key to the UoA’s
successes. Page’s Brexit contribution has been as an expert adviser to the Scottish Government
on devolution and constitutional aspects of Brexit (see section 4). Shortly after his appointment at
Dundee, Roeben received a European Parliament grant for an academic workshop in May 2018
that brought together leading academics, practitioners, and UK politicians to follow up on his earlier
work on Associate Citizenship for UK nationals post-Brexit and Union citizenship in the post-Brexit
period. This support led to a number of outputs, co-authored with the research team that included
Minnerop. Reid’s work on Brexit and the Environment was funded by a collaborative ESRC grant
of £149k bringing together researchers from Sheffield, York, Cardiff, Queens Belfast and UEA to
look at Brexit and the Re-politicisation of UK Environmental Governance.

   b) Research Support Services

The support infrastructure for grant applications is provided by the University’s Research and
Innovation Services (RIS) and Research Finance Services (RFS), the School Research
Administrative Lead and School Finance Officer. Researchers are also supported by UoA’s culture
of sharing draft applications for internal peer review, and celebration/recognition for researchers
who pursue grant funding. Changes in organisational infrastructure since REF2014 have been
particularly beneficial to the UoA’s research income generating activities. The School and ISSR
facilitated many more opportunities for interdisciplinary discussions. It also facilitated a closer
relationship between the parts of the UoA, including the use of a single ARR panel that reviews
researchers in Law, CEPMLP and relevant staff in Politics. The follow-on establishment of ISSR as
an organisational vehicle for interdisciplinary research has supported Hartmann (work with Global
Scholar), Giddens and Siliquini-Cinelli (conference support) and Cameron (incubator grant for
mining and water research).

The School, Centres and University are continuing to invest in facilities and estates. Social spaces
have been created in various buildings, including a specific room for PGRs in the School, to
enhance cross-fertilisation of ideas. Laptops replaced desktops in staff offices allowing flexible
working (especially beneficial during COVID-19 lockdown). The recent refurbishment of the LLC
included the development of a number of fully equipped individual/group study spaces. The LLC
offers extended opening hours and one to one support (for example with literature searches),
provided online during COVID-19 restrictions.

The School provides financial support for collaborators to travel to meet in order to prepare funding
proposals, to attend conferences, to meet with practitioners and other end users, and to engage in
activities that are aimed towards enhancing impact, for instance travelling to give evidence to
Parliamentary/Assembly Committees in Scotland, Wales, UK and beyond.

   c) Operational Infrastructure

Across the School considerable attention is paid to assisting staff in obtaining external funding.
Staff have access to up-to-date information on funding opportunities via RESEARCHconnect and
specific training events are held on identifying sources of funding and writing grant applications.
Staff benefit from strong and close support from the RIS team and RFS, who assist staff in
matching projects to funding providers and schemes, advice on costings and assist in managing
any awards received. This provision is notable for its individualised provision. Upon arrival, Heffron
immediately obtained support, leading to his successful application for an EU Jean Monnet Chair

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(2019-2022). The School and the University require evidence that research grant proposals have
been peer reviewed. UoA researchers have been very successful in obtaining internal funding
awards through the School or ISSR for networking, travel to conferences, and impact activities.

   d) Addressing Equality Issues

The UoA supports staff to acquire research funding, or access other research-specific support by,
ensuring that all staff can access the range of events and services on offer. For example, part-time
staff are able to work flexibly, to enable them to attend external briefings taking place on fixed
dates outside their normal working patterns, and the UoA sets the timing of its own events to
accommodate, as far as possible, those of part-time staff and those with caring responsibilities.
The Law Library was consolidated into the main library building during the REF2021 period,
moving it from a location with shorter opening hours and access issues for some people with
disabilities to a fully accessible facility, while maintaining access to subject specialist librarians for
all.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The UoA’s collaborations and contributions to society include working with organisations and
governments. For example, Shields provided briefings for the Scottish Parliament as KE Fellow of
the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe). Belcher has held various positions as non-
executive director and is currently on the board of CILEx Regulation (based in Bedford) providing
expertise on directors and Corporate Governance. Page was appointed as Specialist Adviser to
the House of Commons Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee in
relation to its inquiry into Brexit and Devolution. He also holds an appointment on the Scottish
Parliament’s Standing Committee of Experts. Reid has a long-term (18 month) appointment as
adviser to the Environment, Climate Change and Land Reform Committee of the Scottish
Parliament. Hartmann has contributed to an amicus curiae brief to the Philippines Human
Rights Commission inquiry on how the world’s largest producers of fossil fuels contributed to
climate-related human rights violations on behalf of two groupings of National Human Rights
Institutions.

Staff work on advisory groups or committees, including: Ferguson has served on two JUSTICE
working parties and on both the Academic Group appointed by the Lord Bonomy, and The Bonomy
Committee. These bodies shape the future of Scots criminal law (see Ferguson’s impact case
study on Eyewitness Evidence). Hendry served on the (Scottish) Customer Forum, and the (Irish)
Expert Commission on Water. Reid has contributed to a large number of initiatives, including: A
report by the Roundtable on Environment and Climate Change (1 June 2018). Fiorini was selected
by the European Parliament to advise on International Private Law, Heffron and Minnerop acted
as expert reviewers for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cameron regularly
advises and trains officials in developing countries in energy law. Vinogradov sits on the
Compliance Committee of the UN Protocol on Water and Health.

Law for a Just World
In the REF2021 period, the UoA has supported individual members of staff who are in the early
stages of forming or growing collaborations with the potential to have strong and impactful futures,
e.g. the Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Group (Giddens and Siliquini-Cinelli), Droubi’s Latin
American International Investment Group and Heffron’s interdisciplinary Network for a Just Energy
Transition. Both are mid-career researchers, who have been supported by the School and the UoA
with a view to their long-term growth. It has also supported individuals in distinct, one-off,

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborations (e.g. Belcher and Ferguson were collaborators in the Scottish Feminist Judgments
Project – supported by holding one of the project’s “on tour” events in Dundee). Yet to establish a
feminist legal research “group”, Belcher and Ferguson have been supported in their feminist
research in the fields of Scots criminal law and commercial law, respectively. Belcher received
financial support to renew her international and interdisciplinary collaborative connection with
Masson (European Court of Justice, and ESSEC Business School, Paris) and to present at an
international interdisciplinary event for academics and practitioners working on legal innovations
(Paris, 2018). The UoA also encourages and supports staff in their external memberships,
networking and collaborations. As a relatively small UoA it is these external mechanisms that
provide and enhance connections to the relevant sub-specialty community for a number of
Dundee’s staff; for instance, Siliquini-Cinelli was supported with paid periods of research leave at
Surrey Centre for Law and Philosophy and his Max Planck Institute for European Legal History
Postdoctoral Fellowship. An example of the UoA’s involvement in long-term collaborations is Mills’
acting as vice-chair of the Academic Council on the United Nations System, a long-standing
international collaborative organisation of academics (all levels and across multiple disciplines),
diplomats, lawyers, NGO officers and governmental representatives.

Most of the UoA’s large grants are both collaborative and interdisciplinary. As an example,
Hartmann and O’Neill (Geography, PI) set up a collaboration including colleagues from the
Universities of Stirling, Edinburgh, and Glasgow, University of Uppsala, Police University College
Finland and Norwegian Police University College, winning €1.04 million (Dundee share of £285k)
for the project Taking surveillance apart? (NordForsk, 2017-20). The project has produced a
deeper understanding of legal provisions for the powers of intelligence and law enforcement
agencies to monitor online communications data, and how surveillance, data collection and
analysis is (or will be) regulated. It will discover citizens’ perceptions of surveillance and privacy to
identify any gap between citizens’ and authorities’ expectations that would need to be managed.
This fits with Hartmann’s other work on citizen’s perceptions of Human Rights Law and aligns with
the UoA theme of Law for a Just World.

Law for a Sustainable World
Heffron has been making major strides, advancing theory and practice and establishing networks
such as the Just Transition to a Low-Carbon Economy, supported through UKERC’s Whole
Systems Networking Fund (ESRC and EPSRC support). It has connected academics from across
the world (Monash in Australia; Michigan, Connecticut, & Vermont in the US; Tilburg in the
Netherlands; West Indies in Trinidad and Barbados; and Queen Mary London, St. Andrews,
Coventry and Dundee in the UK). The Network has held international conferences in Edinburgh
(2018) and Trinidad (2019) supported by the EU, the universities and major energy companies (for
example, Shell and BP). Heffron was then supported by RIS, RFO and colleagues in the UoA to
obtain EU funding in the form of a Jean Monnet Professorship. His insights from various disciplines
have been applied to finding new ways of achieving a Just Energy Transition for a sustainable
world.

Minnerop’s Climate Change Conference (see section 2) was supported by the UoA (drafting
funding bid), School (some extra funding) and ISSR (event management that achieved
considerable media coverage, including TV news broadcasts). Minnerop was also a visiting
researcher at a Max Planck Institute in 2018.

Another collaborative and interdisciplinary award was to Liao (Dundee lead) and Macatangay as
part of a DfID-ESRC research grant made jointly to Dundee and the Open University (Dundee
share £253k). The research investigated the strategies and governance arrangements pursued by

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Chinese national oil companies (NOCs) and their likely implications for economic development in
Africa. The involvement of official Chinese and African partners made impact more likely to
happen. Two workshops were held for specialists on China’s energy security studies in 2016;
Dundee (April) and Beijing (November) followed-up in Beijing in September 2018.

For the UoA, the main research users tend to be government policy-makers or NGOs that try to
shape the debate on issues and in turn influence policy-makers. UoA researchers have given
evidence to the Scottish Parliament (Hendry, Ross, Reid, and Page), Welsh Assembly (Page,
Reid and Ross), and Westminster Parliament (Page, Reid). Interactions with Government
departments include Brazil (Heffron and Droubi), Uruguay and Australia (Heffron) and China
(Liao and Macatangay), Kazakhstan (Vinogradov), Ireland (Hendry), Uganda, Nigeria and South
Africa (Cameron, Nalule). Cameron published ‘Oil, Gas, and Mining : A Sourcebook for
Understanding the Extractive Industries, supported by funding from the World Bank in 2017 on the
World Bank’s website. It has attracted 54,500 single downloads at time of writing. Work with
International Organisations includes Cameron and Roeben (International Energy Agency and
OPEC); Vinogradov (World Bank and UN Economic Commission for Europe); and Bastida
(European Commission - EU raw material policy).

   a) Wider contributions to the economy and society

The following are examples of impact achieved by the UoA that is not captured in the impact case
studies.

Law for a Just World
Hartmann’s research funded by the Max Sorensen Foundation and the Dreyer’s Trust, resulted in
a monograph published to coincide with the Danish chairmanship of the Council of Europe in
November 2017. The research was conducted against the existing background of a contentious
debate on Denmark’s continued membership of the European Convention on Human Rights. There
was a push to leave the Convention based on an argument that the rights appeared to benefit
“undeserving” groups such as prisoners. Hartmann’s research disproved earlier reports of strong
support for Denmark leaving the Convention by showing that 73% of the population support
continued membership. Other false or controversial assumptions were exposed, and the
monograph itself was cited several times in questions by MPs to the Danish Minister of Justice. In
addition, excerpts from the monograph have been published in highly reputed national newspapers
and Hartmann was interviewed several times by the Danish Broadcasting Corporation. A blog,
which was based on the research, led to intense online debate by world leading scholars. Amnesty
Denmark said the project had produced ‘Really good public information’.

Mills founded the Scottish Human Rights Defenders Fellowship funded by the Scottish
Government and the EU; a major new initiative aimed at supporting human rights defenders from
around the world by providing them a short period of respite and protection in Scotland while they
conduct research and interact with students, staff, civil society and government across Scotland.
Mills won the Outstanding Achievement Award (for a member of academic staff) at the Herald
Higher Education Awards ceremony in 2019 for the development of the Fellowship programme.

Law for a Sustainable World
Cameron was awarded £700k as PI of the Extractives Hub (2019 – 2022); a project of the UK
government to deliver research and capacity building for the benefit of developing countries so
they can better manage their extractive sectors at the time of the energy transition, contributing to
the achievement of UN Sustainable Development Goals. Implementation is being coordinated

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with DfID country offices and is facilitated by a network of Hub national champions in a dozen
countries in Africa, Eastern Mediterranean and Central Asia. The project extends an earlier project,
and in its latest incarnation has been refocussed to achieve wider research aims with the
employment of two research fellows.

   b) Indicators of wider influence

Members of the UoA are encouraged via the ARR process to become part of the wider influence of
the discipline.

Journal editorships held in the UoA are: Cameron and Roeben, general editors of Global Energy
Law and Policy; Droubi, General Editor, Perspectives to International Law; Mills, Editor, Global
Governance. Editorial Board memberships held are: Ferguson, Criminal Law Review, Juridical
Review; Giddens, Law and Humanities, International Journal of Semiotics and the Law; The
Comics Grid: Journal of Comics Scholarship; Heffron, International Energy Law Review,
Renewable Energy Law and Policy Review; Hendry, Journal of Environmental Law and
Management, Journal of Water Law; Mills, Journal of Human Rights; Reid, Scottish Planning and
Environmental Law; Journal of Environmental Law; Environmental Law and Management; Ross,
Environmental Law Review; Vinogradov, Journal of Water Law. Global Energy Law and
Sustainability was launched in 2020 with Heffron as Editor-in-Chief, Cameron and Bastida on the
editorial board and Liao editing country reports.

UoA staff on advisory boards and grant awarding committees are: Belcher, member and chair of
the SLS Research Activities Fund, member of a panel and then a board of the National Institute of
Health Research’s “Health Services and Delivery Research Programme” to 2015. Reid, member of
the advisory boards for an EU funded project (BENELEX) and for University College Cork’s Centre
for Environmental Law.

UoA staff have acted as referees for various funding bodies including: Belcher, UKRI Future
Leaders Fellowship (FLF); Ferguson, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, AHRC,
Leverhulme; Giddens, AHRC; Heffron, Austrian, Israeli and Mexican Research Councils; Hendry,
Scottish Universities Insight Institute (SUII), ESRC, NERC; McEleavy and Heffron, Research
Foundation Flanders (FWO), The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NOW);
McEleavy, Leverhulme; Reid, SUII applications.

Other indications of esteem include that Cameron is a Fellow, and Heffron a junior Fellow of the
Royal Society of Edinburgh. Cameron is research director of the Federation of European Energy
Law Associations. Hartmann was awarded a Fellowship at the Uppsala Forum for Democracy
Peace and Justice, Uppsala University. An article on Brexit by Reid won the Willoughby Prize 2016
for the best article in the Journal of Energy and Natural Resources Law. Law consistently ranks in
top 10 Law Schools in the UK and obtained Gold in the Teaching Excellence Framework 2017.
The research environment has enabled UoA members to collaborate, to work in interdisciplinary
ways, to research in ways that sustain and change the discipline and to connect with and have an
impact with policy makers and other end-users.




                                                                                           Page 16
