Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 4, Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 We are 39 (FTE=35) staff in the Department of Psychology, within the Faculty of Science and
 Technology at Lancaster University. Our research is conducted through four focused research
 groups: Infancy and Early Development, Language and Cognition, Perception and Action,
 and Social Processes. Since 2014, we have transformed the capacity and the quality of our
 research and impact activities. We have increased our Teaching and Research (T&R, Category
 A) staff by 40% (from 25 FTE in REF2014 to 35) with a commensurate increase in our PGR
 students (from 44 to 63 completions). We have more than doubled our research income (from
 £4.6M in REF2014 to £12.7M) placing us in the top 14% UoA4 groups for funding per-FTE. We
 have enhanced the academic impact of our work (number of top-10 cited publications in their
 fields increased by over 50% from 70 to 110, 19% of our publications, source: SciVal). We have
 developed 62 funded projects with stakeholders from charities, industry, education, health, and
 government bodies.

 1.2 Unit context and structure
 Our four research groups provide critical mass of expertise, and play a leading role in university-
 wide, national, and international research and impact networks (see Figure 1). This is attested to
 by our leadership and involvement in three ESRC research Centres (LuCiD, CASS, CREST),
 and through our impact on policy and practice as evidenced in our Impact Case studies with
 business (Sünram-Lea), government (Taylor), health, and education (Cain). At the heart of our
 research environment is a cooperative and interactive research culture that maximises sharing
 of skills and infrastructure resources, with a fundamental commitment to supporting career
 development. This is evidenced by future research leader grants and fellowships for Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs) across the research groups (e.g., Dunn, Hartley, Nuttall).

 Our four research groups are:

 Infancy and Early Development (Alcock, Bremner, Dunn, Hartley, Lewis, Parise, Reid,
 Westermann). This group utilises multi-method approaches (neurophysiological, behavioural,
 and computational) to investigate cognitive and social development from prenatal to school age,
 in typical and atypical populations. The group’s multi-method approach includes a strong
 commitment to training future research leaders in developmental research: Westermann leads
 the £1.05M Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarship Programme (DSP) in Interdisciplinary Research on
 Infant Development, training 21 PhD students. Innovation in methods resulted in Dunn and
 Reid’s (2017 Current Biology) discovery that pre-natal infants were sensitive to visual face-like
 stimuli projected through the uterine wall, a study that received >1 billion popular press readers
 worldwide. A highlight of our work on atypical development emerged from Hartley’s ESRC
 Future Leaders grant discovering that word learning mechanisms in children with autism were
 operational, but slower, than for typically developing children (2019 Cognition), work that is
 feeding into development of interventions to promote language development for children with
 autism.

 Language and Cognition (Beesley, Cain, Citron, Connell, Davies, Groen, Hurlstone, Lynott,
 Monaghan, Towse). The group investigates language at multiple levels from processing
 phonemes to advanced literacy throughout the lifespan, and cognitive processes relating to
 behavioural regulation, numeracy development, and embodied cognition. A central aim of the
 group is to examine variation and change of the individuals’ trajectory of learning and cognitive
 skills, alongside exploration of the rich representational variation that occurs within language
 structures. This perspective underlies Connell’s £1.6M EU ERC project, leading to Connell and
 Lynott’s (2019 Behavior Research Methods) discovery that individual words invoke multiple
 sensory experiences, and Cain’s (2017 Journal of Educational Psychology) finding that there are

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 predictable pressure point discontinuities in literacy development resulting from cognitive
 constraints, shown to affect reading even in later life by Davies (2017 Journal of Experimental
 Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition).

 Perception and Action (Braithwaite, Crawford, Lew, Linkenauger, May, Nuttall, Plack,
 Sünram-Lea, To, Vogt, Walker, Wang). The group’s work combines techniques in advanced
 human brain stimulation, psychophysiology, neurophysiology, neuroimaging, virtual reality
 methods, and computational modelling. This expertise in cutting-edge methods has resulted in
 discoveries including Linkenauger’s (2015 Journal of Experimental Psychology: General)
 finding that distortions of self-perception of size occur when comparing body parts but not when
 comparisons are to external objects, and Plack’s (2019 Trends in Hearing) combination of
 electrophysiological and behavioural methods to dissociate effects of ageing from those of noise
 exposure to understand adult hearing loss. Crawford’s work on neurodegeneration as co-
 director of the University’s Centre for Ageing Research, led to his (2016 Neuropsychologia) work
 on fractionation of symptomatology in early-onset Alzheimer’s Disease patients.

 Social Processes (Boyd, Conchie, Levine, McLatchie, Piazza, Power, Rakic, Taylor,
 Warmelink). This group works on the social psychology of pro-social and anti-social behaviour,
 moral and high-risk decision-making, and security and trust. The group draws on the novel
 application of technology and computational social science, analysing behavioural, linguistic and
 visual digital data from smartphones and other wearable devices, social media and other online
 repositories, CCTV and other visual data sources. Key contributions to knowledge include
 Power’s (2015 Journal of Applied Psychology) work on decision-making under uncertainty in
 emergency response to critical incidents, which led to her Margaret Mead Award for Social
 Sciences (2019). The group’s approach to big-data in social processes is illustrated by Boyd’s
 (2020 Nature Communications) work, which shows how emotional language use provides a
 window into psychological well-being, as well as enabling profiling of political and historical
 figures, and Levine’s (2019 American Psychologist) analysis of CCTV footage showing, across
 different countries, that people are likely to help those in distress in public places rather than be
 bystanders.




 Figure 1. Research groups with key research themes, research challenges, and their interaction
                with University and national/international research organisations.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fundamental to our research groups is their collaboration across disciplinary boundaries, each
 group playing key roles in three of Lancaster University’s interdisciplinary research
 organisations:
     Security Lancaster (co-founded by Taylor, links to Social Processes, Language and
        Cognition research groups), combining researchers in computer science, linguistics, and
        psychology to address the way that individuals, organisations and societies secure and
        protect themselves;
     The Centre for Ageing Research (co-directed by Crawford, links to Perception and
        Action, Language and Cognition), combining researchers across the human sciences
        (e.g., health, biology, psychology) with computer science and engineering to address
        regional, national, and international challenges around quality of life in ageing
        populations;
     The Data Science Institute (links to all four research groups), drawing together
        quantitative, health, and social sciences with arts and humanities researchers to address
        contemporary topics in data-driven research.

 Our research groups lead and/or contribute to three major ESRC Research Centres:
     The ESRC International Centre for Language and Communicative Development (LuCiD,
        2014-2024, total funding £9.5M, £2.3M to Lancaster, co-directed by Monaghan (2014-
        2019), and Westermann (2019-2024), co-investigators: Alcock, Cain, Parise, Reid,
        links to Infancy and Early Development, Language and Cognition) is a collaboration
        between Lancaster, Manchester and Liverpool Universities that leads interdisciplinary
        research in child communicative development across psychology, linguistics, computer
        science, and education, with regular seminars, research meetings, skill training
        workshops, and impact events (including NHS representatives, and National Literacy
        Trust and iCAN charities as external partners). LuCiD also includes Kidd (Australian
        National University), Christiansen (Cornell), Elman (UCSD, to 2019), Krajewski
        (Warsaw), Leonard (Purdue), McMurray (Iowa), Rowe (Harvard), Rowland (MPI
        Nijmegen), Stoll (Zurich), and Tomasello (MPI Leipzig) as international collaborators;
     The Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST, 2015-2023, total
        funding £11.8M, directed by Taylor, co-investigators: Boyd, Conchie, Power, and
        Warmelink, links to Social Processes, Language and Cognition) is a collaboration
        between the Universities of Lancaster, Bath, and Portsmouth that examines national
        security and regularly commissions research from expert groups across the UK. CREST
        connects psychology researchers across the UK by providing regular competitive bid
        funding opportunities, communications, and collaborations. CREST dovetails with
        Lancaster University’s EPSRC-NCSC Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber-Security;
     The Centre for Corpus Analysis in the Social Sciences (CASS, 2013-2023, total funding
        £3.8M, co-investigator Cain, links to Language and Cognition) applies corpus analysis
        techniques across the social sciences. CASS organises regular meetings, workshops,
        and training events for collaborative research.

 1.3 Research and impact strategy
 Over the REF period, our strategy for driving forward our capacity for internationally-leading
 research and impact was structured around four pillars:

 1.3.1 Extend capacity for highest-quality research in key areas of strength
 We have accomplished this through the following strategically-driven actions:
      We restructured from two to four research groups. This gave us greater focus and
        visibility for our areas of research strength, allowing us to expand staff but maintain an
        optimal group size for maximising communication and interactivity;
      When increasing our T&R staffing, we sought appointments that maintained balance
        among the research groups, expanding expertise in novel, complementary skills primarily
        through the appointment of ECR staff (9 current staff joined us in their first T&R post
        since 2014). We also ensured groups contained senior leadership to support and mentor
        ECRs;


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Our appointment strategy focused on T&R posts, rather than teaching-only positions, to
        maximise our research capacity. We are sector-leading in our high proportion of T&R
        staff (see Section 2);
       We supported the development of large-scale funded research initiatives through our
        research groups’ coherence and vision, supported by University Research Support
        services. Consequently, success in large-scale interdisciplinary research programmes
        has increased (i.e., three ESRC Centres, the Leverhulme DSP, and several EU ERC and
        ITN projects, see Figure 1, and Section 3). Our research income (see Section 3) and
        quantity and academic impact of our papers have more than doubled (see Section 4).

 1.3.2 Expand our use of cutting-edge methods
 We have focused on developing cutting-edge techniques that are sustainable in the long-term
 within a medium-sized Department. In the REF period, we substantially improved our facilities
 infrastructure through the following initiatives:
      Our new T&R posts consolidated our core expertise and expanded the range of methods
         we utilise across all four research groups, e.g., Braithwaite (tDCS), Boyd, Levine,
         Wang (large scale behavioural analysis), Dunn (4D ultrasound), Groen (EEG), May
         (neuron-level computational neuroscience), and Nuttall (TMS);
      We integrated and extended our research facilities (see Section 3). We have new,
         bespoke facilities for psychological research in a dedicated two-storey research building
         containing infrastructure for integrated multi-method studies (see Section 3);
      We implemented an inclusive approach to research skills and facilities for all researchers
         at every career stage. All our labs are accessible to any trained researchers to ensure
         maximal use of facilities according to need.

 As a consequence of this expansion in methods, 72% of our publications link psychology with
 multiple disciplines (see Figure 2), we have breadth in our grant success with 84% of all T&R
 staff, and 93% of ECRs obtaining funding (see Section 2), and access to a wide range of
 grant funding sources – 213 projects from 63 different funders (see Section 3, and Figure 4).




          Figure 2. Our publication profile: Percentages of papers by primary discipline.

 1.3.3 Expand our PGR student population




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support research growth, expand our impact, and sustain the discipline by training future
 research leaders, we expanded our PGR numbers by 43% from 44 in REF2014 to 63
 completions. We achieved this by:
     Maintaining our current successful routes for funding, by training staff in supporting
        ESRC PhD applications. We obtained 11 studentships from our usual studentship
        pathway, the ESRC North West Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership
        (NWSSDTP);
     Focusing on diversifying our portfolio of funders for research studentships by supporting
        staff to apply for non-traditional forms of funding. We did this through workshop training
        and networking opportunity events with external bodies. We obtained studentships
        funded by DSTL, NHS, and industry partners, and co-funding for 3 ESRC/EPSRC case
        studentships;
     Prioritising applications to large centre grants with associated studentships, and doctoral
        training programmes. We participate in 3 EU ITNs (3 studentships), 11 studentships are
        associated with the ESRC research Centres, and 21 studentships within the Leverhulme
        DSP;
     Investing a large proportion of our QR-sourced income by creating 20 studentships;
     Retaining and supporting PGR students with bespoke training, involvement in all aspects
        of the department’s functioning, and regular monitoring for academic and pastoral
        support (see Section 2). Consequently, 100% of our PGR students complete on time
        (see Section 2).

 1.3.4 Increase engagement with stakeholders
 Each research group is committed to formalise involvement of stakeholders in research. This is
 achieved through the Department’s Impact Officer, who identifies new opportunities for impact,
 and the Faculty Impact Manager who facilitates stakeholder collaborations, including business
 engagement partners operating in the Faculty and in the University’s £41M Health Innovation
 Campus (see Section 4 for more details).

 We have achieved increased engagement through:
     Strategic appointments that have developed new links with industry partners through our
       use of language analysis (Boyd), Department for Transport through the uses of CCTV
       data (Levine), and the emergency services through work on decision-inertia (Power);
     Using the established networks in the University interdisciplinary research organisations,
       and the ESRC research Centres (see Section 4);
     Developing new networks of researchers through business engagement partners
       operating in the Faculty of Science and Technology and the Health Innovation Campus.
       For example, the EPSRC funded Security, Privacy, Identity and Trust Engagement
       NetworkPlus (SPRITE+ 2019-2023, total funding £1.4M, co-directed by Conchie, co-
       investigators: Levine, Taylor, Towse) links Lancaster, Imperial, Manchester, Queens
       Belfast, Southampton and Hanyang Universities and multiple stakeholders (see Section
       4) to identify key national and international priorities for interdisciplinary research in
       digital security and privacy.

 As a consequence, we have received funding with stakeholders for 28 charity projects, 14
 industry projects, and 20 local and national government and NHS projects.

 1.4 Future research and impact strategy
 Each of our four research groups is taking on a central research and impact challenge to
 address over the next five years (see Figure 1):
      Infancy and Early Development addresses dynamics in development, exploiting our
        recent advances in pre-natal behavioural studies to determine how interactions between
        social and cognitive development prior to birth extend throughout childhood;
      Language and Cognition builds on our examination of cognitive and behavioural
        variation in language learners and language systems to determine how best to support
        individual language development;


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Perception and Action extends our portfolio of work on understanding and coping with
        changes in auditory and visual perceptual processing associated with ageing and
        neurodegeneration, addressing how we can improve quality of life for older people;
       Social Processes examines how we ensure that emerging technologies (for
        communication, surveillance, automation, leisure, and health) provide benefits within a
        digital society.

 In spite of the recent Covid-19 pandemic, our community has remained active and resilient and
 we are confident that we can achieve our goals. We will meet each challenge by further
 enhancing the quality, range, and interdisciplinarity of our work. Our strategy incorporates eight
 aims, five addressing our approach to research, and three addressing impact generation.

 1.4.1 Theory-driven interdisciplinary research
 We will take on these challenges by developing our theory-driven approach to the social and
 cognitive sciences, harnessing innovations in availability and analysis of large-scale, multi-
 source data, coupled with laboratory-based behavioural and neuroscientific studies. We will use
 our embedded interdisciplinary collaborations and increase our use of new technologies and
 data analysis techniques. We envisage the challenges of the Infancy and Early Development
 and Language and Cognition groups to coordinate closely with LuCiD, CASS, and the Data
 Science Institute, Perception and Action to work with the Centre for Ageing Research and the
 University’s Health Innovation Campus initiative (see 1.4.8 below), and the Social Processes
 group to work with CREST, Security Lancaster, the SPRITE+ network, and the Data Science
 Institute.

 1.4.2 Transitioning Centres into sustainable long-term centres of national excellence
 The three ESRC Centres to which we contribute are fundamental to meeting our research
 challenges. These Centres are now in continued periods of funding. The momentum of research
 and impact of these Centres will be advanced by pursuing joint-funded projects with our partners
 (see Sections 3 and 4 for examples of current activities); ensuring our facilities are future-
 proofed to enable continued work with stakeholders (e.g., £1.4M investment in secure data
 science infrastructure, Section 1.4.7 below); and leading networking and dissemination events
 that draw researchers and non-academics together to highlight research priorities across a
 variety of constituencies (see Section 4 for examples of outreach events organised).

 1.4.3 Being at the vanguard of open science and research integrity
 In January 2017, we launched the first psychology open science group in the UK (PROSPR),
 now part of the recently formed UK Reproducibility Network and the network of UK Open
 Science Working Groups. PROSPR aligned us with open, reproducible scientific practices, and
 we regularly contribute to large-scale studies and multi-lab replications (see Section 4 for more
 details of our open science contributions).

 We will continue to lead open science practice and research integrity, embedding this across
 multiple disciplines through our collaborative networks. We will accomplish this by advocating
 open science into the University’s ethical approval process, extending our regular Departmental
 open science meetings to University-wide workshops, and increasing our participation in
 replication and multi-lab data collection studies. We aim to achieve 100% compliance with open
 science practices within the next 5 years.

 1.4.4 Developing people
 Nine of our current staff joined us since 2013 for their first T&R post. A key strategic aim is to
 provide the support and structures that will enable these ECRs to fulfil their potential for world-
 leading research. We will accomplish this through our system of mentorship that supports
 individual development needs, and research group membership that includes ECRs into calls for
 funding and shares skills in our collaborative, open culture. See Section 2 for details of our staff
 development and support strategy and mechanisms.

 1.4.5 Developing resources and infrastructure

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will ensure our cutting-edge research facilities are continuously updated, with long-term
 commitments by the University to maintain our current bespoke research building and
 associated space. Our culture of resource sharing and skills training will maximise utilisation and
 development of our facilities (see Section 3). We are aligned with University infrastructure
 initiatives such as the Health Innovation Campus development, which involves the Centre for
 Ageing Research, ensuring progress for our interdisciplinary collaborations with health sciences.

 Our future impact strategy will ensure that our work has maximum transfer to end-users. In
 addition to our ongoing activity, we will:

 1.4.6 Increase opportunities for co-development of research with stakeholders
 We will build on our previous success through applications to impact acceleration accounts,
 business consultancy roles, CASE studentships, placements, and secondments (e.g., CREST’s
 Research-to-Practice fellows, see Section 4), to extend our profile of joint-funded research.

 1.4.7 Developing infrastructure
 We will develop our facilities to ensure that we meet stringent requirements for collaborations
 with industry and government bodies, such as CREST’s £1.4M funding for secure data science
 infrastructure to meet industry and government standards.

 1.4.8 Contributing to health, education and wellbeing in the North West
 We will actively participate in the strategy boards for the University’s £41M Health Innovation
 Campus and the proposed £110M Eden Project North. These initiatives will provide access to a
 broader network of stakeholders for collaborative research and community dissemination (see
 Section 4).
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our strategy for people in the Department is to appoint, support, and develop staff to reach
 excellence in all areas of their academic service. We focused on recruiting a diverse range of
 world-leading researchers primarily in early career stages (70% of appointments were ECRs), to
 consolidate and extend our research groups’ capacity. We coupled this with staff development to
 retain staff and support promotions to senior roles.

 In this REF period, our 40% staff expansion has been underpinned by strategies enhancing
 equality and diversity. We have made improvements to gender balance by role, increased
 proportion of BAME T&R staff (see Figure 3), and maintained our proportion of staff with a
 declared disability at 8% of staff (7% in 2013). The age profile of our staff has changed
 substantially, with 42% of staff under 40 years (14% in 2013).




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 3. Percentage of staff by academic role by gender and ethnicity (of those who declared
                                    ethnicity) in 2013 and 2020.

 Our staffing strategy is dedicated to ensuring that staff are supported at all stages of their career,
 with a particular focus on ECRs, whilst also ensuring equality, diversity, and inclusion in all our
 practices. During this REF period, we have been successful in ensuring ECRs develop their own
 independent and integrated research agendas (93% of ECRs have gained funding) and
 constructing successful promotion cases (100% success for ECRs).

 We have improved the balance of early career and senior staff largely through internal
 promotions (24 successful T&R promotions) which also improved our gender balance across
 roles (see Figure 3), with 54% of promotions for female staff. Succession planning is integrated
 into our Department structures, with all senior roles supported by a shadowing position.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An important aspect of our culture is that most staff are engaged in research and teaching, as
 mutually inspiring activities. 92% of our teaching staff are on T&R contracts (compared to 76%
 across the sector, 71% in Russell Group). Staff are only employed on teaching-only contracts as
 an unavoidable exception (e.g., to cover short-term changes in staff numbers due to temporary
 reduction in FTE or parental leave). Staff appointed to teaching-only contracts are supported via
 mentoring and research collaborations to achieve positions including research, and 100% of our
 previous fixed-term teaching-only staff have progressed to T&R or academic research-only
 posts.

 2.2 Staff development

 2.2.1 Staff support mechanisms
 Our success is underwritten by multiple support mechanisms designed to develop staff at all
 levels of career, from postgraduate to professor. Each staff member (T&R and research only
 staff) is assigned three senior members of staff to support them: a line manager, a research
 group lead, and a mentor.

 Line management. The Head of Department has oversight and overall responsibility for staff in
 the Department. Work is allocated according to a transparent workload model, to which all staff
 have access. To ensure that each member of staff has detailed attention to her or his needs and
 career development, line management is delegated to senior staff who manage approximately 8
 staff each, and who meet regularly as the Department’s Academic Development Group to
 provide oversight of training and support, workload allocations, and promotions. Research only
 staff are line managed by the Principal Investigator on their grant. Line managers conduct the
 annual performance development review (PDR) with staff, develop promotion cases, and ensure
 that staff are supported in all their activities. The PDR is a cooperative framework by which
 achievements are recognised, short- and long-term goals and barriers to achieve potential are
 discussed, and training support needs identified. Central to PDRs is attention to the University
 promotion criteria and identification of roles that permit demonstration of leadership. The PDR is
 followed up after 6 months to ensure that it is an active rather than merely a benchmarking
 process. 100% of staff complete the PDR, 85% report it as useful (42% in 2014), and 96% report
 agreement of clear objectives resulting from the PDR (65% in 2014).

 Research group leadership. Research leadership is separated from line management to ensure
 a focus on support for research and impact of each staff member. Research groups provide a
 forum for discussion, elaboration, and tuning of research papers, grant applications, and impact
 plans. A consequence of this dedicated research support for staff has resulted in 84% of T&R
 staff gaining funding since 2013, diversifying our range of funders from 23 in REF2014 to 63 in
 the current REF period (see Section 3).

 Mentorship. Each member of staff is appointed a mentor during their probationary period (either
 within or outside the Department), for an additional perspective on development plans,
 discussion of potential barriers, and support for well-being. Additional mentoring is available to
 staff in a University-wide scheme to support leadership skill development, and management of
 career transitions, such as returning from family-related leave.

 Evidence of the success of these support mechanisms are the 24 successful promotions (89%
 of cases) in the REF period (see Figure 4).

 2.2.2 Early career staff support
 For new appointments, several mechanisms support effective establishment of research and
 impact activities:
      We ensure that all staff arriving in the Department are provided with the laboratory
        facilities needed to conduct the very best research in their specialism (see Section 3).
        During the REF period, £212K was dedicated to facilities for new staff;
      New T&R appointments are given additional time to support the establishment of their
        research programme at Lancaster (time dedicated to research activities: year 1 60%,

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        year 2 50%, year 3 40%), resulting in all ECRs applying for research funding (with 93%
        successful);
       Duties given to ECR staff are overseen by mentor, research group lead, and line
        manager. Additional support for goals are identified early in regular meetings and via
        biannual progress reports;
       ECRs are prioritised in terms of provision of PhD studentships (86% of our ECRs
        supervise PhD student(s)). ECRs receive a larger annual stipend from the Department
        than other staff to support participant payment and conference attendance;
       ECRs are incrementally provided with positions of responsibility so that they can develop
        toward eventual leadership roles. For complex roles (e.g., directors of the Department’s
        committees), positions are initially in a shadowing role so that effective guidance is
        provided;
       ECRs are represented on all Department committees, and we host dedicated discussion
        and training events for ECRs (e.g., recent bespoke events on fellowship application and
        grant writing, and developing impact from research).

 For our 68 research staff appointments on grants, we have dedicated policies in accordance with
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. All research staff (excepting
 those appointed for temporary cover of absences) are now appointed on indefinite (rather than
 fixed-term) contracts to ensure equal employment rights for all staff, comprising 82% of our
 current research-only staff. We regularly appraise and regrade staff roles using HERA job-
 evaluation criteria. Research staff have full access to all University training courses, as well as
 dedicated research staff events for grant writing, paper writing, and career development.
 Research staff may attend all academic staff meetings and events, and are represented on all
 Department committees. In addition to line manager and mentor, research staff can consult the
 Head of Department over any issues relating to management.

 2.2.3 Resource provision
 Research facilities and resources for all staff are regularly appraised to ensure that all staff have
 the environment they require to conduct excellent research and develop impact activities, from
 equipment and standardised tests, to space and testing resources. In addition to facilities
 provided by grants, staff contribute bids for new facilities on an annual basis to Faculty funds,
 and for pump-priming funds for research and impact on a 3-monthly basis.

 2.2.4 Investment and recognition for research and impact
 All T&R staff are allocated a minimum 30% of their time in workload for research and impact
 activities. Additional time is then provided for funded research activities, and through investment
 in staff developing strategically valuable research or impact projects. Additional time is allocated
 to those with identified impact cases, to develop, refine and collect supportive evidence.

 The University offers Academic Research and Education Leave (AREL, i.e., sabbaticals) to
 academic staff on indefinite contracts on a revolving basis. In the REF period, 20 staff have
 taken AREL averaging 12 months duration. We use AREL to support development of large
 research initiatives, and transitioning ECRs to independent research programmes. We provide
 cover to enable reduced teaching and administrative loads for staff returning after family-related
 leave. For instance, research leave has directly resulted in success for Connell’s £1.6M ERC
 grant, Cain’s involvement as a Principal Investigator in the $10M continuation of the NIH
 Language and Reading Research Consortium longitudinal study, and Westermann’s £1.05M
 Leverhulme DSP.

 Timetabling of teaching and administrative duties is organised as far as possible to provide
 space in the year for staff to focus on research and impact, and line managers respond flexibly
 to the individual needs and wishes of staff in terms of preserving blocks for research and impact
 time.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University recognises research and impact activities in promotion criteria and internal staff
 awards, and contributions in these areas have supported all successful promotion cases from
 our staff during the REF period.

 2.2.5 A culture of support
 A culture of staff wellbeing and development applies to all staff in the Department. In reflection of
 outstanding performance, our professional services teams have received recognition from
 Faculty Awards: infancy and child development lab administrator (2018), student employability
 team (2018), recruitment administrator (2018); and one of our technicians won the BPS
 Technical Support in Psychological Research Award (2018).

 2.3 Training and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR) students
 During the REF period, 63 PhD students have completed, with a further 54 in progress. Our
 success in supporting 100% of our PGR students to complete on-time (within 4 years FTE)
 was achieved through a range of support and monitoring mechanisms, but also by ensuring that
 PGR students are fully integrated into the Department in all meetings and processes, in
 recognition of their fundamental importance in enriching every aspect of Departmental life.

 Our training resulted in success in academic and professional progression for our PGRs: 71%
 went on to academic posts, 14% industry positions, 5% higher education professional positions,
 3% further training, 1% retirement, and 5% unknown.

 2.3.1 Support mechanisms
 The Department provides support for PGR students in terms of annual allowances for
 conferences/research/professional development, full access to research facilities, use of the
 Department’s participant pool, and access to our school and preschool databases for
 developmental projects. Two dedicated professional services staff advise on supervision,
 training, and viva arrangements. All PGR students are supported by a supervision team
 comprising at least two supervisors, and are also allocated a mentor (outside their supervisory
 team), providing support on broader academic, development, and well-being issues.

 All students have personal office space, and are actively encouraged to attend social and
 research events and to input into all the Department’s committees. Our PGR community is
 active, organising an annual research conference, with talks, posters, and invited keynotes. Our
 PGR students are active members of the PROSPR open science group, and coordinate a
 fortnightly Departmental open science reading group (ReproducibiliTea), maintaining regular
 lively research discussions among staff and students.

 2.3.2 Training in impact
 The training programmes and networking opportunities organised by our £1.05M Leverhulme
 DSP and the NWSSDTP, the largest ESRC doctoral training partnership in England, are open to
 all our PGR students, and additional Department and Research Centre sessions dedicated to
 engagement, science communication, and stakeholder networking are made available to all our
 PGR students.

 2.3.3 Continuing professional development
 Training and development needs of PGR students are formally appraised every 6 months.
 During their studies, 53 (65%) PGR students have so far passed a Higher Education Academy
 accredited teaching qualification, as well as availing of ECRs training events, faculty and cross-
 faculty training provision (e.g., from training in long discursive argumentation in Faculty of Arts
 and Social Sciences, to mentor training in Faculty of Science and Technology). We also provide
 bespoke training events for students and staff, including training in open science approaches,
 advanced statistical analysis, and new methods (e.g., ERP, fNIRS) (see Section 4).

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are the cornerstone of our Department’s open culture, with
 mechanisms built into all Department committees and strategies, corresponding with the

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s EDI plan. The University is a Disability Confident Committed employer (level 1) and
 a member of the Stonewall Global Diversity Champions programme, and the University will sign
 up to the Race Equality Charter in April 2021. The Department holds the Athena SWAN bronze
 award.

 We have an EDI committee which oversees our Department EDI strategies and supports our
 Athena SWAN applications and appraisals. This committee regularly reviews career
 development policies, promotion case development, appointment strategy, and Department
 committees’ membership to ensure equality of opportunity and recognition of diversity. All staff
 attend EDI awareness training within three months of appointment, which is mandatorily
 refreshed every 3 years; 97% of staff agree they are satisfied with level of awareness of diversity
 issues (88% in 2014).

 All recruitment panels are gender balanced and all members of recruitment panels attend EDI
 training. We support job shares and flexible working and state this in our job adverts. In terms of
 T&R appointments by gender, during the REF period, 62% of applicants identified as female
 (from 60% of interviewees). Of our PGR students, 76% identified as female (appointed from 70%
 female applicants), 22% identified with BAME ethnicity, and 13% reported having a disability.
 30% of our PGRs reported being first generation university attendees.

 We encourage flexible working practices for all staff and research students to promote well-
 being. 24% of our T&R staff have opted for <100% contracts at the REF census date (33% of
 these were female). Departmental committees are scheduled between 10am-4pm to ensure staff
 with caring responsibilities are included, and we initiated a policy that Department business
 emails are sent between 7am and 7pm on working days (now adopted across several Faculties
 at Lancaster). For weekend work (e.g., campus visit days), caring responsibilities of staff are
 resourced, and for our most recently hosted international conference (Embodied and Situated
 Language Processing) the University funded childcare for delegates.

 We ensure that staff are supported prior to, during, and following family-related leave. 10 T&R
 staff and 4 PGR students have taken family-related leave during the REF period. Prior to family-
 related leave, a management plan for research programmes is conducted with the line manager.
 During and after family-related leave, the University funds continuity of research by covering
 teaching and administrative duties. Staff are encouraged to use “keeping-in-touch” days to
 ensure smooth continuation of research and impact activities. Following family-related leave,
 administrative and teaching loads are reduced by 10-20%. These policies have resulted in
 100% of family-related leave T&R staff returning to work, and 100% successful promotion
 cases for these staff.

 During the REF period we have improved our gender balance (see Figure 3). Our increasing
 seniority of staffing was largely achieved through targeted career development for female
 colleagues, from a staff comprising 39% female, 57% of Psychology staff attending University
 training courses during the REF period were female, 46% of promotion cases were from female
 staff, and all promotion cases for staff returning following family-related leave were successful (3
 female and 1 male).

 Further commitment to EDI is demonstrated by our use of a neutral algorithm for our final output
 selection. However, we recognise that continued progress is needed to address EDI with respect
 to training and promotions. To this end, we are remodelling our EDI committee to provide
 accountable stewardship for all protected characteristics of individuals.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our grant income has increased by 176% compared to the previous REF period (£12.7M
 compared to £4.6M). Despite our focus on psychological research, rather than neuroscience and
 psychiatry which typically attract larger grant funding sources, our income per FTE (£58K/year

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by 2019, up from £31K in 2013) places us in the top 14% of UoA4 by 2019 (compared to top
 25% in 2013, HESA data).

 Our strategy during the REF period for increasing research income has been to:

 3.1.1 Utilise QR funding to support internationally leading research in large-scale projects
 Over £5M of QR funding was assigned to our unit. We used this to improve research facilities,
 pump-prime the foundations of larger-scale projects particularly for ECRs, fund multiple PhD
 studentships, and to assign institutional contributions to large-scale funding programmes, to
 increase our capacity for large-scale integrated research and training programmes. These
 investments included £0.8M commitment to the Leverhulme DSP to fund an additional 5 PhD
 studentships and support lab management, and over £2.4M contribution to fund researchers,
 PhD studentships and administrative support for the three ESRC Research Centres.
 Consequently, we have been successful in securing initial and continued funding for these
 ESRC Centres.




                           Figure 4. Research funding by type of funder.

 3.1.2 Diversify our portfolio of funding sources, to provide greater opportunity and stability for
 funding income
 We work actively with our non-academic partners to co-develop research with impact, supported
 by pump-priming funds, impact acceleration awards, and HEIF funding. We have numerous
 collaborative programmes of work with 3rd sector, industry, and government. Consequently, we
 have received funding for 213 projects from 63 different external sources, including UKRI,
 industry, charities, and local and national government agencies (see Figure 4).

 3.1.3 Support all T&R staff to develop active, funded research programmes
 Our research groups encourage and support small-scale funding to demonstrate project
 leadership skills prior to developing large-scale applications. Of our ECRs, all have applied for
 funding with 93% success, including several UKRI grants and prestigious fellowships (e.g.,
 Dunn’s Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellowship, Hartley’s ESRC Future Research
 Leaders Fellowship, and Nuttall’s BBSRC research grant).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.1 Overview of research facilities
 We conduct research in two co-located facilities. The Whewell Building is a two-storey building
 entirely dedicated to psychological research (Figure 5). The 365m2 ground floor houses a world-
 leading infancy and child research facility. An additional 390m2 has been added in the REF
 period to house expansion of laboratory facilities for adult testing, including facilities for elderly
 participants. We also have sixteen dedicated labs co-located with staff offices across two storeys
 of the adjacent Fylde College building (total 324m2) and a further 32m2 suite of auditory booths
 in an additional building.




                     Figure 5. The Whewell Building for psychological research.

 The infancy and early child development facility contains a suite of labs housing multiple Tobii
 eye trackers (2 stationary, several mobile), two additional head-mounted eye trackers dedicated
 to child/caregiver interactions (Positive Science units), four 128-channel EEG systems (EGI), an
 observation room with cameras, a Biopac MP150 system for motion capture, an 8-source 12-
 detector functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) system (see Figure 6). There is a large
 welcome area for parents and their children, kitchen facilities, as well as offices for researchers
 and the lab administrator. To facilitate research and impact of the infancy and early development
 research, a dedicated lab administrator commenced in 2015 funded by the University to support
 our Leverhulme DSP. This post is continuing until 2024 as part of a £1.5M investment at
 Lancaster for the second phase of the LuCiD Centre.

 Adult testing laboratories are equipped with a wide variety of cutting-edge techniques. We have
 19 independent eye-tracking systems (with a range of portability, and spatial and temporal
 resolutions), 12 EEG systems (varying over portability, and numbers of channels to meet needs
 in the Department and for fieldwork), an extensive virtual reality suite and motion capture
 systems, 4 psychophysiological data acquisition units, polysomnography, recording suites, five
 double-walled sound booths, social interaction labs for groups and individual observational labs
 for adults, and both magnetic and multi-channel electric brain stimulation units. The Department
 also hosts a dedicated computational developmental neuroscience laboratory containing 32
 integrated CPUs, and has access to the University’s High End Computing facility comprising
 10,000 CPUs and 49TB memory. Resources also include a psychometric and educational test
 library containing 250 tests. For MRI facilities, we access the scanner at Lancaster Royal
 Infirmary as well as through our collaborations with imaging labs internationally.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 6. Facilities in our infancy and child laboratories (SMART eyetracking, EEG, fNIRS, 4D
                             ultrasound, and head-mounted eyetracking).

 3.2.2 Investment in facilities and infrastructure (since 2014)
 We have invested £1.1M in new equipment and infrastructure, including over £240K dedicated
 to facilities supporting new appointments.

 For our infancy and child testing laboratories, new investments focused on expanding our range
 of neurophysiological and behavioural testing methods. We have added: two EGI 128-channel
 EEG systems with integrated CCTV system and separate, dedicated data analysis computer
 facilities; our fNIRS system; the OptiTrack 5-camera body-motion tracker for infant perception
 studies; and the Biopac multi-channel biophysical system.

 For our adult-testing laboratories, we have made parallel new investments in expanding our
 range of neurophysiological and behavioural methods:
     An Aberrant Experience Lab (established 2016) contains state-of-the-art transcranial
        electric brain stimulator (8-channel Neuroelectrics StarStim), and a fully-integrated
        biophysiology facility combining skin conductance, facial EMG, heart-rate (Biopac),
        FaceReader expression recognition technology (Tracksys), and thermal imaging (Flir
        technologies). This lab also has a new MkIII Intuitive Colorimeter for assessment and
        treatment of visual stress associated with migraine, epilepsy, and other neurological
        conditions.
     A Neuroscience of Speech and Action Lab (established 2018) houses state-of-the art
        transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS: Rogue Resolutions), with integrated
        electromyography, TMS-compatible 32-channel electroencephalography (BioSemi), and
        a medical grade audio calibrator.
     Auditory processing facilities comprise five Industrial Acoustics Company double-walled
        sound booths (two added in 2017). These spaces are optimised for integrated auditory
        behavioural and neurophysiological testing containing a Biosemi Active 2 (32-channel)
        EEG and an International Hearing Systems Universal Smart Box. The facilities test basic
        audiometry, psychoacoustic discrimination, auditory electrophysiology, and speech-in-
        noise paradigms.
     Our Virtual-reality Suite has been expanded to contain 2x Oculus CV1 Head mounted
        Displays (HMDs), 2xOculus DK2 HMDs, 12 separate Optitrack Flex 13 Infrared Emitting
        Cameras, 1 Perception Neuron Motion Capture Suit, 3 X 5DT Motion Capture Data
        Gloves, and an Xsens motion capture suit. Ceiling-installed tracking cameras permit
        multiple users to move and interact with large virtual environments.
     Our Sleep Lab (established 2016) contains an Embla N7000 32-channel EEG /
        polysomnography system, and bespoke computer facilities for stimulus delivery and
        sleep scoring.

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We have developed methods of automated measurement of real-time nonverbal
        behaviour and mimicry using state-of-the-art motion tracking technology, including self-
        produced Bluetooth accelerometers as well as Liberty Latus, XSens MVN, and Notch
        sensor equipment. Our suite of analytics (Automated Measurement and Analysis of Body
        Motion, AMAB) is used by researchers at Cambridge, Utrecht, and Twente.
       A new Video Analysis Lab dedicated to the secure analysis of sensitive large-scale
        multimedia, multisource corpora (including CCTV, smartphone, body cameras,
        dashcams). The lab has three high spec workstations to enable simultaneous coders to
        work securely, and a secure data storage facility (encrypted hard drive plus lockable
        cabinet).
       Our wearable systems technology facilities include new systems linking EEG to
        smartphones, sociometric devices (measuring individuals’ proximity), a BioPlux
        biophysical DAQ device for measuring emotional signals related to social interactions,
        and novel apps enabling link-up to commercial smartphone data collection systems
        (MetricWire) and the eDRIS system in Scotland for medicine-related projects.
       Naturalistic testing of perception, attention, and behaviour in fieldwork has been
        supported by new eyetracking facilities: 2 portable Tobii eye-tracking glasses, 3 portable
        Tobii eye-trackers (1 120Hz Tobii X3-120, and 2 60Hz Tobii Pro Nano system), an
        Eyelink mobile eye-tracker, and an SMS-Red eye-tracker system (120Hz) to complement
        our existing SR Eyelink 2000Hz system.

 3.2.3 Research support
 Our research facilities are supported by five staff: two research facility staff, a lab manager for
 the infancy and child facilities, and two computing/equipment technicians (one winning the BPS
 Technical Support Award, 2018). Our technical support staff cover software programming
 (Matlab / E-Prime / Python), electronic engineering (i.e., bespoke circuit boards / hardware for
 research), and support for configuration and operation of eye-tracking, virtual reality, EEG, and
 fNIRS. The technicians are encouraged to train in new techniques, and attend regular external
 and internal courses to ensure their skill sets are tuned to the Department’s research support
 needs. Two of our research support staff have PhDs, enabling resources and technical needs to
 be effectively aligned with research outcomes.

 3.2.4 Impact support
 Impact is supported by a senior academic impact champion within our Department, and a full-
 time Faculty impact manager. Together these roles work with staff to identify: potential avenues
 of impact, relevant stakeholders, and impact-related funding (e.g., impact acceleration awards).
 Through support from these roles, we have secured within the REF period 13 impact
 acceleration awards from ESRC, EPSRC, MRC, and HEIF, cementing partnerships with 12
 stakeholders, including government bodies (e.g., Scottish Government, Public Health England,
 UK Intelligence Agencies), charities (e.g., British Heart Foundation), and industry (including
 software and digital health companies). The Department impact champion reports to the Faculty
 impact manager and to the Department’s Research Committee. Additional support comes from
 our research centres, the University interdisciplinary research organisations, and business
 engagement partners, each of whom have established links with stakeholder groups.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Contributions to the research base and discipline
 To promote growth in the capability and capacity of our research groups and their wider
 community, we have engaged in four strands of activity.

 4.1.1 Forming academic partnerships
 At a Department level, we have formalised strategic bilateral links with the Universities of Kyoto
 (Japan) for multi-lab studies of cognition and memory (3 joint publications since 2016, e.g.,
 Towse’s collaboration with Saito on joint cognition), Sunway (Malaysia) for multicultural studies
 of child development (7 joint publications since 2016, e.g., Bremner’s collaboration with Woo on
 the other-race effect for child face recognition), and Twente (Netherlands) for a Europe-wide

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 perspective on security and forensic psychology (11 joint publications since 2014, e.g., Conchie
 and Taylor’s collaboration with Larner on cross-cultural influences on deception in interviews).

 We prioritise research that enriches the quality and quantity of research in the developing world
 (such as our links with researchers in south-east Asia, and across 10 African countries, e.g.,
 Alcock’s 3 joint publications with Abubakar from Kenya Medical Research Institute, and
 Sebayang from Summit Institute of Development, Indonesia, on nutrition and children’s cross-
 linguistic development). This enables us to respond to UKRI initiatives in terms of accessing
 developmental fund support for priorities in developing economies, e.g., Cain’s (2019-2023)
 British Academy/Global Challenges Research Fund project developing multi-lingual open-source
 story-based materials for preschool children (with Sussex and Stellenbosch Universities, and
 Wordworks, a South African non-profit organisation).

 These collaborations are further extended by invitations to speak at 106 conferences/workshops
 (74 international, more than double our activity in REF2014), invites to give 55 seminars across
 18 different countries, ERASMUS exchange visits across 8 countries, receipt of 10 international
 visiting Professorships/Fellowships, 35 academic visitors (>1 week) from 14 different countries,
                                        Chart Title
 coordination and involvement in 3 EU ITNs (Reid, 2014-2017, 2019-present; Cain 2019-
 present), and invites to examine research degrees at 58 universities (26 international).
 Consequently, we have 339 international co-authorships on our publications from 47 countries
 across 6 continents (Figure 7): an established global network.




                                                                                             Co-authorships
                                                                                                  61




                                                                                                  1



                 Figure 7. Number of co-authorships of publications in each country.

 4.1.2 Hosting academic conferences
 We have organised 38 conferences and workshops attended by 3260 delegates, and 13
                                                                               Powered by Bing
 academic or professional training events attended by 625 participants,           double the number of the
                      © DSAT for MSFT, GeoNames, Microsoft, Navteq, Thinkware Extract, Wikipedia
 previous REF period. These included 7 International conferences in Infant and Child
 Development (~100 delegates annually), Language and Communicative Development (~90
 delegates); Behavioural and Social Science in Security (~125 delegates), International Military
 Design (~70 delegates), Embodied and Situated Language Processing (~100 delegates),
 Architectures and Mechanisms for Language Processing (~300 delegates), Society for Text and
 Discourse (~400 delegates), and the Implicit Learning symposium (~150 delegates). We host
 weekly departmental seminars involving high-profile and early career researchers (75 speakers,
 20% international), and support seminars organised with University cross-faculty centres and
 institutes and the ESRC Centres.

 4.1.3 Leading open science
 We have been at the forefront of the open science movement in the UK and internationally,
 embracing the principles of open and reproducible research, and embedding them within our

                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research practices. We contributed authorship to 3 of the 5 UKRN reports on open science
 approaches. We have shifted our research culture during the current REF period: in a 2020
 Department survey, 81% report pre-registering studies, 75% make study materials publicly
 accessible, 67% make data publicly available, and 95% seek to engage further with open
 science practices (compared to social science norms of 7% of articles providing access to data,
 and 0% pre-registered studies between 2014-2017, Hardwicke et al. 2020, Royal Society Open
 Science). We have increased discipline-specific training opportunities, through Departmental
 events (e.g., our R for Psychologists workshops, our weekly “New Tricks” methods training
 events) and external funders (e.g., ESRC-funded “Future Proofing your Research: Moving
 Towards Open & Reproducible Research”; Leverhulme Trust funded “Advanced Bayesian
 Analysis”), and led University-wide initiatives such as Open Research Cafés and Data
 Conversations (hosted by the University library). We have now embedded open science ethics
 and practices in all our methods teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.

 In 2014, Lynott and Connell published one of the first registered report journal articles and we
 have introduced registered reports at journals where they serve as editors/associate editors. For
 example, Towse (founding editor, Journal of Numerical Cognition), adapted open-source journal
 management systems to align with open-science workflows supporting their implementation
 within publisher portfolios.

 During the REF period, we have contributed to numerous international, large-scale open science
 collaborations, e.g., Many Babies Consortium (Alcock, Westermann), several different large-
 scale replication projects (Connell, Lynott, McLatchie, Parise, Warmelink, Westermann), and
 projects under the Psychological Science Accelerator combining resources from hundreds of
 labs around the world (Lynott, McLatchie). Lynott’s DARPA-funded SCORE project used
 machine learning techniques to understanding replicability of studies across the sciences, and
 Groen’s Collaborative Replications and Education Project embedded open science practices in
 educational practice.

 4.1.4 Providing science leadership
 Our practices have enabled us to take leading roles that shape the discipline. We have provided
 4 editorships: Infancy (Bremner), Legal and Criminological Psychology (Taylor), Scientific
 Studies of Reading (Cain), and the founding editorship of Journal of Numerical Cognition
 (Towse); 9 associate editorships, including Child Development (Bremner), Cognitive Science
 (Monaghan), PLoSone (Boyd, Reid), Trends in Hearing (Plack); 11 special issue editorships;
 and 32 editorial board memberships. We have also held membership positions on 5 grant
 committee panels, held 40 reviewer positions for international grant awarding bodies across 13
 countries, and routinely reviewed for 7 national grant bodies.

 We have provided leadership in key learned societies, including 25 committee memberships for
 a variety of professional bodies, e.g., Cain is President-Elect of the Society for the Scientific
 Studies of Reading (2020) and Towse was Honorary Secretary (2015-2018) of the Experimental
 Psychology Society. Our leadership has been recognised through academic awards: Samuel
 Torrey Orton Award, International Dyslexia Association (Cain 2014); Wiley Research in Literacy
 Education Award (Groen 2019); Cognitive Science Society Computational Modeling prize
 (Monaghan 2016); and Mid-Career Achievement Award, European Association of Psychology
 and Law (Taylor 2017).

 4.2 Research with economic and societal impact
 The University interdisciplinary centres, institutes and ESRC Centres provide established
 mechanisms for large-scale contributions to research and impact.

 4.2.1 Education and health communication
 The £9.5M ESRC centre LuCiD provides a forum for interdisciplinary research in child
 communicative development. It hosts an annual conference on Language and Communicative
 Development, regular seminars, skill training workshops, and outreach events. It has an impact
 advisory panel comprising leading representatives from education and health practice (e.g.,

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Better Start Blackpool, NHS Foundations Managers, Royal College of Speech and Language
 Therapists), and charity and government advisory policy makers (e.g., Education Endowment
 Foundation, ICAN, National Literacy Trust). This panel meets annually, and disseminates
 executive summaries of LuCiD research through their organisations’ newsletters and websites.
 Networking with non-academic partners is facilitated via a Centre Manager, Centre
 administrator, and an impact and engagement post hosted at Lancaster University (2020
 onwards). We are also members of the N8 (8 research-intensive North England Universities
 https://www.n8research.org.uk) developing the “Child of the North” research priority.

 We have advised practitioners from the NHS and local educational authorities at four opportunity
 areas selected by the Government’s Social Mobility Commission on designing and delivering
 interventions in preschool children’s language development (Monaghan, through LuCiD in
 collaboration with The Communication Trust). Cain’s work with the Department for Education
 informed changes to reading instruction in all local authority maintained schools in England
 (ICS), and Cain’s membership on the AIM Academy Research Board informed interventions for
 children with special educational needs (300 children), and her membership of the PISA 2018
 expert group informed the OECD Programme for International Student Assessments.
 We have invested in developing our research in education and wellbeing in conjunction with the
 Eden Project North, a £110M investment under development to be located 8km from Lancaster
 University. We have appointed Hurlstone who has a track-record of environmental psychology
 to provide a direct link to the Project.

 4.2.2 Neuropharmacology and health
 We work with University-wide initiatives to deliver regional and national impact for our health-
 related research in the Perception and Action and Language and Cognition research groups.
 The Health Innovation Campus (HIC) has a dedicated team of partnership development staff for
 linking researchers, SMEs, and NHS groups, with a collaborative space for meetings and
 conferences. Relatedly, the Centre for Ageing Research disseminates its research with
 practitioners and the general public with a widely-distributed annual report and “town hall”
 conference to showcase its research. Davies, through a 2019 ESRC impact acceleration award,
 has developed improved comprehension of medicine labels with the NHS with support of the
 HIC.

 Sünram-Lea’s advisory role on Nestle’s R&D committee and Danone’s scientific committee has
 shaped their R&D strategy in terms of product investment, and her work with GlaxoSmithKline
 led to the development of lower sugar versions of energy drinks (see ICS).

 4.2.3 Security and trust
 On the psychology of security, the £11.8M ESRC centre CREST has shaped the field by: (1)
 running an annual £1M commissioning call that engages new researchers and new disciplines
 on topics of national importance (e.g., cross-cultural research on information elicitation); (2)
 running a £150k a year network programme that engages UK researchers and security
 stakeholders in seminars and workshops with over 12 events a year focused on ECRs; (3)
 running a website that reaches over 100,000 unique users with blogs and professionally written
 short stories about research and its policy import; (4) producing 695 outputs in the form of briefs,
 guides toolkits, and talking head videos; (5) producing a quarterly magazine CREST Security
 Review (CSR) that presents in accessible form psychology for security. CSR has a readership of
 over 3000, including governmental Chief Scientific Advisors across the globe; (6) employing
 three Research-to-Practice Fellows whose role is to help researchers understand how best to
 engage with stakeholders. These Fellows also take on major impact projects, such as the
 delivery of a national training framework based on evidence produced by the Centre.

 Through CREST, Conchie’s work with policing informed the development of an evidence-based
 guidance, which is in use nationally to guide decision-making, and Taylor’s research on
 elicitation is incorporated into best practice in Canadian, EU, UK, and US policing, including the
 US High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group. CREST delivered a rapid response to the
 COVID19 pandemic by providing evidence-based advice on remote interviewing and managing

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 escalation in relation to the Black Lives Matters campaign, and accelerating online CPD training
 provision and delivery of evidence briefings.

 In tandem, the £1.4M EPSRC funded network SPRITE+ provides interactivity and cohesion
 among the research community, develops and curates links with stakeholders, and works to
 identify key national and international priorities for interdisciplinary research with a primary focus
 on digital security and privacy. SPRITE+ has project partners from communications and defence
 industries (ARM Ltd, BT, Nasdaq, National Grid, PLEXAL, Tiani Spirit, and Titan IC systems)
 and the UK Government Office for Science. These partners collaborate with researchers to
 define priorities for research programme objectives. Levine’s multi-source data research, in
 conjunction with the University’s Data Science Institute, has informed the DSTL’s evacuation
 modelling and emergency response training.

 Security Lancaster (Taylor) secured £1.4M to build a secure data science infrastructure that
 allows our staff to work on sensitive data on campus; secured the £6M Greater Manchester
 Cyber Foundry and £1.5M SecureD University Enterprise Zone (with the Data Science Institute)
 that facilitate joint work with industry; established a strategic relationship with the industry
 accelerator PLEXAL to link social processes research to the financial sector; developed strategic
 relationships with Fujitsu and Raytheon who fund PhD and project work on issues relating to
 cyber security leadership and safety behaviour; and developed ties with the N8 Universities in
 security research.

 Our research with impact has been recognised through several awards from professional
 bodies: an honorary consultancy in Pediatrics from the NHS (Reid, 2016), a senior
 ambassadorship for Providing Opportunities for Women in Educational Research (Cain, 2019),
 and 8 national government committee memberships or consultancies (including Alcock:
 Department for Education expert advisor; Taylor: UNESCO’s International Consensus
 Guidelines Committee for the Prevention of Violent Radicalization and Extremist Violence, and
 Ministry of Defence research ethics panel).

 4.3 Public engagement
 In 2015, Hartley founded the Psychology Employability Programme providing psychology
 students with vocational work experience alongside their academic studies. We have placed 89
 students with a wide range of organisations including local community groups, national charities
 (e.g., National Autistic Society), and international social enterprises (e.g., SLV Global which
 supports mental health). These placements enable us to work directly with these organisations
 to explore joint interests and generate pilot work for larger-scale collaborative projects.

 We organise regular events with community groups. For example, we have delivered 3 “Insight
 into Autism” events for parents, carers, and educational practitioners (50 delegates per year)
 and contributed biannually to the ESRC Festival of Social Science. We participate in hands-on
 events such as the University’s “Science Hunters” and “Campus in the City” annual public
 events, showcasing our infancy and early development research (>600 annual attendees), and
 University Science public outreach talks. During the first COVID lockdown, we arranged a series
 of 7 online publicly accessible talks on psychology (>1500 attendees).

 The University Press office supports our dissemination of news briefings and news stories, with
 a press officer specialised in communicating work in Psychology. During the REF period, our
 research has reached combined audiences of >39.7M for television and >25.3M for radio
 appearances. In the print media, we have had 1.7M readers of our 40 articles in The
 Conversation. Key examples of broad coverage are Reid and Dunn’s (2017) Current Biology
 paper which reached an audience of >1 billion, and was subsequently included in Discovery
 Magazine as one of the “top 100 scientific discoveries” of the year; Boyd’s (2020) Science
 Advances paper (audience >211M), and Levine’s (2019) American Psychologist paper (>192M).

 Oriented around our four research groups, we provide stimulation for staff to grow new
 collaborations, connect with stakeholders in the public and private sectors, and deliver their

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge in innovative ways. This sustains the flow of research to impact that has led
 Lancaster to shape national and international policies and practices in security, education, and
 health settings.




                                                                                            Page 21
