Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Institution: London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine

    Unit of Assessment: 2


    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) is a specialist postgraduate
institution. Our mission is to improve health and health equity worldwide, working in partnership to
achieve excellence in public and global health research, education and the translation of
knowledge into policy and practice.

LSHTM performs strongly on the world stage. In the 2020 Shanghai World Rankings it was placed
third globally and first in the UK for public health. In the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking the School
was:

     fifth in the UK for research impact in all sciences, based on proportion of publications in the top
      10% most frequently cited publications
     first in the UK in all sciences for proportion of female authorships, reflecting our commitment to
      equality and diversity
     ninth in the world, fifth in Europe and first in the UK in all sciences for inter-institutional
      collaborative publications
     sixth in the world and first in Europe for long-distance collaborative publications

In May 2020, as the COVID-19 crisis deepened, Edurank named @LSHTM the most influential
university Twitter feed in the UK and Ireland.

1.1. How research is structured across the unit

Our UOA2 submission (381.74 FTE, 454 staff) includes 100% of Category A eligible staff in the
four departments in the Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health (EPH) and the three
departments in the Faculty of Public Health and Policy (PHP), together with most staff in the
Department of Disease Control and the Department of Clinical Research in the Faculty of
Infectious and Tropical Diseases (ITD). This represents significant expansion, a 48.4% increase in
FTE, when compared with our REF 2014 submission.

Home to one of the largest groups of epidemiologists in Europe, EPH aims to inform and advance
understanding of social and biomedical causes of disease and to provide methodologically rigorous
and innovative approaches to generating evidence for decision-making in public health. PHP
focuses on improving health in the UK and worldwide through research on policy, interventions,
systems and services and individual, social and environmental influences on health. The two ITD
departments included in this submission specialise in developing, designing, implementing and
evaluating interventions for preventing, controlling and treating infectious diseases.

The Medical Research Council (MRC) Unit The Gambia (MRCG) and the MRC/UVRI Uganda Unit
(MRCU) joined LSHTM in February 2018, with status equivalent to Faculties. Before then, there
was already significant joint research activity between LSHTM and the two MRC Units – a key
rationale for the Units joining LSHTM – and our research activities now extend across the three
campuses.

MRCG aims to deliver innovative, world-leading research to reduce the burden of illness and death
in low-and-middle-income countries (LMICs). MRCU focuses on research to improve the control of
infectious and non-communicable diseases in Uganda, Africa and globally. MRC Unit research
cross-cuts our Faculties, so staff are allocated across our two UOAs.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Departments within Faculties, along with the Units, constitute academic staff’s ‘homes’, where
technical and administrative support is provided for research, doctoral training and career
development. Faculties are supported by Central Service departments; the MRC Units draw on
these but have their own local support structures as well.

Research activity across LSHTM takes place through flexible and dynamic teams, which often
span Departments, Faculties and, increasingly, the MRC Units – evolving over time in response to
research priorities and opportunities. LSHTM’s 14 School Centres, cross-institution networks of
academics, actively draw together School-wide expertise in specific priority areas to support
interdisciplinary interactions; these are listed in full in REF5a.

1.2. Research objectives during the assessment period and over the next five years,
including review of unit’s research plans in REF 2014

Since 85% of staff submitted are in UOA2, our School-level strategies provide the relevant
research objectives during the assessment period. Our REF 2014 plans were stated at the disease
or programme level, and achievements against these are included in section 1.3. The assessment
period encompasses two School strategy periods: 2012-2017 and 2017-2022.

1.2.1. Strategy – 2012-2017

Six cross-institutional areas critical to LSHTM’s mission were prioritised for strengthening during
the first strategy period:

a.   Emerging infectious diseases (including animal and human interactions)
b.   Evaluation of large public health programmes
c.   Globalisation, trade and health
d.   Maternal, reproductive and child health
e.   Non-communicable diseases
f.   Vaccine research

We demonstrate here how we have successfully strengthened these priority areas. We summarise
key findings and impacts across all our UOA2 research in section 1.3.

a. Emerging infectious diseases

From 2014 onwards, there was huge, demand-led expansion of our work on emerging infectious
diseases. This was supported by key recruitments, including Parker (social anthropology), Medley
(modelling), Bausch (tropical health) and Checchi (humanitarian crises).

The West African Ebola outbreak in 2014 catalysed responses across LSHTM. Our enhanced
ability to react rapidly was demonstrated in 2016, when our response to the Zika epidemic drew on
our existing partnerships in Brazil and our expertise in epidemiology, entomology and disability. In
December 2016 a £20m award to Public Health England (PHE) and LSHTM for the UK Public
Health Rapid Response Team (UK-PHRST) created a standing capacity to mobilise research and
outbreak management as epidemics occurred. Other developments in this area included the
realisation of projects funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) and
UK Research Council Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock Systems initiative, which strengthened
our collaboration with the Royal Veterinary College (RVC).

b. Evaluation of large public health programmes

Established in 2012, our Centre for Evaluation brought together researchers specialising in cluster-
randomised trials, programme evaluation and quantitative, qualitative and mixed methods. Since
2014 the Centre has enhanced both internal collaboration/learning and external engagement.
Methodological workshops have included approaches to randomisation in cluster-randomised
trials; commonalities and differences in epidemiologists’ and economists’ approaches to impact

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

evaluation; and approaches to assessing transferability of findings across settings. Key
recruitments have included Bonell (evaluation of social interventions) and Persson (public health
evaluation).

In 2017 the Centre made a successful bid to become lead partner of the Centre of Excellence for
Development Impact and Learning. Funded by the UK’s FCDO, the Centre is developing
innovative methods for evaluation and evidence synthesis in international development.

c. Globalisation, trade and health

With initial research on the health consequences of trade identifying agriculture as a key issue, the
award in 2011 of a major Leverhulme Trust grant to ‘embed emerging disciplines’ provided a
platform to move into novel challenge areas. Linking LSHTM, SOAS University of London and the
RVC, the Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research on Agriculture and Health (LCIRAH) has
successfully expanded intersectoral research to address complex problems at the nexus of food
systems, the environment and health.

Attracting close to £30m from funders including Wellcome, LCIRAH has advanced knowledge in
areas including the links between environmental change, food systems and health; the pathways
(from household to global scale) through which markets and trade affect health and nutrition,
particularly among vulnerable groups; and the development of new methods and metrics for
research in agriculture, nutrition and health.

d. Maternal, reproductive and child health

The Centre for Maternal, Adolescent, Reproductive and Child Health (MARCH) was relaunched
with a new Director (Lawn), who joined LSHTM in 2013. The recruitment of Graham strengthened
expertise in obstetric epidemiology. Three research themes were prioritised: adolescents and
young people achieving healthy transitions; births that are wanted and pregnancies that are safe;
and children with a healthy start, optimal growth and development.

Growth in grants and researcher numbers has resulted in MARCH becoming the world’s largest
group of researchers addressing the life course of women and children. The Centre has more than
200 researchers spanning disciplines including epidemiology, clinical care (paediatrics,
neonatology and obstetrics), economics, health systems and the social sciences. A key growth
area has been adolescent health, reflecting its inclusion in the targets enshrined in the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and in national priorities, with awards from MRC,
FCDO, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) and the National Institute for Health Research
(NIHR).

e. Non-communicable diseases

Our multidisciplinary research on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) has been expanded and
strengthened during the assessment period. Grant successes have included a three-year project,
funded by £1.8m from Wellcome, to develop and evaluate a mobile health application to assist in
chronic disease management in South Asia; and Txt2Heart, an MRC-funded initiative to develop
text messaging to tackle local causes of poor adherence to cardiovascular medications. Joint
appointments to strengthen global partnerships have included Prabhakaran (epidemiology).

The Centre for Non-Communicable Diseases was relaunched in 2017 as the Centre for Global
Chronic Conditions. Moving beyond its initial focus on LMICs, it tackles chronic conditions in an
integrated way by examining common determinants and responses across a range of contexts.
Research encompasses transitional settings and vulnerable populations, such as humanitarian
crises and migrant communities, and takes into account interaction between chronic conditions, in
particular mental health, and infectious diseases such as TB and HIV/AIDS.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

f.   Vaccine research

The Vaccine Centre was founded in 2013 as a key vehicle for implementing LSHTM’s strategic
ambitions. It brought together expertise in developing new vaccines and evaluating their biological
potential; testing new vaccines for safety, immunogenicity and efficacy; and assessing and
optimising vaccine programmes and policies.

The Centre’s engagement in UK policy expanded significantly in 2014 with the award of the NIHR
Health Protection Research Unit in Immunisation (£4.2m, 2014-2020; renewed in 2020). Further
key awards to UOA2 Principal Investigators (PI) have included EBODAC (€20.3m, 2014-2020)
funded by the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2, for Ebola vaccine deployment acceptance and
compliance in Africa; and the Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine Impact Study in Kenya (£3.9m,
2016-2018; subsequently extended), funded by Gavi.

1.2.2. Strategy – 2017-2022

The first strategy period, described above, enhanced our strengths in infectious diseases, vaccine
research and NCDs; built a strong research community around maternal, neonatal, child and
adolescent health; and highlighted the cross-cutting importance of our multidisciplinary expertise in
health systems, services and policy research. Flourishing School Centres provided platforms for
further expansion of priority research areas. Analysis of the external environment identified new
issues and trends we needed to prioritise, notably antimicrobial resistance (AMR), mental health,
data science and the health implications of climate change. As a result, our 2017-2022 priorities
have included both ongoing and new themes:

a. Infectious diseases (especially vaccines, AMR and emerging infectious diseases/epidemics)
b. Chronic conditions (especially use of large-scale data and closing the mental health treatment
   gap)
c. Life course and vulnerable populations
d. Health services and systems (including health economics)
e. Environment, climate change and health

Progress in delivering on these priorities is addressed below.

a. Infectious diseases

The integration of the MRC Units in 2018 added to our infectious diseases research on malaria,
vaccines and HIV. It brought in leading scientists, including d’Alessandro (infectious diseases) and
others submitted in UOA1. UOA2 vaccine research funding grew from £33m in 2014-2015 to £49m
in 2019-2020.

In 2018, along with the University of Oxford and Imperial College London, LSHTM was a founding
partner in the UK’s first dedicated Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre, enabled by a £66m
UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) investment. This partnership has boosted our vaccine
translational research pipeline from bench and epidemiological research to patient impact in the
UK and worldwide.

To respond to COVID-19, UOA2 researchers rapidly built and deployed capacity in key areas:

    The Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases led LSHTM’s modelling input
     in the UK and around the globe.
    The Electronic Health Record Group, with the University of Oxford, set up the OpenSAFELY
     platform to link hospital, primary care and mortality data initially for 24 million people in
     England. Outputs, including on vulnerable groups, have directly informed policy in the UK and
     globally.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Larson, funded by Johnson & Johnson, led a global study exploring public sentiment around
    measures to contain and treat COVID-19, including potential vaccines.
   The Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Group was appointed technical lead of a £100m UK
    Government/Unilever programme to improve practices around handwashing for up to a billion
    people worldwide.

A multidisciplinary Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Centre was launched in 2016 to capitalise both
on UK domestic policy interest in AMR and on the global AMR agenda driven by the then Chief
Medical Officer for England. The Centre has developed strong relationships with many global
agencies, and is known as the voice on AMR science. Key research awards have included the
Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Global Interdisciplinary Research Hub on Anti-
Microbials in Society (£1.8m, 2017-2021) and an MRC grant on operationalising antibiotic
stewardship in India's pluralistic rural health system (£0.8m, 2019-2022).

b. Chronic conditions

Research on chronic conditions has expanded in areas including disease aetiology, safety and
effectiveness of medications, environmental influences and health services.

Expertise in applying data science to chronic conditions contributed to a successful bid by
University College London (UCL), Imperial College, King’s College London (KCL), Queen Mary
University of London (QMUL) and LSHTM for the London platform of Health Data Research UK
(HDR UK). This led to three HDR UK early- and mid-career fellowship awards from the UKRI
Rutherford Fund, as well as the development of a new MSc programme to train a new generation
of world-leading health data scientists. Other key research awards have included multiple
fellowships from Wellcome and other funders for exploring electronic health records and large
datasets to improve understanding of chronic disease determinants and treatments.

Research on global mental health has expanded via new recruitments of staff based overseas
(Chibanda, Zimbabwe; Nadkarni, India) and internal appointments (Kinyanda, MRCU). Major new
awards have included an FCDO Research Programme Consortium on supporting people with
psychosocial disabilities in sub-Saharan Africa (£6.9m, 2020-2026; awarded to Shakespeare, who
joined in 2019 as Professor of Disability Research); an MRC/DFID African Research Leader award
on mental health among HIV-positive children and adolescents in Uganda (£0.7m, 2014-2017);
and a Wellcome Collaborative award on alcohol use in humanitarian settings in Uganda and
Ukraine (£3.7m, 2020-2025).

c. Life course and vulnerable populations

New recruits building capacity in this area included Heffernan (international development) and
Bundy (child development). Major new awards have included an LSHTM-led UKRI Global
Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Action Against Stunting Hub (£18.3m, 2019-2021); the multi-
institutional £50m NEST360 partnership, which aims to halve neonatal mortality in sub-Saharan
Africa through increased use of effective and affordable devices; and the MRC-funded MENISCUS
trial of a menstrual health intervention in Ugandan secondary schools (£3.2m, 2020-2023).

LSHTM’s research expertise in gender violence and health has contributed to two UKRI GCRF
Hub awards. The first, led by the University of Oxford, supports work on Africa's adolescents
(£18.5m, 2019-2024). The second, led by Coventry University, supports work on South-South
migration, inequality and development (£18.8m, 2019-2024). In addition, in partnership with the
University of Bristol, LSHTM was awarded an NIHR Global Health Research Group on health
system responses to violence against women (£2.3m, 2018-2021).

d. Health services and systems

Health services and systems research has benefited from three new Professorial appointments:
May (medical sociology), Nolte (health systems) and Briggs (health economics). In 2018 the
                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Centre for Health Economics in London was launched, bringing together world-leading expertise
and comprising more than 50 LSHTM academics. Trial-based economic evaluation has been
complemented by BMGF funding to develop research for priority-setting at the health sector level
and support global agencies with evidence to inform resource allocation within TB and HIV
programmes. In collaboration with our LMIC partners, we were the most successful university with
the FCDO, MRC, ESRC and Wellcome Health Systems Research Initiative, receiving 25 (27%) of
the 92 awards.

In 2019 our NIHR Policy Research Units in Innovation and Evaluation Research, Health and Social
Care Systems and Commissioning, and Public Health were re-funded, and a fourth added, Quality,
Safety and Outcomes, in collaboration with the Universities of Oxford and Kent. Other key grant
successes have included the GCRF-funded RECAP, a £7.8m multi-partner project to strengthen
research capacity and knowledge to respond to humanitarian crises; GOAL, which supports
government and partners in strengthening health systems to improve the mental wellbeing of
Syrian refugees and host communities in Lebanon (£1.7m, 2020-2023); and a portfolio of research
as part of the £6m DFID-funded Anti-Corruption Evidence consortium.

e. Environment, climate change and health

Capacity in the field of climate change and health was developed throughout the previous strategy
period. With the imperative created by the continuing climate emergency, this led to the launch in
2019 of the Centre on Climate Change and Planetary Health, and the recruitment of Murray to
MRCG.

The Centre is committed to taking a ‘planetary health’ perspective in its work, identifying
interventions that benefit both health and the environment and support the SDGs. Key grants have
included Wellcome programmes on complex urban systems for sustainability and health (with UCL;
£5.2m, 2018-2023) and on sustainable and healthy food systems (£4m, 2017-2022), and renewal
of the NIHR Health Protection Research Unit on Environmental Change and Health (£4m, 2020-
2025).

1.3. Research findings and impacts in the REF period

We list below our major findings and related impacts, including delivery on intentions outlined in
REF 2014. This list is broadly structured according to the four themes we used in our REF 2014
statement and includes priorities for the next five years in each area. Staff leading our research
teams are noted.

All our research overseas is in collaboration with local partners, but space does not permit full
details here. Our shared research resources are described in section 3.7 and our collaborations in
section 4.1, with complete partnership details provided in our impact case studies.

1.3.1. High-burden health problems

Malaria (M Cairns, Chandramohan, Clarke, d’Alessandro, Greenwood, Fornace, Kleinschmidt,
Lines, Logan, Milligan, Protopopoff, Pitt, Rowland, Staedke, Tusting, Yeung)

   We demonstrated the effectiveness of the RTS,S/AS01 malaria vaccination in preventing cases
    of clinical malaria in young infants and children when administered with or without a booster
    dose.
   We showed seasonal malaria control, an approach developed by LSHTM researchers and
    partners, reduced outpatient malaria cases by 25%-59% in seven Sahel countries during 2015
    and 2016, and that this approach was cost-effective.
   We found combined prevention education, insecticide-treated nets and antimalarial treatment
    in regions with seasonal malaria could reduce the risk of schoolchildren developing anaemia
    and improve cognitive performance.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   We demonstrated that a ‘resistance-breaking’ bed net treated with piperonyl butoxide, which
    neutralises mosquitoes’ ability to resist pyrethroid insecticide, provided children with greater
    protection than standard long-lasting pyrethroid nets. The World Health Organisation (WHO)
    recommended this as a new class of nets in 2017.
   Future research will address the effectiveness and efficiency of investments in vector control,
    including trials of novel malaria vector-control tools, and will continue on seasonal malaria
    control.

HIV and sexually transmitted infections (Bond, Crampin, Fielding, Floyd, Francis, Grosskurth,
Hargreaves, Hayes, Hickson, Kapiga, Neuman, Seeley, Terris-Prestholt, Todd, Weatherburn,
Weiss, Wellings)

   We showed through our PopART trial that a universal testing and treatment (UTT) strategy was
    able to achieve the UNAIDS 90-90-90 targets and reduce HIV incidence by around 20%. We
    also showed UTT could be delivered at scale in urban South African communities.
   We estimated 500,000 men who have sex with men in European and Central Asian countries
    could not access pre-exposure prophylaxis, even though they would be likely to use it.
   We discovered a high prevalence of bacterial vaginosis increased susceptibility to STIs and
    HIV in a study of schoolgirls in Tanzania, and that this was strongly associated with having two
    or more sexual partners and prevalent human papillomavirus infection.
   Future research will aim to measure the impact of UTT on other diseases and evaluate an STI
    screening intervention in adolescents and young people in Zimbabwe using innovative STI
    diagnostic methods.

TB (Crampin, Fielding, Godfrey-Faussett, Hayes, Houben, Mangtani, Vassall, White)

   We showed in a large trial of South African gold miners that mass testing and treatment were
    inadequate to interrupt TB transmission and that six months’ isoniazid preventive therapy may
    be inadequate to cure latent TB among those heavily exposed to infection.
   We found a national roll-out of Xpert MTB/RIF diagnostic testing in South Africa did not reduce
    mortality at six months among people testing for TB.
   We identified a strong association between mortality and lipoarabinomannan-positivity (LAM-
    positivity), a glycolipid virulence factor associated with TB, among HIV-infected patients. We
    also produced evidence on using urine TB-LAM testing to reduce TB mortality in adults with
    HIV.
   Future research priorities include evaluating new diagnostic and prognostic tests, using
    improved understanding of transmission to design control strategies and evaluating integration
    of TB screening and diagnosis into maternal and child health programmes.

Emerging infectious diseases (Bausch, Brickley, Edmunds, Eggo, Flasche, Funk, Jit, Kucharski,
Kuper, Larson, Lees, Logan, Medley, Parker, Wilder-Smith)

   We made the first estimates of the COVID-19 case fatality rate in Wuhan and showed
    transmission declined with the introduction of travel restrictions and control measures.
   We modelled the effects of different scenarios to support evidence-based decisions on critical
    care capacity and large-scale interventions to reduce COVID-19 transmission in the UK and
    elsewhere.
   We provided evidence on crucial sociocultural and political dimensions of the 2014-2015 West
    African Ebola epidemic and supported locally appropriate interventions through our Ebola
    Response Anthropology platform.
   We co-led collaborative research on the 2015-2016 Zika virus outbreak in Brazil which
    confirmed the link between Zika and microcephaly; described the adverse outcomes in
    pregnancy; developed the definition of congenital Zika syndrome; assessed the impact of Zika
    on families and health services; developed and validated tools for diagnosis; and showed
    permethrin-treated long-sleeved clothing provided the best Aedes mosquito protection.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Future research priorities include further mathematical modelling of emerging infectious
    diseases and the establishment of a Centre for Epidemic Preparedness and Response to bring
    together multidisciplinary epidemic expertise.

Neglected tropical diseases (including eye health) (Bailey, Bastawrous, Cameron, Marks, Peeling,
Pullen, P Smith, Yacob)

   We showed biennial mass treatment with azithromycin reduced all-cause under-five mortality in
    a large-scale cluster randomised trial in Niger, Malawi and Tanzania.
   We carried out global trachoma-mapping programmes that informed mass distribution of
    azithromycin in 29 countries.
   We conducted the largest-ever study on mass drug administration to control scabies,
    contributing to the evidence that led WHO to formally adopt scabies as a neglected tropical
    disease in 2017.
   Future research will address diagnostics for yaws, the impact of severe stigmatising skin
    diseases in Africa and the determinants, prevention and treatment of ocular chlamydia
    trachomatis transmission.

AMR (Chandler, Goodman, Graham, Heffernan, Khan, Knight)

   We produced economic modelling of the potential impact of antimicrobial drug resistance,
    contributing to estimates presented in the UK Review on AMR chaired by Jim O’Neill and
    informing the Department for Health & Social Care (DHSC).
   We carried out ethnographic research that showed how antimicrobials are used in Uganda and
    Tanzania as a ‘quick fix’ for weak healthcare systems and poor sanitation and hygiene.
   We evaluated the UK’s AMR Strategy 2013-2018, finding that electronic prescribing systems
    supported AMR targets and that local champions played an important role. This work was
    carried out by our Policy Innovation and Evaluation Research Unit in collaboration with the
    RVC.
   Future research will focus on integration of diagnostics and revised algorithms into case
    management of fevers, AMR as a global environmental health issue and the impact of mass
    drug administration.

Maternal, neonatal, child and adolescent health (Blencowe, Bonell, Campbell, Cousens, Devries,
Filippi, Graham, Kerac, Kirkwood, Lawn, Marchant, C Marston, Mayhew, Penn-Kekana, Pitt,
Ronsmans, Roca, J Schellenberg, Stoeckl, Tann, Weiss, Shakur-Still, Wellings)

   We estimated the global burden of Group B Streptococcus (GBS) on stillbirths and showed a
    maternal GBS vaccine could prevent 231,000 infant and maternal GBS cases annually.
   We improved measurement of life-saving programmes for maternal and newborn health
    through research in Ethiopia, Nigeria and India, including the development of population-level
    measures of quality of care and effective coverage.
   We found tranexamic acid reduced deaths from post-partum haemorrhage by a third if given
    within three hours. This finding, which emerged from our WOMAN trial, was rapidly reflected in
    WHO guidelines on tranexamic acid use.
   We showed that an intervention in UK secondary schools reduced bullying, smoking, alcohol
    use, drug use and police contact.
   Future research will be aligned with streams of work on vaccines, nutrition and infections. A
    key aim will be to support comprehensive strategy development and evaluation within primary,
    hospital, and school-based care.

Chronic conditions (Allemani, Bhaskaran, Chibanda, Coleman, Crampin, Kinra, Kinyanda, Langan,
Leon, Murthy, Nadkarni, Nitsch, Nyirenda, Pearce, Perel, Rachet, B Roberts, I Roberts, Smeeth,
Tomlinson, Shakespeare, Warren-Gash, Weiss)



                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   We identified increased risk of cardiovascular disease in cancer survivors through analysing
    more than 630,000 UK medical records, and recommended improved awareness, preventive
    measures and earlier interventions to reduce treatment impact.
   We found a major burden of mental health and substance use among conflict-affected
    populations, including PTSD symptoms in a fifth of Syrian refugees in Turkey, and depression
    in a quarter.
   We developed and evaluated the Friendship Bench intervention in Zimbabwe, where
    ‘grandmother health providers’ deliver cognitive behavioural therapy to those struggling with
    poor mental health. Dramatic improvements in the symptoms of patients with common mental
    health disorders were observed.
   Future research will include integrated approaches to prevention, treatment and management
    of multiple chronic conditions, and a focus on vulnerable groups such as migrants and those
    affected by humanitarian crises and large-scale social change.

1.3.2. Development of new tools and methods

Vaccines (A Clarke, Edmunds, Greenwood, Jit, Larson, Langan, Mangtani, Mounier-Jack,
Mulholland, Parker, Roca, Sanderson, A Scott)

   We used epidemiological modelling to predict the impact of different vaccination strategies
    during the West Africa Ebola epidemic. A trial of the rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine using the ‘ring
    vaccination’ approach was highly protective in Guinea.
   We found giving the flu vaccine to children was a cost-effective way to reduce the burden of the
    disease in the general population. This finding informed changes to UK flu vaccination policy.
   We showed that herpes zoster vaccination in the UK was effective and gave very good
    protection against post-herpetic neuralgia. This finding informed the UK zoster vaccination
    programme.
   We produced evidence on global vaccine hesitancy and interventions, helping governments
    and agencies respond to this evolving health threat. Our Vaccine Confidence Index showed
    European populations had the least confidence in vaccines globally.
   Future research will include the use of novel vaccines in pregnant women and implementing
    the WHO Roadmap for Elimination of Meningitis by 2030. It will also aim to enhance the public-
    facing aspects of vaccine research and development to increase vaccine confidence.

Data science (Aggarwal, Bhaskaran, Cromwell, Diaz-Ordaz, Douglas, Langan, Minassian, Nitsch,
Smeeth, Tomlinson, Warren-Gash, Williamson)

   We explored how to use machine learning estimation within causal analyses using high-
    dimensional data. This research helped clarify the conditions under which machine learning
    can be used, as well as shedding new light on how to handle missing data in research that
    depends on the use of electronic health records.
   We analysed electronic health records to address concerns that certain widely used drugs,
    including some for high blood pressure and erectile dysfunction, might increase cancer risk.
    We showed this was not the case.
   We developed a new pregnancy identification algorithm to establish a pregnancy register in the
    Clinical Practice Research Datalink. We found no evidence of an increased risk of major
    congenital malformations following flu vaccination during pregnancy.
   Future research plans include a portfolio of work extending causal machine learning techniques
    to longitudinal studies, with a focus on optimal treatment recommendations using electronic
    health records in diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer, eczema and chronic
    kidney disease.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Modelling and statistics (E Allen, Atkins, Baguelin, Bottomley, Carpenter, Clayton, Collier, Diaz-
Ordaz, Edmunds, Eggo, Elbourne, Flasche, Frost, Funk, Gasparrini, Grieve, Jewell, Jit, Keogh,
Kucharski, Lewin, Lowe, Medley, S Pocock, Pearce, Sharples, Vansteelandt, Weiss, White,
Williamson)

   We developed simple strategies to calculate confidence intervals for high-dimensional,
    generalised linear models and Cox models, accounting for bias and uncertainty due to variable
    selection.
   We established new approaches for longitudinal mediation analysis, allowing for time-varying
    confounding. We also extended methods for dynamic prediction of survival using longitudinal
    data.
   We developed innovative study designs and statistical techniques for environmental health
    research, including distributed lag non-linear models and extended meta-analytical models.
   We developed a novel methodology to provide statistically robust estimates of COVID-19
    cases and infections. Using a Gaussian process, we showed substantial under-ascertainment
    of symptomatic cases in many countries – particularly at the peak of the first wave of the
    pandemic.
   Future research plans include the further development of machine learning methods – to
    address confounding and for causal prediction and mapping environmental exposure to
    related health risks, and further innovations in trial design and analysis.

1.3.3. Performance of health services and systems

Economics of health and health systems (Borghi, Briggs, J Cairns, Cornelsen, Goodman, Grieve,
Hanson, Keogh-Brown, Legood, Mills, Miners, Pitt, Powell-Jackson, Terris-Prestholt, Vassall,
Wiseman)

   We found a ‘snack tax’ was potentially more effective than the UK’s sugared drink tax in
    tackling obesity, based on economic modelling of UK households.
   We developed new approaches to reduce bias and enhance precision in cost-effectiveness
    analyses, including in the context of pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV, blood collection services,
    surgical techniques and bullying in schools.
   We developed ways of measuring and using preference heterogeneity to design HIV
    prevention interventions in order to optimise uptake across populations.
   We found performance-related payment to health facilities in LMICs could improve drug
    availability, patient interactions and staff supervision and reduce out-of-pocket payments.
    However, we also found such a strategy to be costly and likely to reduce coverage of non-
    incentivised services.
   Future research will advance methods that use machine learning, expand our portfolio of
    rigorous cost-effectiveness analyses and develop a programme around assessment of and
    payment for high-cost oncology drugs.

Health services research (Aggarwal, P Allen, Black, Cohn, Cromwell, Egan, Erens, Free, Hogan,
May, van der Meulen, Nolte, Peckham, Rachet, Sanderson, Walker)

   We analysed hospital admissions data in England for patients diagnosed with bowel cancer
    and found those in the most deprived areas had up to a 13% higher proportion of emergency
    hospital admissions before diagnosis than those in the least deprived areas. This finding
    helped target campaigns and policies towards the most vulnerable groups.
   We investigated the impact of NHS patient choice and hospital competition policies on prostate
    cancer care by using electronic health data. We found up to one in three prostate cancer
    patients bypassed their nearest surgical or radiotherapy centre, emphasising the need for
    guidance in choice policies to ensure equitable and affordable cancer care.
   We carried out the largest retrospective case record review of hospital deaths ever undertaken
    in England, providing definitive evidence of a lack of association between hospital-wide
    standardised mortality ratios and avoidable deaths.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Future research plans include expanding work on the impact of policies on patient safety,
    quality of life and cancer survival rates.

Health policy and systems research (Balabanova, Gilson, Khan, Liverani, Martinez-Alvarez, Mays,
Mayhew, McKee, Spicer)

   We showed that the reorganisation of public health in the UK under the 2012 Health and Social
    Care Act caused serious disruption to vital public health functions, but that local actors
    eventually developed ‘workarounds’ to maintain services.
   We demonstrated how systems thinking could be brought into public health evaluation,
    informing MRC and NIHR guidance on complex intervention development and evaluation.
   We generated new insights into health system resilience through studies of district health
    system governance in Kenya and South Africa, highlighting the importance of mid-level
    managerial leadership and space for reflective practice among frontline staff.
   We showed social franchising of maternal health services does not improve quality of care and
    fails to reach the poor in India and Uganda, and argued that governments and donors should
    be more sceptical of such initiatives and demand rigorous evidence of effectiveness.
   Future research plans include further evaluation of government reforms and policy
    development in the UK and LMICs, as well as expansion of research on quality of care and
    anti-corruption approaches in LMICs.

1.3.4. Social and environmental determinants of health and nutrition

Social determinants (Bacchus, Beattie, Bonell, Cislaghi, Cornelsen, Cummins, Curtis, Egan,
Hargreaves, Harris, Hickson, Knai, Lock, Petticrew, Platt, Rhodes, Stoeckl, Walls, Weatherburn,
Wellings, Zimmerman)

   We conducted research on adolescent health to show how improving school environments can
    reduce bullying, smoking, alcohol use, drug use and police contact in the UK and India.
   We theorised the unintended and possibly harmful consequences of public health interventions
    via ‘dark logic’ models, explaining why an intervention with youth workers increased rather than
    reduced teenage pregnancy rates.
   We found local public health professionals can and do play an important and valued role in the
    alcohol licensing process, shaping alcohol availability and reducing alcohol-related harms.
   We analysed data from the UK National Surveys of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles (NATSAL),
    revealing increased acceptance of same-sex partnerships and expansion of heterosexual
    repertoires.
   Future research will evaluate the impact of modifying school social environments on sexual and
    mental health; explore the epidemiology and prevention of COVID-19 transmission in schools;
    and complete the fourth wave of NATSAL.

Environmental determinants and climate change (Belesova, Cairncross, Cummins, Dangour,
Green, Gasparrini, Haines, Hajat, Kadiyala, Kovats, Lowe, Murray, Scheelbeek, Walls, Wilkinson)

   We identified the health risks associated with non-optimal temperature and projected future
    impacts under various climate-change scenarios for 749 locations in 43 countries, and
    estimated the effect of projected temperature increases on physiological capacity to work
    outdoors.
   We estimated the effect of climate and environmental changes on global crop yields, estimated
    the impact of lower crop yields on child survival in sub-Saharan African subsistence farming
    populations and quantified the health and environmental benefits of meeting dietary
    recommendations in the UK and India.
   We quantified the combined impact of hydrometeorological hazards and urbanization on
    dengue risk in Brazil, and developed an operational dengue early warning system for Vietnam
    that provided probabilistic dengue forecasts up to six months in advance. We confirmed links


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    between exposure to urban pollution and mortality risk in the largest international
    epidemiological assessment of its kind to date.
   Future research will quantify the health effects of projected rises in temperature and air
    pollution; identify interventions with the greatest benefits for human health across different
    sectors; understand how complex hazards impact the timing and intensity of infectious
    diseases; and explore how transformations in food systems will affect environmental and
    population health.

1.4. Enabling impact

1.4.1. Strategies for enabling impact and their relationship to case studies

Maximising synergies between research, education, knowledge translation and innovation is a
major feature of the LSHTM environment. Our 2019 staff survey revealed 95% of staff felt proud to
work for LSHTM and 97% felt our work improved health and health equity worldwide. Our impact
case studies reflect our far-reaching and beneficial impact on health outcomes around the world.

Our approach to impact has been built on four main elements: generic activities to support staff in
achieving impact; mechanisms to help build long-term relationships with research users; activities
relating to specific research projects; and influencing future decision-makers through teaching and
training. These are outlined below, with illustrations from our impact case studies (italicised in
brackets). We summarise the organisational infrastructure that supports impact in section 3.

Generic activities to support staff in achieving impact

The teams within our Communications and Engagement Department have played a key role in
generic activities to support impact. LSHTM’s media activity has been vital in increasing public
understanding of science and public health, shaping public debate and influencing health policy,
practice and behaviours.

LSHTM has been a prominent voice on vaccine confidence, with Larson, Director of the Vaccine
Confidence Project, quoted in the media on more than a thousand occasions in 2019 alone
(Shaping public health strategies by monitoring and building public trust in vaccines). In 2020 our
modellers made near-daily UK media appearances to explain the latest COVID-19 developments
and the importance of complying with restrictions (Informing the UK response to COVID-19).
LSHTM had more than 133,500 pieces of print, online and broadcast coverage during the year
compared with 23,400 in 2019, reflecting the scope and volume of our response to the crisis.

Our events team supported many major dissemination events. For example, with The Lancet, we
co-hosted regular Global Health Lab public debates. We were key contributors to Lancet Special
Commissions, and produced 42 papers for 15 Lancet Special Series between 2014 and 2020. One
Lancet Special Series in which we were closely involved fed directly into the UN’s Every Newborn
Action Plan, led by UNICEF and WHO, for preventing newborn deaths (Generating data and
solutions to save newborn lives).

Our 14 Centres have played an important part in achieving impact, and our case studies benefited
from sharing of expertise and external networks. For example, MARCH linked with our disability
researchers to respond to the Zika epidemic (The Zika virus emergency: informing the international
response). Centres also supported communication of research findings, enhanced links with
research users and the general public and interacted with relevant stakeholders, including
parliamentary select committees and all-party parliamentary groups.

We took the following steps towards strengthening our systems for encouraging and assisting staff
to achieve impact:

   Research dissemination activities and seeking policy and practice impact were explicit
    expectations in our new promotion criteria, developed in 2015.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Our Human Resources (HR) policies have supported recruitment and retention of staff based
    overseas, where they can interact closely with local research users. 79 staff submitted to UOA2
    have been based overseas.
   Our talent and educational development programme has provided communication skills training
    to researchers.

Mechanisms to help build long-term relationships with research users

Translating findings into impact depends on long-term, trusted relationships between research
producers and users. We have encouraged our academic staff to play an active role in global,
regional, national and local organisations that shape health policy and practice, and we report on
these in more detail in section 4. Long-term, trusted relationships with research users have played
a key role in the pathway to impact in many of our case studies. Examples of relationships include:

   More than 15 of our academics have served on the UK Government Scientific Advisory Group
    for Emergencies and its subgroups (Informing the UK response to COVID-19). We have also
    regularly presented evidence on vaccines to the UK Joint Committee on Vaccinations and
    Immunisations (Using mathematical modelling to inform policy decisions on vaccination).
   Our close relationships with WHO, including WHO Advisory Committee membership, have
    supported WHO policy and guidance, leading to country implementation and health
    improvements. For example, WHO used our research and expertise in its recommendation on
    seasonal malaria chemoprevention (Developing a new seasonal approach to malaria
    prevention in children) and in the prequalification of different nets for controlling malaria
    (Methods for malaria control: evaluation of vector control products to improve personal and
    community protection from malaria).
   Engaging with industry has facilitated huge campaigns to encourage healthy behaviours. For
    example, our partnership with Unilever enabled our research on handwashing to benefit billions
    around the world.
   Our staff based overseas have worked directly with local research users. In Zimbabwe, for
    example, they facilitated national scale-up of the Friendship Bench (Lay health worker
    interventions to treat mental health disorders).

Activities relating to specific research projects

Our teams have actively engaged research users from an early stage through to dissemination of
findings. We regard this as standard, accepted practice and encourage such an approach in our
training on achieving impact.

For example, we first identified the benefits of HIV self-testing and then led implementation
research to inform government scale-up strategies (Making HIV self-testing available to millions as
a diagnostic strategy for low and middle income countries). Similarly, Zimmerman worked with the
International Organisation for Migration to translate her research into a handbook, as well as
providing the UK Government with evidence to improve provision for victims of human trafficking
(Prioritising and addressing the health effects of human trafficking survivors).

The creation at the end of 2016 of UK-PHRST, in collaboration with PHE, further increased our
capacity to have impact. In light of its Ebola response, LSHTM was chosen to jointly run this £20m
initiative and expand the range of scientific expertise available for outbreak control (Controlling
Ebola in West Africa: innovative and pragmatic solutions to a major epidemic). UK-PHRST has
since been deployed to a number of countries to assist in tackling various outbreaks, including
meningitis, Lassa fever, Ebola, pneumonic plague, diphtheria and COVID-19.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Influencing future decision-makers through education

Delivering research-led masters, doctoral and short-course programmes for future health leaders is
core to our mission. There is a deliberately close match between our research expertise and the
portfolio of educational programmes we offer.

We provide a wide range of MSc modules that make available the latest knowledge in particular
fields. For example, our Infectious Disease Modelling module has featured our COVID-19 models
in its real-time modelling lecture, its study module assessment and several practicals; the models
have also been used in our Health Decision Science module.

In 2015, to reach an even wider audience, we introduced Massive Open Online Courses via the
online platform FutureLearn. These are led by eminent researchers who translate their expertise
into learning materials relevant for healthcare workers, public health practitioners and those
interested in public health issues. The following examples link to our impact case studies:

   Controlling Ebola in West Africa: innovative and pragmatic solutions to a major epidemic
    explored how the Ebola outbreak became a humanitarian emergency (>24,000 enrolments).
   The Zika Virus Emergency: Informing the International Response focused on the Aedes
    mosquito and its lifecycle, behaviour, distribution and role in transmitting vector-borne diseases
    (>18,000 enrolments).
   Informing the UK response to COVID-19 covered the emergence and identification of COVID-
    19, the public health measures worldwide and what might be required to address the pandemic
    in the future (> 236,000 enrolments).

Finally, some research programmes have featured educational materials as a specific output.
Examples have included the following:

   Outputs from Indian trials on lay-counsellor interventions for alcohol dependence and
    depression/anxiety disorders were adapted into competency-based, open-access digital
    courses. These were aimed at laypeople providing peer counselling and at community health
    workers (Lay health worker interventions to treat mental health disorders).
   A film, Chiedza’s Song, was developed in Zimbabwe to facilitate discussions in communities
    and schools through a partnership between HIV researchers and the Ministry of Education
    (Uncovering and addressing gaps in care for adolescents with HIV).
   COVID-19 researchers worked with authors and communications experts on educational
    materials. Examples included Coronavirus: a book for children, a collaboration with illustrator
    Axel Scheffler (The Gruffalo), which won a FutureBook award; and an education programme
    on COVID-19 for families – now recommended by the UK’s Department for Education as a
    resource for schools (Informing the UK response to COVID-19).

1.4.2. Shaping and adapting plans to ensure they continue to support the vitality and
sustainability of the unit’s impact in the future

We have found our multi-pronged approach to achieving impact, as outlined above, an effective
strategy. We will maintain such an approach in the future, reshaping it in light of experience and
new opportunities – including digital developments.

We will continue to work with policy and practice communities in the UK and globally to shape
health systems and services through strategic research programmes. This will involve continued
engagement with DHSC, WHO Advisory Committees, local Technical Working Groups to support
Ministries of Health, UK advisory bodies and our WHO Collaborating Centres – among others.

In addition, we have committed to launching a Policy and Leadership Institute to further increase
the profile and impact of our research among policymakers and leaders globally and optimise how
we respond to opportunities to shape health policy. Our goal is to create an interface organisation

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

to bridge policymaking, leadership and research. The Institute will house our educational
programmes including the professional Doctorate in Public Health and Executive Programme for
Global Health Leadership.

1.5. Unit’s approach to supporting interdisciplinary research in the context of unit’s
research strategy

Our focus on improving the health of populations requires us to address many interdisciplinary
questions, demanding, for example, an understanding of aetiology, treatment, social determinants
of health, cultural influences, economics and other topics. An acknowledged strength of LSHTM is
that we support research to be truly interdisciplinary.

Our Centres, listed in full in REF5a, have been key mechanisms through which interdisciplinary
research has developed in strategic priority areas, along with the methodological and disciplinary
rigour required to achieve excellence. All the Centres are interdisciplinary – focused on a disease,
a programme or development challenge, or a methodological approach applicable across subject
areas – and explicitly engaging with and integrating the various relevant disciplines. Retreats,
proposal development workshops, newsletters, and showcasing research findings have all helped
create vibrant interdisciplinary research communities around key strategic priority areas.

For example, the AMR Centre’s structure is based on five disciplinary pillars: biological and
pharmacological sciences; clinical and veterinary sciences; humanities and environmental
sciences; epidemiology and modelling; and economic, social and political sciences. These are
mobilised collectively to address research questions that demand an interdisciplinary response.

In 2019, reflecting acknowledgement of the effectiveness of its interdisciplinary approach, the AMR
Centre was chosen as a host institution for cohorts of Fleming Fund Fellows. DHSC introduced the
Fleming Fund Fellowship programme to develop the skills that national institutions require to help
combat AMR. Our current Fleming Fund Fellows are from Ghana, Kenya and Zimbabwe.

In the area of TB, the ESRC-funded ‘Umoya Omuhle’ project used a whole systems approach to
identify interventions to reduce TB transmission within primary health care clinics in South Africa.
Rather than presenting parallel, disciplinary-specific findings on the barriers to infection control at
the clinic level, evidence-informed group modelling by researchers (anthropologists, social
scientists, clinical scientists, epidemiologists, mathematical modellers and economists),
practitioners and policymakers was used to build common understanding and identify feasible
solutions to improve infection control.

The ‘What Works’ project piloted and evaluated different approaches to preventing gender-based
violence in LMICs. Evaluation teams including experts in gender-based violence, epidemiology,
clinical trials, social science and economics worked together to develop robust evaluations that
captured the diverse economic and social consequences of gender-based violence in a rigorous
way.

1.6. Open research environment

Principles of open research are instilled in researchers at all levels, supported by our Library and
Archives Service. Our 2017 Open Access Policy mandated open access for all research outputs,
regardless of REF and funder policies.

Our research data management service has offered in-depth advice about plans, reproducibility,
ethics and legal issues and has maintained our Data Compass repository, where data are
discoverable, accessible and re-usable. The repository held more than a thousand datasets by
2020. In addition, since 2014, as an early adopter of an e-thesis policy, we have mandated that all
PhD theses are openly available.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking indicators for all sciences, 90.7% of our publications were
open-access, ranking us second in the UK and third in the world for this indicator. This
achievement underlines our successful commitment to and support for an open research
environment, as does the fact that our modellers and statisticians routinely post online their
statistical packages, R codes and models – as has been the case for LSHTM’s COVID-19 and
climate change modelling.

In 2019/20, we rewrote our internal policies and guidelines to ensure staff career progression and
hiring processes were in line with recommendations on open research. We also ensured they
reflected the San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA), which we signed in
2018.

Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance are now explicit in stating that all types of
research output – including datasets and software – are valued. They also explain that we expect
authors of research papers, monographs and book chapters to make their results freely available
and to ensure underpinning data can also be openly accessed at the earliest opportunity.

1.7. Research integrity

A Research Governance Committee was established in 2013. Acting as a subcommittee of Senate
and superseding previous arrangements, it strengthens oversight of our responsibilities and
obligations – including as a sponsor of health-related research. The Committee oversees our
ethics committees and our policies and procedures on research governance; promotes best
practice; ensures effective monitoring and reporting arrangements are in place for investigating
allegations of research misconduct; receives reports of research governance audits or inspections
by external bodies; and monitors the School’s response to the findings of external audits or
inspections.

The Research Governance and Integrity Office (RGIO) provides the secretariat to the Committee
and ensures research is conducted in accordance with standards of good practice, professional
frameworks and relevant legislation in all countries where we work. These commitments are
underpinned by a Good Research Practice (GRP) policy, which follows guidance from UKRI and
the UK Research Integrity Office and conforms with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

GRP has been introduced to all staff and students during staff induction and student orientation
days. In addition, RGIO has provided an in-depth training course on GRP for doctoral students and
staff which runs three times a year. Procedures and templates have been made available to help
researchers develop high-quality protocols that comply with the current regulatory framework.
Clinical trials, projects involving human tissue and tissue storage facilities have been regularly
audited by RGIO to ensure compliance with study protocols, regulations and other LSHTM policies
and procedures.

International projects must receive approval from the relevant partner country’s ethics committee;
clinical trials of investigational medicinal products or medical devices must also receive approval
from the relevant regulatory authority. The MRC Units have their own ethics review processes, with
projects fast-tracked through LSHTM’s overarching committees to assure timely review and
effective oversight.

RGIO staffing numbers have been increased during the assessment period in order to meet
regulatory requirements where LSHTM is the named legal sponsor. Ethics committees have also
been reviewed and updated to meet increased demands (submissions rose by 76% between 2014
and 2019). A new Commercialisation and Rapid Response Committee was set up to review
research projects in emerging epidemics and commercial projects with quick turnaround times.
LSHTM’s own ethics training course was made available to our staff online in October 2019.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

2.1.1. Staff development strategy

Demonstrating our institutional commitment to the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
Conduct for their Recruitment, LSHTM is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers. In 2019, following a gap analysis of policies and practices against
the principles of the Concordat and the development of an action plan, we were awarded the EU
HR Excellence in Research Award.

We have also established a Research Staff Forum. This is part of our HR Excellence in Research
Award and works alongside the Concordat Monitoring Group, which reports annually to the Senior
Leadership Team and our People Committee.

The Talent and Educational Development (TED) team and the Strategic Research Office (SRO)
support researchers’ career development. TED is responsible for professional development and
opportunities to improve skills and capabilities at work, including high-quality transferrable skills
training for all staff and doctoral students. SRO provides comprehensive support assisting early-
and mid-career researchers with fellowship applications (see section 3.2 for further details).

LSHTM ran 311 in-house training workshops, with 3,098 training places filled, in 2019-2020. With
online training provision increased, 43% of sessions were offered virtually. Since 2015, when the
SRO was established, fellowship and personal award applications have notably increased, with an
average success rate of 40%.

In 2017 LSHTM launched an annual Pathway to Academic Leadership Programme. More than
80% of participants have reported this has developed their leadership confidence, with feedback
describing the initiative as ‘excellent’ and ‘the best training I’ve been on in over a decade’. Senior
staff are encouraged to take advantage of external training opportunities provided by funders, with
several participating in Wellcome, NIHR and Academy of Medical Sciences leadership
programmes.

In 2015 we drew on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and Advance HE’s UK
Professional Standards Framework to create new Expectations for Academic Staff. We retained
LSHTM’s traditional structure of areas of academic work – knowledge generation, education,
internal contributions and external contributions – but set criteria for performance at each grade
and in each category, with examples of activities that could be evidenced.

This approach enables academics to develop their portfolio of work in line with their own
preferences and abilities and the School’s requirements. A level of contribution is required in all
categories – ensuring that, although we are a research-intensive institution, we acknowledge the
value of all areas of academic work. This initiative saw us adopt the terminology of Assistant
Professor and Associate Professor, introduce Professorial bands to ensure fair pay and
expectations at each career stage and explicitly describe how adjustments would be made for
personal circumstances such as clinical practice, overseas location and those characteristics
protected in law.

Processes and outcomes of our promotion cycle are subject to annual review. This includes
collecting and publishing statistics on applications and outcomes by gender and ethnicity. We
continue to update and improve our approach as necessary – as illustrated in 2019/20, when we
added clearer guidance on adhering to our DORA commitment and the importance we place on
team-working and ensuring a supportive academic environment.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our annual online Performance and Development Review (PDR) process assesses whether
objectives have been met in the context of our Expectations for Academic Staff, and agrees goals
and development activities for the coming year. TED provides training for reviewers and reviewees.
In 2018 the PDR process was streamlined and communications around its importance enhanced,
resulting in completion rates increasing from 63% in 2018 to 78% in 2019.

The School runs an in-house Mentoring Programme, open to all staff. It was evaluated, revised
and relaunched in 2017-2018 and is complemented by mentoring arrangements in research
groups and Departments.

2.1.2. Clinical academics

Clinical academics form an important component of our research workforce in both London and the
MRC Units. 49 clinical academics in UOA2 hold honorary consultant contracts (e.g. in infectious
diseases, paediatrics, public health) or joint academic NHS appointments. Our Academic
Expectations and Promotions Guidance explicitly state how we allow for time spent on clinical
duties.

We support the career development of clinical researchers through NIHR awards. Since 2014
there have been five public health Academic Clinical Fellowships (ACFs) and three clinical
epidemiology/urology ACFs, plus (across both of our UOAs) nine infectious diseases ACFs and
seven infectious diseases Academic Clinical Lecturers.

Our health services researchers collaborate closely with the NHS, including with clinical staff at
University College Hospital and through our research partnerships with the Royal Colleges of
Surgeons and Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. We joined the board of UCLPartners in 2013 and
are part of its NIHR Applied Research Collaborations and Academic Health Science Centre
(reaccredited in 2020).

2.1.3. Staffing and recruitment policy

A key aim of our 2017-2022 strategy has been ‘to recruit, develop and retain outstanding and
diverse researchers and educators who produce excellent science and can influence the public
and global health agenda, providing equal opportunity for progression’. We listed major strategic
recruitments during the assessment period in section 1.

LSHTM’s Recruitment and Selection Procedures ensure new staff are selected via a fair and
transparent process. To encourage internal redeployment and retain researchers, all jobs are
advertised for redeployment for one week before being advertised externally, and staff can be
placed on the redeployment register three months before a contract is due to end. To match our
Expectations for Academic Staff and provide a standard framework, job description templates have
been created for all academic roles.

As a research-intensive institution, LSHTM continually recruits to junior researcher roles. Our
promotion processes ensure these recruits’ achievements and growing maturity as researchers are
recognised.

Our REF submission includes all staff at Assistant (196), Associate (119) and Professor (139)
grades who have significant responsibility for research. Our staff profile has remained fairly stable
during the REF period.

On average, 7% of each grade pool are promoted each year.

 Grade                         Academic staff by grade            % of pool promoted to next
                              2014               2020             grade; average 2017-2020
 Research Assistant           13%                 9%                          8%
 Research Fellow              36%                 36%                         7%

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Assistant Professor          22%                  23%                      7%
 Associate Professor          11%                  15%                      7%
 Professor                    17%                  17%              4% (band movement)


LSHTM maintains a large network of national and international partnerships (see sections 3.7 and
4.1). Joint appointments have been used to cement these and to build work in areas of common
interest. Such appointments have involved the University of Glasgow in the UK, and overseas, the
Public Health Foundation of India, Nagasaki University in Japan, and National University of
Singapore.

A ‘big splash’ recruitment drive was launched in 2017 reflecting our new strategy, identification of
priority areas and the need to retain expertise in fields fundamental to our mission. As a result, we
made new Professor and Associate Professor appointments in data science, global mental health,
health systems research and medical sociology, as well as junior supporting appointments.

2.1.4. Fixed-term contracts

In 2014 LSHTM reviewed fixed-term contracts for Professors. This resulted in a transformation of
contracts – for example, a reduction from 53% to 0% for female fixed-term Professors. In 2016 our
Fixed-Term Contracts Policy was revised and updated in line with current legislation, ensuring
such contracts’ use only ‘for transparent and objective reasons, where there is genuine fixed-term
need’. All staff at Associate Professor level and above were reviewed in 2016 for transfer to
permanent contracts, leading in 2017 to a sharp fall in the use of fixed-term contracts for Associate
Professors.

53.5% of UOA2 staff are on fixed-term contracts, mostly linked to time-limited grant funding. Fixed-
term contract levels by gender are monitored in fulfilment of commitments to Athena SWAN
awards at School and Faculty level, and ethnicity monitoring was added in 2020.

2.1.5. Support to early-career researchers

Early-career researchers (ECRs) and postdoctoral research staff are the lifeblood of LSHTM.
Supporting them to become innovative and accomplished scientists is fundamental to our mission.
Both EPH and PHP appointed Associate Deans for Research in the assessment period, with a
remit to especially support ECRs.

We nurture early-career development through individually tailored activities. These include
reviewing grant proposals; holding mock interviews for fellowship and grant applicants; structuring
projects so that ECRs can lead on components; supporting and facilitating external research and
policy links; advising on journal selection strategies; journal clubs; work-in-progress seminars; and
practice sessions for conference presentations. Two of our major funders – MRC and Wellcome–
have established career frameworks, and our SRO uses these as points of reference. SRO, TED
and the Careers Service also support staff exploring career options outside academic research.

Our early-career researchers, making full use of our in-house support, have enjoyed great
success, with 94 fellowships and personal awards won by UOA2 staff and their team members
during the assessment period. Of these, 29 have subsequently been promoted internally (included
in this submission are Beattie, Bhaskaran, M Cairns, Cornelsen, Diaz-Ordaz, Eggo, Greco, Harris,
Keogh, Knight, Kucharski, Flasche, Funk, Langan, Lowe, Stoeckl) or appointed to a more senior
role externally (Daniel).

We have also won a number of training awards. These have included an MRC Skills Development
Fellowship block grant to recruit four fellows over two years in biostatistics, epidemiology,
mathematical modelling and health economics; three Doctoral Training Partnerships (MRC, ESRC,
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC)); a Wellcome Clinical PhD
Programme in Global Health; and three HDR UK UKRI Rutherford Fellowships.
                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We support ECRs at partner institutions with fellowship applications. The School was awarded a
Universities UK Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant to support six-month placements for five
postdoctoral researchers from Nagasaki University to develop their research collaborations with
LSHTM staff.

Research Assistants and Research Fellows without a PhD but with a suitable project can register
for an LSHTM doctorate at highly reduced fees. In 2019-2020 71 such staff working with UOA2
researchers were registered, benefiting from the creation of our Doctoral College in 2018 (see
section 2.2). All ECRs and postdoctoral research staff can freely access all 117 intensive and 85
distance learning modules taught in LSHTM’s MSc programmes; they can also access our in-
house TED programme, which allows the creation of more tailored personal development
pathways. LSHTM supports eight women each year on the Advance HE Aurora Programme.
Formal teaching qualifications include the Postgraduate Certificate in Learning & Teaching, which
all early-career staff are required to follow. 244 UOA2-associated staff attended at least one staff
development course in 2019-2020.

In 2018, using our Wellcome-funded Institutional Strategic Support Fund, we initiated a biennial
internal fellowship scheme to support the career progression of researchers at the crucial mid-
career transition point. So far eight fellows have been given up to 18 months’ support to develop
applications for external fellowship or major grant funding and to complete the Pathway to
Academic Leadership Programme. SRO meets with fellows on a regular basis to provide guidance.
One member of the first cohort was awarded a fellowship, and all three were promoted to
Associate Professor (with one promoted to Professor).

The final six months’ funding for the second cohort was conditional on submitting a mid-career
fellowship application. All four fellows did so, and three were successful. Two of these fellows are
included in our UOA2 submission: Diaz-Ordaz (Wellcome Royal Society Sir Henry Dale
Fellowship) and Price (Wellcome Clinical Research Career Development Award). In addition, 35
awards have been made during the REF period through a pump-priming scheme, again backed by
the Institutional Strategic Support Fund, to enable Research Fellows and Assistant Professors to
undertake small research projects of up to £10,000.

In 2019 we set up an Early-Career Researcher Network. With a dedicated intranet site and a
termly newsletter, this assists researchers – from PhD students to Assistant Professors – with their
professional and career development and provides networking, training and funding opportunities.

Individual research teams, Departments and Faculties regularly run research-related events.
Advertised in weekly e-bulletins, these are open to all staff. Centres also run events aimed at
ECRs – for example, the annual Centre for Statistical Methodology’s Early-Career Researcher
Showcase.

The MRC Units share in the initiatives described above. They also have their own longstanding
systems of support for ECRs.

MRCG is a regional training hub for West Africa. Its strategy was redefined in 2016 with the
creation of a new department that builds the human resources required for world-class research in
sub-Saharan Africa, with a particular focus on nurturing and developing young talent from The
Gambia and West Africa for internships and technical positions. A researcher leadership and
development programme provides PhDs and postdoctoral fellows with skills development and
resources, guidance on initiating early mentorship and support for personal development plans. By
2019 10 out of 17 ECRs and postdoctoral scientists at the Unit had attracted grants for either the
consolidation phase or pathway to independence phase, with some creating and developing their
own research groups. The Unit hosts the African Research Excellence Fund, established by UK
MRC to invest in talented emerging researchers.

MRCU has similarly strong capacity-strengthening programmes. For example, through Seeley’s
leadership, it has built a considerable social science presence in Uganda and the region, becoming

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the ‘go-to’ centre for related research and providing relevant training for other disciplines and
organisations. It has also run regional epidemiology and statistics courses drawing on LSHTM
material.

2.1.6. Research, impact and sabbatical leave

Assistant Professors and above who complete five years’ continuous service with the School can
apply for study leave of three to eight months. For example, to explore strengthening social
science research in the region, Mayhew visited MRCG and partners at Senegal’s Institute for
Health Research, Epidemiological Surveillance and Training and Université Cheikh Anta Diop de
Dakar – leading to the establishment of an interest group at MRCG and enhanced opportunities for
collaborative research visits.

Take-up of such leave is relatively low because most LSHTM academics spend the bulk of their
time on research, with their teaching deliberately restricted to specific blocks of time to facilitate
research and overseas work. Study leave is not as critical to research excellence as it might be at
institutions with higher teaching loads.

2.1.7. Exchanges between academia and business, industry, public or third-sector bodies

Requests for exchanges and secondments are accommodated whenever possible. Staff who have
been seconded to policy and implementing agencies include Whitty (Department for International
Development (DFID), Chief Scientist, 2009-2015; DHSC, Chief Scientific Adviser, 2017-2018; HM
Government, Chief Medical Officer for England, 2019-present) and Watts (DFID, now FCDO, Chief
Scientist, 2015-present). Other examples include Godfrey-Fausset (UNAIDS, Senior Science
Adviser), D Schellenberg (WHO Global Malaria Programme, Scientific Adviser) and Dangour and
Lawn (DFID, Senior Research Fellows).

Industry links have been strengthened during the REF period. We have built cross-sector
partnerships to enhance capacity in data science, infectious disease control and preparedness. A
Research England Connecting Capabilities Fund award, Bloomsbury SET: Connecting Capability
to Combat the Threat from Infectious Disease and Antimicrobial Resistance (led by RVC; £4.9m,
2018-2021), has enhanced our knowledge-exchange capabilities with regard to infectious diseases
and AMR through seed and project funding, cross-sector symposia and industry mentorship.

Dedicated seed funding, training and translational facilitation for staff have also been provided by
Higher Education Innovation Funding from Research England and a Wellcome Institutional
Translation Partnership Award. A new Intellectual Property Manager was recruited in 2019 to
support consultancy and technology-transfer activities.

2.1.8. Rewarding research and impact

We recognise and reward research and impact in the following ways:

   Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance clearly state how research and impact
    are valued and how achievements can be evidenced to support career progression.
   Our weekly internal staff newsletter, Chariot, includes regular research stories, particularly
    highlighting staff successes such as prestigious fellowships. Chariot also includes Centre of the
    Month and Publication of the Month features.
   LSHTM’s website showcases newsworthy and impactful research publications, press releases
    and opinion pieces demonstrating our thought leadership. Major awards and honours are also
    highlighted.
   Our annual LSHTM Week showcases the research, innovation and impact of our academics.
    First introduced in 2013, this is now a highlight of the academic year. All staff – including those
    based overseas – are invited to participate.



                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Faculties, Departments, Units and Centres regularly celebrate success via their own
    newsletters, as well as through annual research days.

In 2018 the Director’s Awards were launched as an additional means of recognition, conferred in a
ceremony in LSHTM Week. They are open to all academic and professional services staff across
every Department, discipline and grade, whether based in the UK or overseas. The academic
categories cover individual and team performance, ECRs, education contributions and public
engagement.

2.2. Research students

2.2.1. Doctoral study environment

LSHTM is an exclusively postgraduate institution with a vibrant, research-active community. As
such, it provides a fertile environment for doctoral study. We do not currently offer MRes
programmes, though research methods and summer projects intended to develop students’
research skills are important elements of our MSc programmes. Four MScs qualify as year 1 in
1+3 arrangements for our ESRC Doctoral Training Programme.

A Doctoral College was launched in September 2018, encompassing both our PhD programme
and our professional Doctorate in Public Health (DrPH). In 2017, as part of a broader research
partnership, we launched a joint doctoral training programme with Nagasaki University. Historically,
MRCG has awarded PhDs as an Affiliated Research Centre of the Open University, and this
arrangement has continued. We also support the development of doctoral training overseas –
especially in Africa and Asia – and the School is a partner in seven capacity-strengthening
consortia supported by Wellcome’s Developing Excellence in Leadership, Training and Science
Africa programme, led by or including 16 different African partners.

Doctoral students at LSHTM are very diverse. In 2019-2020 48% were over 36 years old (sector
average: 22%), 67% were part-time (sector average: 24%), 40% were from a black and minority
ethnic (BME) background (sector average: 18%) and 8.4% declared a disability. We have doctoral
students from 70 countries, with the five largest representations after the UK (39.5%) being the US
(11.7%), Canada (5.6%), France (3.0%), Uganda (2.2%), and Italy (2.0%).

Staff undertaking PhDs made up 24% of the total doctoral student body in 2019-2020. This has
been an important means for aspiring researchers to get the formal training needed to progress
their careers. In 2019 a PhD-by-publication route was introduced to enable researchers with
significant research experience to prepare and submit a PhD within six to 18 months, based on
work already completed, plus an analytic commentary.

Our 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey results showed improvements in almost all
areas. We particularly improved on research culture, and this area scored particularly well
compared to other institutions. There was 90% satisfaction with supervision, while other especially
strong areas included understanding of research integrity, transferable skills training and
submitting papers for publication.

2.2.2. Recruitment into Doctoral Training Programmes

To ensure fair recruitment, all funded studentships are advertised. These include both major
Doctoral Training Programmes and individual opportunities. All potential students are interviewed
by an academic Departmental Research Degree Coordinator who is outside the supervisory team.
To widen access, our Capacity-Strengthening Research Degree Scheme has provided highly
subsidised fees for low-income country students employed by 15 of our major overseas partners.

We were members of the following Doctoral Training Programmes during the REF period (LSHTM
studentship numbers noted in brackets):


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   The MRC London Intercollegiate Doctoral Training Partnership (run jointly with St George’s,
    University of London) supported research across three main themes: global infectious
    diseases, quantitative skills for analysis of large datasets and evaluation of complex
    interventions (5 p.a.).
   The Wellcome Bloomsbury Centre for Global Health Research Clinical PhD programme (led by
    LSHTM, with UCL; KCL; QMUL; St George’s; Brighton and Sussex Medical School) supported
    clinicians to train in research relevant to global health (2-3 p.a.).
   The ESRC UCL, Bloomsbury and East London Doctoral Training Programme (with UCL; SOAS
    University of London; Birkbeck, University of London; University of East London) supported
    research across the social sciences and economics, with a particular focus on interdisciplinary
    research (2-15 p.a.).
   The BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme (with UCL; RVC; QMUL; Birkbeck,
    University of London; KCL) supported projects in basic biology (2-4 p.a.).
   The Medical Research Foundation National PhD Training Programme in Antimicrobial
    Resistance Research (consortium led by the University of Bristol) trained new researchers to
    tackle antimicrobial resistance (1-3 p.a.).
   The Bloomsbury Colleges PhD Studentships (with Birkbeck, University of London; RVC;
    SOAS, University of London; Institute of Education, UCL) offered interdisciplinary research
    opportunities with joint supervision across two institutions (2 p.a.).

Other sources of funding included individual scholarships awarded by NIHR, national governments
(e.g. Thailand) and charities (e.g. Cancer Research UK). Some research grants and programmes,
including from Leverhulme and NIHR, budgeted for doctoral scholarships or were awarded linked
scholarships.

Annually, via a competitive selection process and international advertisement, MRCG has recruited
three to four PhD students funded by the MRCG Doctoral Training Programme budget. At MRCU,
where funding was available, opportunities have been awarded on a competitive basis; staff have
also supported students registered at Makerere University. Staff at both MRC Units have accessed
LSHTM doctoral degrees at significantly discounted fee rates since 2018.

2.2.3. Support, monitoring and progression

A number of changes were made during the REF period to increase support to doctoral students
and improve progression. These included:

   Formalising the composition of supervisory teams
   Mandatory training and retraining of supervisors, including mentorship
   Clarifying expectations of supervision frequency
   Using electronic supervision records
   Introducing a compulsory deadline of four years full-time, eight years part-time, with flexibility
    for personal circumstances

In addition, regular progress monitoring by an academic Department Research Degree
Coordinator, approachable at any time, has provided opportunities to identify progression-related
issues. The positive impact of these changes has been evidenced in HESA statistics and in the
fact that the new deadlines have not led to any increase in failed upgrades from MPhil to PhD or in
18-month thesis corrections (rates of which are very low).

2.2.4. Skills development and preparation for future career

The Doctoral College has coordinated our extensive programme of training in transferable skills
and our more specific courses. This has included in-house training and shared courses in the
Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, enabling doctoral students to acquire skills listed in
Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. One-to-one support for statistical skills has also
been made available.

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Many doctoral students have contributed to our Masters teaching after appropriate training. Most
doctoral students have already taken part in our Masters programmes, with many benefiting from
access to further MSc modules during their studies (see section 2.1.5).

DrPH students study two specific modules during their first term and then complete an
organisational and/or policy analysis. The latter usually involves three to six months’ fieldwork
based on observing and analysing policy and/or operations at a host organisation.

2.2.5. Integration into research culture

Doctoral students are considered full members of our academic Departments. They are invited to
meetings, seminars and social events, and are encouraged to join our Centres, most of which have
student representatives. Many doctoral students already have a wealth of experience, which
enhances the two-way process of integration into Departments and Centres.

Involving staff and students alike, work-in-progress seminars were run at various levels – research
team, Department and Faculty – during the REF period. These augmented the more formal
upgrading and pre-viva seminars and the annual doctoral student poster day. Students were
strongly encouraged to submit work to external conferences and seminars, and funding was made
available to support attendance at such events. Doctoral students were also represented on the
Research Culture Working Group.

2.3. Equality and diversity

2.3.1. LSHTM’s commitment

LSHTM is committed to providing an inclusive working environment for research and ensuring all
staff and students are treated with respect, consideration, courtesy and dignity. Our Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy 2016-2019 detailed our vision ‘to embrace and value the
diversity of the staff and student population and to embed equality and diversity activities as an
essential element in enhancing our contribution to the improvement of health worldwide’.

Reflecting this ethos, we explored EDI issues in staff surveys conducted in 2015, 2017 and 2019.
Following evidence in the 2019 survey that some staff did not feel valued, an LSHTM Professor led
a more detailed study involving focus group discussions and interviews. The 2019 survey and our
subsequent Feeling Valued report have since been used to develop a framework for enhancing
LSHTM leadership, values, culture and staff wellbeing. In 2020, in parallel with this process, staff’s
growing engagement with Decolonising Global Health (DGH) and Black Lives Matter (BLM)
networks underlined the importance of keeping EDI at the heart of everything we do.

In 2019 we reformed our EDI Committee to ensure it has oversight on all matters relating to
equality, diversity and inclusion, and is connected into decision-making structures via its chair, the
Deputy Director and Provost. We have been updating our action plan around EDI issues, taking
into account the impact of COVID-19 and seeking to inform the planning of support structures and
processes for the whole LSHTM community. In developing the EDI action plan we have drawn on
an evidence base that includes progress against our previous strategy, the 2019 survey and follow-
up activities, DGH and BLM testimony, Athena SWAN submissions, external focus groups,
ongoing discussions and data analysis. We are committed to continued, positive change.

2.3.2. Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working

Our policies and practices support flexible working arrangements to help staff combine the
demands of employment with those of family or other personal commitments. Options include part-
time work, flexible working hours, job-sharing initiatives, term-time contracts and working from
home.



                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The requirement to work from home during the COVID-19 outbreak led to significant changes in
how we managed flexible working. We provided extensive support and guidance on remote
software, GDPR regulations, health and safety, stress and mental health. Equipment required for
ergonomic working was paid for by LSHTM or project funds. We supported efforts to balance work
with caring responsibilities and managers were encouraged to establish ongoing dialogue with staff
to ensure manageable workloads. It was not necessary to request carer's leave, annual leave or
other types of leave to manage non-work commitments, and staff directly or indirectly affected by
the outbreak were not required to 'make up' missed hours or log time away from work. We
facilitated staff and students with volunteering to support COVID-19 control efforts.

We put special emphasis on supporting mental health and wellbeing, further detailed in section
2.3.5. To engage staff and maintain our sense of community, all LSHTM communications and
events were placed online. We prioritised delivering an interactive virtual events programme,
including lectures, seminars and panel discussions, and also held regular webinars with all staff,
with up to 600 participants.

A June 2020 survey on working from home assessed the effectiveness of our support, as well as
how staff might prefer to work after COVID-19. It reported 90% satisfaction with support from line
management, as well as increased trust and collegiality.

The survey also highlighted areas for improvement, including burnout issues, isolation and
deterioration in mental health. New initiatives have since been implemented to address such areas.
66% of academic staff wanted to mix home and office working in the future, and a pilot scheme
reflecting this preference is now being tested.

2.3.3. Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

Our UOA2 submission includes 158 part-time staff (35% of the submission). We have a structured,
single career path for academic staff, progressing from Research Assistant to Professor. The
academic promotions process runs annually, and anyone – regardless of FTE and length of
contract – can apply. Heads of Department are tasked with ensuring all academic staff can access
the process, with no-one unfairly disadvantaged, and a Department-managed annual CV review
provides constructive feedback.

Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance include clear statements on how we allow
for personal circumstances, including part-time working. In 2018 an external consultant reviewed
the fairness of promotion decisions with respect to part-time working, and found no evidence of
disadvantage. We acted on recommendations to improve our processes, including formalising a
small committee to assess personal circumstances statements.

2.3.4. Taking equality and diversity into account in structures and processes

EDI principles are embedded throughout LSHTM’s training provision. We have also run EDI-
specific workshops on Respectful Working Cultures, Mental Health Awareness and Disability
Awareness. An online Report & Support tool was launched in 2020, enabling staff and students to
report any incidents of bullying and harassment.

We monitor the diversity of our research workforce as part of an annual, publicly available report.
This presents staff and student data across protected characteristics, highlights activities
supporting EDI during the year, and identifies areas for further investigation and action.

Recruitment panels and staff promotion committees are required to have diverse membership. EDI
and HR colleagues analyse promotion data after each round, and these analyses are made
available to all staff via Chariot and included on all staff promotion committees’ agendas.

LSHTM has introduced several career re-entry fellowships, complementing existing schemes, for
those returning to work after a period of absence. The Centre for Maternal, Adolescent,

                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Reproductive and Child Health runs a competitively awarded £30,000 career re-entry fellowship
scheme to support one member of staff each year. ITD awards up to two £15,000 Athena SWAN
Career Restart Fellowships for Carers annually. LSHTM also encourages applications for external
fellowships to support those who have caring responsibilities or who wish to return to academia
after a career break; we currently host a Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow (Lowe).

Gender

Our UOA2 submission is 56% female and 44% male.

LSHTM’s institutional Athena SWAN bronze award was renewed in 2018. PHP’s silver award was
renewed in the same year, and EPH’s and ITD’s bronze awards were renewed in 2019 and 2018
respectively.

LSHTM’s academic staff is majority female, except at the most senior level. At the start of the
assessment period, women became equally represented at the associate professor grade, and
achieved this in 2017/18 for the entry band for professors (Band C). In Bands B and A, the share of
women increased from 31% in 2014/15, to 35% in 2019/20. We seek further improvement through
targeted support to women nearing the point of promotion to professor and progressing through the
professorial bands. Recruitment data show women were more likely to be appointed than men
overall, but relatively fewer women applied to advertisements for higher academic grades.

School-wide promotion data for 2017 to 2020, including both proportion successful from the grade
pool and proportion successful from those who applied, show women had higher application
success rates for promotion to grades where they were less dominant (Associate Professor and
Professor). Similarly, men had higher application success rates for promotion to grades where they
were less dominant (Research Fellow and Assistant Professor).

    Promotions by gender          % pool applied     % pool promoted      % applications
    (2017-2020) from grade of:                                             successful
                                 Women      Men      Women       Men     Women      Men
    Research Assistant            14         6         9          6       69        100
    Research Fellow               12         9         7          7       64         78
    Assistant Professor           10         16        6          8       60         53
    Associate Professor           12         10        9          5       75         50

MRC, one of our largest funders, reports gender-specific data on our applications annually. The
number and share of applications, and successful applications, from female LSHTM staff have
increased dramatically over time. Our gender balance is superior to all other universities applying
to MRC. In addition, the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking named LSHTM the UK’s top university in all
sciences for the proportion of academic research with women listed as authors (48.1%).

These improvements can be attributed to various activities to support female progression,
including:

     Active Athena SWAN committees, with membership on School promotion committees
     Improved job security from awarding permanent contracts to most Associate Professors (a
      lower percentage of women than men reported concern about job security in our 2019 staff
      survey)
     Extensive career and leadership development programmes for women
     SRO investment to support academic career progression
     A deliberate increase in female committee membership
     Drawing on the large cadre of senior LSHTM female academics to provide career advice to
      junior colleagues

                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Supporting leadership development for mid-career female staff through eight places each year
      on the Advance HE Aurora Programme

Ethnicity

Our UOA2 submission is 76% white, 19% BME, and 5% not declared.

LSHTM has acknowledged its colonial origins and in 2018 funded archival research to explore its
colonial legacies. This historical study is already informing discussions about research, teaching
and working practices. All staff are required to undergo mandatory EDI training, and progressing
race equality has been a key focus in developing our new EDI action plan.

In 2020 29% of Research Assistants identified as BME, but this decreased to 15% at Professorial
level. There was an increase in the proportion of BME staff at all grades between 2015 and 2020,
though to a lesser degree for higher grades. Recruitment data show white applicants were more
likely to be appointed than BME applicants, and analysis by grade shows fewer BME applicants for
higher academic grades.

School-wide promotion data for 2017 to 2020 reveal similar application success rates for BME and
white staff for promotion to Research Fellow and Professor, with lower application success rates
for BME staff at Research Fellow and, in particular, Assistant Professor level.

    Promotions by ethnicity        % pool applied     % pool promoted      % applications
    (2017-2020) from grade of:                                               successful
                                   BME      White      BME       White     BME      White
    Research Assistant              11       12          8        8         73        73
    Research Fellow                 10       10          6        8         59        73
    Assistant Professor             15       11          5        7         32        65
    Associate Professor             17       10         11        7         64        64

In 2020, to enhance transparency in the promotions process, around 3 non-committee members
were invited to observe each Faculty and School staff review committee. Their judgement was that
all applicants received a fair hearing and were given constructive and supportive feedback. Their
recommendation that EDI contributions be more strongly embedded in reward and recognition
criteria is now being taken forward, along with strengthened positive actions to support BME staff
career development. We are also ensuring that recruitment material – including job descriptions
and person specifications - and selection processes support the recruitment of a diverse population
of academic staff, in line with our mission as a global health institution.

The killing of George Floyd and subsequent events in 2020 shed renewed light on social
inequalities and racism, leading LSHTM to reaffirm its commitment to ending racial injustice and
racial disparities in public health. Members of the DGH and BLM movements were invited to speak
to LSHTM’s Council about their experiences, and a new Council Committee on Diversity and
Inclusion was set up to scrutinise progress and monitor structural and cultural change. The School
also signed up to Race Equality Charter self-assessment. Other actions and activities included:

     A working group to produce guidance on how to eliminate racist and colonial perspectives in
      curriculum content
     A White Privilege Discussion Group to self-reflect on improving as colleagues and people
     A safe space for People of Colour staff and students in Microsoft Teams, offering a forum for
      reflection and support while working remotely
     Supporting leadership development for mid-career BME staff through four places each year on
      the Advance HE Diversifying Leadership Programme



                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Other protected characteristics

LSHTM offers a range of support and cover for parental and adoption leave. Staff and their line
managers are encouraged to use Keeping in Touch days to stay informed about what is happening
in their teams and to benefit from training and development opportunities. The maternity return rate
of 92% for academics is comparable with a sector benchmark of 88% for academic and research
staff. Our Menopause-LSHTM network shares experiences, offers support and seeks to demystify
and destigmatise all stages of menopause.

We are a Stonewall diversity champion, committed to supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender staff. LSHTM’s Director, a former Director of UNAIDS, has been a prominent
champion of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans (LGBT) community. An LGBT and Friends
Network is open to all staff and students and hosts an LGBT+ welcome event and LGBT History
Month Celebrations. Trans identity is explicitly mentioned in our Anti-Bullying and Harassment
Policy, updated in 2017, and in recent training on creating respectful working cultures.

4% of UOA2 staff declared a disability. The School is a Disability Confident Employer and is
working to become a Level 3 Disability Confident Leader. It is also a certified user of the Two Ticks
Disability Scheme. Our International Centre for Research on Disability works with people with
disabilities at every stage in its activities and has a work experience scheme for students with
disability, one of whom commented: ‘It has been a truly amazing experience – more than I ever
imagined it could be. I have been able to make a real contribution whilst learning many new skills.’

LSHTM accommodates reasonable time for staff and students to pray. The School has a multi-faith
room for prayer or quiet contemplation.

2.3.5. Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students

In 2017 LSHTM achieved the London Healthy Workplace Charter Award and signed the Time to
Change Pledge, which recognised our action plan to end mental health discrimination in the
workplace. In the same year the School set up a Mental Health Network, made up of staff
volunteer Mental Health Champions. We also launched a network of trained Mental Health First
Aiders.

Other wellbeing initiatives have included an annual Wellbeing Week, our staff summer picnic,
walking and running groups, staff and student yoga, the School’s choir and a range of healthy
eating schemes. LSHTM’s Wellbeing Committee has coordinated efforts in collaboration with the
EDI Committee.

LSHTM provides free and confidential counselling to all members of staff through the University of
Westminster's Only Connect counselling service. Via Skype or phone, this is also available to staff
overseas. In addition, occupational health support has been increased in response to growing
demand. LSHTM's Student Support Services offers confidential support and advice for students on
non-academic issues, including counselling, disability and dyslexia support, and a financial
hardship fund.

During the COVID-19 outbreak the LSHTM community developed a number of wellbeing
resources. These included a Microsoft Teams site for parents and carers; regular staff emails on
changes in government guidelines; disability resources relating to the implications of COVID-19;
virtual coffee mornings and meditation; workstation support; and processes and infrastructure for
staff struggling to work from home.

2.3.6. REF Code of Practice

Our Code of Practice was drafted to ensure an inclusive REF process. This has enabled us to
identify all independent researchers and the outputs produced by Category A eligible staff across


                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

all protected groups and with individual circumstances that may have constrained their ability to
undertake research during the REF period.

A mock REF scoring exercise for outputs was conducted, with the scoring profile and number of
outputs allocated to all submitted staff compared with the equality profile of all submitted staff at
those grades. This was done to determine whether the outputs from any groups in relation to their
protected characteristics were underrepresented in the final submission. Analysis of the submitted
outputs by gender, ethnicity and disability demonstrated that no groups were underrepresented.
Equality Impact Assessments of the outcome of the exercise and the preparation for final REF
submissions were also undertaken.




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1. Research funding

LSHTM’s grant portfolio continued to grow during the assessment period, with research income in
UOA2 of £46.3m in 2013-2014 and £85.8m in 2019-2020. The total value of the 198 new grants
awarded to UOA2 staff in 2019-2020 was £84.3m.

Research income to UOA2 increased overall by 86%:

    UKRI income increased by 208%, reflecting our success with GCRF and the incorporation of
     the MRC Units
    EU funding increased by 61%
    DHSC and FCDO income increased by 39%

We frequently receive awards as the lead institution and transfer funds to partners, often in LMICs.
The average research income per FTE submitted staff member in 2019-2020 was £224,884.

We have seen an increase in the size of research grants awarded to staff in UOA2 during the REF
period, with 28 over £5m and 162 over £1m. The high quality and relevance of our research
expertise have been shown most recently in our success in the UKRI COVID-19 research calls, in
which we were third in the UK for total value of awards (£11.3m), fourth in average value (£753k)
and fifth in number (15).

The nature of our research funding is critical to ensuring high-quality outputs and impact. We have
especially attracted substantial awards to evaluate major innovations – including new vaccines,
therapeutics and ways of using existing products – and have ensured the inclusion of funds in
grants for dissemination and policy change.

For example, Peek Vision is a social enterprise born out of LSHTM research. Bastawrous
developed prototype apps to enable the use of smartphones in mobile eye clinics, created a
support platform, led trials to demonstrate feasibility and then evaluated the impact on health
programmes. Peek includes tools and software for measuring visual acuity, undertaking
population-based eye surveys, and reporting data and analysis, and has since been implemented,
with Bastawrous’ support, into school and community eye health programmes in Botswana, Kenya,
India, Pakistan and Zimbabwe.

In addition, we have used allocations from Research England’s QR GCRF, Higher Education
Innovation Fund and the QR Strategic Priorities Fund to amplify the impact achievable from grant
funding. Internal funding calls using the Strategic Priorities Fund have awarded small grants to staff
with innovative ideas to engage with policymakers and translate research into benefits beyond
academia. We also dedicated a proportion of QR GCRF funding in 2020 to support four innovative
projects on COVID-19 in LMICs.

3.2. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Established as a central resource in 2015 and now with five staff, our Strategic Research Office
(SRO) supports academics in identifying research funding opportunities, developing high-quality
grant applications and coordinating institutional-level strategic applications. It also runs regular
Funder Showcases and an annual Fellows’ Showcase, where fellowship holders talk about their
experiences.

SRO is further responsible for knowledge exchange, international partnerships and implementing
QR GCRF and Higher Education Innovation Fund strategies. It manages institutional grants,
including the Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund and Wellcome Institutional
Translational Partnership Award, MRC Skills Development Fellowships, HDR UK Fellowships, the
                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant and the GCRF Impact Accelerator Award. A position was
added in 2018 to work across the School to facilitate impact, including supporting the development
of REF impact case studies.

During the assessment period there was substantial investment in the Research Operations Office,
which manages LSHTM’s portfolio of external research funding. A 12-week development
programme in 2018 saw process review and new technology improve response times, contract
turnaround times, project set-up times and finance reporting. Additional resources were created to
support Faculty staff, including a ‘project lifecycle’ document detailing roles and responsibilities.
The team increased from 20 to 34 between 2017 and 2019 and managed 1,000 applications and a
UOA2 portfolio of 833 active grants with a total value of £482m in 2019/20.

We also significantly enhanced our support to staff in communicating research to specialist and
public audiences. Our Communications & Engagement Department grew to include 30 members of
staff in London. We launched a new website in 2017, and many research projects that had their
own standalone websites have migrated their sites to lshtm.ac.uk – more than doubling their traffic.
Our social profile grew significantly, with more than 150,000 followers across Twitter, Facebook,
Instagram and LinkedIn. Our monthly external e-newsletter now has more than 15,000 subscribers
from audiences including funders, policymakers, NGOs and the public, with open (36.4%) and
click-through (21.3%) rates far above the sector averages (17.4% and 2.6% respectively).

In 2015 we introduced a Research in Action feature series to reflect our impact and policy
influence. It was highly commended in two categories at the Medical Journalists’ Association
Awards in 2017. We have provided dedicated support for staff to write op-eds that demonstrate
their thought leadership via external news media and influencer channels, including the Guardian,
Devex and Thomson Reuters Foundation. More than 20,000 pieces of LSHTM coverage were
generated each year across print, online and broadcast media globally.

LSHTM has developed an inclusive strategy to embed and facilitate public engagement. In 2017 a
UKRI SEE-PER (Strategic Support to Expedite Embedding Public Engagement with Research)
grant supported a School-wide survey of attitudes and needs around this goal. A new action plan
for 2018-2022 has supported a strong culture of public engagement through developing new
training, networks and champions.

School Centre administrative, communications and events support was fragmented and largely
self-funded by the Centres prior to 2014, at which point a budget for a shared team of
administrators was allocated. A Centres Forum began to meet termly to coordinate activities and
ensure centralised support in line with Centres’ needs, with a light-touch annual review and an in-
depth triennial review evaluating performance and guiding further development. A Centres’
representative sits on LSHTM’s Senate.

The incorporation of the MRC Units in 2018 introduced a major change in the organisational
infrastructure supporting research and impact. While MRCG and MRCU have continued to function
as autonomous research units on the basis of their quinquennial review awards, synergies
between the Units and other LSHTM research groups have been encouraged. Unit scientists can
apply for the award of an academic title bringing attachment to a Department and Faculty; School
funding has been used to support two-way visits and seed funding for joint projects; and Unit staff
have enriched the activities of School Centres.

For example, in 2020 MRCG and the Centre on Climate Change and Planetary Health, in
partnership with the government of The Gambia and the University of The Gambia, co-hosted a
conference, Improving Health and Wellbeing in West Africa under Environmental Change. As well
as feeding into plans for the next MRCG quinquennial review, the event showcased local evidence,
supported an emerging research community, engaged with local policymakers and other
stakeholders and highlighted the urgent actions required in West Africa to safeguard the health of
people and the planet.


                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.3. Operational and scholarly infrastructure

Research within UOA2 is housed across the LSHTM estate. It encompasses London-based staff at
our historic Keppel Street (EPH and ITD) and Tavistock Place (PHP) sites; MRCG staff at the
Unit’s three campuses in Fajara, Basse and Keneba, with state-of-the-art facilities and 10,000m2 of
laboratory and office space; and MRCU staff at the campus of the Ministry of Health’s Uganda
Virus Research Institute (UVRI) in Entebbe, which includes research clinics, laboratories and
technical and infrastructural support services.

In 2017, the School’s Council agreed a major capital programme to increase space and renovate
old buildings. £23.6m was spent between 2017 and 2020, with a total of £38.6m committed to
further phases. The programme includes a new building at Tavistock Place, refurbishment of
laboratories at Keppel Street, longer-term improvement to offices at Keppel Street and completion
of inherited building projects at both MRC Units.

Key work completed during the REF period included new insectaries to enhance facilities for our
entomologists; a new entomology laboratory at MRCG to conduct clinical trials of novel
interventions against vector-borne diseases; and a new teaching and training facility in our London
Bedford Square building to support executive leadership programmes. Ongoing projects include
refurbishment of internal space and essential infrastructure upgrades at Keppel Street.

Work on a new 2,500m2 state-of-the-art facility at Tavistock Place is also under way. The intention
is to provide greatly improved research facilities, enhance capacity for new appointments and bring
together infectious disease researchers. This project is supported by philanthropic donations and a
£7.5m grant from HEFCE’s Catalyst Fund.

Reflecting our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2030, environmental sustainability is a
key objective both in the capital programme and throughout LSHTM’s operations. In 2019, as
highlighted by the Gambian government at COP25, a solar power generation system – the biggest
of its kind in the country – was completed at MRCG, reducing energy bills by 25% and cutting
1,250 tons of annual carbon emissions. LSHTM has invested in new virtual conferencing facilities
and rolled out new video-conferencing software to all staff as a sustainable alternative to business
travel. The School’s catering service was redesigned to provide healthy meals with lower
environmental footprint.

These and other changes resulted in the following:

   A 42% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions between 2012-2013 and 2018-
    2019
   Increased recycling rates – from 54% in 2016-2017 to 66% in 2018-2019
   An 18% reduction in water consumption between 2016-2017 and 2018-2019
   A 66-place rise in the People & Planet University League between 2016 and 2019

Other elements of our operational and scholarly infrastructure include our technical and support
staff, datasets, advanced equipment, IT resources, publication and data repositories and our
Library and Archives collections.

Chariot Innovations Ltd was established in 2013 to manage knowledge exchange and commercial
innovation activities resulting from LSHTM research. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of the School
and provides an incubator for spin-out companies established by LSHTM academics. During the
assessment period we enhanced our support for translational research and innovation through the
recruitment of a new Intellectual Property Manager and an SRO member of staff dedicated to
supporting funding applications for translational research.

Our School Library has extensive collections of print and electronic material, including the archives
of leading health researchers and professionals and rare book collections. A collection evaluation


                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

project ensures subscribed-to resources are mapped on to researchers’ subject interests, and
ongoing acquisition policies ensure resources are relevant. Resources are provided by
subscriptions and by promoting discovery resources such as Unpaywall and Open Access Button
and providing an easy-to-use interlibrary loan service. The Library and Archives Service also offers
tailored one-to-one advice on literature searching and systematic reviews.

The Library and Archives Service is responsible for the School’s open-access repository of our
research (LSHTM Research Online) and a digital repository of our research data (LSHTM Data
Compass). Staff provide support and advice on open-access publishing and research data
management. In 2015 we enhanced our data management and fulfilled expectations to comply
with the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council Policy Framework on Research
Data.

Our use of large routine datasets has increased during the assessment period, and we have
established secure facilities to support this. Datasets include UK Clinical Practice Research
Datalink, Hospital Episode Statistics, drug and disease registries and numerous international data
sources.

Researchers embarking on a study store original datasets on the School’s secure server, which is
accessible only by members of the relevant research group. All anonymised statistical analysis
files and datasets are stored on LSHTM network drives or School-owned encrypted laptops or hard
drives during a study. Data are then archived on the School’s secure server once a study is
completed. Physical media and any physical copies of the data are held in a safe. Data are stored
in accordance with licence agreements with data controllers and processors.

3.4. Equality and diversity considerations in infrastructure

Our new buildings provide opportunities to ensure accessibility solutions not available to us in our
old, Grade II listed premises. Enhancements include more wheelchair-accessible toilets,
asymmetrical door sets and coloured plug sockets to aid those with visual impairments.

Our flexible working policy, as detailed in section 2.3.2, enables researchers to work from home to
help manage caring and related responsibilities. Coupled with the global reach of our activities, this
means enabling digital communications has become increasingly vital.

A standardised audio-video calling/conferencing platform was rolled out across LSHTM in 2019.
This put us in a strong position when COVID-19 required home working. All our work moved online
with little apparent difficulty. The high quality of our digital communications has enabled staff to
work effectively from home and avoid travelling to LSHTM to do essential work – except when
dependent on accessing laboratories or the Library’s physical holdings.

Our TED and Technology-Enhanced Learning teams have developed various materials to support
staff in maximising digital accessibility. These include training in best practice when designing
resources and the use of SensusAccess, which allows staff and students to automatically convert
documents into a range of alternate media.

3.5. Use of infrastructure, facilities and expertise in impact activities

Before COVID-19 we made extensive use of our facilities and central London location to host our
own events and those of others. Especially notable examples during the assessment period
included:

   The launch of the AMR (2016) and Climate Change and Planetary Health (2019) Centres. The
    former featured the Chief Medical Officer and the latter the UK House of Commons Chair of the
    Environmental Audit Committee.



                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   High-profile talks in our annual Women in Science series, including a lecture by then WHO
    Director General Margaret Chan and an ‘on the sofa’ conversation with the Deputy Director and
    Provost on career choices and influences.
   The John Snow Annual Pumphandle Lectures, which have featured Joanne Liu, International
    President of Médecins Sans Frontières; Richard Horton, Editor in Chief of The Lancet; and
    Paul Spiegel, former Chief of Public Health at the UN High Commissioner for Refugees.

Although participant numbers prevented the event being held at our own facilities, in 2018 LSHTM
hosted the second Women Leaders in Global Health conference – convened to help redress the
imbalance of women occupying less than 25% of influential leadership positions despite making up
75% of the global healthcare workforce. More than 900 participants, representing 80+ nationalities
from 70+ countries of residence, attended. Speakers included Soumya Swaminathan, Deputy
Director General for Programmes, WHO; Agnes Binagwaho, Vice Chancellor, University of Global
Health Equity, and former Rwandan Minister of Health; and Sally Davies, then Chief Medical
Officer for England.

3.6. Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

A number of our research areas rely on computation, including mathematical modelling, machine
learning and research on electronic health records. LSHTM runs three high-performance
computing clusters – one in London and one at each of the MRC Units – and is also a partner in
the eMedLab data centre and secure computer cluster. LSHTM reviewed its high-performance
computing faculties in 2019 and agreed on additional staffing.

The inclusion of MRCG in 2018 brought further specialist infrastructure and facilities. The Unit’s
investigator-led research is underpinned by excellent laboratory facilities, close proximity to field
sites, outstanding clinical services, rigorous ethical procedures and GCP-compliant delivery of
clinical trials. Research platforms and clinical cohorts include the health demographic surveillance
systems in West Kiang (from 2005), Farafenni (from 1981) and Basse (from 2007), covering a
population of 240,000; the Clinical Research platform; the Sukara Health Centre and the paediatric
ward of the Edward Francis Small Teaching Hospital in Banjul; and the TB Case Contact platform.

Similarly, additional specialist infrastructure and facilities came with MRCU’s inclusion. The Unit’s
main operational base on UVRI’s Entebbe campus includes research clinics, laboratories and other
support services. Field stations at Kyamulibwa, Masaka and Mengo host various studies and staff
members. Established in 1989, MRCU’s General Population Cohort in rural south-western Uganda
monitors trends in prevalence and incidence of HIV infection and their determinants. The Entebbe
Mother and Baby Study, established in 2005, studies how experiences early in life affect health
outcomes. The MRC/UVRI Medical Informatics Centre supports the integration of epidemiological
methods with genomic and computational technologies to study the biology of a broad range of
diseases. MRCU also has a key role in strengthening capacity to ensure sub-Saharan African
researchers are fully engaged in medical informatics developments.

LSHTM’s Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) has an international reputation, especially in the areas of
trauma and emergency care, cardiovascular disease, cluster randomised trials, and maternal
health. During the assessment period CTU led prominent international trials such as CRASH3,
WOMAN, HALT-IT, StatinWISE and ARREST, and expanded to include school-based intervention
trials such as INCLUSIVE and Positive Choices.

3.7. Cross-HEI shared/collaborative research infrastructure and major research facilities

3.7.1. Overseas

One of the five priorities in LSHTM’s 2017-2022 strategy is to create and consolidate strong
national and global partnerships. The Deputy Director and Provost has overall strategic
responsibility for these, supported by a Partnerships Officer. Senior oversight of African
partnerships is provided by a Special Adviser on Overseas Programmes in Africa.
                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Below we address major cross-HEI shared use of research infrastructure overseas and in the UK.
We deal with our research collaborations in more detail in section 4.1. Since our philosophy has
been to develop capacity overseas through strengthening – or supporting the creation of – local
research entities, these partnerships are all with locally owned institutions.

Africa

LSHTM’s shared research facilities in Africa have their origins in agreed capacity-strengthening
programmes. Over time these have developed into significant shared programmes of research,
with each partner bringing its own expertise. In 2019, we reviewed our African partnerships to
consolidate key relationships and enhance regional connections. We dedicated funding from
Wellcome’s Institutional Strategic Support Fund to an African partnership grants scheme.

   Ethiopia: The Ethiopian Public Health Institute and the Armauer Hansen Research Institute are
    autonomous institutions under the Federal Ministry of Health, a key partner for a number of
    LSHTM research projects in the field of maternal, newborn and child nutrition and health,
    vaccination and infectious diseases (including TB and leprosy).
   Malawi: The Malawi Epidemiology and Intervention Research Unit (MEIRU) is a partnership
    with the Malawi College of Medicine and the Malawi Ministry of Health. Initially focused on
    mycobacterial disease, HIV and other infectious diseases in Karonga District, MEIRU now has
    an additional base in Lilongwe and a major programme of work on cardiovascular disease and
    diabetes. Another major collaboration with the College of Medicine is via the Malawi-Liverpool-
    Wellcome Unit in Blantyre.
   South Africa: The Africa Health Research Institute is an independent scientific research
    institute based in KwaZulu-Natal and a key partner in research on TB and adolescent health.
   Tanzania: The Mwanza Intervention Trials Unit is a formal, long-standing partnership with the
    Tanzania National Institute for Medical Research Mwanza Centre. The collaboration has
    expanded to include research on reproductive health, HPV vaccination, chronic non-
    communicable diseases and the health of adolescents and young people, with shared clinical
    trials expertise and strengthened laboratory infrastructure.
   Zambia: Zambart is a research organisation that grew out of a 20-year collaboration between
    the University of Zambia’s School of Medicine and LSHTM. It is now aligned with the University
    of Zambia’s School of Public Health. Shared research now covers epidemiology, clinical
    research, social science, health policy analysis, health economics and other areas of public
    health importance.
   Zimbabwe: The Biomedical Research and Training Institute (BRTI), a Zimbabwean NGO, is a
    key partner for the Zimbabwe LSHTM Research Partnership. LSHTM researchers based at
    BRTI have worked on community interventions for TB diagnosis and on the health of children
    and adolescents who survive with often undiagnosed HIV infection.

Asia

   Japan: A major development during the assessment period has been the creation of shared
    research resource between LSHTM and Nagasaki University. Founded in 2013 with two staff
    members (currently Cox and C Smith) based full-time to Nagasaki, the partnership has
    supported the new Nagasaki School of Tropical Medicine and Global Health and provided
    LSHTM researchers with access to Nagasaki’s resources and partnerships within the region
    (e.g. the Vietnam Research Station and its collaboration with San Lazaro Hospital, the National
    Infectious Diseases Referral Hospital for the Philippines). Our joint PhD programme received
    scholarship funding from the Japanese Government’s Doctoral Programme for World-Leading
    Innovative and Smart Education.
   Singapore: Our partnership with the National University of Singapore (NUS) encompasses
    three NUS faculties in health sciences managed through the National University Health
    System. It centres on infectious disease, comparative health systems and non-communicable
    diseases and supports research with a South East Asian focus. Five joint appointments – three


                                                                                           Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    in the School of Public Health and two in the School of Medicine – develop research
    programmes and projects based on the research infrastructure of NUS.
   India: LSHTM has a longstanding institutional partnership with the Public Health Foundation of
    India (PHFI), including collaboration on two joint LSHTM-PHFI centres: the South Asia Centre
    for Disability Inclusive Research, based at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, and
    the Centre for Control of Chronic Conditions, based at PHFI Delhi. Building institutional
    capacity for research and training has been a top priority and was one of the aims of the
    Wellcome-funded PHFI-UK consortium, based at LSHTM from 2008 to 2017.

3.7.2. UK

LSHTM is a member of the London International Development Centre (LIDC), a consortium of
seven institutions. LSHTM, RVC, SOAS and the Institute of Education, UCL, are the other core
members. City University of London, QMUL and the Department of Geography, Birkbeck,
University of London, are associate members.

LIDC facilitates interdisciplinary research and training to tackle complex problems in international
development. Member colleges collectively fund a core team – including a Director (Heffernan) –
and associated infrastructure. LIDC has had a major influence on college collaboration in
international development, as evidenced by success with the UKRI GCRF Action Against Stunting
Hub.

Also in London, LSHTM is a member of UCLPartners, and of its Academic Health Science Centre
and Applied Research Collaboration. LSHTM is also a member of Health Data Research London.
This platform enables access to large-scale data and develops advanced analytics to provide
transformative health benefits.




                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Note that collaboration in doctoral training is addressed in section 2.2.2.

4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

LSHTM’s research collaborations span the world. We are a member of global networks including
the M8 Alliance of Academic Health Centers, Universities and National Academies and the US-
based Consortium of Universities for Global Health. The 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking for all
sciences placed us first in the UK and ninth in the world for proportion of papers published in
collaboration with researchers from other institutions (95%), as well as first in the UK and seventh
in the world for proportion of papers published with researchers from outside the UK (78.3%). Data
from InCites show that between 2014 and 2020 we collaborated on more than 10 publications each
with close to 1,500 institutions:

     Africa: 118 institutions
     Middle East: 74 institutions
     Asia Pacific: 295 institutions
     Latin America: 66 institutions
     North America: 319 institutions
     EU-27: 420 institutions
     UK: 167 institutions

Our major collaborations are in Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and the UK, considered in turn
below.

4.1.1. Africa

In 2020 LSHTM had more than a hundred researchers based in Africa outside the MRC Units,
embedded within local institutions. Our principal collaborating institutions are shown below, and
many country research projects include further collaborators to bring in additional expertise or
strengthen research capacity outside the main urban centres. These collaborations were
fundamental to much of the research and related achievements described in section 1.

    Benin: Centre de Recherche Entomologique de Cotonou

    Democratic Republic of Congo: Institut National de Recherche Biomédicale

    Ethiopia: Ministry of Health; Ethiopian Public Health Institute; Armauer Hansen Research
    Institute; Haramaya University

    Ghana: Kintampo Health Research Centre; Kwame Nkrumah University of Science &
    Technology; Noguchi Memorial Research Institute, University of Ghana

    Kenya: Kenya Medical Research Institute – Wellcome Trust Research Programme

    Malawi: Malawi Epidemiology and Intervention Research Unit; College of Medicine, University of
    Malawi

    Senegal: Université Cheikh Anta Diop; Institut de Recherche en Santé, de Surveillance
    Epidémiologique et de Formation

    Sierra Leone: College of Medicine and Allied Health Sciences, University of Sierra Leone



                                                                                               Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 South Africa: Africa Health Research Institute, University of KwaZulu Natal; Universities of Cape
 Town, Stellenbosch and Witwatersrand

 Tanzania: Mwanza Intervention Trials Unit; National Institute for Medical Research; Muhimbili
 University of Health & Allied Sciences; Ifakara Health Institute; Kilimanjaro Christian Medical
 University College; Sokoine University

 Uganda: Uganda Virus Research Institute; Infectious Diseases Research Collaboration;
 Makerere University

 Zambia: Zambart

 Zimbabwe: Biomedical Research Training Institute


LSHTM has supported the development of regional networks to share expertise and strengthen
capacity – as illustrated, for example, by MRCG initiating the development of a West Africa
network. This has built on existing connections with Senegal through the West Africa Global Health
Alliance and, more widely, the West African Network of Excellence for TB, AIDS and Malaria. Links
have also been developed with LSHTM projects and staff in Sierra Leone, and are being explored
in Nigeria. MRCU has been developing links with key LSHTM partners in East and Southern Africa
– including the Mwanza Intervention Trials Unit in Tanzania and as part of the Lake Victoria
Consortium for Health Research – while partnership grants have been awarded to collaborations
linking the Unit with the Africa Health Research Institute (South Africa) and Zambart (Zambia).

4.1.2. Asia

In section 3.7.1 we covered partnerships in which we share research resources in Japan and
Singapore. Other strong links are with Fudan, Peking and Sichuan Universities in mainland China
and the University of Hong Kong, and the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention. We
have around 25 researchers based elsewhere in Asia, with significant clusters in India (especially
PHFI) and Thailand (Mahidol University). Collaborations between London-based researchers and
universities in Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam
have strengthened research and capacity in infectious diseases and health systems. Research
collaborations in India and South Asia have strengthened research and capacity in nutrition,
leishmaniasis, eye health, maternal/child health, mental health and NCDs.

4.1.3. Latin America

We have particularly strong historical links with Brazil, reinforced by our work on the Zika epidemic.
The Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) has emerged as a major partner, and reciprocal leadership
visits have explored ways to deepen links. Our Fiocruz partnership has had a strong focus on the
‘triple epidemic’ of dengue, chikungunya and Zika and has also expanded into projects on disability
and health systems. We co-led the establishment of the 100 Million Brazilians Cohort hosted by
Fiocruz Bahia.

4.1.4. Europe

LSHTM works with many European institutions and collaborators and leads and/or contributes to a
large number of EU and EDCTP research consortia. We have been working to consolidate an
academic partnership with the Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin, and the LSHTM-Charité Global
Health Lecture Series, initiated in 2020, brings together leading scientists from the UK, Germany
and further afield to present cutting-edge research. In 2020 we joined the new European Global
Health Research Institutes Network, and we are also a member of the Association of Schools of
Public Health in the European Region.



                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.1.5. UK

LSHTM collaborates with numerous leading research and teaching institutions in the UK, including
UCL, Imperial College, the London School of Economics, the Universities of Cambridge and
Oxford, the Francis Crick Institute, the Wellcome Sanger Institute and PHE. Many of these
collaborations include partners in Africa, Asia and elsewhere. Our DHSC research programmes
also feature strong partnerships with many UK universities – for example, with the Universities of
Oxford and Kent on the Quality, Safety and Outcomes Policy Research Unit, and with the eight
universities in the National School of Public Health Research.

4.1.6. Evaluation of collaborations

Our indicators of success for our research collaborations around the world include awards,
discoveries, citations, strengthened capacity and impact on policy and practice. Examples include:

   Major programme grants such as the ESRC GCRF programme to build research capacity and
    generate knowledge to support preparedness for and response to humanitarian crises and
    epidemics. Sierra Leone’s College of Medicine and Allied Health Sciences and Lebanon’s
    American University of Beirut are partners in this programme. We have also been involved in
    six of the 12 UKRI GCRF Interdisciplinary Research Hubs.
   Significant discoveries, especially in the control of infectious diseases such as malaria, TB,
    trachoma and vaccines (see section 1.3)
   High citation rates for our published outputs with partners, as illustrated by the Category
    Normalized Citation Impact (CNCI) for our top five partnerships in South Africa during the
    2014-2020 period:
    o University of Witwatersrand: 682 publications, CNCI of 6, 10% of papers in top 1%
    o University of Cape Town: 642 publications, CNCI of 8, 13% of papers in top 1%
    o University of KwaZulu Natal: 309 publications, CNCI of 15, 18% of papers in top 1%
    o Stellenbosch University: 294 publications, CNCI of 14, 19% of papers in top 1%
    o South African Medical Research Council: 247 publications, CNCI of 18, 22% of papers in
        top 1%
   Strengthening of research capacity in key locations – as illustrated, for example, by how
    decades of collaborative research in Zambia have resulted in a well-established non-
    governmental local research institution, Zambart, which undertakes high-quality science with
    local and global impact. In 2017 Zambart began a restructuring process with an explicit
    commitment to decolonisation and developing Zambian leadership, with Bond moving to a
    mentoring and technical support role. It now has a new mission statement and organisational
    structure, a new board of directors, an executive leadership team, a seven-pillar strategic
    research plan and improved support and communication for all staff.
   Impact on policy and practice: 85% of our UOA2 case studies draw on research produced
    through our overseas partnerships.

4.2. Collaboration with external organisations, including health services, industry and
government bodies

We have developed productive and valuable links with partners in government and its executive
agencies, the NHS, PHE and local authorities, industry and charities. For example:

   The government-funded UK Public Health Rapid Support Team and NIHR Health Protection
    Research Units are jointly run with PHE.
   LSHTM is a member of UCLPartners, providing valuable links into the local NHS.
   MRCG works closely with the Gambian Ministry of Health, providing medical care to the
    general public in Fajara and Keneba and contributing to policy development. This collaboration
    contributes to the local population’s wellbeing while also supporting the Unit’s research studies.



                                                                                             Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    MRCU has worked closely with the Ugandan Ministry of Health and the country’s AIDS control
     programme since 1988. Its clinics provide health services both locally and to study participants,
     as well as HIV voluntary counselling and testing services for the general public.
    We contribute expertise to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, which brings
     together government, industry, philanthropy and universities to finance and coordinate vaccine
     development.
    LSHTM is a founding partner in the Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre (see section
     1.2.2). Commercial partners including Janssen Vaccines & Prevention BV, Merck Sharp &
     Dohme and GE Healthcare provide additional funding and support.
    LSHTM’s Arthropod Control Product Test Centre (ARCTEC) is a partner to multiple research
     and development programmes, including testing and evaluating commercial vector-control
     products in Brazil and Cambodia in 2019.
    LSHTM’s collaborations with charities are extensive. For example, we have provided technical
     support in hygiene and disease prevention in disaster zones, working with NGOs such as
     Médecins Sans Frontières, Action Against Hunger, See Change and Beyond Conflict.
     Domestically we have worked on evaluating school-based relationships and sexual health
     interventions with NSPCC and the National Children’s Bureau, and on developing HIV health
     promotion strategies with the Terrence Higgins Trust and National AIDS Trust.

4.3. Relationships with key research users

The table below summarises our key research users and the areas in which they have enriched
our research environment. We provide specific evidence on our advisory roles in section 4.8.

    Main global users/beneficiaries                 Key research areas

    Governments in LMICs; regional                  Disease control; maternal, adolescent,
    agencies (e.g. Africa Centres for               newborn and child health; nutrition;
    Disease Control and Prevention)                 mental health; health policy; health
                                                    systems; climate change and health

    International agencies (e.g. WHO; UNICEF;       Vaccines; maternal, newborn and child
    UNAIDS; UNDP; Global Fund to Fight AIDS,        health; sexual health; global mental health;
    TB and Malaria; PEPFAR; UNITAID; Gavi           HIV, TB, malaria and other infectious
    Alliance; International Organization for        diseases; violence against women; universal
    Migration)                                      health coverage; health needs of trafficked
                                                    women

    World Bank and regional                         Hygiene promotion; universal health coverage;
    development banks                               evaluation methods

    European agencies (e.g. EU; European            Cancer policy; financing and organisation of
    Centre for Disease Prevention and Control)      health services and systems; impact of patient
                                                    mobility for healthcare; vaccine confidence;
                                                    infectious diseases surveillance and control

    Bilateral aid agencies                          Infectious diseases; maternal, newborn and
                                                    child health; nutrition; mental health

    Industry (e.g. pharmaceuticals; pesticides;     Clinical trials; insecticide development and
    clothing)                                       testing; malaria prevention

    Major NGOs (e.g. Médecins Sans                  Eye health; disability; health provision in
    Frontières; Sightsavers; Action Against         humanitarian crises; mental health; COVID-19
    Hunger)


                                                                                             Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Main UK users/beneficiaries                    Key research areas

  DHSC; NHS England; PHE; NICE; Royal            Vaccines; pandemic influenza; COVID-19;
  Colleges of Surgeons, Obstetricians and        cancer; smoking cessation; sexual health;
  Gynaecologists, Faculty of Public Health;      alcohol and drugs; obesity; quality of care;
  the Intensive Care National Audit and          NHS reforms; healthcare commissioning;
  Research Centre; No.10, Cabinet Office,        climate change; heatwave and cold weather
  Department for Education                       plans; cost-effectiveness of new drugs and
                                                 technologies; pharmacoepidemiology; national
                                                 surgical audits; evaluation of service
                                                 innovations

  FCDO                                           Malaria; newborn health; neglected tropical
                                                 diseases; nutrition; agriculture and food
                                                 systems; family planning; disability; health
                                                 systems; trafficking and modern slavery

  Other government departments (e.g. Home        Crime and mental health; health needs of
  Office; Education; Energy and Climate          trafficked women; urban regeneration and
  Change; Environment, Food and Rural            health; transport and wellbeing; housing,
  Affairs; Transport; Food Standards Agency,     insulation and health; food supplements
  House of Commons; Scientific Advisory          and organic foods; COVID-19;
  Group for Emergencies)                         humanitarian crises; children and young
                                                 people’s mental health

  London Mayor’s Office; Transport for London;   Transport and wellbeing; obesity; evaluation
  specific London boroughs                       methodology; promoting health in schools

  UK industry                                    Vaccines; handwashing with soap;
                                                 insecticide development and testing;
                                                 phone app for eye testing

  Health management and policy think-tanks:      Healthcare commissioning; primary care
  Nuffield Trust; King’s Fund                    organisations; performance of NHS across
                                                 UK; rating hospitals

  Charities (including development and human     HIV prevention; sexual health; maternal,
  rights charities)                              newborn and child health; alcohol abuse;
                                                 health needs of victims of trafficking and
                                                 modern slavery; healthcare financing



4.4. Wider contributions to economy and society

We provide here two examples of contributions to the economy and society. While they do not
readily lend themselves to impact case studies, they exemplify how LSHTM makes a critical
contribution to issues beyond the health sector.

Climate change and planetary health

Climate change and planetary health represent a major priority for LSHTM in terms of both
research and operational sustainability (see section 3.3). Launched in 2019, the Centre on Climate
Change and Planetary Health built on more than 25 years of our work in the areas of healthy and
sustainable cities, infectious diseases and food systems. Our research has explored and publicised
climate change mitigation and its health benefits.

                                                                                          Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

For example, Haines chaired the Rockefeller Foundation/Lancet Commission on Planetary Health,
published in 2015, and co-chaired the development group for the Health Knowledge Action
Network of Future Earth in 2014-2015. Green advised Parliament on the UK’s first nationwide
citizens’ assembly on climate change in 2019.

The Centre co-hosted an event with WHO at COP25 in 2019, and in the same year Dangour
served as Specialist Adviser to the UK Government’s Environmental Audit Committee for its inquiry
on planetary health. Released by the House of Commons, the resulting Our Planet, Our Health
report – to which Haines, Watts and Heffernan also contributed – highlighted the extent to which
climate change could affect health and wellbeing in the UK and warned that high dependency on
imported fresh food, coupled with failure to act on climate breakdown, could risk national food
security.

Gender violence

LSHTM has made significant contributions to knowledge on violence against women. Watts played
a central role in designing and implementing the WHO Multi-Country Study on Women’s Health
and Domestic Violence, which involved population-based studies in 10 countries and was the first
research to provide comparable data on the prevalence of violence against women and intimate
partner violence.

The data have since been widely used to advocate urgent steps to address this issue as part of the
global health agenda. The worldwide estimate of ‘one in three’ has mobilised millions of pounds’
worth of resources to combat the problem, and domestic violence is now regarded as one of the
top 10 risk factors for poor health in women. The methods and ethical/safety recommendations for
research in this field have been used in national surveys in more than 37 countries, and evidence
on effective prevention interventions has led to an increased focus on such initiatives globally. As
Chief Scientific Adviser and Head of Research at DFID, and now at FCDO, Watts has continued to
demonstrate strong leadership in shaping policy on gender and supporting the UK Government’s
work on safeguarding.

WHO guidelines and implementation tools for studying violence against women, based on
LSHTM’s research, have been taken up and adapted in many LMICs and have influenced policies
and programmes across countries and organisations. For example, PEPFAR and UNAIDS have
begun considering violence against women as an important driver of HIV among young girls.

4.5. Engagement with diverse communities and publics

LSHTM engages with diverse, hard-to-reach communities all over the world to address inequalities
in health. Examples include:

   The International Centre for Disability at LSHTM was awarded £7m of FCDO funding to identify
    which interventions should be implemented to improve the wellbeing of people with disabilities
    in LMICs and support policymakers to make evidence-based decisions on issues including
    poverty, health, education, stigma and discrimination. The project works closely with people
    with disabilities and organisations that support them and has established an International
    Disabled People Advisory Committee – comprised primarily of persons with disabilities from
    LMICs – to advise the research team.
   LSHTM’s Sigma project specialises in social research into lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer
    and intersex communities’ sexual health and wellbeing. Specific programmes of research have
    focused on HIV and STI prevention in men who have sex with men (MSM), including practices
    relating to chemsex in South London and multi-method studies investigating HIV self-testing
    strategies for MSM. This research has informed the national MSM HIV health promotion
    strategy.
   The East London Project engaged with sex workers to determine how removing law
    enforcement practices against sex work could affect safety, health and access to services in

                                                                                           Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Hackney, Newham and Tower Hamlets. Current and former sex workers, members of sex
    worker organisations and sex work projects were involved in designing and conducting the
    study.
   Harris’s NIHR Career Development Fellowship was the first study in the UK to investigate the
    barriers and facilitators to skin and soft tissue infection care for people who inject drugs.
    Community engagement with people who inject drugs and the charities supporting this group
    was crucial to the project’s success. This work has led to the promotion of skin and soft tissue
    care and guidance on safer injecting practices.

4.6. Contribution to sustainability of discipline, support for interdisciplinary research,
responsiveness to national and international priorities

LSHTM makes an essential contribution to sustaining disciplines critical to global health. A case in
point is the expertise contained within the MRC International Statistics and Epidemiology Group
(ISEG), which initiates epidemiological research and provides statistical expertise for projects in
resource-poor settings.

ISEG has a specific focus on strengthening capacity in epidemiology and medical statistics. This
includes its long-running flagship Fellowship Programme for African students to undertake
LSHTM’s MSc in Medical Statistics, followed by a year’s work as a statistician at a collaborating
institution in Africa, plus ongoing mentorship.

LSHTM has also been the locus of developments in the interdisciplinary field of health systems and
policy research. Originating in Mills’ work to build our own capacity and support international
initiatives, this is now a well-established field of research across LMICs.

In 2016, reflecting her contributions, Mills received the inaugural lifetime service award from the
Alliance for Health Policy and Systems Research. In 2019 she was appointed Chair of the NIHR
Global Health Policy and Systems Research funding committee. Along with Gilson and
Balabanova, she has also served as a board member of Health Systems Global, founded in 2012
to promote health policy and systems research. LSHTM researchers and LMIC partners have
made major contributions to the success of the joint FCDO, MRC, ESRC and Wellcome Health
Systems Research Initiative funding stream.

As shown in section 1, LSHTM has been agile in responding to national and international priorities
such as Ebola, Zika and COVID-19. Our modellers have mobilised in response to the last of these,
with Medley (Professor of Infectious Disease Modelling), for example, chairing the Scientific
Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M).The MRC Units were at the forefront of stepping
up the COVID-19 response locally, offering their labs and expertise to boost national testing
capacities and thereby proving critical to contact-tracing and quarantining efforts; they continue to
monitor the outbreak in population samples from across Africa, using machine learning to provide
real-time analyses of its evolving biology.

The SDGs provide another example of LSHTM’s responsiveness to international priorities. On
average, according to bibliometric analysis, LSHTM researchers have contributed around 600
papers a year with content relevant to the SDGs. Many of our academics helped develop SDG
targets, including Curtis (water and sanitation), Haines (climate change), Lawn (neonatal, child and
adolescent health) and Mills (universal health coverage).

For example, MARCH contributed to the first newborn target and multi-country case studies with
Countdown to 2030, a collaboration to improve the scale and scope of measurement, evaluation
and programming strategies for the SDG 2030 targets. In the first five years of the SDG era, to
2020, MARCH produced new systematic literature reviews and epidemiological estimates, many
with the UN. The Centre also provided innovative methods for tracking donor funding.




                                                                                             Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.7. Encouraging reproducibility

LSHTM hosts 3ie, the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation, which produces, synthesises
and quality-assures rigorous evidence on development effectiveness. In 2012 3ie initiated a
replication stream of work, in which LSHTM researchers have participated during the assessment
period.

For example, in 2015 Hargreaves and colleagues carried out a replication analysis of Nobel
laureate economist Kremer’s influential study on the impacts of school-based deworming. The
analysis identified important differences in some areas of interpretation. This led to high-profile
debate about issues such as the importance of replication studies, differences in evidence
appraisal between disciplines and the evidence-base for mass school-based deworming.

4.8. Wider influence, contributions and recognition of UOA2 staff in the assessment period

4.8.1. Honours, awards and prizes

Honours, awards and prizes received by LSHTM staff during the assessment period included the
following:

   UK honours: DCMG – Mills; CMG – Watts; Knight Bachelor – Black; OBE – Edmunds;
    Honorary OBE – Checchi
   Election to Learned Societies: FRS – Peto; Academy of Medical Sciences – Watts, Smeeth,
    Lawn, Edmunds, Weiss; Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences – Wellings; National
    Academy of Medicine, USA – Watts, Jewell, Lawn
   Awards and prizes: MRC Millennium Medal – Greenwood; Galen Medal – Mills; WHO Europe
    Regional Director’s Award for Health – McKee; Faculty of Public Health’s Bazalgette
    Professorship Champion of Evidence Award – I Roberts; Alliance for Health Policy and
    Systems Research Award for Lifetime Service in Health Policy and Systems Research – Mills;
    Royal National Institute of Blind People Lifetime Achievement Award – Gilbert; George
    Macdonald Medal by the Trustees of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene –
    Kirkwood; Peter Wills Medal by Research Australia – Mullholland; Jules Francois Golden
    Award by International Council of Ophthalmology – Gilbert; inaugural UK Faculty of Public
    Health Global Public Health Award – Allemani; World Congress of Optometry Paul Berman
    Young Leader Award – Morjaria; Rolex Award for Enterprise – Bastawrous; Order of Australia
    Medal – S White; L’OCCITANE Sight Award – Gilbert; George Macdonald Medal, awarded
    jointly by LSHTM and the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene – Hayes and
    Peeling; Edwin Chadwick Medal – Cairncross; Faculty of Public Health Alwyn Smith Prize –
    McKee; ESRC Outstanding International Impact Prize – Parker, Chandler and Martineau;
    Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education – LSHTM

4.8.2. Fellowships

There were 94 competitive fellowships and personal awards to UOA2 staff during the assessment
period, including the following:

   MRC: Clinical Research Training Fellowship – Telisinghe, Candler; Skills Development
    Fellowship – Diaz-Ordaz, Cornelsen, Greco, Lepine, Kreif, Flint, Lopez-Bernal, Smith, Root,
    Keogh, Davey, Lewis, McCreesh, Morgan, Knight, Page, Cowling, Fearon, Courtin, Leyrat;
    Career Development Award – Cornelsen; African Research Leader (with DIFD) – Kinyanda
   ESRC: UBEL Postdoctoral Fellowship – Calvert, Miller, Hartwell; Policy Engagement
    Fellowship – Oliver
   UKRI: Rutherford Fellowship – Eggo, Forbes, Minassian; Future Research Leader – Keogh,
    Afolabi
   British Academy: Mid-Career Fellowship – Beattie


                                                                                               Page 44
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Royal Society: Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship – Lowe; Future Leaders African Independent
    Research Fellowship – Tientcheu
   British Heart Foundation: Immediate Fellowship – Wong
   NIHR: Doctoral Research Fellowship – Aggarwal, Johnson, Leurent, Wallace, Pettigrew, Parry,
    Bhate, van Schalkwyk; Clinical Doctoral Research Fellowship – Hartwell; Postdoctoral
    Research Fellowship – Herrett; NIHR Career Development Award – Harris; Advanced
    Fellowship – Aggarwal
   Wellcome: Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowship – Harron, Sinnott, Mathur, Brady, Harris-Fry,
    Thomas, Cruz, Lohmann; Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (with Royal Society) – Bhaskaran, Daniel,
    Kucharski, Flasche, Diaz-Ordaz, M Cairns; Senior Research Fellowship – Langan, Kinyanda,
    Funk, A Scott, Bhaskaran; Principal Research Fellowship – Patel; Clinical Research Training
    Fellowship – Bhopal, Brotherton, Smith, Wedderburn; Postdoctoral Research Training
    Fellowship for Clinicians – Price; Clinical Research Career Development Fellowship – Seale;
    Intermediate Clinical Fellowship – Warren-Gash; Wellcome Society and Ethics Research
    Fellowship – Boccia, Walters, Murphy, Thompson, Bonnington, Wardle, Weston, Elizabeth,
    Kovacs; International Training Fellowship – Jobe; International Intermediate Fellowship –
    Fatumo; Investigator Award in Medical Humanities – Gorsky, Mold
   ERC: Starting Grant – Stoeckl, Atkins, Houben; Consolidator Grant – Allemani; Advanced
    Grant – Pearce

4.8.3. Research grant committees

There were at least 67 instances of service on research grant committees during the assessment
period, including the following:

   MRC: Applied Global Health Research Board – Mills, Chibanda; Infections & Immunity Board –
    Weiss, Hayes; Population & Systems Medicine Board – Pearce, Leon (Chair); Methodology
    Research Programme Panel – Sharples, Carpenter; Public Health Intervention Development
    Panel – Hayes (Deputy Chair), Seeley; Health Systems Research Initiative Funding Panel –
    Mills; Joint Global Health Trials Funding Committee – Graham (Deputy Chair), P Smith; Skills
    Development Fellowship Funding Panel – Cummins; Clinical Training & Career Development
    Panel – Diaz-Ordaz; GCRF Foundations Award Panel – Mills; African Research Leader Panel
    – d’Alessandro; Cross-Board Cohort Advisory Group – Hayes; Population Health Sciences
    Group – Hayes; Expert Steering Group for Prevention Research – Smeeth.
   NIHR: Global Health Funding Panel – P Smith, Nyirenda; Public Health Research Board –
    Bonell, Cummins, Egan; Global Health Policy and Systems Research Commissioning Funding
    Committee – Mills (Chair); Senior Investigators Competition Panel – Mills; Policy Research
    Programme – Egan (Deputy Chair); Health Technology Assessment Panel – Free; Programme
    Grants for Applied Research Panel – Khan; Research for Patient Benefit London Regional
    Advisory Committee – Warren-Gash; Doctoral Research Fellowship Funding Panel –
    Cummins; Health Services & Delivery Research Programme Funding Board – Mays; Policy
    Research Programme Expert Commissioning Group for COVID-19 System Recovery – Mays,
    Petticrew, Nolte
   UKRI: Future Leader Fellowship Panel – Weiss; Steering Group for AMR Funding Strategy –
    Chandler; Joint COVID-19 Rapid Response Call Expert Panel (with DHSC) – C Roberts, Mays
   ESRC: Centres Competition Panel – Sear; Innovations in Social Care – May; Social Care
    Research Centre Panel – May
   Wellcome: Biomedical Resources Committee – Smeeth; Longitudinal Population Studies
    Committee – Smeeth; Science Strategy Advisory Group – Mills; Early Career Medical
    Humanities Expert Review Group – Mold; Humanities and Social Sciences Selection Panel –
    Hanson; Sir Henry Dale Fellowship Interview Committee – Medley; International Interview
    Committee – Nyirenda; DELTAS Review Committee – Chandler; Wellcome Governor – P
    Smith (Trustee); India Alliance Grants Committee – Hanson, Whitworth; Population and Public
    Health Expert Review Group – Weiss



                                                                                        Page 45
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Royal Society: Resilient Futures Challenge-Led Grants Panel – Mills (Chair); FLAIR Future
    Leaders African Independent Research Fellowships Panel – Greenwood (Co-Chair), Mills,
    Lawn, Prentice, Whitworth; Rosalind Franklin Award Committee – Lowe
   EDCTP: Career Development Fellowship Panel – Weiss, Whitworth, P Smith, Webb; Scientific
    Review Committee – Adetifa

4.8.4. Advisory roles

There were many examples of UOA2 staff acting as advisers for UK, international and other
national agencies during the assessment period; over one hundred are listed below:

UK agencies

   HM Government: Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies – Bonell, Edmunds, Medley,
    Watts; SPI-M – Medley (Chair), Baguelin, Edmunds, Eggo, Funk, Jit, Jombart, Klepac,
    Kucharski, Mathur, Fearon, Knight; SPI-B – Curtis, Bonell; other subcommittees and groups –
    Baguelin, Bonell, Curtis, Edmunds, Eggo, Klepac, Medley, Mathur
   Care Quality Commission: Advisory Groups – Black
   FCDO: Science Advisory Group – Mills (Co-Chair)
   DHSC: Advisory Groups – Sanderson, Nolte; Joint Committee on Vaccination and
    Immunisation and related sub-committees – A Scott, Edmunds, Smeeth, Flasche, Mangtani
   House of Commons: Environmental Audit Committee Specialist Adviser – Dangour; Health and
    Social Care Select Committee Specialist Adviser – P Allen
   Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency: Working Groups – Douglas, A Scott,
    Sharples, Smeeth
   NHS England: National Advisory Group on Clinical Audit and Enquiries – Cromwell; Patient
    Reported Outcome Measures Advisory Group – Black; NHS England New Care Models
    Evaluation Strategy Working Group – Mays
   British Heart Foundation: Smeeth (Trustee); Care Quality Commission Impact and Value for
    Money Academic Advisory Group – Mays

International, regional and other nations’ agencies

   WHO: Advisory Groups – Adetifa, Bonell, Cameron, Campbell, Flasche, Free, Goodman,
    Greenwood, Hanson, Harding-Esch, Mangtani, Mounier-Jack, O’Reilly, Wellings, White, Leon,
    Rudge, Mills, Filippi, Afolabi, M Cairns, Chandler, Day, Eaton, Edwards, Foster, Hargreaves,
    Kirkwood, Marchant, Ngufor, P Smith, Houben, Abbas, d’Alessandro, Floyd, Gilbert, Graham,
    Jit, Larson, Ohuma, Parker, Rice, A Scott, Sweeney, Whitworth, Nolte, Manton; Access to
    COVID-19 Tools Accelerator COVAX – P Smith
   UN: UNICEF Advisory Groups – Tann, Marchant, Cousens; UNAIDS Advisory Groups –
    Hayes, Rice; World Food Programme School Health Programme Evaluation Steering
    Committee – Bundy
   Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention: Working Groups – Brickley, Bower
   Europe: Food Safety Authority Working Group on Epidemiological Studies – Pearce
   Ireland: Irish Research Council COVID-19 Pandemic international review panel – Mays
   Canada: National Advisory Committee on Immunization – Jit

4.8.5. Journal editorships and editorial boards

LSHTM journals include two that lead their fields: Journal of Health Services Research and Policy
(Editor – Nolte; Associate Editor – Cromwell; Editorial Advisory Board – Mays, Black) and Health
Policy and Planning (Editors–in-Chief – Mounier-Jack, Wiseman; Section Editors – Spicer,
Hargreaves, J Schellenberg, Khan, Goodman; Executive Board Chair – Mayhew).




                                                                                          Page 46
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

During the assessment period at least 95 UOA2 staff held Editor, Editor-in-Chief and Section Editor
roles, including:

   BMC: Health Services Research – Mayhew (Associate Editor), Balabanova (Section Editor);
    Infectious Diseases – Marks (Associate Editor), Tully (Editorial Board); Medicine – Jit (Editor);
    Women's Health – Kyegombe (Associate Editor)
   British Journal of General Practice – Smeeth (Editorial Board)
   British Medical Journal Sexual & Reproductive Health – Free (Associate Editor)
   Bulletin of the World Health Organization – P Smith (Editorial Board)
   Clinical Epidemiology – Smeeth (Editorial Board)
   Cochrane Heart Group – Free (Editor)
   Health Economics – Pitt (Associate Editor)
   Health Policy – Nolte (Associate Editor)
   Implementation Science – May (Editorial Board)
   International Journal of Drug Policy – Rhodes (Editor-In-Chief), Harris and McGowan
    (Associate Editors)
   International Journal of Epidemiology – Leon (Editor), Price and Pearce (Editorial Board)
   Journal of Adolescent Health – Weiss (Editorial Board)
   Journal of the Royal Statistical Society – Sharples (Series A Joint Editor), van Steelandt
    (Series B Associate Editor), Lewin (Series C Associate Editor)
   PLOS: Medicine – Zimmerman (Editorial Board); Neglected Tropical Diseases – Marks (Deputy
    Editor)
   Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society – Sear (Series B Editorial Board)
   Science – Sear (Board of Reviewing Editors)
   Social Science and Medicine – Courtin (Editorial Board)
   Social Theory and Health – Mays (Editorial Board)
   Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene – Greenwood (Editor-in-
    Chief)




                                                                                            Page 47
