Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East London

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Policy and Social Work

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Introduction
Social Policy and Social Work at UEL is a multi-disciplinary and interprofessional grouping, with
a commitment to engaging in impactful research that responds to the needs of local communities.
UEL has strong and well-established research and practice links within our home borough,
Newham, as well as other north east London local authorities (Havering, Redbridge, Waltham
Forest, Barking and Dagenham, Tower Hamlets). Our research work directly engages with
marginalised, at risk and oppressed communities across the UK, Europe, Africa, and the Middle
East. We value and produce research that is inter-disciplinary, participatory, co-produced, and
user focused, as well as theoretically innovative and interdisciplinary.

Since our successful submission in REF 2014, we have consolidated and developed the research
team associated with the UoA, into an interdisciplinary, inter-professional and cross-school
grouping; this structure underpins the nature of the research being undertaken in a range of social
policy areas and enriches our research through encounters between diverse fields of study. Staff
in this UoA are drawn from across the university, in four (out of six) schools (Education and
Communities (EDUCOM); Business and Law (RDSBL); Architecture, Computing and Engineering
(ACE); and Psychology) and the Institute for Connected Communities (ICC) and the RIX
Research Centre. Our inter-disciplinary research benefits from the disciplinary experts in social
psychology, psychoanalysis, sociology, critical social policy, geoinformation studies, psychosocial
studies, social work, data science, critical disability studies and education and technological
innovation. Whilst we remain a small unit of assessment, (11 staff, 9.4 FTE) because of our pan-
university interdisciplinary remit, our research work has significant reach and impact.

Unit Context:
In REF 2014, 11 staff (8.85 FTE) were submitted with a total of 43 outputs, half of which were
rated as 3* or 4* (9.3% 4* and 41.9% 3*). Key research themes in the last submission centred
on:
    • Practice-near research and psychosocial applications underpinned by psychoanalytic,
       systemic, and sociological approaches.
    • Critical social policy analysis and community-based evaluation.
    • International human rights in relation to domestic violence and torture.

Since 2014 we have built on these themes to maintain and in some cases exceed the standards
reached in quantity and quality of outputs, research income, and impact alongside extensive
public engagement.

Research Themes:
Key research themes within this unit of assessment include:

1) Psychological and physiological well-being of adults and children in local, national and global
   communities with a focus on safeguarding:
   For example, the work of Tribe has focused on intercultural psychological support for
   immigrants and refugees. Patel’s work has focused on therapeutic approaches for torture

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    survivors. Davidson’s work has focused and online harms, for example safeguarding children
    from cyber-crime and the effects of online bullying.

2) Social inclusion and exclusion:
   Staff in this unit of assessment, undertake work that directly addresses issues of social
   exclusion and inclusion, for example, Kougiali’ s work has focused on the needs of prisoners.
   Kanyeredzi’ s work has focused on women of colour and domestic violence. Fellin’s work
   has focused on the impact of domestic abuse on children. Finch’s work has focused on the
   impact of government policy on minority communities. Patel’s work continues to focus on
   human rights and torture.

3) Community based evaluative research:
     For example, Briggs and Finch have evaluated suicide prevention and support services in
     an area in England. Tribe’s work on developing mental health services for immigrants and
     refugees has led to a specialist online service being developed.

4) Digital innovation:
      The work of the Rix Research and Media Centre led by Minnion, co-produces digital tools
      to support people with learning disabilities to self-advocate and communicate their needs,
      wishes and aspirations. The work of Brimicombe on developing digital data mining
      techniques has been significant in developing new understandings of domestic violence.

5) Pre and post qualifying professional education, CPD and research development:
   The work of Briggs, Cooper, Tribe, Pate, Brimicombe and Davidson for example has
   contributed directly to improved professional practice in a range of fields including mental
   health and wellbeing services, psychology, social work and policing

A significant new development in this unit of assessment since the last REF is in digital innovation,
via digital mining techniques (Brimicombe), software tools and apps development to improve the
lives of people with disabilities (Minnion), as well as impactful research exploring digital harms
and cyber-crime (Davidson).

Our research themes also align to several UN sustainable goals, including good health and
wellbeing (SDG3), gender inequality (SDG4) and reduced inequality (SDG10), ensuring our
research has both local and global relevance and impact.

Research Institutes and Research Centres:
Research institutes and centres continue to support this UoA, connecting staff across the
institution and supporting collaborations and interdisciplinary and inter-professional
conversations. All staff in the submission are attached to a research centre and draw on its
resources to engage in public facing, dissemination activities.

The Institute for Connected Communities, led by Professor Davidson, OBE, was established
to be an interdisciplinary and coordinating research hub with a high public profile to support
research in community well-being and to have social policy influence. Other members of ICC have
been submitted to UoA3 (Allied Health) and UoA18 (Law). Prior to the launch of ICC, Davidson
led the Centre for Online Harms and Cyber Crime Unit, specialising in research into online
harms, cyber-crime, cyber-law, cyber-criminology, cyber-bullying/online hate crimes, and cyber-
security/terrorism, from within the RDSBL.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rix Research and Media also has a high public profile as a research and development centre. Led
 by Professor Minnion, MBE, research into person-centred care has delivered a range of
 multimedia advocacy software tools to improve the lives of people with learning disabilities, enabling
 people to self-advocate and communicate their needs, wishes, and aspirations to families and
 professionals at key moments of transition in their lives. The research directly addresses issues of
 social exclusion and discrimination.

The Centre for Social Work Research (CSWR) based in the School of Education and
Communities, has developed innovative methodologies and new thinking about critical issues in
social work practice to enhance social work research, and influence practice, professional
training, and policy. The centre’s research themes include safeguarding of children who are from
black and ethnic minority communities; mental health and wellbeing; suicide prevention; and
social work education. The centre is led by Briggs with support from Finch and Cooper

The Centre for Geo Information Studies (GEO) based in the School of ACE, specialises in all
aspects of geo-information science, systems and engineering applied broadly to areas of the
physical, social and cultural environment. This also includes data integration and analysis,
modelling and simulation. Data mining techniques have been successfully developed and used
to explore domestic abuse occurrences in distinct geographical locations, as well as to analyse
police data to predict domestic abuse risk. The centre is led by Brimicombe

The Psychology and Social Change Group is based in the School of Psychology and
undertakes research in the areas of politics, community and society, health and technologies,
with a focus on issues of social equality and justice, security, and human rights. Central to this
Unit of assessment is the work of Kanyeredzi, Kougiali, Fellin, Tribe and Patel.

A notable strength of this submission is the synergy between the unit’s overarching research
themes articulated through the work of the research centres, and under the auspices of the
Institute for Connected Communities.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                              Figure 1 Interconnected internal structure


REF2014

Research and Impact Strategy
Over the last seven years we have successfully pursued the strategic objectives set out in our
2014 REF submission:

   I.   Continue to enhance our impact on practice and policy
Staff in this unit of assessment have consistently produced relevant research that has direct
influence on both policy and practice. Davidson’s work (as detailed in the impact case study) has
directly influenced government policy in Rwanda, Bahrain, Europe and the UK on managing online
harms. Brigg’s work on the development of a time limited adolescent psychotherapeutic approach
has had significant influence in the field in terms of practice as well as developing the theoretical
base. Brimicombe’s work on mining police data to predict domestic homicide in the London
Borough of Newham has influenced policing practices in the borough. The continued work of
Patel, on psychological intervention for torture survivors within a human rights framework, has had
significant international reach and impact in terms of the development and implementation of an
indicator framework, adopted by the United Nations and the African Nations of Human Rights. We
will continue to build on these successes in the coming years.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 II.    Develop key prestigious partnerships with external public organisations, locally,
        nationally and internationally
Evidence of success here can be seen across the schools and research centres. One example
is the Centre for Social Work, which has consolidated its working partnership with the Victoria
Climbie Foundation, with the development in January 2017 of the BME Migrant Advisory Group:
Safeguarding Young People (chaired by Briggs). The advisory group was launched in the House
of Parliament, hosted by Sir Keir Starmer. Members of the advisory group include members from
the following organisations, African Families Service, Barnardo’s, Children & Families Across
Borders, Diocese of Canterbury (Refugee Officer), FORWARD, Pasolo Project, The Tavistock &
Portman NHS Foundation Trust, and Together with Migrant Children. Professor Tribe for
example, has worked in partnership with universities, non-governmental organisations and
professional organisations in Sri Lanka for 30 years. She helped set a mental health resource
centre in the community and a wellbeing centre for staff and students at one university and is
assisting with setting one up at another university. She has offered training on numerous
occasions there. She has also run training for the Sri Lankan Office for National Unity and
Reconciliation psychosocial team. With colleagues she helped set up an MPhil in Clinical
Psychology, she is currently working to establish another university programme there. Other
partnerships will be documented further in section 4 of this statement.

  III.  Maintain the quality of our outputs
Annual research reviews (ARRs) are centrally coordinated to monitor the quality of research
outputs across the university. Two members of experienced staff review each output, seeking input
from external assessors where required. Although a university-wide exercise, staff in this UoA act
as reviewers for each other and the process is conducted as developmental: staff receive feedback
on their outputs with suggestions about how to develop projects to ensure that the research will
meet REF standards of originality, rigour and significance. The ARR process is also used to identify
emerging research themes or synergies between staff who may be located in different
administrative units but who are doing complementary research. Where an opportunity for
collaborative work is identified, these complementarities are fostered, formally, by partial
secondments (e.g., Finch was seconded for 0.2FTE from EDUCOM to work in the RIX Centre in
AY2019-20). Since 2014, researchers in the UoA have continued to produce high-quality peer
reviewed papers, commissioned reports, monographs and edited and authored books.

IV.     Prioritise undertaking evaluations with smaller organisations and capturing larger
        interdisciplinary research grants
There have been some considerable successes in this REF period, with a mixture of successful
bids from both smaller organisations as well as larger grants. For example, Minnion secured
funding in 2020 from TechForce19 (GBP 25K and GBP 40K) for ‘Stay Connected’, a project to
address the needs of people with disabilities, living in the community, in order to maintain social
and professional networks during the Covid19 pandemic and requirement to lockdown. Briggs
secured funding from East Sussex Country Council to undertake a series of evaluations of suicide
prevention and support services. Larger grant capture, from the EU Horizon2020 scheme, has
been secured by Davidson. Our income and grant applications reflect our interdisciplinary and co-
produced research, evidenced by the bids won in this REF period and detailed in Section 3.
Funding success has been supported by central university support (from the Research and
Development support (ReDs) team, but also from improved internal review processes prior to the
submission of bids.

 V.    Further develop key UEL inter-disciplinary links


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As noted above, the cohesive interdisciplinarity of this UoA is one of its most distinctive features.
The launch of the Institute of Connected Communities was the result of staff in the UoA
demonstrating the efficacy of our supporting mechanisms for interdisciplinary research to flourish.
The UoA brings together colleagues from sociology, architecture, policing studies, psychology,
psycho-social studies, health promotion, criminology, psychoanalysis and social work in
productive dialogue. The collaborative work of Davidson with Professor Mary Aitken (submitted
to UoA 18 Law) and with Dr Darren Sharpe (submitted to UoA 3 Allied Health) is an example of
such interdisciplinarity.

VI.      Provide support for and career development of new researchers and develop our
         PGR support and cohorts

Staff in the UoA have been successful in winning three competitive studentships from the
university’s Research Excellence Scholarship scheme. With even greater significance for the
research environment, the university recently validated a research doctorate programme in Social
Work (further details in section 2). Also discussed in section 2 are other exciting cross university
developments in supporting PGRs and new researchers (ECRs), not least the developing
researcher framework, from which this UoA has benefitted greatly.

Future Research and Impact Strategy
In line with the UEL Institutional Research Strategy 2018-2023, Key Commitments to Sustainable
Excellence, and building on our 2014-19 objectives, this unit of assessment’s future research and
impact strategy has 4 broad aims:
     1. Increase grant capture (I, II, VI)
     2. Support staff development across the career pathway (II, III, IV)
     3. Continue to build interdisciplinary research links across the UoA (I, V)
     4. Identify pathways to impact and ensure that staff are supported in developing practical
        applications (VII)


         I. To consolidate the work of the Institute for Connected Communities to develop larger
            scale inter disciplinary bids utilising the broad range of skills, expertise and discipline of
            staff in this unit of assessment.
        II. Succession planning to address the planned retirement of 3 key senior contributors to this
            unit of assessment.
       III. Develop a new pipeline of ECRs in social policy and social work.
      IV. To develop coherent support for mid-career researchers to a) produce high quality
            outputs b) significant and improving grant capture and c) to turn research with potential
            into research with impact.
        V. To continue to develop coherence of research themes and interdisciplinary collaborative
            work across this unit of assessment which has been successful previously.
      VI. Continued local and larger grant success with income generation more evenly distributed
            amongst staff members.
      VII. Continue to develop practical applications and impact from the research work generated
            which has been proven to have significant impact and reach in service provision.

 2. People

Context
As noted earlier, a particular strength of our social policy and social work research at UEL is that

                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the research is undertaken by staff members from across the university. As a relatively small group
of staff we share an underlying ethos and philosophy: we aim to engage communities in research
to meet new and emerging needs, address issues of inequality and discrimination, and ensure
research is impactful and makes a difference to peoples’ everyday lives. Our research culture
therefore is one of embedded research utilising coproduction principles, aiming to research with,
rather than on, socially excluded communities, both in our local London boroughs and further
afield. Our research therefore also has a campaigning and emancipatory ethos, aiming at
addressing social injustice. These common principles serve to unite diverse disciplines, enabling
us to identify the coherent research themes outlined above. They also underpin our success in
undertaking research with significant impact and reach.

Equality and Diversity
There has been increasing institutional and unit level focus on equality and diversity issues since
the previous REF. The university achieved Athena Swan Bronze Level in 2017 and a number the
of schools in which members of the UoA are located (namely, ACE and the School of Psychology)
have Bronze awards. In relation to this unit of assessment, research themes support the
advancement of equality, and addressing issues of social exclusion and marginalisation. For
example, Kanyeredzi’s work focuses on black women’s experience of violence, as well as
addressing issues of intersectionality. Tribe’s work has had long-standing focus on issues of
intercultural counselling and psychological support for refugees. Finch’s work addresses issues of
Islamophobia.

Staffing

The UoA is a similar size to the REF2014 submission. Stability and continuity are provided by
senior Professors (for example, Briggs, Brimicombe, Cooper, Minion, Tribe, Patel), who have
been key to developing junior staff. For example, Finch was returned as an ECR in the last REF
and has continued to develop her work and features in this submission as Senior Lecturer. New
appointments, such as that of Davidson as Professor of Criminology in RDSBL, aligned with staff
in this UoA and this added considerably to the existing inter-disciplinary and inter-professional
focus of the research.

All staff are on standard (I.e., not fixed term) contracts. Some have fractional (‘part time’) contracts
to enable them to combine academic work with continuing direct practice. For example: Briggs
and Cooper (psychotherapists); Finch (independent social worker); Patel (consultant clinical
psychologist); and Tribe (organisational and counselling psychologist). This ensures that research
in these areas remains close-to-practice and can respond in an agile way to new and emerging
social problems and needs. Indeed, staff in this unit of assessment have been able to quickly
respond to the issues relating to Covid19. For example: Finch, working with a colleague in
education) published an article in a social work journal and another in The Conversation, which
focused on the issues faced by people with disabilities; Minnion directly responded to the problems
caused by lockdown by the rolling out of the RIX Wiki in several London Boroughs and direct to
residential care-providers.

Staff Development

All new members of staff (whether ECRs or established researchers) are allocated a research
mentor and encouraged to participate in one or more of the research centres. All academic staff
have an annual Personal Development Review that includes key targets for the year in terms of
research activities, generating outputs, impact, esteem and grant capture. Support for researchers

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
also includes conference funding for national or international events and other research activities.
The centrally based Research Excellence Development Team provide advice, support and finance
support for grant applications.
Colleagues without doctorates, who are often practitioner-academics, are encouraged to engage
with researchers and supported to undertake PGR study. The new social work doctoral
programme (see below) provides opportunities for ECR and mid-career staff looking to develop
research careers.

Significant Changes to PGR structures

UoA staff in the Centre for Social Work Research currently supervise three full time PhD students,
fully funded by UEL Excellence Scholarships; three part-time PhD students (who are also members
of staff); ten part-time DSW students; and two part-time EdD students.
The research projects of three PGR students on the Professional Doctorate in Data Science course
(School of Architecture, Computing and Engineering) were successfully supervised by Brimicomb.
Staff in the UoA have also supervised or co-supervised students from the PGT doctoral
programmes in Clinical Psychology, Counselling Psychology and Educational and Child
Psychology (School of Psychology). Staff in the UoA have worked closely with people employed at
the Tavistock Clinic, whose PGR degrees are validated by UEL. Many of the more than 100
students graduating with PG degrees in Child Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy; Social Work and
Emotional Well-being; Social Care and Emotional Well Being; Consultation and the Organisation;
or Psychanalytical Psychotherapy, were co-supervised by staff in the UoA.
Recognising the value of PGR students to the research environment, we implemented a strategy
in in 2015 to increase PGR numbers and timely completions within this unit of assessment as it is
recognised that it is important to develop a pipeline of early career researchers in social policy and
social work. The primary enabler of this strategy is a new part-time doctoral programme in social
work.
We appreciated the value of having professionals engage with research and therefore a decision
was taken to design a new PGR doctoral programme in social work led by Finch. This is a part-
time programme (5 years) with research and methodology taught components provided on
Saturdays to enable social care professionals working full time to attend. The programme is
designed for qualified social workers and other professionals working in the broad area of social
care, for example, psychotherapy, mental health nursing, social care commissioners and
consultants. The first cohort enrolled on this programme will graduate in 2022, but the programme
has already significantly enhanced the research environment providing new professional networks
as well as a cohort of highly motivated professionals adding vibrancy to this research area as well
as bringing together academics in the UoA to supervise and co-supervise students on this program.
We currently have four students in the fourth year, six in the third year, eleven in the second year
and nine students enrolled this year. We anticipate this will be an area of significant growth, due to
the structure and ethos of the programme and high levels of academic support for the PGRs
resulting in very high student satisfaction and good progression rates (93%). Our PGR population
is diverse, with 85% living and working in Newham or neighbouring boroughs and 63% from black
and ethnic minority communities. There is significant interest among the students in exploring
social work and social care issues that face people from similar communities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Staff in this unit of assessment have attracted GBP 3,997,500 in new research income since 2014.
This is more than three times the value of awards reported in REF2014 (GBP 1,100,000) by staff

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in this unit of assessment. These grants, awards and consultancies have come from a range of
sources, including UKRI (ESRC, AHRC and EPSRC), the EU, local authorities, and charities.

Minnion and the work of the Rix Centre has attracted considerable income. From Jan 2014 until
Dec 2020, the centre has secured a total of GBP 1,534,500, including awards include from: AHRC
(GBP 38,300) for a sensory objects project; Erasmus (3 projects, with a total of GBP 106,770); and
EU Horizon2020 (GBP 164,700 for a project on Managing Affective learning Through Intelligent
atoms and Smart InteractionS (MATHISIS); NHSX Techforce19 (GBP 25K and GBP 40K (phase 1
and 2) for multi-media advocacy and software tools to address the risks for vulnerable people facing
isolation due to COVID19).

Davidson’s work has attracted significant funding with a total of GBP 2,416,000 awarded since
2014. This included: an award from End Violence Against Children (GBP 150,000) to support her
work on child online protection in Rwanda (2019); EU H2020 (GBP 816,00, 2020-23) to undertake
research on youth pathways into cybercrime; European Commission ISEC fund (GBP 670,000,
2014-16) for an exploration of policing and industry practice in addressing online child abuse;
Centre of Expertise in Child Abuse/Home Office (GBP340,000, Feb 2016-Dec 2017) for exploring
the context of CSA and CSE offending’; Europol EC3 and Private investor (VC) (USD 100,000,
Mar-Dec 2016) for a project on ‘Youth Pathways into cybercrime’; Department of Culture, Media
& Sport (GBP 60,000, July 2018-June 2019) for the UK Council for Internet Safety Rapid Evidence
Assessment Adult online harms (report to inform white paper on Internet safety),

Briggs has received three grants from East Sussex Country Council totalling GBP 41,522 to
evaluate a range of suicide prevention and support services in East Sussex. Finch received a GBP
6,000 BA/Leverhulme small grants award to explore parents’ experiences of PREVENT and social
work intervention.
In the census period there has been increased grant application activity that has been supported
within the Schools and the university-wide Research and Development Support (ReDs). The
schools provide seed-corn money for pilot work on projects, to make research grant applications
and support ECRs.

Infrastructure and facilities

As the UoA is represents staff from different schools, there is no specific unit level infrastructure.
The research takes place in the community and with professional collaborators, so that East
London is our ‘Living Lab’.
IT and Library facilities, including the valuable support of technicians, archivists and librarians, are
of course very important, but these are described in the institutional environment statement.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Introduction
Staff in this unit of assessment have considerable reach and influence within their disciplinary and
practice fields. As will be evidenced, the external work (esteem factors) of members of staff featuring
in this unit of submission is significant, wide-reaching, and extensive. The external activities
undertaken by members of this submission evidence high regard for social work and social policy
UoA staff both in the UK and internationally. Staff are consistently involved in advisory groups as
well as collaborate with a very wide range of outside agencies, in our local east London boroughs,
UK, Europe and further afield. The contribution made in terms of highly impactful research which has
applications in policy and practice is a considerable strength of this submission, and builds

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
successfully and incrementally on the work documented in the last REF. This has generated
significant collaborations to the professional and research disciplines as will be explored below.
Collaborations, networks, and partnerships
Examples of our significant and widespread collaborations includes Davidson, who is a member
of the UK Council for Internet Safety and chairs the Evidence Group. Davidson has been invited
as an expert advisor to present evidence to NICE; The Home Office; The National Crime Agency;
UNICEF; and Europol, amongst others. Most recently Davidson has joined the Board of the
International Criminal Court: Justice Portal, based in the Hague and is Chair of the Research Ethics
Committee of the Independent Inquiry into Institutional Child Sexual Abuse.

Indicators of Influence and Esteem Factors

i)       Keynote speeches
Staff in this UoA are regularly invited to address non-academic audiences in their fields of expertise.
These keynote speeches are on a variety of topics: self-harm in adolescence, suicide, self-harm
and risk in consulting rooms, practice teaching and learning, cyber-crime and online harms,
domestic violence, and crime statistics, among others. These have taken place in a number of
London Boroughs including: Bexley, Newham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets Havering, Waltham
Forest, Barking and Dagenham as well as further afield in Europe, South Africa, Australia and the
Middle East.

ii)     Editorships and Editorial Board Membership
Staff in this unit of assessment are involved in journal editorship and editorial work. For example,
Patel is an editorial board member of Feminism and Psychology and the Journal of Critical
Psychology, Counselling and Psychotherapy. Finch was formerly editor of the Journal Practice
Teaching and Learning. Tribe is on the international editorial panel for Intervention, Journal of
Mental Health, Psychosocial Support in Conflict Affected Areas, and the European Journal of
Counselling Psychology

iii)     Membership of Learned Associations
Staff in this unit of assessment are members of learned societies, Briggs and Brimicombe for
example are both Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Brimicombe also is a Fellow, Royal
Geographical Society: Chartered Geographer CGeog, Fellow, Geological Society, Fellow, Royal
Statistical Society, Director & Executive Member, British Society of Criminology, Member,
International Association of Engineering Geologists, Member, Association of American
Geographers.

Additionally, several staff in this submission have professional body accreditation: Briggs and
Finch are registered social workers (Social Work England); Briggs is also an accredited member
of the British Psychoanalytic Council (BPC); Tribe is a chartered organisation and charted
counselling psychologist, Fellow of the British Psychological Society (BPS) and a registered
psychologist (Health and Care Professions Council, HCPC); Patel is a Consultant Clinical
Psychologist (HCPC) and Fellin is a registered with the British Psychological Society as Charted
Psychologist and a registered member of the British Association for Counselling and
Psychotherapist and the Family Therapy and Systemic Practice Association. Such accreditations
and memberships are important in our strategic development, to ensure currency with practitioners,
and to ensure research outputs are impactful and have relevance to the needs of practitioners and
the vulnerable communities the practitioners serve.

iv)    Membership of advisory panels/groups

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff in this unit of assessment hold advisory roles on internationally recognised panels and
groups. For example, Briggs has been an Expert Advisor for National Institute for Clinical
Excellence (NICE) Centre for Guidelines (from 2016); National Confidential Enquiry into Patient
Outcome and Death (NCEPOD) and Young People's Mental Health Study Advisory Group (2015-
2018).

Awards
Professor Andy Minnion, MBE, received an International Service Award from The US
Association of University Centres on Disability in 2015 for his work at the Rix centre, ‘In
recognition of outstanding contributions that further programs or policies designed to create more
inclusive communities for people with disabilities and their families throughout the world.’ Minnion
became an NHS Innovation Accelerator (NIA) Fellow in 2019, and in 2020 won an NHSx
TechForce19 award. The “Rix Wiki” was a finalist in the 2020 British Educational Training and
technology conference in the Special Educational Needs Software category.

Professor Rachel Tribe received an award from The British Psychological Society (Division for
Counselling) in 2019, for her work on diversity and her work in developing a mental health and
refugee portal. The Mental Health and Wellbeing Portal for Refugees & Asylum Seekers at UEL
is a first stop resource to enable mental health and social care professionals, community
organisations, statutory, international and national third sector organisations and refugees and
asylum seekers themselves, to access information and resources, and practical tools many of
which are not accessible in one place https://www.uel.ac.uk/research/refugee-mental-health-and-
wellbeing-portal

Collaboration with public practice and policy organisations and the third sector
A number of staff in this unit of assessment, collaborate extensively with practice and policy
organisations. For example, Patel, working in the area of psychological support for torture victims
and human rights has worked with the following organisation:; United Nations Relief
and Works Agency for Palestinian refugees in Gaza, Lebanon, Jordan, Syria;                  United
Nations High Commission for Refugees, Hong Kong: International Rehabilitation Council
for Torture Victims (human rights NGO, international): CTI Geneva:, Switzerland (human
rights NGO); DIGNITY; Denmark (human rights NGO), BafF, Germany (human rights network
of NGOs in Germany); GIZ, Yemen (German equivalent of DfiD), in Gaza, Lebanon, Yemen,
Turkey, Syria, Jordan, CCTI, Mexico, (human rights NGO): CINTRAS, Chile (human rights NGO);
Restart, Lebanon (human rights NGO); ACTV, Uganda (human rights NGO); and CVT, South
Africa (human rights NGO). Professor Davidson is chair of the Research Ethics Committee of
the UK Institutional Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse

Professor Brimicombe since 2010, is the Deputy Chair, National Statistician’s Crime Statistics
Advisory Committee, from 2010-14 was a member of the Cabinet Office Transparency Sector
Panel, Crime & Justice Statistics, in 2013-2014 was a specialist advisor, House of Lords Select
Committee on Olympic & Paralympic Legacy, and since 2007, is an executive member for the
London Borough of Newham Community Safety Partnership. These advisory positions thus show
the significance and reach of the research produced and links to this units’ research themes and
priorities. Kanyeredzi is a member of the Black Church Domestic Abuse Forum (BCDAF), a
collaboration between academics, practitioners, lawyer, journalist, and church leaders to enable
more effective responses to domestic abuse (www.bcdaf.org.uk) within faith communities. The
BCDAF is also part of the Faith and Violence Against Women and Girls Coalition. There are also
local collaborations in terms of work with London Boroughs (for example Brimicombe, Minnion,
Finch, Tribe and nationally (Briggs, Brimicombe, Davidson, Minnion, Finch)

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Knowledge Exchange
One significant example of knowledge exchange during this REF period was being awarded a
department of education funded teaching Partnership. Led by Finch, the partnership was awarded
just under GBP 1m, the teaching partnership consisted of the London Boroughs of Redbridge,
Barking and Dagenham, Havering, Newham and Tower Hamlets (later joined by Waltham Forest
as an associate a partner) and the Universities of East London and London Metropolitan. The aim
of the partnerships in general was to develop relationships between providers of social work
education and local authority partners, develop the quality and quantity of social work placements
and ensure practitioners came into teaching and academics went into practice. We developed
additional streams on workforce planning, curriculum development, digital proficiency and
capability and have developed a virtual centre of excellence, providing access to research and as
a useful resource for social work practitioners and practice educators. Whilst the funding ended in
March 2020, following on funding to ensure the sustainability of the partnership was provided.

Strong Practitioner Links:
A particular strength of this unit is the connection to a range of professions, i.e. psychology,
psychotherapy, counselling and social work. A number of staff in this submission are involved in
practitioner training, for example Brimicombe (police) Briggs, Cooper and Finch (social work)
Briggs and Cooper (psychotherapy)

Additionally, staff in this unit of assessment also write and edit books with a practitioner audience
in mind, thus ensuring research work is disseminated to non-academic audiences and so has the
potential to impact on developing practice across professions. Just a few examples include:

   •   Briggs, S. (2019) “Time-Limited Adolescent Psychodynamic Psychotherapy: A
       Developmentally Focussed Psychotherapy for Young People”, Routledge

   •   Davidson, J. (2018) “Child Abuse and Protection: Contemporary Issues in Research, Policy
       and Practice”, Routledge

   •   Finch, J. (2017) Supporting Struggling Students on Placement: A Practical Guide, Policy
       Press, Bristol
   •   Tribe, R. (2020) (Editor) Handbook of Professional, Ethical and Research Practice for
       Psychologists, Psychotherapists, Counsellors and Psychiatrists (3rd edition), Routledge

Summary
Overall, staff in this unit of assessment have well developed networks and collaborations, are
recognised for their work via awards, and are considered experts in their field. All staff research
and practitioner activities have significant and substantial reach and impact.




                                                                                              Page 12
