Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 Unit of Assessment: Law (18)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure
 This is a first-time submission to the Law UoA with 27.7 FTE across Law (10), criminal justice (6)
 and policing (11.7). It builds on staff (4.0FTE) with expertise in Law and policing who were
 submitted to the Politics and International Relations (P&IR) UoA in 2014. Our considerably
 enhanced research position has been achieved alongside consistent growth in undergraduate and
 postgraduate numbers, culminating in the largest unit of assessment submission in the university,
 consisting of 27.7 FTE researchers.

 Our submission collectively presents research in Law, policing and criminal justice. The Unit sits
 within the Faculty of Applied Social Science (FASS) in the School of Law, Policing & Social
 Science (LPSS). 26.7 from the 27.7 submitted in this unit are from the LPSS. LPSS brings
 together a range of research activity ranging from applied research to interdisciplinary work and
 supports approximately 1400 undergraduate and postgraduate students. The unit also contains
 the Canterbury Centre for Policing Research (CCPR) supporting staff, students and partners in
 policing research. The unit has been led by the university strategic plan for research and
 enterprise (2015-2022) resulting in increased research activity, outputs, income and impact since
 2014 (REF5a 2.1).

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 The research across the unit has a commitment to research co-creation in teaching, applied
 research, collaboration, internationalisation and social benefits. The unit is structured to support
 research contributing to development in international Law, vulnerability/risk and
 professionalisation/workplace transformation, while enabling new and evolving research interests
 (e.g. heritage). Impact from staff in the unit has been presented from these themes in four impact
 case studies ICS.18.01 (Police professionalisation and workforce transformation, ICS 18.02
 (Developing the capacity for international investment regulation in Africa) and ICS 18.03
 (Reducing the risks of legally owned and traded firearms) and ICS.04.01 (Utilising the human-
 canine relationship to support vulnerable people in the criminal justice system).

 1.3 Strategic aims (2014)
 Six strategic aims were developed when Law and policing were within the P&IR UoA in 2014,
 soon after these Strategic Aims (SA) were adopted to develop Law as a new UoA. The six
 strategic aims included:

 SA1) To develop and enhance the research environment of the UoA through increasing internal
 and external engagement activities for research and knowledge exchange.
 SA2) To develop and enhance staff research activity and output quality.
 SA3) To double income through research and knowledge exchange to facilitate research and
 generate impact.
 SA4) To strengthen and enhance PhD numbers to support knowledge generation and develop the
 research culture.
 SA5) To develop and enhance research partnerships with other academic and non-academic
 institutions to access data and deliver research impact.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SA6) To establish a research centre in policing research.

 Unit strategic plans are embedded in the University’s Research and Enterprise Quality
 Improvement and Enhancement (REQIE) process through delivery of the Faculty Research and
 Enterprise Portfolio Plan (FREPP) (REF5a 2.1). The School business planning process is used
 to allocate research funding and distribute across the unit.

 There has been a substantial growth and improvement in quantity and quality of research
 and impact, and development of a supportive and vibrant research culture around Law related
 subjects. The research activities in this Unit have exceeded the strategic ambitions set out in
 2014.

 SA1: To develop and enhance the research environment of the UoA through increasing
 internal and external engagement activities for research and knowledge exchange.
 In order to develop and enhance our research environment, we invested the internal Research
 Enterprise Support Fund (RESF) to deliver 20 events supporting the production and assessment
 of outputs, 4 Annual Law conferences, 5 events supporting bid writing and research proposals, 10
 events aimed at developing interdisciplinary collaborations, and 23 initiatives providing resourcing
 for staff to undertake prime research projects. This aim has also been achieved through the
 mentoring of staff with significant responsibility for conducting independent research (SRIR) the
 appraisal system and other support systems, including research away days, the Graduate College
 training sessions and funding for 9 research interns supporting research co-creation. We have
 had three external research reviews (since 2017), with the specific goal of aiding the development
 of a research culture within the unit. The Canterbury Centre for Policing Research (CCPR) (see
 SA6) has 4 visiting professors and 6 research fellows and has held 4 annual conferences. The
 School disseminates research newsletters containing details of events, training and research
 updates concerning project, income and output successes. Staff have also been involved in
 founding and participating in the University Interdisciplinary Research Network (IRN).

 SA2: To develop and enhance staff research activity and output quality.
 In REF2014, 4.0FTE staff from Law were submitted to UoA 19 P&IR contributing 12 outputs. Since
 2014, over 150 publications were produced, 120 were externally reviewed in preparation for
 REF2021. 60 outputs were selected from 27.7FTE staff and submitted reflecting a substantial
 increase since 2014. This was achieved through targeted support available for staff aimed at
 encouraging research co-creation in impact and research development. An increasing number of
 staff became research active (reflected in the increase from 4.0FTE members of staff submitted
 in REF2014 to 27.7FTE in REF2021) and new staff were recruited resulting in a significant
 increase in research projects and outputs in the 3 key areas identified for strategic development
 (see 1.3).

 An increase in outputs and impact was achieved through investment supporting teaching and
 marking cover to focus more time on research and outputs. This also involved hosting a variety
 of events within the university to support research and partnerships (see SA1, SA5) aimed at
 generating research and outputs, external conference attendance, writing retreats, and appointing
 visiting staff to support academic staff development for research bids and outputs. The University
 supported professional development of researchers through the university Supporting Progression
 in Academic Research Careers (SPARC) programme and Research and Innovation Funding Unit



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (RIFU) guidance (REF5a 2.1, 3.2). The UoA also hosted research reviews in 2018, 2019 and
 2020 involving senior external academics reviewing and providing feedback on outputs.
 SA3: To double income through research and knowledge exchange to facilitate research
 and generate impact.
 In REF 2014, the P&IR UoA recorded £296,192 income from research and knowledge exchange
 activities, with £23,788 income generated by Law staff submitting within the unit. Within this new
 UoA submission, the total income for research and knowledge exchange totals £540,910
 reflecting a 20-fold increase in Law income. This large increase in income was achieved through
 supporting staff development, professional networks and encouraging collaboration (see SA1,
 SA4). RIFU also provided training and guidance for bid writing (including reviewing bids before
 submission), the University Researcher Development Programme (RDP) and SPARC programme
 (REF5a 3.2). The unit also invested in supporting staff by appointing visiting professors to mentor
 and advise staff on bid writing (see SA2), arranged for an external specialist on research funding
 applications, and supported staff to attend external bid writing workshops with experienced unit
 staff. Strategically accessing knowledge exchange income generated the opportunities for staff
 to gain access to empirical and organisation data, make recommendations for income, and
 develop recommendations towards impact.

 SA4: To strengthen and enhance PhD numbers to support knowledge generation and
 develop the research culture.
 There has been a significant overall growth in registered PhD students within the Law UoA
 comprising of students in Law, Policing & Criminal Justice from 3 (2014) to 51 (2020) increasing
 by an average of 8.5 students per year and completions increasing from 1 to 7 over the same
 period. 22 Masters by Research (MbR) are currently engaged in study, with 9 under examination
 and 16 completions recorded by July 2020.

 We have substantially exceeded the strategic target. This growth was achieved by strategically
 increasing undergraduate and postgraduate numbers, our research co-creation approach,
 appointing new research active staff, developing/supporting new and existing staff, strong
 recruitment from alumni students and attracting students through research interests of staff. The
 university introduced a 20% alumni discount for level 7 programmes, which we have promoted
 extensively amongst our students. The unit also launched a university instructor scheme
 supporting 11 candidates and recently established an annual full-time PhD bursary competition
 recruiting one student per year since 2019, with 2 MPhil/PhD students currently receiving the
 bursary. The increase in research student numbers provided greater opportunities for research
 active staff to engage with research activities through research degree supervision and supporting
 the development of students as researchers in training through the Graduate College (REF5a 3.3).

 SA5: To develop and enhance research partnerships with other academic and non-
 academic institutions to access data and deliver research impact.
 The unit established a wide range of non/academic partnerships. A scholarship was established
 in 2014 between CCCU and the Metropolitan Police Federation, funding 7 MSc by Research
 scholarship places to complete research in key areas of policing. The CCPR (see SA6) conducted
 key pieces of research with the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) including firearms licensing
 (2017-2020) and police workforce transformation (2018-20) research, described in full, in the
 impact case studies ICS.18.01 and ICS.18.03. The MPS also awarded bursaries (2020-22) for
 serving MPS police officers studying UG and PGT/PGR policing programmes. Some of these
 officers have published with staff and presented their findings at conferences and gone on to PhD

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study. CCPR staff have supported PGR students in presenting research proposals seeking to
 benefit Kent Police (2019 - onwards) and gain access to participants and police data for their
 research. Police Now have also funded research relating to direct detective entry (2019-21). The
 Hydra Foundation is used within the university and the Hydra Director is a visiting Professor within
 the CCPR. Staff in the unit have worked extensively with public sector organisations and other
 universities (see further details in section 4) including a prison heritage project involving the UK
 and international universities and using a facility dog supporting vulnerable people in criminal
 justice (REF3 ICS.04.01). The 3 key areas identified section 1.3 reflect staff expertise and
 activities involving engagement with stakeholders (e.g. government, public services and other
 organisations). Joint working between academic staff within the University, students and external
 partners was encouraged. Each of these broad areas also contain a specific case study
 submission (see REF3 ICS 18.01, 18.02,18.03).

 SA6: To establish a research centre in policing research
 To support and increase research activity, a new research centre was created, the Canterbury
 Centre for Policing Research (CCPR).            CCPR specifically targeted supporting police
 professionalisation and enhancing policing practice through research with students, practitioners
 and academic staff. CCPR has attracted funding (£108,000 since its creation in 2016) from the
 Police Federation, the MPS, Police Now and Shepway Council, attracted research students and
 delivered on a range of research outputs and impact. External and internal funding supported
 engagement between the CCPR and the NPCC, Police Now, MPS and NCA to develop impact
 case studies (ICS.18.01 and 18.03). This income has contributed to the increased research
 activity and outputs (SA2), increasing research student recruitment (SA4) while enhancing the
 research environment (SA1) with a range of organisations (see SA5) allowing research access for
 students and staff and supporting a thriving research culture.

 1.4 Research Themes 2014-2020
 T1. International Law: brings together academics engaged with international Law in the context
 of international investment Law, International arbitration and mediation, International Human
 Rights, social-justice, minority groups and the intersection of these areas with legal education.
 Examples of impact include the Community Legal Companions (CLOCK) in Kent project that
 provides important community assistance to an increasing number of people who attend court
 without legal representation, workshops with members of indigenous groups (the Uyghurs, the
 Kachin, the Rohingya, the Tibetans and Sentilese) collaboration with the Common Good
 Foundation presented at the United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC) in Geneva, as well as
 investment policy reviews in the East African region.
 (Millns, Mortimer, Nananyakara, Nyombi, Onyejekwe, Ramsunder, Siliafis, Waters and
 Zhang).

 T2. Vulnerability: this theme delivers a range of research focusing on the identification of risk and
 vulnerability in relation to organisational responses to particular groups. Examples of impact
 include the identification and development of risk management tools (see REF3 ICS18.03),
 exploring the international legal landscape for end of life interventions, improved victim support
 through human-canine relationships and identifying weakness in responses to child sexual
 exploitation and prisoner heritage/narratives.
 (Brown, Bryant, Dickens, Graca, Hardes, Massey, Mozova, Spalding and Tennant).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 T3. Police Professionalisation and Workforce Transformation: this theme brings colleagues
 together and different strands of research that contribute to improvement to policing practice,
 police education, the response to the College of Policing professionalisation agenda and
 workforce transformation. Examples of impact include: improving access to police education for
 serving officers the development of guidelines of Recognition of Prior Learning and Experience
 (RPEL), providing independent analysis informing Police Federation responses to the College of
 Policing Police Education Qualification Framework (PEQF) and enhancing detective training
 delivery and reducing candidates attrition.
 (Barrowcliffe, Hallenberg, Lydon, Norman, O’Neill, Stephens, Tong, Vera-Stimpson,
 Williams and Wood).

 1.5 Open Access, Research integrity and Governance:
 The unit has research leads across Law, criminology, policing and forensic investigation.
 Awareness of research developments and updates through a research representative in each
 discipline encourages research integrity and awareness across the unit. These channels of
 communication help to disseminate professional development opportunities and updates in
 relation to research. All research projects within the unit are subject to a risk, health and safety
 assessment by the School Research Director before submission to the Faculty Ethics Panel (FEP)
 via Research Space (online research tool) ensures all research projects complete the appropriate
 steps before ethical approval is granted. Hardes is a member of the FEP. All empirical research
 proposals undergo a process of peer scrutiny before submission to the FEP for approval. All staff
 and research students receive ethics training, and PGR ethics applications must be supported by
 the supervisor.

 The Research Enterprise and Support Fund (RESF) funds are allocated to projects (2014-2020)
 through an open bidding process with clear criteria published to all staff. All decisions on internal
 funding are made by a reviewing panel comprising research leads and chaired by the School
 Research Director. The Individual Research Plan (IRP) process outlined below (see section 2.2)
 sets clear expectations for researchers and aligns individual research activity with the Unit’s
 strategic objectives. The unit is committed to the principles of openness and transparency, we
 encourage an open access research environment. All staff and research students are expected
 to upload published outputs to Research Space, CCCU’s institutional repository. The University
 encourages green open access publication and directs funding to support Open Access (REF5a
 2.3).

 1.6 Future Strategic Aims (FSA) for Research and Impact
 The future research aims seek to consolidate progress by further developing research culture and
 developing interdisciplinarity. The strategic aims will focus on enhancing the quality of outputs
 and impact within the unit. It will also maintain access to research activity for ECR and support
 researchers as they move from ECR status to more experienced research leaders. RESF
 resources will be aimed at supporting small scale research to provide research development
 opportunities, writing time to develop research outputs, promoting research engagement events
 with public, communities and professions. The promotion and support for research degrees
 related to staff areas of expertise and pathways to student progression to research degrees.

 For the post-2021 cycle, we have identified objectives for strategic development for the unit:

 FSA1 Consolidating quality of outputs and impact through enhanced development of staff;

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Provide additional resource for mentoring and research time for staff to consolidate and enhance
 output quality. Develop staff previously supported as ECRs, to take on additional research
 responsibility and supervision of new ECR researchers. All ECRs to be provided with a designated
 mentor to develop their research skills. Support research leaders through internal and external
 professional development activities to mentor and support mid-career researchers.

 FSA2 Develop interdisciplinary projects;
 The university has invested in the new £65m Verena Holmes Building (with Hydra, laboratory and
 engineering facilities) which provide additional facilities (REF5a 4.2) for interdisciplinary working.
 Opportunities for engaging with interdisciplinary research projects, for example, (1) Policing 4.0,
 and exploring technological impact on criminal justice through social sciences and
 computing/engineering to support internal and external interdisciplinary working with public
 services and other universities. (2) Crisis response research through Hydra working in partnership
 with other public services and discipline build on existing interdisciplinary working.

 FSA3 Enhance PGR student numbers and increase PhD completions from 7 to 40;
 Maintain staff research activities and prioritise support for existing PhD students. Demand for PhD
 places is increasing, but recruitment will be carefully controlled to avoid going beyond capacity.
 This will mean careful selection of new students whilst enhancing activities for current students in
 the form of support for conferences and outputs.

 FSA4 Increase external research and knowledge exchange income for the unit by 25%;
 This will be achieved through providing additional support for bid writing and development,
 providing internal support through RIFU (REF5a 2.1), mentoring, external professional
 development activities, and supporting staff with additional time. The aim will be to increase the
 number of experienced and skilled bid writers within the unit, so they are able to support and
 review staff with less experience and increase capacity in bid writing within the unit.

 FSA5 Increase the number of collaborations with universities and non-academic partners.
 University investment in Hydra will provide the unit with the opportunity to work in collaboration
 with public services and universities. Established networks through the Police Education
 Consortium delivering police training to Surrey, Sussex and Hampshire Police and the network of
 Hydra users, allows opportunity for further collaboration. Plans to introduce university instructors
 studying PhDs and the development of crisis response research through Hydra will provide a
 platform for engagement between partners. Prioritising exiting relationships with courts, police
 and other public services.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The staffing strategy within the unit is to develop staff as both excellent teachers and researchers,
 and to support and facilitate career progression. All academics in the Unit have 0.20 FTE built
 into their workload to facilitate research, enterprise and/or scholarship of practice activity. All
 academic staff, apart from research assistants, have teaching and research contracts. They have
 significant responsibility for independent research and are expected to produce outputs that can
 be submitted to REF, in addition to seeking external funding. When external income is secured
 there are processes to back-fill time to release staff to deliver the research (REF5a).



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has grown significantly since REF2014 with new staff appointments, promotions and
 University Instructor posts created, with 4 university instructors becoming full-time academics in
 the School. The Unit also committed to recruiting and developing the capabilities of ECRs. Staff
 appointments have been possible by growing numbers of undergraduate and postgraduate
 students. Bryant (1995), Mortimer (2015), Nyombi (2016), Tong (2002) and Wood (1995) have
 contributed to leading the development of research within the unit and to pursue a submission to
 the Law UoA. Staff appointed as ECRs and developed research activities after appointment within
 the unit include: Hallenberg (2012), Hardes (2014), Massey (2010), Mozova (2015),
 Nanayakkara (2012), Norman (2014), O’Neill (2014), Onyejekwe (2017), Ramsundar (2018),
 Siliafis (2013), Tennant (2013), Williams (2011) and Zhang (2017). Their research on the
 international Law, policing, criminal justice and vulnerability has influenced the development of a
 new LLM, an MSc in Applied Policing Practice and the Masters by Research and PhD programmes
 thus expanding the Unit’s post-graduate programmes and enabling ECRs to gain experience of
 post-graduate teaching and supervision. Similarly, the CCPR (SA6) was introduced to support
 staff, student and partner research (SA5), increased income (SA3) quality of outputs (SA2),
 improve research environment (SA1) research impact and supervision.

 2.2. Staff Development
 The strategy to develop research capability of all staff in this UoA is managed through the annual
 appraisal system, at which the IRP is reviewed. Through this process, workload is allocated and
 managed, with designated time for research or scholarship of practice activity. Additional research
 time is enabled through a combination of internal funding, and advance workload profiling through
 the IRP process, to enable staff members to devote a semester to their research, including part-
 time and those returning to work.

 Our staff development strategy is underpinned by the IRP which is reviewed and updated during
 the ongoing appraisal cycle. Within the IRP, staff are encouraged to consider both their long-term
 and short-term goals aligned with the UoA and institutional aims and objectives for the next
 academic year in regard to publishing, optimising impact, seeking funding and building
 collaborations. Staff discuss their support and training needs with the outcomes across the IRPs
 collated to provide a profile of the Unit, monitor progress, and feed into the School, Faculty, then
 Institutional FREPP process (REF5a 2.1). As a result, twenty (20) staff within this Unit received
 internal funding during this REF cycle, ranging from financial support for hosting seminars, exhibits
 and conferences, supporting employment of interns, transcribing, analysis, reviews, writing
 retreats and supporting interdisciplinary research. Marking and teaching cover, conference and
 writing retreats were also provided leading to approximately 25 outputs and benefiting all our staff
 who took part. Training needs are also collated and where a collective need is identified, this is
 communicated at School level and sometimes addressed at Faculty level.

 Staff have also taken the opportunities offered at the intuitional level to both attend the Aurora
 programme (Advance HE’s leadership development initiative for women). All ECRs are
 encouraged through the IRP process to have research mentors, and provision has been made for
 ECR monthly workshops to provide additional support devoted to their needs. Institutional support
 also includes the SPARC programme (REF5a 2.1) for early career researchers, which has been
 completed by 6 of our staff so far (SA1), largely due to its alignment with career development. The
 School Research Committee works closely with external critical friends, enabling the unit to work
 strategically to enhance research outputs and impact (SA1). For example, external reviewers
 have included 12 senior academics external to the university. Each member of staff received

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individualised feedback on their outputs relating to strengths, weaknesses and areas of
 improvement (SA1). Similarly, the CCPR has an advisory group made of external professionals
 and academics (SA5). As a result of both internal and external initiatives, 27 staff are being
 submitted from the School in this REF cycle as opposed to 5 (4.0) in REF2014.

 These development initiatives are a clear and transparent annual process to support academic
 promotions. The unit contains 2.7 FTEs at Professor and 1.0 FTE at Reader. The
 promotions/appointments within the Unit to specific research roles include promotion to Professor
 for Bryant (2013) currently part-time, Tong (2019) and Millns appointed in (2019); Nyombi
 promoted to Reader (2017), and 11 members of staff promoted to Senior Lecturer. Our future
 strategy will be to consolidate the substantial growth, to develop and enhance exiting research
 expertise while focusing on quality and the production impactful research (see section 1.3).

 2.3 Support for training and supervision of PGR students
 The Unit has delivered significant growth in registered PhD students from 3 (2014) to 51 (2020)
 and completions increasing from 1 to 7 over the same period. Similarly, 22 Masters by Research
 (MbR) are currently engaged in study, 9 under examination and a further 16 completions have
 been recorded as of July 2020 (SA3). Furthermore, since 2014, this Unit has introduced 9
 University Instructors (UI) who are part-time PhD students as well as working 0.5FTE supporting
 teaching in the Unit. UIs play a unique role in the Unit and have access to both the research
 development opportunities available to PGR students, as well as the staff development
 opportunities available to academic staff.

 The Unit receives on average 20 strong research degree enquiries every year. Many of these
 enquiries are from international self-funding applicants supported by their national governments
 or employers, primarily from Africa and Asia. They are attracted to our school due to our research
 expertise on those regions and the creation of research clusters including international Law, police
 practice, risk and vulnerability tackling contemporary issues such as minority rights, as reflected
 in our impact case studies. For example, we have one current PhD student who received funding
 from the Nigerian Human Rights Commission to support her doctoral studies at CCCU. To further
 strengthen our PGR community, there is an annual competitive cycle within the School, where a
 fully funded scholarship is advertised and candidates are eligible to apply for three years’ full
 funding (fees/maintenance). During this REF cycle, 2 doctoral students are in receipt of full
 university scholarships (SA3).

 To support student development, PGR students receive extensive research training as part of their
 programme consisting of formal teaching sessions, seminars, writing retreats and research
 groups. All PGR students also have access to the Graduate College’s Researcher Development
 Programme (RDP) based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (REF5a 3.3)
 including writing boot camps, writing workshops and the highly popular PhD Law research away
 day. Such research training events are made available on the virtual learning environment
 Blackboard to which all PGR students have access, and PGR progression and support is managed
 through Research Space. All students registered for a Masters by Research or doctorate undergo
 a yearly personal training needs analysis and development plan through the Graduate College,
 reflecting on current skills, gaps in knowledge, and plan areas for future development in discussion
 with their supervisory panel. The introduction of external advisors to PhD panels including 9
 visiting professors and industry experts has helped to enhance the quality of our postgraduate
 research and researcher development.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research students within the Unit are offered opportunities to present and publish research
 associated with their doctoral research alongside staff and external academic speakers. For
 example, at the 2016 internal Law Conference titled ‘Rebalancing International Investment
 Agreements in Favour of Host States’, 9 research students presented papers alongside senior
 academics and practitioners (SA4). Subsequently, these students were given the opportunity to
 publish book chapters in “Rebalancing International Investment Agreements in Favour of Host
 States” (Wildy, Simmonds & Hill Publishing, 2018) led by Nyombi and Mortimer who were
 commissioned as editors by the publisher (SA1). The book includes chapters from 4 CCCU
 research students, 5 academic staff members and 4 external academics and practitioners.

 Research students within the Unit are prepared for their postdoctoral careers by being actively
 mentored to address conferences and research seminars at other institutions both nationally and
 internationally. During this research cycle, research students delivered papers at conferences
 held at the Universities of Kent, Durham, Cambridge, Harvard, Nairobi, Lagos and institutions such
 as the British Society of Criminology, Metropolitan Police Service and Kent Police, among others.
 To facilitate this, our research students are able to apply to the School’s research fund. There is
 also an active Student Union, the Law Society, attracting both PGT and UG students. PGR
 representatives attend the Faculty Board and the Faculty Research and Enterprise Committees,
 and regularly join joint task groups with staff. As a result of these PGR development initiatives,
 eleven research students with publications have taken up lectureships or part-time roles in HE.

 All PGR students have access to the Researcher Development Programme (RDP) based on the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework (REF5a 3.3). Such research training events are
 captured digitally through our ‘ReCap’ technology and made available on the virtual learning
 environment Blackboard to which all PGR students have access. PGR progression and support
 is managed through Research Space described in REF5a 3.3, and further formal and informal
 support is provided through the PGR Association as described in REF5a 3.3.

 To ensure effective supervision of research, the Graduate College sets clear criteria by which
 supervisors may be designated PhD supervisors at either ‘accredited’ or ‘experienced’ level,
 dependent on previous experience and completions of supervised PhDs. Potential Unit
 supervisors are encouraged to apply through this system and once eligible apply to become an
 experienced supervisor, allowing them to become the lead supervisor for a PhD. This is monitored
 through the IRPs. The increase from 1 ‘experienced’ and 6 ‘new’ supervisors in 2014 to 9
 ‘experienced’ and 17 ‘new’ supervisors by 2020, reflects the growth in the PGR community and
 serves the Unit’s objective of increasing supervisory capacity.          To ensure continuous
 development, all supervisors are encouraged to access the Graduate College University
 Supervisor Training and Development Programme.

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 The Law Unit adheres to the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy in recruiting and
 supporting all staff and research students. A School representative sits on the Faculty of Applied
 Social Sciences’ Equality and Diversity Committee. For the purposes of REF, Stage 1 of the
 institutional Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) as described in our REF Code of Practice has been
 completed and is fully reported in section REF5a 3.4. The gender distribution of eligible staff in
 2020 improved significantly to nearly an equal distribution (Male 53.2%, Female 46.8%) of 111
 staff submitted to a UoA in the Faculty. Of these, 99 (89.2%) are full-time and 12 (10.8%) part-

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time. Institutionally, although the pool of eligible staff is predominantly White staff (at 77% White
 and 17% BAME) our BAME staff are much more likely to be submitted to the REF2021 than our
 White staff (rate of SRIR at 46% and 27.1% respectively). Furthermore, for BAME staff, the rate
 of inclusion since 2014 has increased by 34%. The rate of inclusion of disabled staff compared
 to non-disabled staff is roughly similar (29.5% and 30.6% respectively) and has improved by 11%
 since 2014.

 In recognition of the gender issues within the Unit, the School of Law, Policing & Social Sciences
 led by the Head of School, is seeking Athena Swan Bronze accreditation, reflecting the School’s
 commitment to achieving gender equality. Staff from the Unit continue to play an active part in the
 School’s application, delayed due to Covid19, but team meetings are ongoing, and the School
 remains on track to submit for accreditation in 2021. Nonetheless, with 53.2% male and 46.8%
 Female, the unit has an almost even gender balance. To strengthen equality, diversity and
 inclusion within the Unit, all staff involved in the recruitment panels for colleagues and research
 students have received University training in equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion,
 unconscious bias, as have all staff with line management, appraisal and supervisory
 responsibilities.

 BAME characteristics are underrepresented within the staff groups in this unit, which is consistent
 with the national profile. However, a number of significant actions have been instituted to address
 this issue, including staff training on unconscious bias and de-colonising the curriculum; the latter
 reflected in our research and impact on the East African community. To ensure transparency and
 inclusion, the criteria and process for inclusion in REF was made transparent to staff through staff
 forums, individual management meetings, and dissemination of written material. Positioning REF
 as a developmental process was made explicit within the UoA’s terms of reference through the
 external review of all publications and providing feedback on ratings of outputs. The internal
 review process, REF auditing of outputs and training on writing for REF, was credited by staff in
 this Unit for the improved quality of outputs, and these processes will be maintained post REF2021
 as part of our future strategy (FSA1).

 Finally, the Unit’s approach to equality, diversity and inclusion has ensured that career pathways
 for fixed-term staff mirror those of full-time staff. During this REF cycle, 4 University Instructors
 were made permanent. The School also adheres closely to University policy on helping staff who
 have returned from long-term illness, via meetings, Occupational Health assessments, phased
 returns to work and reduced teaching, research and administrative workloads. Similarly, there is
 an explicit commitment to flexible working within the School once staff have a minimum of 26
 weeks’ continuous service, in line with University policy. During this REF cycle, 3 members of
 staff completed PhDs while in employment in the School, a further 4 are currently studying for a
 PhD.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Significant advances have been made since the last REF cycle which have enabled Law to give
 more emphasis to research, underpinned by the Unit’s Strategic Research Plan (2014-2022) and
 submit for the first time to UoA18. The overall income over the 6-year REF cycle period is over
 £540,910, averaging an annual income of £90.2k (previous REF period total income £23,788,
 average £2,964). This represents a total of 13 projects, with the following spread of size of award.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Unit 18 income 2014-2020

  Income range           £0-   10+-     £20+ -    £25+   £90k+ -     £100k+ -
                       £10k    £20k     £25k      - £90k £100k       £150k
  No. of awards        5       5        0         4      0           1

 In terms of source of income 75% has come from EU government bodies, 9% from UK Central
 Government/Local Authorities charities, and 16% from other sources. The staff who generated
 this income represent 25% (7/28) of those designated as SRIR. This income generation has
 grown in strength, now with a well-established strategic direction in relation to research, and
 demonstrated value for money in terms of the impact and research outputs generated from limited
 external income.

 The strategy to distribute internal RESF funding (REF5a 4.2) largely originated from Politics and
 International Relations previous submission to UoA19, to support our four strategic aims (SA1, 2,
 4 and 5). Specifically, for SA1 to increase the number of research active staff our strategies of
 using workload profiling to release research time, making research resources available to staff,
 developing staff skills and providing support to research bids, has been very successful in
 achieving SA3 double the amount of Income. We operationalised these strategies by:

         a) Employing one Research Assistant in the School, to support staff in relation to advancing
            their research. This resource supports projects which might lead to external funding and
            to assist in promoting and gathering impact for ongoing projects.
         b) Creating a ‘Seed Fund’ for staff to initiate unfunded research and support staff to produce
            outputs; from 2015-2020 9 awards have been made to 9 staff totalling £28,231. As a direct
            consequence of the seed fund there has been a good return on investment, £110,000 of
            external income has been attracted, and with additional RESF resource supporting output
            development, 40 published papers were generated, another 7 in preparation, and 35
            conference presentations delivered.
         c) Establishing a research fund available to support research in the enhancement of the
            environment through running events aimed at engagement and dissemination with
            networks to benefit the entire unit (see SA1). An investment of £80,548 was made over a
            5-year period from 2015. This fund facilitated staff engagement in a wide range of activities
            from seminars to conferences, working with other academics, students and external
            partners in actively disseminating knowledge to academic, professional and public
            audiences.

 The outcome of these strategies was a total 24 bids involving 13 members of the Unit being
 submitted for external funding from 2014-2020. Of these 13 (54.2%) have been successful
 totalling £540,910 of external income. Our strong links with public services is demonstrated by
 58.3% of our total bidding activity (including invitations to tender). For example:

   i.       Bryant – (2014-2016) Investigating the efficiency and effectiveness of 24/7 Point of
            Contact International Co-operation in response to Cybercrime. Funded through the
            European Commission (330,000Euro).

   ii.      Tong and O’Neill – (2018-2020) Detective Constable Pathway (Metropolitan Police
            Service - MPS) research examined the experiences of graduate direct entry detectives

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         from training through to qualification and the contribution of learning and development in
         becoming a substantive detective. Funded through the MPS (£50,000).

  iii.   Williams – (2016-2017) Development of information, guidance and recommendations for
         forces and individuals for the accreditation of existing officers prior learning and
         experience. Funded by the College of Policing (£26,000).

 Funders include the Police Federation (£12,000), Police Now (£12,000), Shepway Council
 (£17,000) for work relating to CSE research, Solalina Investment Limited (£4,000), Society for
 Legal Scholars (£1,200), the Inner Temple (£900), Historic England and Facility dogs funding to
 enhance support vulnerable victims (£32,000).

 3.2 Infra-structure and Facilities
 A Research Director has been appointed who is responsible for facilitating and monitoring
 research activity within the team. This involves research leads in each discipline coming together
 for School Research Committee Meetings where strategy is discussed, internal funding
 applications are reviewed, and research degree student recruitment is co-ordinated. The
 Research Director oversees PhD and MSc by Research applications, identifying and helping to
 secure resources for staff development from RESF funding, providing advice and enabling peer
 review for funding bids, and monitoring research activity. The Research Director works closely
 with the Faculty Research Director and sit on the Faculty Research and Enterprise Committee.

 Part of the responsibilities of each Research Director is to manage and advise on the resources
 required to support the research of the unit and the PGR community. The existing resources
 available on the Canterbury campus includes the Hydra Suite, Courtroom facilities, Forensic
 laboratory, crime scene facilities and the Graduate College study areas. Research software
 availability includes Nvivo, SPSS and Online surveys. Research across the unit is supported by
 one research assistant and the forensic laboratory is supported by a technician.

 Law has access to the Mabb Lovell Court Room, the original Court attached to the neighbouring
 prison, which has now been refurbished to resemble an actual Court allowing life-like simulations.
 Law also accesses the Hydra Suite, managed by LPSS, allowing simulations of policing and
 criminal proceedings to be run. Both resources have encouraged interdisciplinary research
 between UoA4 and 18. Another unique resource supporting this research theme is Oliver,
 Europe’s first Justice Facility dog. Oliver is the only Assistance Dogs International (ADI)
 accredited facility dog worldwide to be placed in a University for research purposes. Oliver, his
 transport from the USA, the training of the CCCU researchers and the dog’s upkeep have been
 funded by Duo Dogs International (St Louis, Missouri) (£30,000). Oliver’s key role is to provide
 support to vulnerable people within the criminal justice system, which has provided a unique
 opportunity to investigate innovative interventions in this area. More details about the project can
 be seen in the case study submitted by UoA 4 (REF3 ICS.04.01).

 The capacity of the Unit to deliver the research strategy have been further enhanced by two
 significant physical infra-structure developments. The University has invested in the development
 of a new £65m specialist STEM building, opened early 2021 (REF5a4.2) which accommodates a
 new Hydra Suite and a custody facility in addition to Psychology labs. This allows additional space
 for more specialist research equipment to be accommodated and available for day-to-day use.
 The five observation labs have new state-of-the-art integrated audio-visual recording equipment.
 This will allow capacity to carry out observational and experimental work in future. For example,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the additional observation rooms will allow us to have a dedicated room setup for simultaneous
 studies including major incidents or interviews in an investigative context (e.g.,
 suspect/victim/witness interviews).

 The new building will also house a large, flexible teaching space with 120 computers. Room
 dividers will allow this space to be configured for four groups of 30 or as one large space. This
 represents an increase in our current computing facility, enabling innovative teaching practices as
 well as large scale data collection and co-production (e.g., using Online Survey). The building will
 provide our postgraduate students with access to dedicated social learning spaces, and a state-
 of-the-art collaborative 120-seater lecture theatre. Inter-disciplinary working has been designed
 into the functionality of the building by ensuring there is a balance of shared and disciplinary-
 specific space. To integrate research into teaching many of the facilities will service the dual
 purpose and PGRs students have access to all research areas. The building will also act as a
 public showcase for our research, with a lively events calendar planned, engaging the general
 public, public services, industry and the third sector. This is in addition to staff and post-graduate
 researcher access to the Augustine House learning and resources centre. This £23m centre
 opened in 2009 and has extensive facilities for researchers and PhD students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Partnerships, networks and end-user engagement
 As a result of our activities, the Unit has developed strong links locally, regionally and
 internationally with national and supranational organisations, public and private sector and
 professional bodies. We have built partnerships to engage in collaborative research, attract
 external funding and develop research capacity within and beyond the institution. The Unit has
 had research projects with a range of organisations (SA5) including; Intergovernmental Authority
 on Development (IGAD), the Common Good Foundation, the East African Community (EAC), the
 Arbitration Fund for African Students (AFAS), College of Policing, Metropolitan Police Service
 (MPS), Police Federation of England and Wales (PFEW) and Kent Police. Our research impact
 stretches beyond local, domestic and regional borders onto the international sphere, particularly
 to the United Nations bodies such as the International Committee for Indigenous peoples in the
 Americas (INCOMIDIOS) and the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law
 (UNCITRAL).

 This engagement has been achieved through a range of research projects beyond the examples
 selected for the impact case studies (SA1, SA2, SA5). Since 2014, academics under this Unit
 have collaborated and contributed to research on three themes: International Law, Police
 Professionalisation and Workforce Transformation and Risk and Vulnerability, and other themes
 that are also supported but in earlier stages of development. For example, Waters’ work around
 clinical legal education stems from the Community Legal Companions (CLOCK) in Kent project
 and the ongoing work of the School’s Mediation Clinic, has led to collaborations with academic
 institutions both locally and regionally including the University of Brighton and University of
 Sussex. His research and Community Based Social Justice Projects have informed the
 establishment of similar clinical legal education initiatives in the UK and around the world e.g.
 University of Pennsylvania’s Mediation Clinic, influenced mediation practice through underpinning
 training programmes delivered locally and nationally and aided court service users regionally to
 navigate the complexities of the civil justice system.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research within the Unit has also brought together collaborations between national and
 international stakeholders. For example, Ramsundar’s research on the application of Economic,
 Social and Cultural rights (ECSR) to indigenous groups in Asia involves collaborations with the
 representatives of the Rohinga, Uighur, Kachin, Tibetan and Sentinelese groups, the Common
 Good Foundation and a slew of international Law practitioners. Research deriving from this
 collaborative work has been presented at various organisations of the United Nations, in particular,
 the United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC) and helped to highlight human rights abuses
 suffered by indigenous groups as well as the important role of supranational bodies such as the
 INCOMIDIOS as a mediator in these issues.

 The research in this Unit, and the collaborations it has built, have resulted in improvements in
 service delivery and institutional practice, which has had a direct impact on the efficacy and user
 experience. For example, the work of the Canterbury Centre for Policing Research (CCPR)
 through the contribution of academics such as Bryant, Hallenberg, Norman, O’Neill, Tong,
 Williams and Wood, has led to a better understanding of the perceptions and impact of police
 professionalisation and workforce transformation policy in England and Wales. The CCPR
 received external funding from Police Federation of England and Wales (PFEW) and its research
 concluded that the Direct Entry (DE) schemes for Superintendent and Inspector ranks may risk
 undermining the professionalization agenda. Furthermore, both the Advanced Detective training
 (ADT) research and MPS Detective Constable Pathway (DCP) research by O’Neill and Tong led
 to recommendations aimed at supporting effective recruitment, reducing attrition and enhancing
 training. Similarly, Bryant conducted research through the CCPR relating to risk of firearm
 ownership and concluded with recommendations on how the regulatory framework and police
 force decision-making in the MPS might be further developed focusing on ‘warnings and
 indicators’. This impact on service delivery and institutional practice is documented further in the
 impact case studies.

 The Unit has sought to maximise the impact of research by placing the service user as central to
 the research process. To put this into practice, the annual internal law and policing conferences
 were established to ensure our research is relevant and impactful to users and beneficiaries. All
 staff and research students are expected to utilise this platform early on in their research design
 and planning. The conferences have led to significant impacts e.g. Mozova and colleagues in the
 Psychology Psychiatry, and Neuroscience UoA, research into facility dog focus (REF3 ICS.04.01)
 has resulted in several publications and collaborative projects involving national and supra
 national organisations.

 We have engaged with and influenced organisations through translational research which has an
 end-point impact on diverse communities around the world (SA5). An example of this is the
 international research of Nyombi on international investment policy in East African region. This
 involves active collaboration with the IGAD, EAC and government bodies such as the Uganda
 Ministry of Health and Uganda Investment Authority. Nyombi’s work contributed to the
 development of several important Laws including the Human Organ Donation and Tissue
 Transplant Bill 2020 aimed at providing legal protection against human rights abuse through illegal
 organ harvesting and trafficking. In recognition of his significant contribution, he was nominated
 to represent the Republic of Uganda in the EAC Investment Policy negotiations and the EAC at
 the UNCITRAL. Linked to this work are externally funded projects with Solalina Investment Limited
 examining the level of protection afforded to foreign investors in selected African countries.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategic focus on applied research that improves lives and generates social transformation
 has also led to research focussed on contemporary and impactful issues (SA1, SA2, SA5). Other
 contemporary examples aimed towards improving lives and social transformation include
 Nanayakkara’s work on Special Education Needs and Disability (SEND) as a vehicle for a Law
 information centre and a pro-bono legal advisory clinic and Zhang’s research on corporate
 restructuring in selected Asian Countries which has led to collaborations with government
 agencies in China, aimed at informing the development of modern insolvency practices. Similarly,
 the work of Nyombi, Chairperson of the Arbitration Fund for African Students (AFAS) has had
 direct impact on Arbitration education in Africa through funding for key events such as the Willem
 C. Vis International Commercial Arbitration Moot in Vienna and improving legal relations and
 jurisprudence in Africa between English speaking and francophone countries through the provision
 of case translations. Mozova and Spruin’s (REF3 ICS.04.01) research for Justice Support Dogs
 International (JSDI) and their work with national and international criminal justice services to
 support vulnerable people has impacted significantly on end users of these services, as well as
 those delivering the services. Collaborations have occurred with UK Witness Services, Medway
 Magistrates, Kent, Nottingham, Derbyshire and Sussex Police, Kent Social Services, the Police
 and Crime Commissioner and High Sheriff of Kent and, internationally with the Royal Canadian
 Mounted Police (Canada), Courthouse Dog Foundation and Duo Dogs (USA).

 4.2 Academic collaborations
 Members of the Unit are actively engaged in a wide-range of national and international
 collaborations (SA1, SA5) with world-leading researchers, communities and networks in Higher
 Education. The following are examples of collaborations which have led to successful grant
 awards and/or publications, and include work in a wide range of areas including impact case
 studies (REF3 ICS18.01; 18.02, 18.03 and 04.01), examples include: clinical legal education
 (Waters: Kent, Sussex, Brighton, Keele, Leeds Beckett & University of Pennsylvania); the
 application of Economic, Social and Cultural rights (ECSR) to indigenous groups in Asia
 (Ramsundar: Queen Mary, KCL & Bedfordshire); and Prison Heritage interdisciplinary research
 (Tennant: University of Liverpool, Leeds Beckett University, University of Hull, Open University,
 Nottingham Trent University, Ton Duc Thang University - Vietnam, University Paris Ouest
 Nanterre La Défense). There are many more examples from staff providing a wide network of
 expertise and collaboration including a total of 14 overseas universities and 29 from the UK.

 4.3 Wider contribution to the discipline
 Across the Unit, staff make a significant contribution to the wider discipline in a number of ways.
 Several staff contribute expertise (SA2) to national and supranational organisations, including the
 International Institute for Sustainable Development (Nyombi), the International Committee for
 Indigenous peoples in the Americas (Ramsundar), European Police Research Institutes
 Collaboration (Tong); European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Training (Tong), Executive
 Board for the Society of Evidence Based Policing and College of Policing Professional Board
 (Williams), Rubicon (Trustee, O’Neill). Bryant has been involved with Kent Police as a lay
 member for the Public Order Policing Board (2016 -2019), the Strategic Policing Requirement
 Board (current) and Chair of External Ethics Board (current), Chair of the Estonian Quality Agency
 for Higher and Vocational Education assessment committee, the United Nations Office on Drugs
 and Crime (2017) and Chair of international evaluators for the Belgian Science Policy Office for
 proposals to the BRAIN-be Belgian Research Action through Interdisciplinary Networks (2019).




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit staff have also taught and taken up visiting positions in academic institutions around the world
 (SA1, SA2, SA5) including: Williams Senior Research Fellow East Midlands Police Academic
 Collaboration (EMPAC), Nyombi (Visiting Professor Makerere University & University of Juba)
 and Tong (visiting Professor Charles Stuart University; Visiting Senior Fellow, Anglia Ruskin
 University), Vera-Stimpson (Visiting Research Fellow, University of Kent) and Millns (Visiting
 Professor at Université Paris Descartes, Université Lille II). The expert standing of staff is also
 recognised through approximately 20 networks, societies and professional bodies from the Law
 Society of England & Wales, British Psychology Society and the Society of Criminology.

 Unit staff recognise the important contribution they can make to the research process through peer
 reviewing and membership of editorial boards and have peer-reviewed articles for over 50 journals
 (SA1, SA2) ranging from Policing & Society, Australian and New Zealand Journal of Criminology,
 The Police Journal and Journal of Sexual Aggression, Sport, Ethics & Philosophy Education,
 Citizenship and Social Justice, the International Company and Commercial Law Review and the
 Journal of Legal Studies.

 Unit staff (SA2) have served on editorial boards including: Police Journal (Bryant, Tong), Journal
 of Criminological Research, Policy and Practice (O’Neill), Cogent: Law, Crime, Justice & Society
 (Tong), Frontiers in Sport, Leisure and Tourism (Hardes), The Law Teacher (Waters; also the
 Learning Resources Editor for the Journal) Policy Press, Key Themes in Policing - book series
 (Tong). Staff are also called upon to review grant applications and awards for example, Millns
 Research Council membership - Member of Arts & Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Peer
 Review College; Tong, Scottish Institute for Policing Research (SIPR) and British Academy.

 The national and international standing of staff is also regularly drawn upon to act as external PhD
 examiners (SA2), both in the UK, for example Nyombi (Hertfordshire, Cardiff Metropolitan,
 Bradford, Huddersfield); Tong (Leeds, Surrey, Portsmouth, UCL, South Wales, Durham,
 Huddersfield, Middlesex); Bryant (Ulster, Durham, Huddersfield); O’Neill (University of Central
 Lancashire, Anglia Ruskin), Wood (Anglia Ruskin).

 Dissemination of research findings (SA5) both within the academic community and to end-users
 plays a central role in our research activities, and our researchers are regularly invited to present
 keynote addresses or invited to present their research both to subject specific international e.g.
 Millns ‘Human Rights in Europe’ Sussex European Movement May 2016, Nyombi, SOAS
 Arbitration in Africa Conferences Egypt 2016 and Tanzania 2019 and also
 interdisciplinary/practice conferences.

 Members of the Unit have also organised and hosted seminars and conferences (SA1) including:
 The Annual Law Conference, hosted at CCCU since 2017 (Nyombi & Ramsundar); the CCPR
 conference, Firearms conference hosted at CCCU since 2016 (Bryant, Graca, Hallenberg,
 Massey, Tong and Williams). A joint seminar series (Tong, Williams) on policing between the
 CCPR and University of College London (2019-20 and 2020-2021).

 Innovative ways of engaging the public (SA1, SA5) in research outcomes is encouraged including
 support for the blog ‘Policing and Criminal Justice’ in operation since 2014 providing blogs led by
 Williams primarily on policing authored by staff, students and guest bloggers receiving over
 65,000 views. The CCPR (SA6) has established a presence on Twitter with over 3100 followers.
 Williams has been involved with the creation of WeCops (a Twitter discussion forum for policing)

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hosting events through twitter a recent chat on diversity and recruitment in policing chat attracted
 significant contributions and debate trending on Twitter at number 7 and reaching almost 2.9
 million users. Finally, the excellence of some research contributions has been recognised
 through prestigious awards and prizes (SA2) including: Waters. the BIALL Legal Journals Award
 2015, Hardes Theoretical Criminology Journal best article 2020, Wood British Society of
 Criminology (BSC) Policing Network Annual Prize – Sole authored.




                                                                                             Page 17
