Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 18 - Law

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context:
 Durham Law School (DLS) is an innovative community of researchers which cultivates individual,
 and collaborative, research across a full range of disciplinary fields and methodologies. Our work
 blends scholarly excellence with a sharp practical focus, prizes inter- and cross-disciplinary
 enquiries and partnerships, and seeks to shift discourses around the use and potential of law.

 Our post-REF2014 research strategy focused on two distinct strands of activity: (i) continuing to
 enhance our research culture to enable and encourage outstanding research and (ii) building
 research critical mass in our core fields of expertise.

 In enhancing our research environment, our objective has been to foster a culture of peer-
 support and collaboration in the generation of exceptional and accessible research. Our pursuit
 of this goal has secured the following outcomes:

       outputs reflecting a wholesale commitment to research excellence supported by
        policy initiatives designed to increase the proportion of our publications which reach the
        very highest scholarly standards;

       extensive societal engagement and impact, demonstrating the embedded nature of
        engagement within DLS research activity as well as to its sustainability (including
        research strongly positioned to deliver impacts post-2020);

       enhancements to our community of researchers in relation to critical mass, gender
        balance, career progression, and the development and integration of research groups
        (RGs) and our PGR population (with PhD completions up from 25 during the REF2014
        period to 81 in the REF2021 period);

       a substantial increase in externally-sourced research funding facilitated by, inter
        alia, peer and expert support for applicants and cross-faculty review processes (with
        research income up from approximately GBP730,000 during the REF2014 timeframe to
        over GBP2,100,000 in the REF2021 period); and

       a commitment to accessible research evidenced in a significant body of open access
        academic outputs and broad portfolio of policy and public engagement publications.

 The adoption of a new Durham University (DU) strategy from 2017 onwards facilitated the
 expansion of DLS’ academic staff base in pursuit of research excellence. DLS has grown from
 45fte at REF2014 to 53.97fte CAT A staff at REF2021, with our research groups (RGs) providing
 the vehicles through which this strategic institutional investment in DLS has been delivered
 (1.3.1). Investment in our CAT A staff underlines our long-term commitment to producing
 world-leading scholarship.

 The combination of research environment enhancement and strategic academic
 recruitment has extended the reach and visibility of our research – DLS has featured in the
 QS and THES world top 50 law schools since 2016 and 2018, respectively – and has furthered
 engagement with international peers, networks and (academic and policy) collaborators through

                                                                                              1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 strengthening existing links and allowing new collaborative and strategic relationships to be
 forged based on the expertise of new colleagues.

 1.2. Structure:
 Overseen by the Dean and Senior Management Team, strategic research leadership is provided
 by the Research Committee (RC), including the Deputy Dean for Research (DDR), and
 designated Funding and Impact Leads. Operational oversight is provided by the DDR (a member
 of the School’s Senior Management Team) and RC, which is responsible for implementation and
 revision of strategy and policies, advising our Board of Studies, administration of capacity-
 building initiatives (the Innovative Research in Law series) and monitoring of RG activity. RC
 ensures research activity is coordinated with institutional strategy (REF5a, s.2) and adaptive to
 the external research landscape.

 Collective research activity is structured around clusters of researchers. RGs supply a
 foundational means of generating intellectual vitality; they provide hubs for researchers with
 shared interests; incubate theses and research plans; facilitate research collaboration and
 engagement; and support research directly through the allocation of research funding. RGs
 integrate ECRs and PGRs in collective research activity, providing space and opportunities for
 the development of management and leadership skills. All DLS staff and PGRs are involved in
 one or more RG, and RG membership includes colleagues from across DU.

 DLS currently hosts 9 distinct RGs reflecting fields of established, and evolving, research
 specialisms:

       Centre for Chinese Law and Policy (CCLP) (established 2019);
       Centre for Criminal Law and Criminal Justice (CCLCJ);
       Durham Centre for Ethics and Law in the Life Sciences (Durham CELLS);
       Durham Centre for Law and Philosophy (DCLP) (established 2020);
       Durham European Law Institute (DELI);
       Gender and Law at Durham (GLAD);
       Human Rights Centre (HRC);
       Institute for Commercial and Corporate Law (ICCL);
       Law and Global Justice at Durham (LGJD).

 RGs illustrate the diverse strengths of our academic community, highlighting that DLS research
 speaks to a varied range of academic and policy-facing audiences. The RG infrastructure is
 flexible and responsive, allowing for development and regress of research clusters. The period
 has seen the development of RGs in the fields of Chinese Law and Law and Philosophy (the
 latter delivering a REF2014 objective).

 DLS staff play significant research governance roles across the DU community. In relation to
 research management, the DDR is a member of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Health
 Research Committee, and during the REF cycle four DLS academics have been appointed to
 the University Research Committee (Bows; Cave; Hernández; McGlynn (Bows and Hernández
 as ECR delegates)). The Dean, as Head of School, is a core member of DU’s Senate
 (Masterman (between 2013 and 2016); Brooks (since 2016)). DLS academics have served as
 members of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Health Ethics Committee (Chirita; Turner) and
 the Durham University Ethics Advisory Committee (Cave). Between 2012 and 2015 McGlynn
 was Deputy Head of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Health, driving Faculty-level research
 strategy, and was subsequently responsible for distributing approximately GBP1,000,000 for
 impact development purposes as Director of the Durham University ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account (ESRC IAA) (between 2015 and 2019).



                                                                                             2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In the co-ordination and cultivation of interdisciplinary research, DLS academics occupy
 leadership positions in pan-institutional interdisciplinary research institutes and cross-
 departmental research centres including the Durham Global Security Institute (DGSi) (Baker
 (between 2014 and 2015); Turner (since 2015); the Global Policy Institute (GPI) (Schütze); the
 Centre for Research into Violence and Abuse (CRiVA) (Bows; McGlynn); IBRU: Centre for
 Borders Research (Henry Jones; O’Donoghue); and DurhamARCTIC (Henry Jones;
 O’Donoghue).

 1.3. Research and Impact Strategy:
 1.3.1 Evaluation of REF2014 strategy and developments:
 Our REF2014 environment statement articulated three key themes – law as innovation; law for
 social change; law and institutions – which recognised the development of scholarly enquiry from
 conceptual innovation, through to social engagement and institutional deployment and reform.
 These themes articulated the core ways in which DLS research impacted on scholarship, policy
 and legal practice and provided the basis from which our culture of impact and engagement
 could be mainstreamed (1.3.3). This narrative of our research lifespan was accompanied by the
 following strategic priorities:

       publishing innovative and distinctive research of the highest quality;
       developing research partnerships, inside and beyond the discipline of law;
       increasing external income generation by harnessing diverse and sustainable funding
        streams;
       maintaining a vital research environment which supports established scholars while
        nurturing new generations of active researchers and research leaders; and
       further embedding impact in all aspects of our research culture.

 These objectives were refined following a post-REF2014 review to include implementation of
 strategies designed to increase the proportion of our research reaching the highest standards of
 excellence and to capitalise on our RGs as a means of enhancing our position as a world leader
 in research.

 The adoption of the 2017-2027 DU Research and Impact Strategy (REF5a, s.2) required
 integration of these research priorities with the expansion of DU’s academic staff base. At DLS
 level, our RGs have provided the sub-disciplinary infrastructure for an ambitious programme of
 staff growth designed to build critical mass in, and between, the following core areas of DLS’
 research:

       Comparative/Transnational Law (CCLP);
       Legal Theory (DCLP);
       Medical law/Biolaw (Durham CELLS);
       European Law (DELI);
       Public Law and Human Rights (HRC);
       Commercial and Corporate Law (ICCL);
       International Law (LGJD).

 1.3.2 Designing and generating world-leading research:
 DLS has cultivated an enhanced and supportive culture of mentoring and peer-support driven
 by a comprehensive Research Mentoring Policy (2015). Researchers at every grade have a
 research mentor with whom they work closely in preparing and revising outputs, developing
 ideas for grants and reviewing grant applications, and fostering pathways to impact. The intensity
 of the mentoring relationship varies according to the needs of the researcher, with the minimum
 being twice-yearly meetings.

                                                                                              3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Quality-enhancement initiatives include the introduction of pre-submission peer review policies
 (2014 and 2015) which engage mentors and RGs in reviewing draft outputs and grant
 applications from an early stage. We match researchers with expert reviewers in the review
 process, run successful applicant-led workshops, engage with review by Faculty-level RCUK
 liaison groups and build the capacity of ECRs and PGRs through provision of internal
 competitively allocated funding. These initiatives are supported by dedicated ESRC IAA-funded
 impact mentoring, ensuring a holistic approach that increases the quality and ambition of
 research projects.

 Our research ambitions are reinforced by undertaking research with integrity and ensuring the
 highest standards of ethical responsibility. As our range of methodologies and research practices
 have diversified, we have comprehensively reviewed practices, adopting new policy in 2017.
 Oversight is provided by a dedicated ethics lead (a member of RC), with responsibility for data
 protection/management and research ethics for both staff and student research projects. Our
 approach encourages reflective engagement and practice, ensuring ethical considerations form
 an integral component of our research.

 These initiatives are integrated with DLS’ structures of research leadership: RC provides
 oversight and monitoring, each draws on our community’s expertise and experiences, and utilise
 RGs to deliver quality calibration exercises in core fields of research activity.

 1.3.3 Mainstreaming and Sustaining Engagement and Impact:
 A proactive approach to engagement and generating impact animates our revised Impact Policy
 2015. It includes a ground-up engagement and impact strategy, incorporating professional
 development, generation of accessible policy materials, targeted communication, network
 building, and the design and delivery of research projects alongside end-users.

 Embedding a culture for impact: Our ability to sustain a commitment to impactful and influential
 research has been enhanced by the appointment of an academic impact lead and PGR impact
 officers, has influenced the (re-)designed remit of research mentors (whose roles range from
 embedding engagement and impact activity into individuals’ research plans to assisting in the
 audit of impact work at across DLS), and is reflected in workload credit (2.2.1; 2.4). PGR impact
 officers (Akgun; Houghton; Warwick) have supported engagement and impact activity
 throughout the period, developing professional skills which, in turn, have helped them secure
 permanent appointments elsewhere (2.2.2). Our Innovative Research in Law seminars have
 provided a key termly forum for skills development and sharing experiences in relation to impact
 generation, and have covered giving evidence to committees/inquiries, developing relationships
 with policy actors, and media engagement. Termly reports on impact and engagement to RC
 and Board of Studies have ensured that both are firmly rooted in departmental discourse.

 Training and development: Researchers take-up specific development opportunities designed
 to improve public dissemination and research communication, including bespoke media training
 funded by the ESRC IAA, training on addressing policy audiences and drafting research
 briefings. The ESRC IAA administers a designated impact mentoring scheme, matching ECRs
 (Douglas; Hayward; Jokubauskaite; Perrone; Turner) with an experienced impact mentor
 (including Brooks; McCann; McGlynn) – and providing financial support – to assist in the
 development of engagement and impact capacity for a discrete project.

 Capacity-building has seen colleagues at Assistant and Associate Professor (e.g. Choudhury
 (4.4.4)) achieve significant impacts, demonstrating the depth of contribution beyond senior
 academic staff and that DLS has built a sustainable footing for future impacts. Bows’ work on
 crimes against older people was – for instance – instrumental in the Office for National Statistics’
 decision to trial amending the Crime Survey for England and Wales by lifting the age cap in

                                                                                                4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 relation to questions on domestic violence, sexual violence and stalking (resulting in Bows
 receiving the Emerald Publishing ‘Real Impact’ prize 2019-2020).

 Building Research Partnerships: Acting through individual researchers, RGs and as a unit (4.2),
 DLS builds research partnerships as a means of raising profile, creating research synergies and
 generating impact. DLS engages with diverse communities beyond academia, including charities
 (Bows), sexual violence survivors (McGlynn (ICS)), governmental and regulatory organisations
 (Phillipson) and specialist legislative and supra-national bodies (Leigh, ICS) to hone the
 practicality of our research and ensure it has reach.

 Turner’s research exploring the legal, political and cultural barriers that women face to accessing
 high-level mediation positions – for instance – has led to significant engagement with high-level
 policy makers internationally (including the UN), and the creation of partnerships with research
 users – including the Mediterranean Women Mediator's Network (funded by the Italian Ministry
 of Foreign Affairs and the Crisis Management Initiative, Helsinki) – to advance thinking in relation
 to women's participation in conflict resolution. McCann’s ICS is built upon extensive collaboration
 with a global interdisciplinary network of stakeholders, encompassing over 90 organisations in
 25 countries. Project priorities and strategies were developed in consultation with stakeholders
 from the outset to maximise influence on developments in domestic and international labour law
 policy.

 1.3.4. Accessible Research:
 DLS is committed to the active and high-impact dissemination of its research. This ambition has
 led to focussed policies, training and deployment of resources to ensure both academic and non-
 academic impact.

 Academic Publications: Our 2015 Open Access Policy drives our ambition to publish as much
 work as possible in open access formats. Placement of outputs in the institutional open access
 repository – Durham Research Online – is a matter of routine: DLS researchers have placed
 over 450 journal articles and chapters in DRO during the period. Our researchers have
 implemented publication strategies designed to demystify law and policy for non-specialist
 audiences (eg Brooks, Becoming British; O’Donoghue et al, Bordering Two Unions: Northern
 Ireland and Brexit (O’Donoghue (ICS)) and have published with targeted collaborators in order
 to reach specific user audiences (eg Masterman’s report with UCL’s Constitution Unit (2015)).
 During the current cycle, DLS staff authored three of the 40 articles published open access to
 mark the 40th anniversary of Legal Studies (Cave; Pattinson; Siems).

 In support of effective dissemination leading to impacts, DLS resources have been specifically
 directed towards ensuring open access publication: Choudhury’s research on PREVENT (The
 Prevent Duty in Education (2020)) and Turner’s work on women mediators (‘Soft ways of Doing
 Hard Things’ (2019) Peacebuilding) have both been published open access, resulting in clear
 impacts (4.4.4; 1.3.3). Facilitated by DLS investment, McGlynn’s (2017) Feminist Legal Studies
 article has been downloaded over 35,000 times.

 Research briefings and engagement materials: We strive to ensure our research is read and
 understood by academic, practitioner, policy and lay audiences. Distillations of scholarly work
 are available in a range of fora including our dedicated website: Durham Law: Policy
 Engagement pages. This resource provides access to primary research, briefing papers,
 relevant multi-media (supported by ESRC IAA funding secured by Warwick) and researcher
 biographies across a range of DLS specialisms. These materials have provided direct support
 to our ICS portfolio – in relation to decent work regulation (McCann, ICS); image-based sexual
 abuse (McGlynn, ICS) – and have supported high-level engagement leading to broader impacts.
 O’Donoghue’s UN Women Project, for example, initially used briefings to communicate project
 objectives to key actors – including the UN’s Focal Point for Women and FCO Director General

                                                                                                5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Political – before engaging a broader audience with project recommendations. The Senior
 Gender Advisor to the UN Secretary General subsequently used DLS work in launching a
 programme of reform of its employment practices.

 Active public engagement: Regular contributions to established blogging platforms (such as The
 Conversation, Huffington Post, and the UK Constitutional Law Association blog) and innovative
 approaches to communication (including the ESRC IAA-funded animations explaining the
 centrality of the Irish border to the Brexit process (O’Donoghue (ICS)) evidence effective and
 innovative research dissemination. Profile-raising work via the international broadcast and print
 media has led to significant impacts (McGlynn, ICS), international recognition (The New Yorker
 (O’Donoghue); New York Times (Linarelli)) and widespread engagement with DLS research:
 Bows’ article for the BBC (‘How can sexual assaults at festivals be stopped?’ (2019) drawing on
 research supported by British Academy funding) received over three quarters of a million views
 within a month of publication); Phillipson was a prominent commentator during the BBC’s
 coverage of the Supreme Court’s Miller decision; Brooks is one of the UK’s foremost
 commentators of citizenship and immigration issues, amassing over 1,500 media appearances
 since 2015 and regularly writing for the national press (including the Daily Telegraph, Guardian
 and Financial Times). In order to develop the skill sets of our researchers, we have undertaken
 designated ESRC IAA media training, and harnessed the expertise and experience of DLS
 academics (e.g. Brooks) in order to run bespoke media training for law researchers.

 1.4. Future Strategy:
 DLS research strategy post-2020 will build upon our current strengths and achievements,
 focusing on the following objectives:

       Further strengthening of our international research profile through sustaining our current
        RGs while supporting newly-established groups – the Centre for Chinese Law and Policy
        and Durham Centre for Law and Philosophy – to develop and flourish;
       A continued commitment to the generation of research of complexity and scope
        published with leading publishing houses and targeted at the most competitive peer-
        reviewed periodicals in order to ensure visibility and scholarly influence;
       Maintenance of a core emphasis on researcher development and progression delivered
        through, inter alia, dedicated and professional mentoring, peer support, and within the
        supportive communities of our RGs;
       Increasing the volume of external grant awards to enhance our capacity to deliver
        research by capitalising on the expertise of existing staff in relation to grant capture and
        impact in order to increase the skills capacity of DLS overall;
       The development of an impact pipeline in order that fledgling impacts can be identified,
        nurtured and realised;
       The establishment of a Durham Journal of Law and Policy in order to showcase,
        capitalise on and develop DLS’ policy-facing research outputs and successes in
        achieving impact;
       Maintain progress towards a balanced staffing base in relation to gender and ethnicity,
        closure of the gender gap at professorial level and secure the Athena SWAN Bronze
        award.




                                                                                               6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 2. People

 2.1. Staffing and Recruitment Strategy:
 Since REF2014, DLS has matched a strategy of research quality/environment improvement,
 with a drive towards targeted growth of our research-active staff and PGRs, designed to cement
 DLS’s position as a leading international hub for innovative and original legal research. Our new
 global recruitment strategy has built critical mass across our research specialisms (1.3.1)
 through the following permanent appointments:

       Comparative/Transnational Law (CCLP): Ge Chen; Lei Chen; Du; Li; Liang;
       Medical law/Biolaw (Durham CELLS): Halliday; Pickles; Woolley;
       Legal Theory (DCLP): Jacques;
       European Law (DELI): Frantziou; van Leeuwen; Wieczorek;
       Public Law and Human Rights (HRC): Blackbourn; Douglas; O’Loughlin; McHarg; Yong;
       Commercial and Corporate Law (ICCL): Attenborough; Bevan; Linarelli; Lupo-Pasini;
        Wang; Zu;
       International Law (LGJD): Annika Jones; Nicholson; Perrone.

 New appointments have added depth and – through the input of new perspectives and fields of
 enquiry – vitality to the DLS community. We have doubled the number of researchers working
 in the Biolaw field, broadening our specialisms into vital fields such as ecological governance
 (Woolley) and obstetric violence (Pickles). Expertise in UK constitutional and human rights law
 has been deepened through the appointments of McHarg (territorial governance) and Yong
 (legislative studies), while our commercial and corporate law coverage has been extended
 through the appointments of Lupo-Pasini (international financial law and regulation) and Zu (tax
 law).

 Synergy between RGs has been boosted through appointments researching across multiple
 fields (including Douglas; Frantziou; Annika Jones; O’Loughlin). The integration of the CCLP has
 been secured through such cross-fertilisation of research: Du, for instance, publishes extensively
 on international trade, investment and environmental law (ICCL; LGJD) while Li uses empirical
 evidence from Chinese courts to contribute cross-jurisdictional debates in public law regarding
 the role of courts as policymakers (HRC).

 We have balanced the sustainable development of research critical mass through ECR
 appointments with the strengthening of leadership, mentoring and supervisory capacity. As such
 we have made a series of appointments at or above Associate Professor level (Bevan; McHarg;
 Woolley; Yong), and the establishment of the CCLP – now one of the largest research centres
 in the field outside of Asia – was accompanied, in 2019, by the appointment of two Professorial
 appointments (Du and Lei Chen). Our responsive recruitment strategy facilitates appointments
 which ensure the vitality of the School’s research community and reinforce interdisciplinarity (e.g.
 Brown (CCLCJ); Bows (CCLCJ; GLAD)).

 2.2. Staff Development and Progression:
 DLS recognises that progression is vital to job satisfaction and retention as well as to sustaining
 and enhancing research quality. The School takes an active, supportive and inclusive approach
 to progression, seeking to balance collective objectives with the varied developmental needs,
 career aspirations and research trajectories of individual colleagues (2.6). All colleagues’
 research activity is reviewed annually through the DU progression and promotion scheme. This
 researcher-focused process – which is aligned with unit-wide systems of researcher
 development (1.3) – operates in collaboration with DLS mentors and is overseen by the
 Departmental Progression and Promotion Committee. Researchers are supported by the

                                                                                                7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 portfolio of professional development opportunities provided by the Durham Centre for Academic
 Development (DCAD), including tailored provision for ECRs and PGRs (REF5a, ss.3.3; 3.5).

 2.2.1. Support for early career researchers:
 DLS mentoring extends to teaching-only and research-only staff, recognising that both groups
 are likely to include a high proportion of early career colleagues. Probationary, ECR and
 research-only colleagues are represented on the SMT and Board of Studies by a designated
 representative – a point of contact and advocate – who coordinates mentoring activities in
 support of career development. Probationary colleagues also benefit from a workload-protected
 enhanced proportion of research time in order to facilitate research during a period of transition
 (over 20 ECRs have benefitted from this – effectively translating as a provision of >50% time for
 research – during the period).

 Our commitment to collaboration between established and ECR colleagues – encouraged by
 our ECR policy – has generated a significant body of research during the period (including by
 Fenwick and Hayward; Lucy and Williams; Masterman and Wheatle; O’Donoghue and Warwick;
 Riley and Ruelas). Support to ECRs has aided in the production of research that has been
 published in highly competitive journals (including Chirita (International and Comparative Law
 Quarterly); Henry Jones (Legal Studies)) and prominent series of monographs (including Hart’s
 Constitutional Systems of the World (Granat), as well as receiving academic acclaim (Frantziou;
 Greene; Hernández; Wheatle (4.5)).

 2.2.2. Promotions and career progression:
 Effective developmental and peer-support is reflected in successful promotions during the
 period: 11 (5 male/6 female) colleagues have been promoted to Associate Professor (Bows;
 Choudhury; Frantziou; Hernández; Annika Jones; Henry Jones; Nicholson; Pillay; Turner; van
 Leeuwen; and Wheatle (who first joined DLS as PDRA)); 4 (1m/3f) have been promoted to Chair
 (Brooks; Cave; McCann; and O’Donoghue (who first joined DLS as Assistant Professor)).
 Mentorship and career support to Post-Doctoral Researchers and Graduate Teaching Assistants
 (GTA) has facilitated their successful transition into longer-term appointments both at DU
 (Wheatle), and elsewhere (e.g. Warwick (Birmingham); Houghton (Newcastle); Jokubauskaite
 (Glasgow)).

 Our interdisciplinary research environment has attracted funded researchers from sociology and
 anthropology who have gone on to flourish in other disciplinary environments (Vera-Gray (DU,
 Sociology); Vaisman (Aarhus, Anthropology)). While the international resonance of our
 researchers is evidenced in their secondment to prominent international appointments
 (Bohlander, International Co-Investigating Judge in the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of
 Cambodia (between 2015 and 2019, since 2020) and Judge at the Kosovo Specialist Chambers
 (since 2017)) and their progress to institutions overseas (including Delgado Casteleiro
 (Universidad Autónoma de Chile); Hernández (Leuven); Spaventa (Bocconi)). Maintaining
 research links with former colleagues has also served to enrich DLS research activities through
 contributions to outputs (e.g. Thomas chapter in The Future of Commercial Law (2020)) as well
 as ongoing engagement with our research community (Jokubauskaite remains a fellow of the
 DLS-led Global Policy Institute).

 2.3. Development of Leadership and Management Capacity:
 Harnessing the leadership capacity and potential of DLS researchers is fundamental to realising
 our research ambitions. DLS recognises that leadership capacity can be evidenced across a
 range of activities and from the earliest of career stages; our policies and practices encourage
 and develop leadership and project-management skills, through allocated resources, training
 and support. Our policy of ECR co-leadership of RGs affords ECRs responsibility for
 coordinating programmes of RG activity and management of devolved budgetary responsibility.

                                                                                              8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The accompanying practice of inviting PGRs to become associate/deputy directors ensures that
 colleagues at all levels have opportunities to develop skills of coordination and leadership via
 our RGs.

 To ensure continuous development of managerial capacity, DLS identifies suitable colleagues
 to undertake training appropriate to the effective administration of research (and broader DLS)
 activities. Brooks, Masterman and McGlynn have completed DU’s Academic Leaders’
 Programme of training (with Newcastle University), serving as Dean, Head of School and
 member of DU Council, respectively. Hernández, O’Donoghue and Pillay have undertaken
 DCAD’s Leading Research Programme, and Bows, Cave, Annika Jones and O’Donoghue have
 participated in the Aurora Women in Leadership programme (Jones continues to act as an
 Aurora programme mentor). Ensuring a DLS community equipped with appropriate leadership
 and executive skills has underpinned stable succession planning and transition into key
 managerial positions.

 The leadership strengths of DLS researchers have been recognised in both internal (1.2) and
 external appointments (e.g. Pattinson, Deputy Chair, Nuffield Council on Bioethics, since 2019),
 as well as in the allocation of UKRI research funding (e.g. Hernández, AHRC Future Research
 Leadership Grant).

 2.4. Facilitating Research and Engagement:
 Time is the critical requirement for developing innovative and challenging new ideas that
 generate research of the highest quality. DLS operates a finely-grained workload model which
 allocates 40%+ of all academics’ time to core research and impact activities. Other central
 features of the DLS research environment – including PGR supervision and RG leadership –
 attract additional credit. The workload also provides a means to incentivise research activities,
 acknowledging the time commitments involved in – for instance – the preparation and
 submission of large research grant applications, membership of funding body peer review
 colleges, journal editorships, and the additional burden of ICS preparation. We have sought to
 mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on research time, by allowing additional time for
 preparing online teaching materials.

 2.4.1. Research Leave:
 Our distinctive approach to research leave represents a significant financial investment in
 research. DLS supplements DU provision for leave (REF5a, s.3.3) by providing successful
 applicants with an additional term of teaching relief, contingent on submission of an external
 funding application (at a level commensurate with career stage) in support of the proposed
 research. DLS has supported 56 applications for additional terms of research leave during the
 period. This approach to research leave has granted our academics the time and space to
 develop a significant proportion of our submitted outputs as well as providing a basis for
 increased research grant capture during the period (3.2).

 Further, DLS policy recognises the time-sensitive and time-consuming nature of some impact
 activities by encouraging applications for exceptional leave for impact. This innovation in support
 of impact generation has, inter alia, supported the policy research central to our ICS portfolio
 (Leigh, Making International Intelligence Cooperation Accountable (2015)) and facilitated
 periods of overseas partnership building (Turner (1.3.3)). Research leave has also facilitated
 periods during which DLS academics have been embedded in UK legislatures as academic
 fellows (Bows (Scottish Parliament, between 2019 and 2021); Cave (Scottish Parliament, 2018);
 Phillipson (House of Commons Library, 2018). This reactive approach represents a financial and
 strategic commitment to research impact generation; it has directly strengthened the School’s
 ICS portfolio and provided a platform for sustaining our impacts post-2021.



                                                                                               9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.4.2. Resourcing Research:
 We devolve significant financial resources to individual researchers and RGs, believing that –
 within the context of DLS strategy and with dedicated mentoring – researchers are best placed
 to determine their own research priorities. All DLS staff enjoy a GBP2,000 pa allowance which
 can be used flexibly in support of research (including for travel and conference fees, impact
 activities, research assistance, and – since March 2020 – some costs associated with remote
 research). These allowances amount to a >GBP400,000 investment in individuals’ research
 activity during the period. In addition, the School’s RGs have collectively received >GBP80,000
 in core funding during the period, a significant proportion of which has been ring-fenced for the
 support of PGR developmental activity.

 For larger-scale research initiatives, RC administers a competitively-allocated research fund –
 totalling GBP35,000 pa in 2019-2020 – supporting costs including participation in seminars and
 fellowships and hosting international conferences. RC operates a light-touch and supportive
 applications process, providing – in particular – ECRs with a window into the process of justifying
 research costs. This fund is accessible by individuals, RGs and more informal groups of
 researchers, and has allocated >GBP150,000 to research projects during the period.

 The DLS research fund has supported collaborative events leading to outputs – including the
 workshop preceding ‘Global Social Indicators: Constructing Transnational Legitimacy’ (Special
 Issue of the International Journal of the Law in Context (2017), Siems and Nelken (KCL)) and
 Wheatle’s 2019 workshop on ‘Unwritten Constitutional Norms’ (co-convened with MacDonnell
 (Ottawa) which will result in a special issue of the McGill Law Journal. DLS funds have also been
 pooled with research funds from other HEIs in support of various research initiatives: Fintech
 Conference, 2018 (Schammo, with Edinburgh and UCL); WG Hart Legal Workshop, 2018
 (Masterman, in collaboration with IALS, Newcastle and QMUL); Christian Thought and
 Constitutionalism, 2017 (Leigh, with Emory Law School and UQ).

 These funds have combined to support research activities in relation to, for instance, changing
 laws on image-based sexual abuse (McGlynn ICS), as well as supporting meetings and
 networking with other stakeholders and research users (e.g. preliminary research on
 O’Donoghue’s UN Women project (1.3.4); Brooks’ engagement with parliamentarians on
 immigration (4.3.3)).

 2.5. Research students:
 PGR students form a vital component of the School’s research community. The Director of
 Postgraduate Studies, a member of RC, is responsible for oversight of supervisory provision,
 the integration of all research students within the School’s research culture, and representation
 of PGR issues in RC. PGR representatives sit on the School’s Board of Studies, and are
 members of the staff/student consultative committee. DLS currently has 6 Master of
 Jurisprudence students (a one-year research programme), 49 PhD students supervised solely
 by DLS academics and a further 9 PhD students jointly-supervised by an inter-disciplinary team
 (cross-disciplinary PGR research has been co-supervised between DLS and – inter alia – DU’s
 Schools of Government and International Affairs, Sociology, and Modern Languages and
 Cultures). DLS staff have supervised – or co-supervised – 81 students to completion of their
 PhD studies during the period (up from 25 completions at REF2014). Such numbers are
 consistent with the School’s recent emphases of recruiting PGR students of the highest calibre
 and prioritising on-time completion through periodic progress review.

 2.5.1 Resourcing Postgraduate Research:
 The growth of our PhD cohort has been supported by scholarships across a varied and
 interdisciplinary range. Driven by an academic lead on PGR funding, DLS PGRs have won
 multiple studentships from the Modern Law Review (Aboueldahab; Bechtold; Iliadou (recipient

                                                                                             10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 of the Helen Reece award); Nwosu-Iheme; Patricio Ferreira Lima) and AHRC Northern Bridge
 consortium (Beattie; Craig; Milo; Panasci). DLS has also secured funded PGR positions as a
 result of engagement with the Leverhulme-funded DurhamARCTIC Research Centre for
 Training and Interdisciplinary Collaboration (Lundmark), the Durham Global Challenges
 Research Fund Centre for Doctoral Training (Costelini; Singlee), via Schütze’s ERC-funded Neo-
 Federalism project (Belteki; Sparks), a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) between DLS,
 Durham University’s Business School and the North East Process Industries Cluster, and the
 Commonwealth Scholarship Commission. PGR students have also been supported by
 sponsorship from educational/philanthropic bodies (e.g. Open Society Foundation), private
 businesses (e.g. Allen and Overy and Spartan Nano Ltd) and overseas governments (Turkey,
 Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Mexico and Thailand).

 This support has been augmented by a significant investment of DLS resource. DLS has
 continued to award DLS PGR scholarships (increasing the value of the stipend to
 GBP15,000+home/EU fees pa for the 2020 intake) during the period, awarding 18 DLS
 scholarships, as well as an additional 5 GTA positions, since 2014. In 2020, DLS began providing
 Master of Jurisprudence scholarships in order to support high-performing students with
 innovative ideas, prepare them for future scholarship applications and to better bridge the gap
 between undergraduate and PhD-level research.

 2.5.2. Supervision and Active Mentoring:
 PGR supervisors are allocated on the basis of expertise and experience. Academics new to
 supervision are supported by their mentors, and through training delivered by the Durham Centre
 for Academic Development. Our policy of co-supervision enables experienced researchers to
 work alongside ECR colleagues to develop supervision skills and strategic recruitment at senior
 levels is informed by a need to ensure a sustainable environment for PhD research (2.1).

 Our supervisory and mentoring arrangements are designed to ensure the development of skills
 deployable in future academic careers. PGRs can fully access the suite of academic training and
 development opportunities offered by DCAD (REF5a, ss.3.3; 3.5). We match supervisory and
 training support with significant financial resources, including a dedicated PGR support fund
 which has seen >GBP30,000 allocated to researchers during the period. Administered by the
 Director of Postgraduate Studies, the fund supports capacity and network building activities such
 as conference participation and core research costs. Annual PGR conferences – arranged by
 PGR organising committees and funded by our RGs – enable formal progress reviews to be
 integrated into the presentation of PGR research. In addition, RGs co-ordinate PGR-centred
 activities, including monthly reading groups (HRC), and have collaborated with other institutions
 in order to hold workshops showcasing doctoral research (e.g. DELI with KCL, 2017; LGJD with
 SOAS, 2018).

 PGR integration into the research activities of the School is evidenced by their supporting
 contributions to vital research projects during the period, including: Houghton’s work with
 McGlynn on Image-Based Sexual Abuse (McGlynn, ICS); Warwick, Rooney and Tzouvala’s
 presentations at feminist judging events; Kilford’s research assistance on the Cambridge
 Companion to Comparative Constitutional Law (Masterman and Schütze (eds)).

 2.5.3. PGR Research Activity and Progression:
 The vitality and excellence of the research of DLS PGRs is evidenced through their varied
 academic contributions. DLS PGRs have presented at established symposia, including at SLS
 (Society of Legal Scholars) and SLSA (Socio-Legal Studies Association) conferences, the WG
 Hart Legal Workshop 2018, and I*Con-S 2018. Our PGRs have published both in collaboration
 with their supervisors (e.g. Cave and Milo; Phillipson and Brimblecombe) and as sole authors
 (e.g. Murray; Craig), and work by DLS PGRs during the period has been published in leading

                                                                                            11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 peer-reviewed periodicals (including Public Law, Modern Law Review, European Human Rights
 Law Review). Our PGRs engage with reform agendas in their fields of expertise (e.g. Beattie’s
 evidence to a BBFC consultation on age-verification for internet pornography under the Digital
 Economy Act 2017; Iliadou, cited in the Law Commissions’ 2019 consultation on surrogacy),
 have undertaken secondments to international organisations including the Council of Europe
 (Beattie) and evidence leadership capacities from an early career stage (e.g. Craig’s BBC
 commentary on the UK Supreme Court’s Miller II decision; Patricio Ferreira Lima is Co-Chair of
 the Law and Finance Working Group of the International Economic Law Collective).

 DLS PGRs are well-equipped to move into policy-facing as well as academic positions. Our PhD
 graduates have progressed to the Bank of England (Jayeola), Brookings Institute (Aboueldahab)
 and Law Commission for England and Wales (Hoggard) and a significant number have taken up
 academic posts in leading UK (Taylor (Aberdeen); Rooney (Bristol); Olayode; O’Néill; Panepinto
 (all QUB)) and international (Grozdanova (TMC Asser Institute); Tzouvala (Melbourne Law
 School); Sparks (Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law and International Law))
 institutions during the period.

 2.6. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion:
 DLS’ approach to EDI is informed and supplemented by a long-standing commitment to
 substantive research on law and gender evidenced in RGs (GLAD; CRiVA), and ongoing work
 relating to, for instance, feminist judging (inc. Fenwick; Henry Jones; McGlynn; O’Donoghue),
 women mediators (Annika Jones; Turner) and sexual violence (Bows; Brooks; Brown; McGlynn).
 Wheatle’s role as founding Series Editor (with Herring (Oxford)) of Bristol University Press’
 Diverse Voices series evidences a broader commitment to encouraging research into law from
 groups traditionally marginalised or hidden in academic publishing.

 Our expertise has underpinned appointments to roles concerned with addressing inequalities –
 including Allen’s membership of DU’s RESPECT commission (between 2018 and 2020);
 appointments to the Advance HE review panel for Athena SWAN applications (Bows; McGlynn;
 O’Donoghue); McGlynn’s Membership of the Durham University Sexual Violence Taskforce
 (2015 and 2016) – and led DLS researchers to undertake and deliver training with a clear nexus
 between their research interests and EDI concerns (Turner, ‘Inspiring Women Leaders’ course
 at the Geneva Centre for Security Policy; O’Donoghue, ‘Working at the UN’, co-organised with
 the UK FCO, 2016).

 Overseen by a Director of EDI (since 2015), DLS provides spaces where all can participate in
 our inclusive research environment and ensures that research events are welcoming and open
 (expectations are that – in so far as is possible – events and meetings will be scheduled between
 10:00 and 16:00 in order to ensure accessibility). DLS provides a supportive community for staff
 and students that enables all to achieve both educational and professional growth in compliance
 with the University’s Respect at Work Policy and the Durham Law School Policy on Gender &
 Diversity (June 2015).

 The unit profile stands currently at: 20 Professors (12.97m/6.0f); 21 Associate Professors
 (13m/8f); 14 Assistant Professors (4m/10f); and 1 PDRA (1f). (Our CAT A staff are
 complemented by a further 4 teaching track colleagues and 33 part-time teachers (the majority
 of whom are also DLS PGRs.) Gender balance among DLS CAT A staff has improved within the
 period, with 44% identifying as women (up from 31% at REF2014). The proportion of our BAME
 staff has also increased during the period. (Our output selection was carried out in accordance
 with DU’s Code of Practice and audited for consistency with our staffing profile.)

 These increases result from concerted progression and retention efforts, and recruitment
 practices designed to identify and encourage applications from underrepresented groups, in
 which monitoring and reporting on diversity of applicant pools occurs throughout the process

                                                                                            12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (REF5a, s.3.1). All staff – not only those engaged in recruitment – undertake unconscious bias
 training. In-period recruitment cycles resulted in increases in the proportion of women academics
 at Assistant and Associate Professor levels (51% male and 49% female). The proportion of
 women at chair level has remained stable at 31% since REF2014; increasing the proportion of
 women in senior positions will therefore remain a post-2020 priority. The School’s PGR
 community is relatively balanced; of the 64 PGRs supervised wholly or in part by DLS academics
 56% are men and 44% women (an improvement on a 59% to 41% split at REF2014).

 Our inclusive approach to progression and promotion (2.2) is complemented by mentoring, which
 feeds into staff development by – for instance – helping to identify additional support which
 colleagues may require to enable them to research productively. One-to-one occupational health
 and safety/stress risk assessments are available on request.

 Staff well-being is central to achievement of DLS objectives, and we have sought to actively and
 positively respond to varied issues which might impact on welfare and effectiveness. DLS has
 adopted measures to – for instance – support breastfeeding women, provides free sanitary
 products and has designated gender-neutral bathrooms. University policies support staff and
 PGRs returning from periods of leave resulting from ill health, managing long-term illness, or
 with caring responsibilities. During the period, DLS has supported staff taking extended parental
 leave and those seeking to transition to flexible retirement. In order to ensure continuity in
 research for colleagues often at the early to mid-stages of their careers, DLS colleagues taking
 parental/adoption leave of 6+ months, are entitled to a term of research leave upon their return
 to work (with four colleagues benefitting from this leave during the period).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Infrastructure:
 DLS has occupied purpose-built premises at the heart of the DU estate since 2012. Following
 physical expansion in 2017-18, our space includes 72 academic offices large enough to
 accommodate small-group teaching, and multiple shared spaces including a common room,
 PGR workroom (housing project rooms for collaborative activity), and seminar/lecture rooms of
 varying sizes fully equipped with audio-visual equipment. The School’s accommodation provides
 multiple – and flexible – spaces for presentation and collaboration and ensures that research
 activity is at the heart of DLS’s physical environment. Since March 2020 this physical
 infrastructure has been complemented by increased remote and virtual working, and an
 expectation that collaborative and community activities (including research seminars, RGs
 reading groups, recruitment presentations/interviews) have taken place as planned via Microsoft
 Teams or Zoom.

 DLS staff are supported by one f/t Senior Research Administrator, one f/t operations and events
 officer and a finance officer, under the supervision of the School Manager and DDR. RGs provide
 organisational infrastructure to DLS research. DLS-level support is accompanied by
 comprehensive research support from DU’s Research and Innovation Services (REF5a, s.4.4).


 3.2. Income:
 Designing research initiatives of the quality required to secure competitively allocated research
 funding is fundamental to delivery of DLS strategy and to securing the long-term sustainability
 of DLS research. Research income during the period totals GBP2,127,832.19 (over
 GBP1,350,000 more than during the REF2014 period). We have continued to diversify our
 funding streams, receiving major awards from UKRI and charitable sources (including AHRC,
 British Academy, ESRC, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Leverhulme Trust), and – as members
 of international research collaborations – have received funding from bodies including Australian


                                                                                            13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Council, Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission and Canadian Network for
 Research on Terrorism, Security and Society.

 In order to improve our collective understanding of the funding landscape DLS academics have
 taken on central roles in the administration of large-scale strategic funding initiatives, including
 McGlynn’s role as Director of the ESRC IAA (1.2) and appointments to the Commissioning Panel
 of the ESRC Governance after Brexit programme (Brooks, Masterman). Numerous colleagues
 have been involved in UKRI (AHRC, ESRC) peer review colleges (inc. Akseli; Baker; Bohlander)
 and undertaken expert review for international funding bodies (including Academy of Finland
 (Brooks, Chair of Philosophy Panel, 2014), Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, South African
 National Research Foundation and the US National Science Foundation.

 3.2.1. Building and Enhancing our Research Community:
 We support PGRs – recognising the value of a funding profile for career development – in making
 their first successful applications for funded research (Houghton, Institute of Advanced Study
 award for an interdisciplinary workshop on ‘Law and Scale’; Warwick, ESRC IAA funding (1.3.4)
 as well as in securing external awards to support post-doctoral research (Vera-Gray, Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellowship; Granat, Vaisman, MSCA COFUND, Durham International Fellowships
 for Research and Enterprise (DIFeREnS)). Our culture of mentoring has supported numerous
 ECRs in successfully winning external funding to support their research (e.g. Wheatle and
 Greene, SLS-funded workshop ‘The Constitutional Implications of Referendums’ (2019)).

 External funding has also helped to build our community of researchers, enhanced our academic
 networks and supported ECR career progression: Schütze’s ERC Neo-Federalism project–
 which ran between 2013 and 2017 – facilitated the appointment of PGRs (Belteki; Sparks),
 visiting researchers (inc Payero López), and a number of post-doctoral researchers (Corvaglia;
 Guastaferro; Lachmayer) who have all progressed to more senior academic positions (at
 Birmingham (Corvaglia); Napoli (Guastaferro); Sigmund Freud University, Vienna (Lachmayer).

 3.2.2. A Focal Point for Innovative Research:
 Grant-funded projects have made DLS a focal point for innovative research. Pathbreaking DLS-
 led research into feminist judgments – initially ESRC-funded – has seen DLS researchers lead
 and collaborate on a range of related projects, and has seen our researchers develop lines of
 enquiry inspired by the idea of re-evaluating legal methodologies (4.5). ERC funding for
 Schütze’s Neo-Federalism initiative supported the development of international linkages (e.g.
 Aroney’s IAS fellowship (2017)) and subsequent collaborations (inc Guastaferro and Payero
 López chapter in the United Kingdom and the Federal Idea (Schütze and Tierney (eds) (2018)
 which added considerable value to the core outputs of the project (among them Schütze’s, From
 International to Federal Market (2017)). External funding also supports the development of
 emerging fields of legal scholarship at DLS: Bows, ‘From Report to Court: Crimes against Older
 People’ (BA/Wolfson Research Fellowship, between 2020 and 2023) develops her earlier,
 impactful, work on crimes against older people by examining outcomes and decision-making in
 criminal cases where the victim is aged 60+.

 Recognising that the award of prestigious fellowships secures both the time, and additional
 resource, required to carry out complex and ambitious research projects, DLS incentivises
 research funding applications through its research leave scheme and workload allocation (2.4).
 Successful applications include those won by Hernández, ‘Constructing Authority in International
 Law’ (AHRC Future Research Leadership Grant, 2015); Leigh, ‘Freedom of Conscience:
 Emerging Challenges and Future Prospects’ (British Academy/Wolfson Research Professorship,
 2018); Pattinson, ‘Law at the Frontiers of Biomedicine’ (Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship,
 2020). This record continues a trend pre-dating the current REF cycle, with earlier awards
 resulting in prominent outputs published in-cycle: including Lucy’s, Law’s Judgement (Hart,

                                                                                              14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2017) the culmination of his earlier project ‘Law’s Abstract Judgment’ (Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowship, 2012).

 DLS researchers at all levels have secured funding from external sources – including the SLS,
 SLSA and MLR – for smaller-scale research activities resulting in collaborations in events and
 outputs (including SLS Seminars (Goldberg and Pattinson ‘Incentivising Innovation and Higher
 Standards in Regulation and Liability Relating to Medicines’ (2015); Akseli and Linarelli (2017)
 (4.2.2).


 3.2.3. Funding for Engagement and Impact:
 External funding has supported network building and helped to develop our portfolio of impactful
 research. The ESRC/GCRF-funded ‘The Legal Regulation of Unacceptable Forms of Work
 project’ (McCann) saw the establishment of an international and interdisciplinary network of
 researchers and policy makers committed to an inclusive, global approach to the regulation of
 unacceptable forms of work. Siems’ work on shareholder protection – adopted and used by the
 World Bank (Siems, ICS) – developed from ESRC-funded research on ‘Law, Development and
 Finance in Rising Powers’.

 A responsive approach to impact work has been facilitated by access to the ESRC IAA, which
 has provided extensive support since its establishment in 2015. Projects funded by the ESRC
 IAA have enabled a diverse range of activities (e.g. Brooks, ‘Reforming the Life in the UK Test’),
 including distinctive interdisciplinary relationships and partnerships between DLS researchers
 and audiences ranging from the policy/diplomacy focused (Turner, 1.3.3) to the artistic (Vera-
 Gray, ‘Research-led Theatre in Education’ (with Doll’s Eye Theatre)). ESRC IAA funding also
 supported a short film on the garment sector in Lesotho and South Africa, Rethabile’s Story
 (2019) linked to McCann’s work on Decent Work Regulation in Africa (McCann, ICS). Rethabile’s
 Story was launched at the ILO, Geneva (July 2019), and has been screened widely – including
 as an Official Selection of the Canadian Labour International Film Festival (2019), and at the
 New York Worker’s Unite Film Festival (2020) – in connection with McCann’s ongoing research
 on decent work regulation.

 ESRC IAA funding has also provided a springboard to impacts via more substantial external
 funding competitions. The AHRC-funded UN Gender Network (O’Donoghue) brought together
 academics, former and current UN staff members, the UK FCO, NGOs and the UN Secretariat
 in workshops at the FCO and UN Headquarters in New York following initial support from the
 ESRC IAA. Our ICS portfolio demonstrates the benefits of this initial investment for the purposes
 of generating impacts with O’Donoghue’s research on Northern Ireland and Brexit (O’Donoghue,
 ICS) also receiving ESRC IAA investment as a means of upscaling into a competitive project for
 external funding and delivering impacts (O’Donoghue, ESRC-funding for ‘Performing Identities:
 Post-Brexit Northern Ireland and the Reshaping of 21st Century Governance’).

 3.2.4. Consultancies and Professional Links:
 DLS researchers have been engaged as expert consultants by a diverse range of governmental
 (Chirita, German Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs (2016); European Commission’s Director
 General Competition (since 2017)) and non-governmental organisations (e.g. Bows, Comic
 Relief consultancy on violence against women (between 2018 and 2020)). In addition to the work
 supporting his ICS, Leigh’s expertise has seen him appointed to review legislation and security
 policy in Myanmar (between 2014 and 2015), Ukraine (2014 and 2020) and Moldova (2014,
 2015 and 2016) via collaborations with the EU, Council and Europe and Organization for Security
 and Co-Operation in Europe. DLS linkages with the legal professions have also directly
 supported research: The Institute for Corporate and Commercial Law has been part-sponsored
 by Womble Bond Dickinson, while Clyde & Co have supported student research internships in
 the field of gender and the law, working with DLS academics involved in the GLAD RG.

                                                                                            15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1: Overview:
 DLS influences the direction and contours of legal scholarship through innovative, distinctive and
 impactful research and research leadership that renews and refreshes the infrastructure and
 scope of the discipline. We are strongly collaborative, and our disciplinary contributions evidence
 the depth of our research contributions and leadership. We endeavour to refine and revitalise
 the discipline of law in the UK and internationally through: (i) research collaborations focused on
 identifying and advancing new research agendas, methodologies and capacities; (ii)
 professional service that provides leadership and guides and shapes strategic developments;
 and (iii) research that influences the direction and contours of legal scholarship.

 4.2 Network Building and Research Collaboration:
 Collaboration is integral to our research culture, outputs and impact. Our research networks
 blend engagement with DLS and DU colleagues with extensive international networks, both of
 which strengthen the coordinating roles played by DLS academics in collective research activity.

 4.2.1 Collaboration in Research:
 Our research is strengthened through collaborations within our RGs (2.2.1) and via our
 engagement with DU-wide research groupings (1.2). Collaborations between McGlynn, Bows
 and Westmarland (Sociology) – via CRiVA – have produced articles published in the British
 Journal of Criminology and the Journal of Law and Society. Pattinson and Douglas’ Wellcome
 Trust-funded research with Kind (Education) – hosted by Durham CELLS – saw publication of
 an essay (Pattinson and Kind) in Medical Law International following engagement with 16–18-
 year-old students on topics of human cloning and stem cell research.

 Close engagement with DU’s Institute of Advanced Study (REF5a, s.2.2) has facilitated
 interdisciplinary research collaborations between DLS staff and international academics. Our
 researchers have convened Institute of Advanced Study projects (Henry Jones (with Russell
 (Classics), ‘Who are “We the people”?’ (2019)) and have contributed to multiple publications
 resulting from Institute-supported collaborations (e.g. Turner and Waehlisch (UN and European
 University Viadrina)), Rethinking Peace Mediation (2020); Williams and George Williams
 (UNSW), ‘The British Bill of Rights Debate: Lessons from Australia’ [2016] Public Law; Aroney
 (UQ) and Leigh, Christian Thought and Constitutionalism (OUP, 2021).

 4.2.2 Building External Networks for Research:
 The breadth of our visiting and external appointments demonstrates global reach: our returned
 staff have held 64 visiting appointments in 20 jurisdictions/institutions during the period. These
 include two Fulbright scholarships (at Harvard); Lucy’s appointment as the Rt Hon John Turner
 Fellow in Public Law, University of Western Ontario; McGlynn’s Hedda Andersson Guest
 Professorship at Lund Law School (from where she was also awarded an honorary doctorate
 recognising her research challenging violence against women); and Siems’ appointment to the
 Chair in Private Law and Market Regulation at the European University Institute (between 2019
 and 2024). International links are complemented by cooperation with regional institutions via the
 Northern Public Law Forum (Wheatle/HRC) and JurisNorth (Lucy/DCLP) collaborations.

 Our RGs provide a vehicle for networking, hosting over 100 seminars and supporting more than
 30 international symposia during the period. The HRC is a member of the Association of Human
 Rights Institutes, and the ICCL has joined the International Private Law Consortium, an
 invitation-only grouping of institutions committed to networking and knowledge exchanges in the
 fields of commercial and private law. This linkage builds on earlier networking activity, including
 the 2017 SLS seminar ‘The Future of Commercial Law: Ways Forward for Harmonisation’ in

                                                                                             16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 conjunction with the UN Commission on International Trade Law and the International Institute
 for the Unification of Private Law (resulting in Akseli and Linarelli (eds), The Future of
 Commercial Law (2020)). The newly-formed Centre for Chinese Law and Policy is establishing
 itself as a hub for interdisciplinary research, in 2019 co-hosting academics, practitioners and
 policy-makers at the annual European China Law Studies Association conference. The Centre’s
 international profile is increased via Du’s Guest Professorships in China, including at the China
 University of Political Science and Law in Beijing. Our RGs run a vibrant visiting scholars
 programme, hosting 52 academics and practitioners, from 18 jurisdictions, during the period.

 Our researchers are responsible for establishing and leading cross-disciplinary networks of
 researchers and activists in order to develop and cement new collaborations: Bows a co-founder
 and now Chair of the British Society of Criminology Victims Network and director and founder of
 the International Network for Research into Violence and Abuse; Brooks is founding Director of
 the Labour Academic Network, an independent group of leading academics supporting Labour's
 parliamentary work.

 4.2.3 Integrating Networks in Research Collaboration:
 We use our networks as a means of developing innovative and challenging new research
 projects. The impact of our work on addressing complex societal problems is enhanced by
 harnessing complementary specialisms within the design of research teams (O’Donoghue (ICS);
 Siems (ICS)). Connections with LUISS Guido Carli were central to the design of collaborations
 including the Cambridge Companion to Comparative Constitutional Law (Masterman and
 Schütze (eds)) and Hart’s Parliamentary Democracy in Europe series (Schütze (with Lupo) and
 have subsequently led to have led to staff exchanges (Bifulco, Fasone and Lupo (LUISS);
 Brooks, Frantziou and Masterman (DLS)) and a degree programme linkage. Beyleveld’s visiting
 Chair in Moral Philosophy and Applied Ethics at Utrecht (between 2008 and 2017) and
 subsequent visiting Professorial Fellowship (between 2017 and 2019) led to the co-authorship
 of The Sole Fact of Pure Reason (with Düwell (Utrecht)).

 Our academics convene international groups of researchers via editorial roles in prestigious
 series of monographs including Hart’s Studies in Commercial and Financial Law (Linarelli);
 Hart’s Studies in International and Comparative Criminal Law (Bohlander); Oxford Comparative
 Constitutionalism (Schütze, co-ed) and in the production of major reference works (Oxford
 Principles of European Union Law (Schütze (co-ed)); The Oxford Handbook of Global Justice
 (Brooks (ed)). Siems convenes with Po-Jen Yap (HKU)) the Cambridge Handbook of
 Comparative Law which will feature authors from all continents but Antarctica.
 Our returned staff have edited, or co-edited, over 40 collections of essays and special issues of
 journals, featuring over 400 contributions – including research from political scientists, historians,
 and philosophers, among others – from more than 30 jurisdictions during the period.

 4.2.4. Engagement with the Legal Professions:
 Engagement with the legal professions maximises opportunities for knowledge exchange and
 shaping the relationships between the professions and academia. Brooks is an Academic
 Bencher of the Honourable Society of Inner Temple and Hayward is an Academic Fellow of the
 Honourable Society of the Inner Temple (between 2018 and 2021). Masterman was member of
 the Law Society of England and Wales Constitutional Law Reference Group (between 2015 and
 2018), while McHarg has been a Member of the Law Society of Scotland’s Constitutional Law
 Sub-Committee since 2012. DLS academics lead in the production of key practitioner texts (e.g.
 Supperstone, Goudie and Walker’s Judicial Review (Fenwick (ed)); Product Liability (Goldberg)).
 Our Advisory Board (chaired by McFarlane LJ) and the conferral of honorary positions (e.g. to
 Lady Black, Vera Baird QC, Goss J, Melanie Hall QC) provide additional means of ensuring the
 integration of legal professionals in DLS research activity.



                                                                                                17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3. Disciplinary Leadership and Professional Service:
 Our researchers have been appointed to a series of prominent positions based on their expertise
 and disciplinary standing. Since March 2015, Pattinson has been a member of the Nuffield
 Council on Bioethics (appointed as its Deputy Chair, and Chair of its Horizon Scanning
 Committee, since 2019). Cave is an appointed member of the Human Fertilisation and
 Embryology Authority between 2018 and 2021 and brings her expertise to the Medical Ethics
 Expert Group of the Infected Blood Inquiry from 2019 (recognised as reporting on one of the
 most egregious medical scandals since thalidomide). Brooks is an elected member of the
 executive committee of the Fabian Society, Britain’s oldest think tank. McGlynn will be one of 8
 members of the House of Commons’ Independent Experts Panel (2020), appointed to consider
 complaints made against MPs under the Independence Complaints and Grievance Scheme
 following the 2018 Cox Report.

 DLS researchers hold leadership positions in numerous national learned societies (Brooks is
 current President of the SLS; Goldberg is a member of the Statistics and Law Panel of the Royal
 Statistical Society; Yong sits on the Executive Committee of the cross-disciplinary Study of
 Parliament Group) and have been recognised for their extensive disciplinary contributions
 (McCann and McGlynn, Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences). We play a leading role in
 the disciplinary infrastructure of public law and human rights: Masterman and McHarg are both
 members of the executive committee of the UKCLA (McHarg is additionally Co-Chair of the
 British-Irish Chapter of the International Society of Constitutional Law (ICON-S)) and they will
 take over as General Editors of Public Law from 2021.

 DLS staff hold editorial roles across a wide disciplinary range, including with leading periodicals
 such as Industrial Law Journal (McCann), International Criminal Law Review (Bohlander),
 Journal of Moral Philosophy (Brooks); Medical Law Review (Cave), European Pharmaceutical
 Law Review (Goldberg). 10 submitted researchers make extensive contributions to disciplinary
 leadership and synthesis as authors of established textbooks (e.g. Boyle and Birds’ Company
 Law (Attenborough); Smith and Wood’s Employment Law (Baker); Fenwick on Civil Liberties
 and Human Rights (Fenwick); Comparative Law (Siems).

 The influence of DLS staff has considerable geographical range. Linarelli is an elected member
 of the American Law Institute (Linarelli) while McHarg is a member and former chair of the IBA’s
 academic advisory group on Energy, Environment, Infrastructure and Resources Law. Akseli is
 an expert member of the UNIDROIT (International Institute for the Unification of Private Law)
 draft Model Law on Factoring and was appointed as General Rapporteur by the International
 Academy of Comparative Law to write a report on the use of Alternative Dispute Resolution
 mechanisms in Debt Enforcement and Insolvency. Our academics are engaged with a multitude
 of international networks – including the African Network of Constitutional Lawyers (Pillay); the
 International Research Network on Technological Innovations, Uncertainty and the Law of Civil
 Liability (Goldberg) – and act as specialist reviewers for overseas research initiatives (e.g. Leigh,
 International Advisor, ‘Impact of Religion – Challenges for Society, Law and Democracy’ project
 (between 2008 and 2018), Uppsala; Siems, Assessor for Research Programmes in the Faculty
 of Law (2015), Antwerp).

 4.4. Engagement and Influence on Legal and Policy Changes:
 The extensive geographical range of DLS research is evidenced across impacts in international,
 national and devolved law and policy-making fora, including the World Bank (Siems, ICS),
 International Labour Organization (McCann, ICS), UN (O’Donoghue; Turner), European
 Commission (Chirita; Schammo; Siems (ICS)), European Parliament (Schammo; Spaventa;
 Frantziou), the UK Labour Party (Brooks), and the UK’s legislatures (e.g. Chirita; McGlynn;
 Phillipson). The societal influence of our research has been recognised though the conferral of
 honorary titles (McGlynn, honorary QC (2019)) and prizes (e.g. Bows, Emerald Publishing ‘Real

                                                                                               18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Impact’ prize 2019-2020) with Bows (2017) and McCann (2019) also shortlisted for ESRC
 Celebrating Impacts awards.

 4.4.1. Achieving Global Impacts:
 Reflecting the international outlook and global focus of our work, our work is both geographically
 diverse and influential across a range of spheres. This global focus, supported by our network-
 building activities, is evident in our portfolio of impact case studies, particularly in their impacts
 on the World Bank (Siems, ICS), and ILO (McCann, ICS). These projects have resulted in
 impacts beyond those covered in each specific ICS, and have been recognised for their quality
 externally and internationally (McCann’s work – for instance – was selected as an ‘Impact Case
 Study’ by the UK Global Challenges Research Fund (2019) and recognised in the top band
 (‘high’) in the inaugural Australian Engagement and Impact Assessment (with Prof Jill Murray,
 La Trobe)). Our research has further influenced the UN (O’Donoghue, Turner), and has been
 cited by prominent international tribunals (e.g. The International Criminal Court (Bohlander)).

 4.4.2. Shaping Legal Judgments:
 Our work been cited by the CJEU (Court of Justice of the European Union) (Schammo, 2013
 and 2017) and has influenced debates surrounding the interpretation and effects of Article 50
 TEU (Treaty on European Union), with Frantziou’s work cited in reports of the European
 Parliament and in the opinion of Advocate General Campos Sánchez-Bordona in the CJEU
 decision in Wightman (2018). We have helped to shape judicial decision-making in foundational
 cases relating to the competence of the executive, including R (Miller) v Secretary of State for
 Exiting the European Union (Phillipson). DLS research has been widely cited both domestically
 (e.g. High Court, QBD (Goldberg, 2016) and overseas (Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of
 Cambodia (Annika Jones); Supreme Court of Connecticut (Brooks); Bundesverfassungsgericht
 (Bohlander)). DLS research has been relied upon extra-judicially, including by the former
 President of the UK Supreme Court (Masterman), and the DLS-led Northern/Ireland Feminist
 Judgments project (Northern/Irish Feminist Judgments (O’Donoghue (co ed)) provided the basis
 of a speech given by the Sir Declan Morgan (Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland) at the SLS
 conference in 2017.

 4.4.3. Influencing Legislative Decision-Making:
 DLS researchers seek to engage directly with parliamentary proceedings and inquiries, helping
 to influence decision-making at the highest levels. Schammo’s work recommending amending
 the breach of European Union law procedure under the founding regulations of the European
 Supervisory Authorities was used by the Committee of Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON)
 in the European Parliament. His research informed their recommendations on amending this
 procedure, which now offers improved procedural safeguards to ‘ordinary’ complainants who
 bring breaches of EU law to the attention of the European Supervisory Authorities.

 At the national level, Brooks has advised the Labour front bench on citizenship and immigration
 issues since 2014, influencing election manifesto commitments in 2017 and 2019. His research
 was extensively cited by the House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic
 Engagement (2018). Phillipson’s work was relied upon by the Political and Constitutional Reform
 Committee (2014) and – as a fellow in the in the House of Commons Library – he authored
 briefings for parliamentarians on vital topics including the EU withdrawal agreement, and no
 confidence motions and early general elections. Leigh’s work on oversight of security services
 was extensively cited by the Home Affairs Select Committee in its report into Counter-Terrorism
 (2014). McGlynn’s research on restorative justice in domestic abuse cases shaped
 recommendations made by the Justice Committee (2016).

 McHarg was a Member of the Scottish Parliament’s External Experts Advisory Group (between
 2017 and 2018), the Scottish Government’s expert panel on Environmental Charges and Other

                                                                                                19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Measures (between 2018 and 2020) and has regularly provided evidence to the devolved
 legislatures. Bows was commissioned by the Scottish Parliament’s Justice Committee to conduct
 research relating to the Hate Crime and Public Order (Scotland) Bill while Cave’s Fellowship in
 the Scottish Parliament culminated in a research paper on informed consent in healthcare
 settings. O’Donoghue’s ICS illustrates extensive and sustained engagement with the devolved
 bodies in Northern Ireland.

 4.4.4. Influencing Law Reform and Regulatory Standards:
 DLS researchers have helped to shape the parameters of law reform exercises (Williams, in Law
 Commission, Misconduct in Public Office: The Current Law, 2016) as well as their outcomes. As
 to the latter, Fenwick’s recommendations in relation to s.127 Communications Act at an
 academic advisory group roundtable fed into the Law Commission paper on Abusive and
 Offensive Online Communications (2018); Brooks’ research on citizenship and immigration
 influenced recommendations by the Law Commission (Simplifying the Immigration Rules (2020).
 Our researchers are vigilant to new opportunities to engage with reform processes in order to
 further the influence of already-impactful scholarship (McGlynn and Kelly’s research on
 cyberflashing (2020) will feed into the Law Commission’s consultation on Harmful Online
 Communications Offences).

 Our work has also helped to shape the direction and implementation of regulatory policy. Akseli’s
 research into the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms in the enforcement of security
 interests and insolvency was used by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 in order to provide theoretical background for law reform in different jurisdictions. Phillipson was
 an inaugural member of the IMPRESS (the press regulatory body) Code Committee, and his
 research on privacy and defamation was foundational to the shaping of the terms of its regulatory
 standards code. Choudhury’s research into the impact of the Counter Terrorism and Security
 Act 2015 in the education sector – funded by the Aziz Foundation – provided the first major
 empirical study of the implementation of the prevent duty in education settings. Its findings were
 widely reported in the broadsheet press, commented upon by Ministers, and discussed in
 Parliament. The work has been influenced the advocacy strategy adopted by the human rights
 organisation Rights and Security International (formerly Rights Watch UK) and informed policy
 changes in Canada as well as the UK.

 4.5. Driving the Direction and Contours of Legal Scholarship:
 In the REF2021 period DLS research has invigorated debates concerning foundational concepts
 including federalism (Schütze), subsidiarity (Granat) and global constitutionalism (O’Donoghue).
 Our monographs have interrogated vital concerns in international trade (Du; Lupo-Pasini),
 criminal law (Bows; Brown), counter-terrorism (Blackbourn) and ecological governance
 (Woolley). Our research has reconceptualised approaches to reconciling rights and societal
 interests (Greene; Leigh), and advanced new approaches to understanding the judicial function
 at the national (Lucy; Pattinson) and international levels (Hernández).

 DLS scholarship submitted to REF2014 (Feminist Judgments (McGlynn, co-ed)) continues to
 spur and shape the new disciplinary sub-fields of feminist judgment writing, with foundational
 contributions from DLS staff in this period (Northern/Irish Feminist Judgments (O’Donoghue, co-
 ed), as well as participation in sister projects (McGlynn, Scottish Feminist Judgments Project;
 Fenwick and Henry Jones in the International Law Feminist Judgments project). DLS renown in
 this field has led to academic exchanges and collaborations, with Douglas (UQ and Australian
 Feminist Judgments participant) visiting DU as an IAS Fellow as well as projects with a
 comparable focus on the methodologies of legal decision-making (including Cave and Pillay’s
 contributions to Rewriting Children’s Rights Judgments). Rethinking legal judgement is also a
 defining characteristic of Pattinson’s Revisiting Landmark Cases in Medical Law (2018), Lucy’s



                                                                                              20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Law’s Judgement (2017) and O’Donoghue’s work (with Houghton) on feminist approaches to
 international law.

 Our research has sparked scholarly responses and debates. Douglas’ work on the absence of
 a concept of human dignity in UK human rights law was the subject of a response in Public Law
 while The ICJ and the Judicial Function (Hernández) was the topic of a co-ordinated series of
 responses on the blog of the European Journal of International Law (2014). An interdisciplinary
 special issue of Political Studies Review (2015) considered the challenges and opportunities for
 theorists tasked with evidencing the societal impacts of their research and was inspired by
 Brooks’ earlier essay ‘In Defence of Political Theory: Impact and Opportunities’.

 Evidencing its influence as a driver of disciplinary exchange, DLS research has been acclaimed
 at bespoke events and workshops. Turner’s monograph – Violence, Law and the Impossibility
 of Transitional Justice – was the focus of an international symposium at UCD (2019); Greene’s
 Permanent States of Emergency and the Rule of Law was launched at a panel discussion at
 Oxford’s Bonavero Institute of Human Rights (2018); Lucy’s monograph – Law’s Judgement –
 provided the focus of a symposia held at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (2018)
 and Università Magna Græcia di Catanzaro (2018) (the presentations at the latter were
 subsequently published in Problema). Capps (Bristol) and Pattinson (eds), Ethical Rationalism
 and the Law (2017) was a de facto festschrift for Beyleveld resulting from a 2-day workshop held
 in, and co-funded by, DLS in 2015.

 The outstanding quality of this research has been externally recognised. Frantziou’s The
 Horizontal Effect of Fundamental Rights in the EU was joint winner of the University Association
 for Contemporary European Studies prize 2020 and Linarelli’s monograph, The Misery of
 International Law, was joint recipient of the European Society of International Law book prize
 2019 Schütze’s From International to Federal Market was shortlisted for The International
 Society of Public Law: ICON-S prize 2019 and a further three DLS researchers have been
 shortlisted for the SLS Birks Prize (Wheatle; Greene; Hernández).




                                                                                           21
