Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 Philosophy was established at Royal Holloway to inform research across the arts, humanities,
 and social sciences. Now entering its first REF exercise, it has realized its vision of becoming a
 unique centre of research working creatively across the discipline’s traditional divisions. It
 combines scholarship in continental philosophy, analytic philosophy (particularly applied ethics),
 and approaches working across the analytic-continental divide. It also boasts strengths in ancient
 philosophy, political philosophy, and pragmatist philosophy. Reflecting the vision behind its
 establishment, it has a strong pluralist and interdisciplinary ethos.
 Philosophy began at Royal Holloway in 2007 when staff from Classics, Drama, English, German,
 and Politics & International Relations collaborated to establish a series of minor degree
 programmes. The first dedicated philosophy appointments were in 2008, 2012, and 2014, and
 the Unit expanded significantly with four further appointments between 2017 and 2020. In 2012,
 Philosophy was incorporated into the Department of Politics & International Relations (PIR),
 consolidating a core philosophy team (Bowie, Gascoigne, and Sheppard, previously located in
 German, English and Classics), and allowing them to work directly with PIR’s political theorists
 (Bacon, Seglow, and Widder, the last being part of this REF submission). Following the
 institution’s 2019 reorganization into six Schools (see REF5a, Section 1), it is now part of the
 Department of Politics, International Relations & Philosophy within the School of Law and Social
 Sciences.
 During the REF period, Philosophy grew from 3.5 (Bowie, Gascoigne, Somers-Hall, and
 Sheppard, who was 0.5 with Classics) to 7 FTE. The REF submission of 9 FTE includes Widder,
 who works across PIR and Philosophy and provides senior research leadership in Philosophy,
 and Gloyn, who is based in Classics but works closely in Philosophy research and impact
 activities and collaborates extensively with Philosophy’s Sellars. Five of the Unit’s nine members
 were appointed since 2014.
 Though a small unit within larger Department and School structures, Philosophy retains significant
 autonomy over its teaching and research. It oversees day-to-day management and future
 planning of its research and teaching programmes, convenes subject meetings on teaching and
 research strategy, has its own research and impact leads, and conducts both its own internal
 review of grant applications and mentoring of early career staff. It manages its own PGR
 supervision (and co-supervises several PhD students with PIR political theorists and Classics
 colleagues) but contributes to a single department committee that reviews PGR applications and
 to panels that monitor progress.
 Philosophy’s research is managed at School level by a Director of Research & Knowledge
 Exchange who contributes to College research strategies. Research at the institutional level is
 led by the Deputy Principal (Academic), who is supported by a Vice Principal for Research Impact
 and Interdisciplinarity; University Ethics, Research, and Research Degree Programme
 Committees; a Doctoral School; and a Research & Innovation Department located within
 professional services that provides dedicated REF and impact support.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2 Research Strategy
 Following the College’s 2014 decision to support the Unit’s aspiration to establish itself in the
 discipline with a separate submission to REF2020, Philosophy pursued a strategy of expansion
 and diversification to create a vital and sustainable research environment and generate impact.
 Its key objectives were: (1) developing lines of research with impact potential and realizing impact
 in the period; (2) growing European philosophy, which was the Unit’s existing research strength
 best able to link to research done elsewhere in the institution; (3) diversifying research strengths
 and deepening established strengths, thereby supporting the expansion of PGR numbers, the
 generation of research income, and interdisciplinary work and collaboration; and (4) ensuring that
 in its expansion it did not lose sight of its pluralist approach, which is central to its ethos and vision.
 Because of the Unit’s small starting size, these objectives were achieved primarily through new
 appointments.
 Philosophy’s research profile in 2014 included ancient philosophy (Sheppard), modern and
 contemporary European philosophy (Bowie, Somers-Hall and Widder), and recent approaches
 working across the analytic-continental divide (by way of pragmatism via Gascoigne, who works
 closely with PIR’s Bacon, and Bowie). Roache’s appointment in 2014 introduced new expertise
 in the philosophy of psychiatry and applied ethics (focussed on punishment, human
 enhancement, and the ethics of swearing) and potential for impact built on a strong profile of
 public engagement. In 2017, the College took the strategic decision to replace retiring professors
 Bowie and Sheppard with three lecturers: Bruno, Sellars, and Whistler, who together augmented
 the Unit’s research in post-Kantian philosophy and in the origins and influence of German
 idealism, and preserved ancient philosophy research while adding a dimension exploring its
 reception in later periods. Whistler brought significant experience with impact, and Sellars’s
 research and engagement activities relating Stoic ethics to problems of everyday life provided the
 Unit with an ICS. Sellars’s work also complemented and augmented Gloyn’s research on Seneca
 and the family, which underpins the Unit’s other case study. Finn’s January 2020 appointment
 added a logician and complemented Roache with further applied philosophy research (the
 metaphysics of pregnancy and the philosophy of love).
 This staff growth, alongside the continued development of the Unit’s existing research strengths,
 achieved the strategic objectives set out above by: (1) Giving the Unit strong footprints in key
 subfields. The Unit now includes pairs of researchers with expertise in Stoicism (Sellars, Gloyn),
 Schelling (Bruno, Whistler), Deleuze and Guattari (Somers-Hall, Widder), applied ethics (Finn,
 Roache), and (by including PIR’s Bacon alongside Gascoigne) pragmatism, giving it national and
 international profiles in these areas. (2) Driving significant expansion of PGR numbers, which
 grew from 14 PGRs commencing during the REF2014 period to 23 PGRs commencing in this
 period (a 64% increase). (3) Putting the Unit in position to lead new collaborations, including
 several important initiatives in London. These include Bruno leading in the creation of the London
 Post-Kantian Society, Sellars in that of the London Centre for Ancient Philosophy, and Whistler
 in that of the London Historiography of Philosophy Working Group and the “Philosophical Life of
 Plants” Network (all detailed in Section 4 below). (4) Giving the Unit the critical mass in European
 philosophy to establish a Centre for Continental Philosophy, whose planned 2020 launch was
 delayed by Covid-19 until February 2021. The Centre, which has links with the institution’s
 Classics, English, and Modern Languages departments, will support both historical research into
 the continental tradition and research demonstrating its continuing relevance to problems in
 philosophy and related disciplines, including politics and literature. It will hold annual distinguished
 speaker lectures, a regular research seminar series, work-in-progress seminars for PGRs,

                                                                                                     Page 2
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 reading groups, and special dissemination events such as conferences, workshops, and book
 launches. It will seek research funding for visiting fellowships, collaborative doctoral awards,
 research network grants, and larger project grants. (5) Establishing the foundations for current
 and long-term impact, with Sellars leading one of the Unit’s current case studies and with Finn,
 Roache, and Whistler bringing impact and engagement experience and impact plans linked to
 future research.
 Philosophy’s continued growth and development is now a recognized institutional priority. The
 Unit’s research aims and objectives over the next five years (2021-2026) include:
    •   Developing collaborative research projects involving both UK and overseas partners,
        building upon collaborations established through Somers-Hall’s AHRC ECF, Whistler’s
        EURIAS fellowship and related projects, and his new AHRC-supported network, Bruno’s
        London Post-Kantian Society, and Widder’s six-month Leverhulme Visiting Professorship
        for Jeffrey A. Bell (Southeastern Louisiana University).
    •   Developing the Unit’s new Centre for Continental Philosophy into a vibrant research
        centre that will underpin the Unit as a recognised centre of excellence for contemporary
        European philosophy in the UK.
    •   Strengthening our research strategy through consistent grant capture, and contributing
        philosophical perspectives to the College’s Research Catalysts (see REF5a, Section 2),
        particularly Living Sustainably and Digital Futures in the Creative and Cultural Industries.
        Grant capture will serve to support the development of individual researchers and
        collaborative research, and to enable the production of extended outputs. During the REF
        period the Unit’s research strategy benefitted significantly from research fellowships,
        international placements, and network grants.
    •   Developing the Unit’s PGR community, building on its already strong achievements as a
        small unit. There were 23.5 PGR completions between 2013 and 2020, and ten more
        PGRs are currently working on theses. Seven of these were awarded competitive AHRC
        studentships through the Unit’s participation in the TECHNE DTC. TECHNE was
        established in 2014, with Royal Holloway leading the bid and subsequently managing
        the consortium; it was renewed in 2019 for a second five-year period. Other PGRs
        received significant support from College studentships and external sponsors (see
        section 3.1 below).
    •   Continuing to identify and develop research with impact potential and enabling
        researchers to build links with external users and partners.

 1.3 Approaches to Enabling Impact
 During the period, the Unit sought to enable impact by:
    1) Building knowledge and understanding of impact within the Unit so staff could exploit
       opportunities to develop impact from their research. The Unit benefited from training
       offered by Impact Managers from the College’s Research & Innovation Department, and
       from away day sessions focused on identifying and pursuing potential lines of impact. A
       Unit Impact Officer role was created to support colleagues in developing impact strategies
       and organising engagement activities where impact could be captured. Impact planning
       was introduced into individual research plans that were regularly updated and reviewed.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
    2) Building capacity for impact through staff recruitment. Appointments in the period were
       strongly informed by the experience and potential of applicants to generate impact.
       Whistler, who was part of a REF2014 case study at Liverpool, had significant experience
       engaging with galleries; Sellars had ongoing impact activities related to his research in
       Stoic ethics; Roache demonstrated potential for impact relating to her applied ethics
       research; and Finn had significant public engagement experience for an ECR, including
       through her previous research role with Southampton’s “Metaphysics of Pregnancy”
       project.
    3) Facilitating impact by engaging with key user groups and the wider public. The Unit
       developed partnerships with secondary schools and A-level teachers to support the
       teaching of Stoic philosophy; inspired students, young people, and members of the
       general public to engage with Stoic ethics and to adopt Stoic-informed practices of
       mindfulness; and worked with stakeholders and policymakers concerned with swearing
       and offensive language. Unit members engaged audiences through media appearances,
       contributions to popular online forums (Aeon.co, Medium.com, Philosophybites.com,
       theconversation.com, and Oxford’s ‘Practical Ethics in the News’ blog), public philosophy
       and literature festivals, and public-facing academic events. They promoted new research
       and made philosophical interventions on salient current issues through social media. The
       Unit used its proximity to London and the institution’s central London locations at Bedford
       Square and Senate House to hold public-facing events.
 Sellars’s case study reflects the Unit’s strategic approach to recruitment. When appointed he had
 a role organizing Stoic Week activities and related events, as well as new lines of research to
 underpin future impacts, so that, with institutional support, the impact of his research could be
 significantly broadened and deepened. Gloyn’s case study reflects the approach to developing
 internal mechanisms to identify and support potential lines of impact. Her expertise on Seneca
 and the family, reflected primarily in her 2017 CUP monograph, led to her engagement with
 teachers and students to shape the curriculum and teaching of the new “Love and Relationships”
 unit of the Classics A-level.
 Unit staff have developed new areas that will sustain its impactful research in the future. Finn is
 pursuing two projects with a view to developing their impact potential. The first puts traditional
 metaphysics and logic into conversation with queer theory’s challenges to binary thought, and
 links well with the institution’s new interdisciplinary Gender Institute, which is led by PIR
 colleagues. The other is a popular book on “Philosophy through Food.” Gloyn has developed
 research on how presentations of classical monsters in television and movies can inform
 understandings of identity and otherness, which has already led to engagement opportunities and
 routes to future impact. Roache is pursuing research on swearing and offensive language,
 examining its broad social function and issues concerning its regulation. Whistler is leading a new
 interdisciplinary project, “The Philosophical Life of Plants,” involving collaborations with Kew
 Gardens and the Goethe-Archiv Weimar.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Originally envisioned as a discipline that could bring together Royal Holloway’s arts and
 humanities research, interdisciplinary research has been central to the Philosophy’s research
 environment and its relations to other units in the institution. Its most developed institutional
 interdisciplinary links are with political theory, but it has retained and further developed links to
 English, Classics, and Modern Languages. Interdisciplinarity is also embedded into the TECHNE

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 consortium’s research training and funding structure, whose support has underpinned the Unit’s
 PGR growth.
 The PIR-based Contemporary Political Theory Research Group, established in 2009, has
 supported collaborations are between philosophy and political theory, particularly in relation to
 Deleuzian philosophy and pragmatism. Widder and Somers-Hall have collaborated on numerous
 publication projects, research events, and PGR supervisions; Widder also served as mentor for
 Somers-Hall’s AHRC Fellowship. Somers-Hall and PIR’s Bacon co-supervised a PGR thesis on
 Deleuze and Rorty. Gascoigne and Bacon collaborated gave joint papers in Portugal and the
 USA, co-authored a journal article (included in the Unit’s output submissions), and contributed to
 a Spanish language collection, La racionalidad de la creencia religiosa (Universidad Nacional de
 Colombia, 2019); Gascoigne’s monograph on Rorty, democracy and religious certainty (submitted
 to this exercise) also grew out of these collaborations.
 The Unit’s growth has fostered new collaborations with researchers in the College’s School of
 Humanities. Somers-Hall and Whistler both collaborated with Liberal Arts colleague Sands (based
 in Modern Languages), the former in convening the 2019 Society for European Philosophy-Forum
 for European Philosophy (SEP-FEP) conference and the latter in the “Philosophical Life of Plants”
 network. Widder collaborated with colleagues from French for an interdisciplinary roundtable at
 the 2019 UK French Studies Society annual conference. Sellars and Gloyn worked with Classics
 colleagues to organize the annual Royal Holloway Stoic Workshop, and are co-editing a volume
 on Musonius Rufus (contracted with Brill) arising from the first workshop in 2019. Roache
 collaborated with colleagues from the institution’s Information Security Group, contributing an
 ethics component to grant applications looking at autonomous drones and state attempts to force
 IT companies to disclose encrypted messages.
 The Unit has longstanding involvement with and receives support from Royal Holloway’s
 interdisciplinary Humanities and Arts Research Institute. Finn is a member of the institution’s new
 interdisciplinary Gender Institute, where she is leading for philosophy in the development of an
 interdisciplinary MA in Gender.

 1.5 Open Access
 The institution complies with the Concordat on Open Research Data and has signed the DORA
 San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment. It invests in Figshare and has read and
 publish JISC agreements with Springer and Wiley, allowing staff to publish OA journal articles
 without paying individual APCs. It maintains an additional fund to pay APCs for key outputs and
 provides advice and advocacy training for academic staff and PGRs.
 All Unit staff and PGRs have institutional research pages that provide access to preprint copies
 of journal publications and other research hosted by an institutional repository. They are also
 encouraged to keep academia.edu and/or researchgate.net pages, and several maintain personal
 websites that host papers, conference presentations, videos of research presentations, and more.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Staff recruitment was crucial to achieving the Unit’s strategic research and impact objectives. Its
 strategy since 2013 was to build from the ground up and to expand more quickly by appointing
 talented early and mid-career researchers who could develop within and enrich the College’s
 supportive research environment and who could create synergies within and outside the Unit.
 Reflecting this strategy, all appointments in the period were made at lecturer level, and in
 2017 the College approved the replacement of two retiring professors with three lectureships.
 To achieve the objective of both developing new areas of research and deepening existing
 areas, recruitment strategy combined open and targeted appointments. Roache and Sellars
 were recruited to positions open to research specialism, Whistler to a position in modern
 European philosophy, Bruno to one in post-Kantian philosophy, and Finn to one in Anglo-
 American philosophy.
 Three men and two women were appointed to permanent posts during the REF period. Four
 temporary appointments consisted of three men and one woman, with two being teaching
 replacements funded by external grant awards.
 The success of the staffing strategy is indicated by the rapid promotion of new colleagues:
 Gloyn, appointed to a three-year lectureship in 2013 and a permanent lectureship in 2016,
 was promoted to SL in 2018 and Reader in 2020; Somers-Hall, appointed in 2012, was
 promoted to SL in 2014 and Reader in 2016; Roache, appointed in 2014, was promoted to
 SL in 2016; Whistler and Sellars, appointed in 2017, were promoted to Reader in 2019 and
 2020 respectively.
 Recruitment strategy played to the College’s strength in developing early and mid-career
 researchers. An induction programme introduces new starters to Royal Holloway’s vision and
 operational matters. New lecturers and SLs are appointed with two- or three-year
 probationary periods, depending on experience, and allocated 70% of a normal teaching load
 and reduced admin. Probationary staff and, in accordance with the RCUK Concordat,
 postdocs and teaching fellows, have mentors within the Unit who provide guidance on written
 work, research plans, engagement and impact strategies, and grant applications, and who
 prepare annual probation reports reviewed by the institution’s Principal’s Staffing Group. The
 development of impact for staff at all levels is supported by the Unit’s Impact Officer and the
 Research & Innovation Department. Annual appraisals review past performance, agree
 research, impact, and teaching targets and objectives, and identify training and development
 needs. Staff also submit and update research plans that are reviewed with the Department
 Research & Knowledge Exchange Lead and/or Unit REF Lead. Under the Unit’s peer review
 system for draft grant applications, two colleagues provide feedback well in advance of
 submission deadlines. This improves proposals and allows early career researchers to learn
 good practices of planning and writing grant applications. The Unit manages workloads with
 the aim of maximizing research time, and a department-level workload model, whose point
 system includes recognition of impact work, is circulated to all staff to maintain transparency
 and trust.
 Royal Holloway runs a professional development scheme, The Advance Programme (see
 REF5a, Section 3ii), tailored to early and mid-career academics and open to staff on any kind
 of contract, including postdocs. In addition to Unit mentoring, an institutional scheme allows
 staff to be mentored by a senior colleague from another department. Detailed promotions

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 criteria are organized under the headings of Research, Teaching, External Engagement, and
 Impact. A Department Promotions Committee consisting of the department’s professoriate
 reviews and offers feedback on draft promotions documents. The College assesses
 promotions applications anonymously against the institutional criteria and without use of
 research metrics. Probationary staff may apply - and have successfully applied during this
 REF period - for promotion. Professorial banding provides biennial review of professorial
 staff.
 The Unit’s annual individual research allowances ranged from £750 to £1000 during the REF
 period, and additional funding was made available to support overseas conference
 attendance. Ad hoc departmental funding pots supported initiatives such as workshops and
 one-day conferences. The institution’s Research Strategy Fund offers seed money up to
 £5,000 for projects that could lead to significant funding applications or promote impact. The
 Unit’s department provides targeted support for impact through a scheme, introduced in
 2018, to provide teaching relief of one module for one term to enable staff to pursue impact
 activities.
 Sabbatical entitlement increased in 2016/17 from one teaching term after three years (nine
 terms) of service to two teaching terms (Autumn and Spring) after four years (12 terms). This
 change supported staff to produce higher value and more substantial outputs (Gascoigne
 and Somers-Hall completed book manuscripts during their sabbaticals) and prepare
 substantial grant applications (submission of a grant application being an expected part of
 sabbatical plans). Sabbatical leave is granted with the submission of a research plan
 approved by the School Research Committee and confirmation from the Head of Department
 that essential teaching will be covered. The Unit supports combining sabbaticals with
 externally-funded leave to create long periods for research (Somers-Hall, for example, used
 his sabbatical to extend his AHRC fellowship), and the early use of entitled leave to achieve
 strategic goals (Gascoigne was given early leave to complete his book manuscript).

 2.2 Research students
 PGR students are central to the Unit’s research environment and fully integrated into its
 research culture. Growth in PGR numbers was aided by the consolidation of philosophy staff
 within a single department, which gave the Unit a settled home from which to develop its
 profile; by Somers-Hall’s appointment, which together with Widder made the Unit an
 attractive destination for PGRs interested in Deleuze and Guattari; and by Philosophy’s
 inclusion in the TECHNE consortium. Recent appointments increased PGR numbers and
 diversified research areas pursued by PGRs, with Sellars and Whistler recruiting four new
 PGRs between them within their first year of appointment. PGRs contribute organizational
 support for research events and provide teaching support (relieving staff to pursue research)
 for the Unit’s rapidly growing undergraduate programmes. They participate in Unit research
 seminars, workshops, conferences, and reading groups.
 The Unit has a track record of recruiting and rigorously training high quality PGRs. In
 TECHNE’s first six years its applicants won nine studentship awards (seven were taken up).
 Twelve PGRs also won competitive institutional studentships that provided fee waivers and
 bursaries, some equivalent to a UKRC award. Seven REF period graduates secured
 academic positions at Aberdeen, Dublin City University, Hertfordshire, KCL, Necmettin
 Erbakan (Turkey), Rhine-Waal (Germany), and Royal Holloway. Many left the programme
 with established profiles that include peer-reviewed publications and research presented at

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 major UK and overseas conferences. Three REF period graduates (Gilliam, Lewis, Plunkett)
 published monograph versions of their theses with academic presses (EUP, Routledge, and
 Bloomsbury).
 The institution provides training for new and experienced supervisors. PGRs are either co-
 supervised or assigned a supervisor and an advisor; they also have supervisory boards that
 include additional staff members and oversee annual reviews. All Unit staff supervise PGRs
 or participate on supervisory boards. A department panel oversees upgrades from MPhil to
 PhD, usually at the end of the first year and based on rigorous benchmarks. Supervisory
 practices include mock vivas convened before either final submission or viva voce.
 First and second year PGRs attend a compulsory departmental research and professional
 development seminar that provides training and advice in writing book reviews, getting
 published, achieving impact, entering the academic job market, and more. They also present
 their research projects there to Philosophy and PIR staff and to other research students.
 PGRs are supported financially by: 1) departmental funding, individually allocated at £250
 per year per PGR for conference attendance and other activities, and supplemented by a
 £5000 annual department fund supporting international conference attendance, fieldwork, or
 event organization; 2) for technē students, Research Training Support Grants (maximum
 £1750 over the entire period of study); 3) institutional support for language training (2 x £350
 per student, available during the first two years of fulltime study or part-time equivalent)
 available for use with courses at Royal Holloway or another educational institution (UCL
 being a common provider for London-based PGRs).
 The institution’s Doctoral School provides face-to-face and online courses for developing
 generic and transferable skills such as time management, academic writing, presentation
 skills, media awareness, and IT. An HEA-accredited InSTIL teacher training course, available
 to all PGRs and required for anyone teaching for the Unit without a prior qualification, carries
 15 M-level credits and qualifies those who complete the programme for HEA Associate
 Fellow status. The Unit supports the development of academic teaching skills by offering paid
 undergraduate philosophy and political theory teaching opportunities to its PGRs, normally
 from the second year of study. Some experienced PGRs have had opportunities to convene
 undergraduate modules.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit is committed to sustaining and improving equality and diversity (E&D) in its research and
 teaching environments. Royal Holloway actively endorses the seven principles of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers; it has bronze institutional status for Athena
 SWAN and the Race Equality Charter Mark. The Unit follows all institutional policies and practices
 to facilitate full implementation of E&D principles, including mandatory training for line managers
 and all members of selection panels, and established practices for ensuring diversity in the
 construction of selection panels, equitable treatment for part-time and fixed-term staff, and clear
 and equitable promotions processes (see REF5a, Section 3i). Philosophy workshops and
 conferences strictly adhere to the BPA/SWIP guidelines on accessibility and encouraging
 representation of women.
 Under the previous Faculty system, the Unit’s department had an E&D Committee (whose
 membership included Whistler) and an E&D Champion. Their work included preparation for a
 departmental Athena SWAN application, examining causes of the minority student attainment


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 gap, and studying ways to create an inclusive curriculum. Following the institutional restructuring,
 this work has been continued by the School’s Equality Champion, who leads the development
 and implementation of a School Equality Action Plan, working with a departmental Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion Lead and Working Group (whose membership includes Finn and Sellars).
 A School-level Athena SWAN application is now in preparation. In 2020 the Unit’s department
 established a mentoring group for mid-career women academics, and Finn organized online talks
 on unconscious bias by former SWIP-UK Director Professor Jennifer Saul and on implicit bias by
 Robin Scaife, to introduce colleagues in the Unit’s department to these issues.
 Promotions, grant applications, and funding successes are reviewed against all protected
 characteristics to identify any disparities that might indicate issues to be addressed. Biennial
 pay audits are conducted to monitor and provide action plans to close pay gaps. An Aurora
 leadership skills programme, Mandala career and personal development programme, and
 Enabling Women in Promotions programme support women and black, Asian and minority
 ethnic (BAME) staff, and equality networks in the areas of diversity, disability, women, and
 LGBTQ provide supportive environments for staff (see REF5a, Section 3i). A maternity
 sabbaticals scheme, established originally for bench scientists and extended to all disciplines
 in 2018, entitles staff returning from maternity leave to a sabbatical to maintain and strengthen
 their research (see REF5a, Section 3iii). The institution offers flexible working arrangements
 to support staff with caring responsibilities and other special circumstances.
 Royal Holloway’s REF Code of Practice established stringent mechanisms for giving due regard
 to E&D in constructing its REF submission, including mandatory unconscious bias training for all
 staff with decision-making responsibilities, and rules to prioritise any imbalances in outputs
 against protected characteristics in the event of a draw between equally graded outputs. The
 institution conducted Equalities Impact Analyses (EIAs) in relation to the identification of staff
 research independence, output selections, and consideration of staff submissions of individual
 circumstances to identify risks of inequality and how these should be managed. EIA monitoring
 reports were carried out at the conclusion of each process to determine if identified risks
 materialized so that remedial action could be taken, with investigations triggered by any
 discrepancy exceeding 10% between staff with and without a protected characteristic. As a small
 Unit, Philosophy was not subject to detailed EIA monitoring reports, but it has taken care to
 implement the practices set out by the EIAs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Research Income
 The Unit has actively built a culture of seeking external funding, both individually and
 collaboratively, to ensure the long-term sustainability of its research. This is underpinned by the
 belief that encouraging colleagues to apply for funding and to think in bigger terms when seeking
 funding will translate into better grant capture, since even unsuccessful applications contribute to
 the learning process. All Unit staff applied for funding during the REF period, with the number and
 value of applications growing substantially, from 2013/14, when four applications were submitted
 totalling £134,482 in value, to eight, nine, and ten applications submitted in 2017/18, 2018/19,
 and 2019/20, totalling £878,455, £709,607, and £1,250,185 in value respectively.
 Applying for an external grant is a probation requirement, and grant applications are part of
 individual research plans and self-appraisals. All grants are submitted to the Unit’s internal review
 process. The Unit’s growth has encouraged staff with shared research interests to collaborate in

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 applications. Bruno and Whistler, Gascoigne and PIR’s Bacon, and Somers-Hall and Widder (the
 last successfully in Somers-Hall’s AHRC Fellowship) collaborated in seeking external funding in
 the period. The Department’s Research & Knowledge Exchange Lead and the institution’s
 Research & Innovation Department provide targeted information on funding calls to keep staff
 informed of funding opportunities.
 In 2019 the College established departmental targets for total funding sought, based on the recent
 annual averages of the total value of applications and adding modest year-on-year increases, to
 encourage larger grant applications. Research & Innovation provides costings and other pre-
 application support through a dedicated Research and Business Development Manager and
 additional staff who work directly with the Unit; it also manages institutional approval for all
 applications.
 External funding during the period played a key role in developing the Unit’s footprint in the key
 areas of research strength. Particular focus was given to research fellowships and project grants
 with teaching buyout to support individual researchers to produce substantial outputs, and on
 grants that supported collaborations and interdisciplinary activities (visiting fellowships, postdocs,
 network grants, etc.). These forms of funding also fostered leadership development, particularly
 among ECRs.
 Major funding successes awarded in the period are Bowie’s Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship (£101,702, 2015-17), Bruno’s AHRC Network Grant (£20,467, 2020-22), Somers-
 Hall’s AHRC ECF (£114,939, 2014-16), Whistler’s EURIAS fellowship (£22,305, 2017-18) and
 AHRC Network Grant (£34,260, with £12,214 to the institution, 2020-22), and Widder’s
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship for Jeffrey A. Bell (£33,456, 2019). Somers-Hall’s and
 Whistler’s fellowships led directly to REF-period outputs, including Somers-Hall’s articles on
 Merleau-Ponty/Kant and Bergson/Sartre (both part of the REF submission), two articles by
 Whistler on Victor Cousin and Schelling (one submitted to the exercise), and Whistler’s co-edited
 book on Cousin’s eclecticism (published in French by Editions des Archives Contemporaines,
 2019). The Leverhulme professorship allowed Bell to revise the first and complete the second of
 a two-volume work on Truth and Relevance for EUP. He also participated in two international
 conferences, organized by Widder and Somers-Hall, and ran an advanced research seminar for
 the Unit’s staff and PGRs.
 The Unit had a strong success in securing significant funding from sources not reported through
 HESA returns. Bruno was awarded an Alexander von Humboldt Alumnus Fellowship (Uni-
 Tuebingen, value: €9,315) and a FAGI Experienced Researcher Fellowship (Uni-Leipzig, value:
 €3,105) to support completion of an edited volume on Schelling's Philosophy: Freedom, Nature,
 and Systematicity (OUP, 2020). Sellars, Whistler, and Widder received £4,822 of BSHP
 conference grants for workshops and conferences that, in Whistler’s case, led to a publication,
 Kielmeyer and the Organic World (Bloomsbury, 2020), co-edited with one of his PGRs. Somers-
 Hall received £300 from the Mind Association for a workshop that contributed to his co-edited
 volume of philosophical engagements with Deleuze & Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus (EUP,
 2018). Whistler received €800 from the University of Lyon to support a workshop during his
 EURIAS fellowship that led to a co-edited volume, Interrogating Modernity: Debates with Hans
 Blumenberg (Palgrave, 2020). In late 2017, the Unit secured Royal Institute for Philosophy branch
 status, giving it £1500 annual funding to support public events of any kind. In 2018/19 these funds
 supported Bruno in convening a “Philosophy of Life” public lecture series that comprised talks by
 Sacha Golob, Sebastian Gardner, Alison Assiter and Angela Breitenbach in central London. The
 Unit was awarded £329,187 in TECHNE PGR funding and £517,920 in College studentship


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 funding. Five PGRs were financed by external sponsors whose total support included £102,378
 for tuition fees.
 Gloyn, Roache, Sellars, Somers-Hall, Whistler and Widder received institutional support totalling
 £19,887 from the College’s Research Strategy Fund, schemes offered by its Humanities and Arts
 Research Institute, and ad hoc departmental funds for workshops, conferences, impact activities,
 and networking activities. Research Strategy Funds of £14,025 were awarded to support Gloyn’s
 and Sellars’s impact activities. In 2020, Sellars won £22,540 from a new institutional fund for
 strategic knowledge exchange collaborations to support three events and an online course, all
 related to his work introducing Stoic principles and practices of mindfulness to general audiences.

 3.2 Infrastructure, Facilities, and Expertise
 The Unit benefits from Royal Holloway’s central London facilities, consisting of its own Bedford
 Square building (which had a £3.5m complete refurbishment early in the REF period) and several
 rooms in Senate House. The Unit regularly uses these facilities for lectures, workshops, one-day
 conferences, reading groups, and public events, including impact activities. Roache held a
 stakeholder event and workshop, “Swearing by the Rules,” at Bedford Square in September 2019.
 Sellars used Senate House to host Stoic Week events (organized with Gloyn) in 2017, 2018, and
 2019, and regular meetings of the London Stoic Group. Widder used Senate House and Bedford
 Square to host talks by academic visitors, including many of Bell’s Leverhulme activities, and to
 convene a long-running Deleuze & Guattari reading group, whose regular participants include
 several independent scholars and members of the general public. Somers-Hall used Senate
 House for workshops on “Judgment in 20th Century French Philosophy” linked to his AHRC
 Fellowship. Whistler used Bedford Square for meetings of the London Historiography of
 Philosophy Working Group.
 The Unit has benefited from significant recent investments in Royal Holloway’s main Egham
 campus. With the 2019 School restructuring, Philosophy moved into a suite of offices in the newly
 refurbished McCrea Building (£5m overall was spent on its renovations) that boasts additional
 common room spaces, kitchen facilities, and dedicated PGR computer rooms. Fulltime academic
 staff have individual offices and IT equipment (one computer, either desktop or laptop and either
 PC or Mac, per person), with shared networked printers located in the corridors. The institution
 also invested £59m in a new 10,000 square meter library building (see REF5a, Section 4). The
 old library’s reading rooms, located in the historic Founder’s Building, were refurbished to provide
 study space for research students and academic staff, and are regularly used by Philosophy
 researchers.
 As members of the University of London, staff have access to the resources of all the Federation’s
 libraries, including Senate House, the Warburg Institute, and the Institute for Classical Studies.
 With many staff living in or near London, The British Library is also widely used. Ancient
 philosophy is a longstanding research area of the institution’s Classics Department, which was
 home of noted scholars J. H. Sleeman and Hugh Tredennick, and consequently the College
 library has well-established and valuable holdings in this area.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations
 The Unit is significantly involved in London-based networks and working groups. During the period
 it collaborated on public engagement activities with the Royal Institute for Philosophy, the Institute
 for Classical Studies, and the Institute for Philosophy, the latter two supporting all of Sellars’s
 central London Stoic Week activities. Participants in Widder’s central London Deleuze & Guattari
 reading group, which include not only academics and PGRs from several institutions but also
 many non-academics (particularly practising psychoanalysts), further collaborated to establish
 the annual London Conference for Critical Thought (supported over the years by Widder, Somers-
 Hall, and their PGRs) and the London A2Z Group. Somers-Hall collaborated with the Institut
 Français (Kensington) to stage one of several workshops exploring the philosophical contributions
 of Deleuze and Guattari’s A Thousand Plateaus that led to the publication of a co-edited volume.
 The Unit led in the creation of several new groups. Bruno collaborated to co-establish the London
 Post-Kantian Society in 2020. Its first two years of activity will include rotating workshops at
 University of London philosophy departments, annual public talks at Senate House (the first two
 to be given by Judith Butler and Markus Gabriel), and a PGR work-in-progress workshop, all
 supported by AHRC funding awarded in the assessment period. Whistler collaborated with
 colleagues in KCL, UWE, the Royal Botanical Society, and the Goethe-Archiv to set up the new
 AHRC-funded research network on The Philosophical Life of Plants, which will focus on the
 Goethe’s Die Metamorphose der Pflanzen (1790) as an anchor around which to examine and
 engage discourses in the history of philosophy, environmental humanities, and German literary
 studies. The network will hold four workshops and a public exhibition (“Goethe, Philosopher-
 Botanist”), with accompanying public talks, at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. In 2019 Whistler
 and his PGRs also collaborated with a colleague (Mercier) and PGRs at Kingston to establish the
 BSHP-supported London Historiography of Philosophy Working Group. It holds regular open
 reading groups and presentations that consider historiographical practices in philosophy from a
 variety of methodological, epistemological and political angles. Sellars and Gloyn (with Sellars on
 the management committee) are part of the new London Centre for Ancient Philosophy,
 established with the support of funding provided by the Unit’s department and in collaboration
 with Philosophy and Classics colleagues at KCL, UCL, and Birkbeck. It will provide a framework
 for teaching and research collaboration within the intercollegiate University of London.
 Unit staff were involved in wider UK and overseas collaborative research. Bruno collaborated with
 the North American Kant Society to co-organize a panel for the January 2021 Eastern APA
 meeting in New York. Somers-Hall, through his AHRC Fellowship, organized a research network
 on German idealism and modern French philosophy that convened workshops in London,
 Dundee, and Staffordshire. Whistler is part of a collaborative research project on Hegel and
 Schelling in early 19th Century France, working with colleagues from Humboldt (Berlin), Lille, and
 Bordeaux to produce a two-volume work of translations and commentaries (contracted with
 Springer). He also leads on a large translation project, working with colleagues from Groningen,
 La Sapienza (Rome), the Arts Institute (Amsterdam), and UNC-Chapel Hill to produce a three-
 volume Edinburgh Edition of the Philosophical Works of Hemsterhuis (the first volume to be
 published in 2021), and on a special issue of the journal Symphilosophie on Hemsterhuis in
 Germany (scheduled for early 2022). Gloyn, Roache, and Whistler co-authored outputs with
 colleagues at Oxford, Cardiff, Liverpool, Leeds, KCL, Colgate, and Haverford. Bruno, Somers-
 Hall, and Whistler co-edited volumes with colleagues from Nottingham, Bonn, Lyon, Deakin


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 (Australia), and Southeastern Louisiana University. Sellars co-organized a BSHP-supported 2019
 conference on “Philosophy as a Way of Life in the History of Philosophy” with colleagues at KCL.
 The Unit engaged in collaborative research activities with numerous visiting researchers. Widder
 hosted short (1-3 month) visits from academics from Spain (Emma Ingala of UCM and Gavin Rae
 of Carlos III de Madrid) and Australia (Sean Bowden of Deakin University). Bruno hosted a two-
 month (January to February 2020) visit by Paul Franks (Yale), supported by a new School visiting
 fellowship scheme that provided funding for an associated workshop event. Franks’s workshop
 paper was later published in Bruno’s edited OUP collection.
 Through their EURIAS, Humboldt and FAGI fellowships, Whistler and Bruno were hosted at Lyon,
 Tuebingen, and Leipzig. Sam Matthews, a TECHNE-funded student, enjoyed a three-month visit
 to the University of Chicago’s Philosophy Department arranged by Robert Pippin and the
 Committee on Social Thought.

 4.2 Contributions to Research Base
 Unit members made wide-ranging contributions to support the discipline’s vitality and
 sustainability. They contributed to translations and other outputs that were not submitted to the
 REF exercise but still advanced the discipline in important ways. Sellars retains significant
 involvement in the Ancient Commentators on Aristotle project based at KCL, and is currently a
 Visiting Research Fellow at KCL and an Associate Editor managing the project and its freelance
 editors. Whistler contributed to translation projects and led translation teams to provide the first
 English translations of key 19th Century texts by Cousin, Eschenmayer, Hemsterhuis, and
 Schelling (with the Schelling-Eschenmayer book being an output submission). Bruno translated
 a selection of Schelling’s Philosophical Letters on Dogmatism and Criticism for a SUNY edited
 collection (2020). Sellars was editor of the 200,000-word Routledge Handbook to the Stoic
 Tradition (2016), the first volume in English that maps the Stoicism’s reception from antiquity to
 the present day.
 Staff developed impact from their research by engaging diverse communities through media
 appearances, public events, contributions to documentaries, and social media. Sellars is a
 founding member of Modern Stoicism (2012-present), which runs annual Stoic Week events that
 bring Stoic mindfulness practices to a global audience, and he continues to oversee revision and
 development of materials for these events. More recently (2020), he became a founding member
 of The Aurelius Foundation, a non-profit company aiming to introduce Stoic ethical principles to
 young people and foster youth development through training events. Sellars also gave a series
 of school talks in the Greater London area on how Stoicism might help students manage their
 emotions, and he spoke at the 2019 Ilkley Literature Festival. Gloyn introduced audiences to her
 research on classical monsters through her participation in two panel discussions at the 2017
 New Worlds Convention in London and a 2019 interview on BBC Radio 4’s Women’s Hour. She
 was also a talking head for a documentary featurette on the DVD release Godzilla: King of
 Monsters (Warner Bros.) and for five episodes of the Netflix series, Myths and Monsters.
 Roache’s research on punishment, human enhancement, and swearing led to numerous media
 appearances, including BBC’s Moral Maze, the Fix, the Philosopher’s Arms, and the Verb, and to
 interviews on BBC Radio, New Zealand Radio, and the BBC News Magazine. She also
 participated in the 2016 and 2018 “How the Light Gets In” Festivals and in a 2019 Forum for
 European Philosophy public event at LSE. Roache’s 2019 workshop on swearing included
 representatives from Thames Valley Police, Ofcom, and the British Board of Film Classification,
 and established a “consensus statement” setting out policy recommendations on how to manage

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 swearing in areas such as broadcasting, sport, healthcare, and law. Roache used Twitter to
 develop a strong profile as a public intellectual, gathering one of the largest Twitter followings
 among philosophers worldwide (30th overall and 9th for women philosophers in December 2020
 according to https://truesciphi.org/).
 Unit staff organised scholarly events ranging from guest lectures and small workshops to major
 conferences, many already mentioned. In addition, members of the Unit convened two large
 international events. In July 2019, Widder convened the 12th Annual Deleuze & Guattari Studies
 academic camp and conference, two major international interdisciplinary events that had not been
 in the UK since the first events in Cardiff in 2008. The camp’s 45 participants and the conference’s
 over 200 delegates included many non-academics, and particularly artists, reflecting the broader
 interest in and influence of Deleuze and Guattari’s works. In August 2019, Somers-Hall convened
 the Society for European Philosophy-Forum for European Philosophy (SEP-FEP) annual
 conference, the largest annual event in the continental philosophy field in Europe. Keynote
 speakers for the two conferences included Jeffrey A. Bell, William E. Connolly, Adrian Johnston,
 Leonard Lawlor, Beth Lord, Janae Sholtz, Alison Stone, and Daniela Voss.
 Unit staff provided manuscript review for journals and book publishers, and published book
 reviews evaluating recent work in their fields. They contributed to the management of journals,
 book series, and academic societies. Roache was Associate Editor for the Journal of Medical
 Ethics and Whistler for Literature and Theology. Bruno was Book Review Editor (German
 idealism) for Symposium: Canadian Journal of Continental Philosophy. Whistler served on the
 advisory boards of the Journal of the North American Schelling Society and Symphilosophie:
 Revue internationale de philosophie romantique, and Widder on the advisory board of Foucault
 Studies. Sellars served on the editorial board for the “Philosophy as a Way of Life” book series
 with Bloomsbury, and Widder on the editorial board for the “Deleuze and Educational Research”
 series with EUP. Whistler served on the Steering Committee of the Forum for European
 Philosophy (now the Forum for Philosophy), which since 1996 has organized free and public-
 facing academic philosophy events across the UK. Somers-Hall and Widder served on the
 Executive Committee of the Society for European Philosophy, the UK’s largest academic society
 for continental philosophy, with Somers-Hall also serving as Secretary. Gloyn was a member of
 the Institute for Classical Studies Advisory Council and the Classical Association Council, and a
 founding member and Administrator of the Women’s Classical Committee UK. Finn served on the
 Executive Committee of the Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP) UK.
 Unit staff served on grant committees and peer-review bodies for UK and overseas research
 councils; they also provided external review for promotion applications and research reviews for
 other institutions. Gloyn was an independent external reviewer for a 2016 National Endowment
 for the Humanities (USA) grant programme. Somers-Hall (2015-18), Whistler (2020-23), and
 Widder (2017-20) served on the AHRC Peer Review College. Widder was a peer reviewer for the
 Australian Research Council. Gascoigne, Gloyn, Whistler, and Widder were external reviewers
 for tenure, promotion, and chair applications at Brighton, Goldsmiths, Gonzaga (USA), Kent,
 UMass (USA), Thorneloe (Canada), and Wollongong (Australia). Gascoigne and Widder provided
 external reviews of nominated REF outputs for other institutions.
 Unit staff contributed to collaborative arrangements for PGR training and to supervision of PGRs
 at other institutions. Whistler co-organised a branch of TECHNE’s interdisciplinary Conflux
 training programme, “How Like a Leaf,” which focused on interdisciplinary approaches to the
 relationships between art, nature, and the world. Widder provided training on genealogical
 method in Nietzsche, Foucault, and Deleuze for the scheme’s Critical Theory branch. Whistler’s


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
 Historiography of Philosophy Working Group supported PGR training through its reading groups
 on historiographical method. Bruno co-supervised a PhD at McGill University (Canada) and
 Widder was an external advisor for a PhD at Kent.
 Unit staff supported the discipline through external and University of London examining of PhDs.
 Gascoigne, Sellars, Somers-Hall, Whistler, and Widder examined theses at numerous
 institutions, including Aberdeen, Anglia Ruskin, Aarhus, Birkbeck, Central Lancaster, UCD,
 Dundee, Goldsmiths, Guelph, UCL, KCL, Université Paris 1 Panthéon, Sorbonne, Purdue,
 UNSW/Paris X, Warwick, and Western Ontario.
 Unit staff were recognised by the research base through invitations to give high profile talks, and
 through special events organised around their research. Bruno, Gascoigne, Gloyn, Sellars,
 Somers-Hall, Whistler, and Widder gave 14 invited plenary or keynote talks, including at the BSHP
 annual conference, the Summer Institute in American Philosophy, the German Society for Ancient
 Philosophy, and the annual Internationale Schelling-Tagung. Widder gave the 2016 Henry Tudor
 Memorial Address at Durham and a lecture series at the Indian Institute of Technology -
 Kharagpur funded by the Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN). Somers-Hall’s Hegel,
 Deleuze and the Critique of Representation was the subject of a special book session held at
 SPEP in 2014. Gascoigne’s Tacit Knowledge (co-authored with Tim Thornton) was the subject of
 a symposium held at ENS Lyon in 2015.




                                                                                             Page 15
