Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Founded in 1957, the Department of Computer Science and Information Systems is one of
 the oldest computing departments world-wide and one of four departments in the School of
 Business, Economics and Informatics (BEI). Historically a small department (18.8 FTE
 returned to REF2014), we have grown by 30% since REF2014. Having a long-established
 reputation in data management and computational intelligence, we have evolved into a world-
 leading centre in Algorithms, Data Science, Knowledge Representation, and Verification, as
 evidenced by (i) our Q1 position for research outputs in REF2014; (ii) subsequent 70% growth in
 the number of publications, in such highly prestigious venues as JACM, AIJ, JAIR, JMLR,
 IEEE TKDE, IEEE TSE, TPAMI, FOCS, PODS, LICS, IJCAI; (iii) 50% growth in research grant
 awards; (iv) rapidly expanding network of international, interdisciplinary, industrial and public-
 sector collaborators.
 Our REF2014 results highlighted our strengths in algorithms and theory, leading to an
 ambitious development programme which expanded and refocused our research into three
 Groups: Knowledge Representation & Data Management, Experimental Data Science and
 Algorithms, Verification & Software; and two research Centres: Birkbeck Institute for Data
 Analytics (BIDA) and Birkbeck Knowledge Lab (BKL). The Groups focus on specific areas of
 computer science, with fluid boundaries facilitating inter-group collaborations and
 departmental cohesion. The Centres are interdisciplinary, spearheading new collaborations
 within and beyond the College.
 BIDA was established in 2015 to focus the development of college-wide research in data
 science, combining our expertise with domain-specific knowledge from all disciplinary areas at
 Birkbeck: Sciences, Social Sciences, Law, Arts & Humanities.
 BKL was launched in 2016, extending the legacy of the London Knowledge Lab (2001–2015),
 a joint initiative with the UCL Institute of Education. BKL’s research draws upon multi- and
 interdisciplinary perspectives to investigate how digital technologies are transforming our
 learning, working and cultural lives.
 The Department’s research capacity is further enhanced through participation in the Institute
 of Coding (IoC), a national OfS initiative to address the UK’s digital skills gap, with 60+
 universities and industry partners. The IoC synergistically supports our research and impact
 strategies through academic staff posts and targeted programme development (for example,
 through a collaborative PGCert with the British Library and National Archives).
 1.2 Research strategy
 We develop our research and impact strategies in the context of two overarching aims:
 -   to be a world-leading research centre with complementary expertise in both theoretical
     and applied computer science;
 -   driven by Birkbeck’s mission, to develop flexible opportunities in cutting-edge computer
     science for a diverse range of students, particularly working Londoners.
 The latter provides unique opportunities to engage, through students bringing real-world
 problems driven by their work environment, with a range of IT companies and other

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations.
 Review of REF2014 research strategy. As stated in our REF2014 environment narrative, we
 have “investigated fundamental research problems whose solution advances knowledge in the
 discipline, and undertaken collaborative research with partners from other disciplines that
 exploits and enhances our expertise” and have achieved significant advances in all the focus
 areas identified therein (see below).
 Post-REF2014 strategy. Our research strategy over the census period, and continuing into the
 next five years, is based on seven key principles:
 (R1) Recruit internationally excellent staff whose research enhances our strategic directions
      (detailed below).
 (R2) Foster an environment of inclusivity and equality, where all researchers can thrive and
      fulfil their potential.
 (R3) Promote research leadership, enabling collaboration and support within and across the
      research groups, including support for research career development.
 (R4) Maintain research excellence and innovation in core computer science, investigating
      fundamental problems in both theory and practice, spearheading the development of new
      technologies.
 (R5) Carry out world-leading interdisciplinary research, recognising that computer science is
      pervasive in all areas of society.
 (R6) Amplify the impact of our research through collaboration with organisations across the
      public, private and third sectors—nationally, internationally and across disciplines.
 (R7) Provide all researchers with the environment they need to pursue research in their
      chosen fields, including purpose-built labs, specialist hardware and software, and
      financial and technical support.
 Our research and impact strategies are articulated and regularly reviewed by the department’s
 Research Committee, which horizon scans to identify strategically significant emerging areas of
 research that dovetail with our existing profile. Its Chair is a member of the School Research
 Committee, which develops and shares best practice across BEI, monitors research student
 recruitment and progression, and works to enhance BEI’s research environment. The School
 Research Committee articulates with the College’s Research Committee and Research Strategy
 Group through its Chair, BEI’s Assistant Dean for Research (this was Poulovassilis till summer
 2015 when she was appointed Deputy Dean for Research Enhancement, continuing as a BEI
 member of the College Research Committee).
 Strategic areas of research. Driven by principles (R1)-(R7), we made significant changes to
 our staffing and organisation of research since REF2014, reflecting our vision for this census
 period and beyond:
 First, we refocused the Computational Intelligence group into Experimental Data Science (EDS)
 and enhanced it with three new appointments, researching data-driven methods for cloud
 computing, bioinformatics and IoT security.
 In recognition of our emerging strength in Algorithms, Verification & Software (AVS), we created
 a new group in this area and further strengthened it by appointing two experts in automated
 program analysis/verification and algorithmic graph theory.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Information Management & Web Technologies group was refocused to Knowledge
 Representation & Data Management (KRDM) accompanied by three appointments: in database
 theory, constraint satisfaction and logic; in temporal representation and reasoning; and in graph
 data management.
 Finally, we launched BIDA and recruited its director, who also strengthens EDS research in
 experimental algorithmics and data analytics.
 KRDM strategy. KRDM addresses challenges arising from managing, accessing and exploiting
 heterogeneous high-volume data, with particular focus on logic-based approaches, database
 theory and related computational complexity problems, and graph data management. Since
 REF2014 we have published 70+ journal and 170+ conference papers, including in highly
 prestigious venues such as JACM (2 papers), AIJ(5), TOCL(4), LMCS(2), JAIR(2), PODS(5),
 ICDT(3), IJCAI(7), LICS(6).
 Ground-breaking advances have been made in first-order model checking in the context of
 database theory, logic and complexity (H.Chen); complexity and succinctness theory for ontology-
 based data access (OBDA); foundations of temporal OBDA; and game-theoretic
 characterisations of query inseparability and of the Horn fragments of description and first-order
 guarded logics (Kontchakov, Ryzhikov, Zakharyaschev). Fundamental advances have been
 made in flexible processing of graph queries (Cali, Poulovassilis, Wood); quality-driven data
 integration (Martin, Poulovassilis); designing the first logic-based language for JSON
 transformation and querying (Hidders); and axiomatising and classifying algebras of functions
 with composition and (anti)domain/range – an emergent tool in program verification (Mikulas).
 Over the next five years KRDM will focus on:
  -   fundamental problems in computer science logic, including database theory, constraint
      satisfaction, complexity of ontology-mediated query answering;
  -   developing techniques for intelligent data access, integration and management, in
      collaboration with partners in industry;
  -   contributing to new industry standards in graph data management.
 AVS strategy. AVS addresses the efficiency of computation, including theory, design and
 implementation, with several foci: foundations of algorithms and computational complexity,
 algorithm design, and analysis and verification of systems and software. Since REF2014, we
 have published 65+ journal and 85+ conference papers, including in ACM TAGL (1 paper),
 JCSS(4), IEEE TSE(2), ACM TOCT(3), FOCS(3), SODA(1), STACS(2), ICALP(4), POPL(2),
 ICSE(2), LICS(2), IJCAR(3), TACAS(3), CONCUR(3).
 We do not shy away from notorious open problems, such as reconstructing graph properties
 from subsets of vertex-deleted subgraphs (Fenner); inference of worst-case runtime complexity
 bounds and size bounds for programs on integers; satisfiability for separation logic with inductive
 definitions (Fuhs); the Matroid variation of the famous Secretary Problem; and lower bounds for
 relaxed locally decodable codes (Lachish). Other ground-breaking advances have been made in
 propositional knowledge representation and order theory (Razgon); and algorithmic techniques
 for sparse graph classes (Reidl). Fundamental advances have been made in automated
 termination analysis of higher-order programs (Fuhs); theory and verification algorithms for fuzzy
 systems (Han); automated approaches to improve the quality of API documentation (T.Chen);
 and algorithmic approaches to learning neural architecture hyperparameters and ensembles
 (Magoulas).
 Over the next five years AVS will focus on:

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  -   computational complexity; randomised algorithms and their applications; theory and real-
      world applications of graph width measures and notions of structural sparseness;
  -   verification techniques for emerging paradigms such as probabilistic, neural and quantum
      programming;
  -   application of machine learning and NLP to software engineering problems such as
      program synthesis;
  -   deep learning for modelling, classification, and autonomous control.
 EDS strategy. EDS develops novel methods and systems for the computational analysis of
 data. A core ingredient is the exploitation of metadata, observations and measurements from
 large-scale information systems to ground testable theory, conduct experimentation and
 enable practical application of research outcomes, leading to demonstrable economic and
 societal impacts.
 Since REF2014, we have published 140+ journal and 120+ conference papers, including in
 TPAMI (9 papers), IEEE TKDE(2), IEEE TIFS(2), IEEE TSC(2), JoCCH(2), Scientometrics(2),
 JASIST(2), TACL(2), PLoS One(3).
 We have made significant advances in data analytics for Parkinson’s disease, deployed in
 clinical trials in the UK, USA, Germany and Belgium and released as open-source software
 (Roussos, Weston); named entity recognition and sentiment analysis (Levene, Weston, Zhang);
 resource usage optimisation and real-time anomaly detection (Sotiriadis); data-driven cyber
 security techniques, receiving a Samsung research award (Yoo); a Fisher-Rao metric for
 curves using edge information (Maybank); topological patterns of network evolution
 characteristic of trustworthy actors (Provetti); deep neural network techniques for predicting
 human protein function (Wan).
 Over the next five years EDS will focus on:
      – modelling social and human dynamics employing spatio-temporal probabilistic models;
      – disease progression assessment using mobile and wearable devices;
      – deep learning methods, with biomedical, cloud computing and security applications;
      – applications of NLP in sentiment analysis, named entity recognition, and distributional
        representations of language.
 BIDA strategy. Through its network of collaborations and external partnerships, BIDA
 provides a vibrant environment for a next generation of data scientists. Collaborations are
 often conceived through BIDA’s regular workshops, convened to explore cross-disciplinary
 perspectives on specific topics and challenges. New collaborations have been forged with
 Geography and the British Geological Survey to develop computational models of coastal
 erosion using IoT smart sensor data; with the Institute of Criminal Policy Research (funded by
 the Dawes Trust) to investigate user signals in social media communications for evidence-
 gathering in criminal prosecutions; and with a market branding company to develop an NLP
 system for matching journalistic articles and Twitter data.
 Over the next five years BIDA will:
      – develop data-driven methodologies to address big data and scalability challenges arising
        in the sciences;
      – collaborate with researchers in social sciences, arts and humanities to exploit the
        potential of advances in text mining, data curation and user modelling;

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     – spearhead public debate on ethics and emerging technologies such as video surveillance,
       user profiling and AI in general.
 BKL strategy. BKL research has focused on the challenges of designing software to support
 users’ knowledge creation processes. We have forged new collaborations with the British
 Library, British Museum, and educationalists from several European universities and secured
 joint funding leading to intelligent tools to support exploratory learning (EU), a specialist
 knowledge base to support museology scholars’ research (AHRC), and further development
 of the Samtla statistical language modelling software for searching digital archives (Wellcome
 Trust ISSF) – ranked second in the 2018 British Library Labs Competition.
 Over the next five years BKL will:
     – apply cutting-edge computer science to co-design tools that support domain experts in
       data integration, analysis and visualisation and in creating and sharing knowledge;
     – collaborate with educationalists, psychologists and practitioners to exploit the potential
       of AI in providing personalised support for learners and tutors in open-ended learning
       settings.
 1.3 Impact strategy
 Review of REF2014 impact strategy. As stated in our REF2014 impact narrative, we have
 encouraged “collaborative research carried out by multidisciplinary teams involving user
 stakeholders” (cf. Impact Case Roussos-LondonAmbulance), promoted “links with industry
 partners with whom we can develop research exploitation routes” (cf. Case Study
 Kontchakov-VKG), engaged “with commercial, educational and policy organisations in
 knowledge transfer activities” (cf. Case Study Roussos-ITU), and maintained “department-
 industry networks through our part-time postgraduates and alumni”.
 Post-REF2014 strategy. Following REF2014, the Department reassessed its approach to
 generating impact and put in place additional initiatives and structures to enhance it. Our
 approach is based on five key principles, which will continue to drive our strategy over the
 next five years:
  (I1) Embed impact within our strategic research directions and research processes.
      For example, EDS employs an experimental systems approach leading to the
      development of novel software in healthcare and smart cities (cf. Case Studies
      Roussos-LondonAmbulance, Roussos-ITU). KRDM develops data management
      theories and technologies working with end-users in industry (cf. Case Study
      Kontchakov-VKG).
  (I2) Develop impact-generating activities through interdisciplinary and industrial
       collaborations (see Sec. 4).
  (I3) Recognise the importance of impact in our recruitment strategy by hiring staff with
       world-leading research developed collaboratively with industrial users.
  (I4) Leverage our unique relationship with research students: due to Birkbeck’s distinctive
       mission, we are uniquely positioned to collaboratively address economic and societal
       challenges identified by our students, the majority of whom pursue research concurrently
       with their professional careers.
      For example, our work on intelligent tools for ambulance routing (Case Study Roussos-
      LondonAmbulance) drew on the experience of part-time PhD student Marcus Poulton at
      the London Ambulance Service; and our collaboration with Neo4j on advanced querying

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      methods for graph databases was facilitated by Petra Selmer, who completed her PhD
      part-time at Birkbeck while working for Neo4j.
  (I5) Communicate the outcomes of our research through a full breadth of non-academic
       routes, both digital and in-person.
 These initiatives are supported by structures and measures including:
 –   Department’s Academic Lead for Impact, who promotes and monitors the implementation
     of impact strategy and achievement of impact, and ensures that impacts are recorded and
     communicated, building a knowledge base of external stakeholders and partners to inform
     future planning.
 –   Department’s Industry Advisory Board (IAB), comprising senior IT professionals from
     UK/global corporations in sectors such as innovation, consultancy, web/mobile technologies,
     ed-tech, energy, telecommunications. IAB members advise on all aspects of research to
     ensure relevance to economic and societal challenges, and serve as mentors supporting the
     development of collaborative activities as per (I2).
 –   School’s Research Impact Officer (RIO), a full-time role in BEI with the remit of
     evaluating and enhancing impact, working closely with other professional staff of the
     School and College (public engagement, research development and support, alumni,
     business services, communications). When new staff join the Department they meet with
     the RIO to discuss the impact potential of their research. Staff preparing research funding
     proposals consult with the RIO to ensure that impact is fully developed and embedded.
     The RIO meets regularly with the department’s Academic Lead for Impact and the RIOs
     of other Schools, allowing us to benefit from and inform best practice and wider impact
     strategy across the College.
 –   School and College Impact funding, available to amplify the impact of ongoing
     research (see 3.1).
 Areas of impact. Following this approach, we have substantially increased our impact on the
 IT, healthcare, culture and urban development sectors, as well as now impacting on digital
 humanities, cyber security and linked data management (see 4.2).
 1.4 Research integrity and open research environment.
 The Department is committed to professionalism, openness, exercise of independent thought
 and application of ethical principles, aligning with Birkbeck’s Research Integrity and Open
 Research Data policies and concordats.
 BIDA leads Birkbeck’s research on ethical issues in emerging technologies, and is the public
 face of the College in the debate on the deployment of AI in our societies. All staff and research
 students undertake mandatory ethics training before commencing their research at Birkbeck.
 We operate a rigorous process for reviewing the ethical aspects of research involving human
 participants, proposed by staff or students. The review is coordinated by the Department’s
 Research Ethics Officer (REO) who passes non-routine cases to the School or College Ethics
 Committee. The REO works with researchers to incorporate additional safeguards if required.
 The REO serves on the School Ethics Committee, which has oversight of all ethical reviews in
 the School and runs regular workshops to ensure that researchers are fully apprised of the
 College’s principles and policies on research ethics and research integrity. Departmental REOs
 undertake mandatory training before being appointed.
 Our department’s PhD students played an active role in organising the Bloomsbury colleges’
 “Love Data Week” for research students in 2018 and 2020, discussing research data

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management and ethics.
 Wherever possible we encourage staff to publish open-access, if necessary supplementing
 funding available for this from the College. All articles accepted for publication are deposited in
 open access form (Green or Gold) in the Birkbeck institutional repository BIROn. We extensively
 use open publishing services such as arXiv (260+ papers since REF2014).
 We use github, dedicated Web pages and the Birkbeck Data Repository BiRD to make all
 software and data produced by our research freely available, compliant with regulatory
 frameworks and data protection legislation. For example, the code for the Virtual Knowledge
 Graph system Ontop is available at https://github.com/ontop/ontop and for the Parkinson’s PDkit
 at https://github.com/pdkit/pdkit, the ontology developed by the Weaving Communities of
 Practice project at https://www2.bbk.ac.uk/weavingcommunities/Ontology/, the Mapping
 Museums data and software at http://museweb.dcs.bbk.ac.uk/data and
 https://github.com/MappingMuseums/MMWebApp.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Mentoring, Probation, Appraisal. Academic and research staff are assigned to one of the
 research Groups as their primary affiliation, providing peer support alongside a research Mentor
 who advises on research career development, training, funding applications and forging
 collaborations with other institutions/disciplines. Staff meet as required, but at least annually,
 with their Mentor.
 Probationary staff meet annually with their Probationary Advisor to review all aspects of their
 work. Post-probation academic staff undertake an annual Academic Review with a senior
 colleague appointed by the HoD (Levene) to discuss achievements in the previous year,
 objectives for the coming year, career aspirations, promotion planning, balance of work, and any
 obstacles to progress in research, teaching or academic management. Research staff undertake
 a similar review, tailored towards their career stage.
 Training. The Department’s staff undertake College training in diversity and equality,
 unconscious bias, recruitment, line management, research supervision (for both new and
 experienced supervisors), promotion, data protection, writing grant proposals, project
 management, open access, public engagement and knowledge exchange, aligned with the
 relevant policies and concordats. This provides a structure supporting the more informal
 coaching through mentorship within the Department.
 Staff undertake training organised by the School in publishing research, generating impact,
 research integrity and ethics, using audio-visual media for research communication (supported
 by the BEI Film Unit and the Derek Jarman Lab), and applying for research funding – including
 events where senior officers from specific funding bodies are invited to speak directly to staff.
 The Department’s Knowledge Exchange champion organises regular training in
 commercialisation, delivered by external experts. New staff attend innovation and
 entrepreneurship training delivered by UCL Enterprise.
 Workload allocation. Academic staff have a standard annual teaching load determining the
 amount of lecture/lab-based teaching, tutoring and BSc/MSc project supervision. Allocation of
 teaching duties is undertaken by the HoD in discussion with the individuals and the Directors of
 Studies. Management duties are also shared evenly, fostering academics’ engagement in College,
 School and Departmental processes. Most are rotated every three years and, as with teaching,
 individuals discuss their preferences with the HoD. There are reductions for ECRs (see below).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To promote transparency, everyone’s duties are published annually on the departmental intranet.
 Research Grants, Impact. The School’s Research Development Officer assists staff in
 developing new research collaborations and proposals, and oversees a formal peer review
 process for all funding proposals. The School’s Research Impact Officer assists staff in
 developing impact from their research (see 1.3). The Department’s academic lead for impact
 (Zakharyaschev) and Knowledge Exchange champion (Roussos) work with individuals and the
 Research and Impact Officers, articulating with the School’s and College’s training and support
 mechanisms.
 The College’s Research Office provides support for submitting proposals and communicating
 with external funders. It advises on IP protection and exploitation, supported with specialist Tech
 Transfer expertise from UCL Business.
 The School provides funding for pump-priming the research of new staff and new collaborations
 (School Research Fund) and for supporting staff in developing impact from their research
 (School Impact Fund). Applications can be made several times each year and are assessed
 according to quality and strategic importance by the School’s Executive Board. Academic staff
 can additionally apply to College funding calls e.g. College Impact Seed Fund, Wellcome Trust
 ISSF.
 Sabbaticals. Academic staff (including fixed- and part-time) can take one term in ten as a
 Research or Impact sabbatical. They are required to report back on how they have used this
 leave and the outcomes achieved.
 ECRs. The teaching duties of ECRs are kept below the departmental average, starting at a half
 load and increasing gradually to a full load by the third year. ECRs have a lighter management
 load throughout their first three years, taking on roles with coordination and decision-making
 responsibilities appropriate for their career stage. Research Mentors, the Director of Research
 and HoD provide guidance on all aspects of research.
 The effectiveness of our support of ECRs is evidenced by the promotion during this census
 period of seven lecturers to SL and two to Reader.
 PDRAs contribute to the Department’s vitality through activities such as helping to organise
 conferences/workshops/seminars, running stakeholder events, producing research
 software/datasets, preparing online research-related content, presenting at conferences, and
 undertaking research-related visits. They are offered opportunities to guest lecture on taught
 modules, supported by their line manager and the Department’s Teaching Tutor.
 The effectiveness of our support for PDRAs is exemplified by the career trajectories of two
 colleagues who joined as PDRAs and were then successful in being appointed to a Lectureship,
 with subsequent promotion of one to SL and one to Reader. Three other PDRAs have
 progressed to Lecturer/SL positions at other HEIs during this census period; four have
 progressed to senior R&D posts in industry.
 Staffing and recruitment. The College’s recruitment strategy focusses on appointing mainly
 at Lecturer level. The new academics we appointed since REF2014 (see below) are
 demonstrably meeting our research and impact strategy principles R1, R4, R6, I1-I3, as
 evidenced by their research expertise, publications quality, extensive collaborations and
 impact. Most academic posts are open-ended although on occasion there are fixed-term
 posts associated with specific initiatives; to date, all our fixed-term post-holders have been
 transferred to open-ended contracts towards the end of probation.
 Since REF2014 we have appointed 8 Lecturers (4 early-career), one SL, one Reader (four

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are BAME, all are male, women were shortlisted for seven of the posts).
 The Department grew by 30% over this census period and now comprises 8 Professors, 3
 Readers, 7 SLs and 8 Lecturers, showing an even balance between senior and junior grades.
 In recognition of the strength of our strategy, the College has announced three more posts for
 2021: one Professor, two SL/Readers. We are actively addressing gender imbalance through
 the measures outlined in 2.3.
 A steady rate of staff promotions facilitates succession planning as more senior management
 roles (including research leadership roles) can be prepared for through discussions, facilitated
 by the HoD, between current holders and staff seeking promotion, and handed over after
 promotion. Female staff benefit from the College’s Aurora Leadership programme.
 Space. The Department works with College Estates to provision high-quality premises for
 researchers. Full-time academics are allocated their own office. Part-time academics,
 research staff, and full-time research students are assigned their own desk and PC in a
 shared office/lab. Part-time research students are assigned a shared desk and PC. There are
 three dedicated Research Seminar and Meeting rooms, and additional ones bookable
 throughout the School. The department’s labs have ample capacity to be booked for user
 design/evaluation workshops and community engagement/dissemination events. Additional
 study and social space is available in the BEI Graduate Centre.
 Recognition of research and impact. Appointment, promotion and remuneration processes
 recognise all aspects of research, including outputs, grants, supervision, public engagement,
 knowledge exchange, impact, community service. To reward successful grant applications, a
 small proportion of the grant overheads allocated to the Department is available to the award
 holder(s) to fund research-related expenses. Research achievements are publicised on the
 Department’s website, ensuring visibility, providing inspiration for early-career researchers, and
 creating a benchmark for expected levels of activity.
 Research Exchanges. The Department provides generous financial support for conference
 attendance and research-related visits: see 3.1,4.1.
 Retention. We have high academic staff retention, with just three leavers in this census period.
 Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. As
 detailed above and in 2.2 and 2.3, we espouse the three Principles of the 2019 Concordat by
 providing a supportive and inclusive working environment, recognising and valuing all
 researchers’ contributions, and fostering researchers’ professional and career development. Our
 provisions are under continual review by the Department’s management and research
 committees.
 2.2 Research Students
 Recruitment. The Department’s research student recruitment strategy leverages our research
 reputation to attract strong applicants. Aligning with Birkbeck’s mission, the majority enrol for
 part-time study and have significant other commitments. Student recruitment levels rose in the
 latter part of the previous census period and have been maintained throughout this period, with
 45 students enrolled during 2019/20 (62% PT, 38% FT). We recruit applicants from diverse
 backgrounds, as evidenced by our current research student demographics: 40% BAME, 40%
 non-British, 25% female, 12% registered disabled. Staff involved in research student recruitment
 are required to have undertaken recruitment training.
 Research Studentships. The Department has funded 14 PhD studentships in this census
 period, awarded to exceptional part-time or full-time applicants. Additionally, 2 students have


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been funded by College interdisciplinary studentships, awarded from time to time through
 institution-wide competition. Birkbeck staff can also apply for collaborative PhD studentships in
 the annual Bloomsbury Consortium PhD Studentships competition: we have been successful in
 4 such bids in this period, two in collaboration with UCL IoE and two with LSHTM.
 The Department also has 4 Graduate Teaching Assistant posts whose holders complete a PhD
 over four years, with full fee remission, while contributing to the department’s teaching and
 enhancing their transferable skills.
 Support and Monitoring. We implement, and in some areas go beyond, the College’s Code of
 Practice for Postgraduate Training and Research. Each student is assigned one or two primary
 supervisors with expertise in their research area, and a secondary supervisor for a broader
 perspective. Less experienced supervisors are teamed with staff who have strong supervisory
 track records. Female students may request that one of their supervisors is female. Full-time
 students meet weekly with their supervisors, part-time students every fortnight. The Research
 Tutor oversees students’ well-being, induction and training, organises termly meetings with all
 students and an annual survey. Three seminar series, specialist discussion/reading groups,
 research group/centre meetings and annual Research Days provide students with a range of
 opportunities to integrate into the research life of the department and present their work in
 informal settings.
 We make special efforts to create opportunities for part-time students to meet with staff and
 other students. All training events for research students are held in late afternoon/evening.
 A subcommittee of the Department’s Research Committee monitors students’ progression,
 training needs, transfer to PhD, and completion. Students submit written reports annually and
 give oral presentations at key stages.
 There has been a 10% increase in the number of PhDs awarded in this census period compared
 to the last. In the Department’s last research student survey, 90% stated they were satisfied with
 their supervision and 88% with the progression processes.
 Skills Development. All students attend the Department’s Research Methods training and
 generic skills training organised by Birkbeck’s Graduate Research School and the Bloomsbury
 Postgraduate Skills Network. Most College training courses for staff are also open to research
 students.
 The Department funds students’ presentation of papers at conferences – at least one paper per
 year, for both PT and FT students.
 Research students are offered opportunities to provide teaching assistance on our taught
 programmes and receive training for this organised by the College and support from the
 Teaching Tutor.
 The effectiveness of our research student support and training is evidenced by the career
 trajectories of our PhD graduates, e.g. in this census period five attained Lecturer positions at
 HEIs, two exploited their doctoral research to co-found new start-ups, and four were appointed
 to R&D posts in areas such as medical informatics, data science and software services.
 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 Strategy to support equality and diversity
 For all posts we encourage applicants with diverse backgrounds, as evidenced by our current
 staff demographics: 6 academic/research staff are BAME, the majority are of non-British origin,
 two are women. For new female academic/research staff, we ensure that at least one of their
 Probationary Advisor or Mentor is a woman.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All categories of staff are required to undertake Equality & Diversity and Unconscious Bias
 training, and to repeat this every three years. Staff involved in recruitment are required to have
 undertaken recruitment training, which includes an equalities component. Staff recruitment
 panels contain at least one woman.
 The HoD supports staff preparing to apply for promotion, accelerated increments and
 performance-related payments, which are open to all staff categories. Staff are also
 encouraged to attend the College’s workshops on applying for promotion.
 A positive review of promotions is undertaken annually by a panel comprising the HoD and
 senior professors (4 men,1 woman) to identify staff to encourage to apply. Mentors and academic
 reviewers also play a proactive role in this respect.
 The Department engages with the College’s and School’s equality and diversity initiatives and
 with the Action Plan of the HR Excellence in Research Award, working with the School’s
 Assistant Dean for Equality & Diversity to embed these in all its processes.
 We have a staunch commitment to Athena SWAN: Poulovassilis was a member of the College’s
 Athena SWAN Committee from its inception till 2017 and participated in the successful
 application for Bronze in 2016. Roussos led the Department’s Athena SWAN Self-Assessment
 Team preparing the successful application for Bronze in 2017. Poulovassilis is a Mentor in the
 Aurora Leadership Programme. Our annual Andrew & Kathleen Booth lecture attracts leading
 innovators and alternates a female and male distinguished speaker each year.
 The Department’s staffing capacity enables sabbatical leave to be accommodated as part of
 normal workload planning. All staff categories are entitled to parental/caring leave according to
 College policies, and their duties are covered by recruiting additional staff for a fixed period.
 Due in part to Birkbeck’s teaching being largely in the evening, the Department has a
 longstanding culture where flexible working is the norm for all staff. Options include
 homeworking, staggered hours/flexi-time, part-time and job-share. Evening teaching for
 academic staff does not exceed 3 evenings per week and is balanced by late morning starts.
 Remote working (including remote teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic) is enabled by
 extensive IT infrastructure allowing remote access to all resources. Staff and students are also
 supported through licensing software and loaning hardware for home use.
 In the last Departmental survey, 96% and 88% of staff endorsed the Department’s flexible
 working and family support, respectively. In the last College survey, 89% of the Department’s
 staff agreed that they work in an inclusive and enabling environment promoting tolerance and
 freedom from discrimination.
 Career pathways. Part-time staff have the same opportunities and entitlements as full-time, with
 pro-rata allocation of work duties. Fixed-term staff have the same opportunities and entitlements
 as those on open-ended contracts. Announcements of job openings are regularly emailed by
 HR. PDRAs approaching the end of their contract meet with their line manager to discuss
 continuing work opportunities. Bridging funding is available for PDRAs between contracts.
 Research Leadership roles. The Director of Research (Zakharyaschev), Director of BIDA
 (Provetti) and Director of BKL (Poulovassilis) are appointed by the HoD in consultation with the
 Dean and senior staff. Research Group directors are appointed by the HoD in consultation with
 the Director of Research and Group members. The departmental Research Committee is
 chaired by the Director of Research. Its core members include the Research Tutor, Group and
 Centre directors, and elected representatives of the research staff and students. However, all



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are encouraged to attend its meetings and participate in the formulation of research and impact
 strategy, and the setting and monitoring of objectives.
 Access to funding. All academic and research staff and students can apply to the Department
 for funding to attend conferences, undertake research-related visits, attend training courses, and
 organise stakeholder workshops and dissemination events. All staff have access to the same
 support mechanisms in preparing applications for School, College and external funding (see
 2.1).
 Returning from leave and changing circumstances. Our flexible working provisions enable
 staff to manage transitions after returning from periods of parental leave or ill health, changes in
 their health or caring responsibilities, and switching between full- and part-time working. Staff
 returning from leave may request flexible working or a variation in their contract (including
 homeworking, staggered hours/flexi-time, part-time, job-share). Changes to working
 arrangements are managed flexibly between the individual and their line manager. Research
 students can similarly switch between full- and part-time study and can request breaks-in-study
 to accommodate changes in their professional or personal circumstances.
 Routine planning for periods of maternity, paternity, shared parental and adoption leave includes
 a detailed leave planner and planning for Keeping in Touch (KIT) days. Staff on
 maternity/adoption leave can take up to ten paid KIT days. Upon return to work, staff are
 supported with childcare costs through Birkbeck’s childcare vouchers scheme. Returning staff
 and students have access to the College’s nursery, which operates 5.30-9pm when most
 teaching and supervision takes place.
 Support for those with disabilities. The Department’s Disability Officer liaises with the
 College’s Disability support services to ensure that support plans are collaboratively formulated
 with staff and students to enable them to work and study effectively. This includes access to
 disability allowances and learning support funds, provisioning of assistive technologies, and
 adjustments to working environments, work duties and required presence in College. The
 Disability Officer is a member of the School’s Disability Working Group.
 Wellbeing of staff and students. The HoD operates an open-door policy as do all academic
 and professional staff (virtual during the COVID-19 pandemic). The Department has a code of
 practice governing responsiveness to emails and requests for meetings. So staff and students
 are easily able to obtain advice on College, School and Departmental policies, support
 mechanisms and resources.
 We place strong emphasis on integration and communication across the department. This is
 ensured through regular research group/centre meetings, three seminar series, training events
 for staff and students, and a monthly departmental “Merienda” where we celebrate the past
 month’s achievements. There are two annual social events, the Christmas party and the Away
 Day in September. In the last College survey, 88% of the Department’s staff agreed that Birkbeck
 is a good place to work.
 Consideration of Equality and Diversity in construction of REF submission. Our
 departmental REF preparation team (3 men, 1 woman) read and recommended outputs and
 impact case studies for our UoA. The selection of outputs and impact case studies was
 undertaken by a School-level panel chaired by the Dean and including the School’s three UoA
 leads, Deputy Dean, Assistant Dean for Research and one external expert (5 men, 2 women).
 The College’s code of practice was followed throughout, including a three-round process for
 outputs selection. After each round the College undertook an analysis of the distribution of
 outputs across staff with respect to multiple protected characteristics and no statistically
 significant imbalances were found for our UoA.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our 30% growth in staff since REF2014 has been accompanied by a strategic aim to increase
 research resources in terms of income (both external and internal), office and lab space, and
 high-performance computing. It is to be noted that we undertake significant amounts of
 fundamental research for which additional external funding is not required.
 3.1 Research funding
 The Department has three main sources of income to support its research strategy: (i) external
 funding from research councils, foundations and trusts; (ii) internal funding from the School and
 College; (iii) OfS through our IoC participation.
 External grants. External awards have grown by 50% from £1.6M in the previous REF period to
 £2.4M in the current period. Major awards include:
    –   KRDM: the EPSRC LIQUID grant on data integration (£89K) and the EPSRC iTract and
        quadMD grants on OBDA (£354K, £453K), leading to impact case study Kontchakov-VKG
        and major publications in JACM, AIJ, JAIR, LICS, PODS;
    –   EDS: an M.J.Fox Foundation grant to develop a data science toolbox for Parkinson’s
        disease (£114K), an Innovate UK grant to develop the cloudUPDRS app for Parkinson’s
        sufferers (£69K), and funding from the Bloomsbury Consortium and Wellcome Trust
        ISSF to investigate the IoT’s role in giving agency and voice to individuals and
        communities (£78K); leading also to publications in IEEE Access, J. Ambient Intelligence
        & Smart Environments, J. Pervasive Mobile Computing, PerCom, eHealth 360o ;
    –   AVS: three EPSRC grants on risk measurement (£101K), probabilistic verification
        (£100K), and stability in graphs (£152K), leading to publications in TCS, IJAR, J. Comb.,
        J. Comb. Theory, POPL;
    –   BIDA: UKRI GCRF Action Against Stunting Hub funding (£195K), developing data
        analysis techniques to investigate the causes of child stunting (still in early stages);
    –   BKL: EU iTalk2Learn project (£326K) on intelligent support for 5-11 year olds’ learning of
        maths, and AHRC Mapping Museums project (£215K) developing a specialist knowledge
        base for museology scholars and professionals; leading also to publications in ACM
        JoCCH, UMAP, EC-TEL, LAK.
 Internal grants. In this census period we were awarded School funding of £110K for pump-
 priming research projects, £83K for impact development (impact case studies Roussos-
 LondonAmbulance and Roussos-ITU were supported by a series of such grants), £30K for
 conference attendance, as well as £50K from the College’s ISSF, Impact Seed Fund and NYU
 Collaboration Fund. The Department additionally provided £102K to staff and students attending
 conferences and undertaking research-related visits. Thus, internal research funding amounts to
 over £375K.
 IoC grants. The IoC awarded us over £600K to develop new UG/PG programmes in Data
 Science. This was a significant boost to our Data Science and Algorithms research as it funded
 50% of three new academic posts. A PGCert was developed with the British Library and
 National Archives to provide digital skills training for their staff, building on and extending our
 research collaborations in the Samtla project. We secured additional OfS funding of £100K to
 develop a new PGCert in Applied Data Science, funding 50% of a further post. The IoC funds
 also Birkbeck’s IoC Manager who contributes to Samtla and NLP research at the BKL. IoC
 membership also enhances our environment through initiatives to widen participation in under-

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 represented groups; for example, we were awarded £120K in scholarships funding for women
 and black students on the new PGCert.
 Future funding. Continuing to increase external funding, from a broad range of sources, is a
 key aim. We are currently preparing 7 proposals for EPSRC funding, 2 BBSRC/MRC proposals
 in life sciences informatics, 2 AHRC/ESRC proposals in digital humanities and museum data
 analytics, and 4 InnovateUK proposals in healthcare data analytics, blockchain analytics,
 construction sensor data analysis, and computational journalism. Two proposals (EPSRC,
 AHRC, £500K) have already been funded in 2021.
 3.2 Research infrastructure
 The Department works with the College’s Estates, ITS and Library to ensure provision of high-
 quality space, general IT and learning resources for its researchers.
 BIDA’s foundation was in part a response to the REF2014 outcomes which recommended that
 the College invest more in interdisciplinary research and the research environment. BIDA is
 physically distributed across labs/offices of the participating Schools. Due to its research reach
 and the strategic significance it has established, the College is currently elevating BIDA to
 become one of Birkbeck’s eight Research Institutes, which will lead to increased college funding,
 support, and collaboration opportunities.
 Since its launch in 2016, BKL has been housed in a purpose-built lab for 20+ researchers and
 its membership has expanded to include researchers from Birkbeck’s departments of
 Psychology, History of Art and Cultures & Languages.
 Computing facilities. The Department provides the hardware, software and technical training
 required by all staff and students to undertake their research. In addition to equipment
 purchased for specific projects, we have a SLURM GPU cluster with 12xP100 and 16xGTX1080i
 GPUs. Virtual machines for R&D are provisioned on our Xen hypervisor pool (16 servers, 480
 physical cores, 2.8TB RAM). We also have a Rocks cluster of six compute nodes and two
 further general-purpose computing servers (AMD EPYC). For storage we use two Read
 Intensive RAID arrays (2x9TB PCIe SSD) and a dedicated storage server (Open-E DSS) with
 22TB SSD disk. Inter-host networks are 10Gbps or faster. Our teaching labs can be booked for
 user and community engagement events; when they are not in use we re-utilise the machines
 for research as a HTCondor pool with 1248 compute slots and 2TB RAM. Since REF2014 we
 have doubled our average spend on research computing to £40K per annum.
 Research Support Staff. The department’s research is supported by two Systems and one
 Administrative staff FTEs. In addition, three School staff FTEs – the Research Development,
 Impact, and Finance Officers – manage the School’s research processes and support
 departments’ research development and exploitation. The School’s Communication Officer and
 Event Officer support our research communication activities. Additional expertise and support is
 provided by the Department’s academic lead for impact and Knowledge Exchange champion,
 the Research Office, and UCL Business (see 2.1).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 To achieve our strategic aims we collaborate with leading computer scientists, researchers from
 other disciplines, and user stakeholders beyond academia. In particular, we
    –   promote collaboration by inviting leading researchers to visit Birkbeck and supporting
        visits in the other direction;




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    –   encourage and support staff in initiating joint projects with other university and industrial
        partners, including multi- and interdisciplinary research;
    –   promote knowledge exchange, public engagement and impact by organising stakeholder
        workshops and dissemination events.
 4.1 Research collaboration
 The Department runs weekly seminars where leading scholars from the UK, Europe and beyond
 present their research to staff and students. Approximately 100 seminars took place over this
 census period, often combined with additional activities within specific research groups. BIDA
 and BKL run additional interdisciplinary seminar series, with approximately 50 events during this
 period.
 50+ researchers visited us during this period from universities in 18 countries, while staff
 undertook 100+ visits to universities/organisations in 21 countries. The Department contributed
 to funding longer-term visits of 20+ researchers from other universities/organisations to Birkbeck
 and 35+ such visits in the opposite direction.
 We have held Visiting Professorships at the Northwestern Polytechnical University, China, and
 University of Technology, Australia (Maybank); Bar-Ilan University (Levene); KAIST and
 University of Sydney (Yoo); Higher School of Economics, Russia (Zakharyaschev). Zhang is
 currently on a two-year leave of absence as Staff Research Scientist at Blue Prism AI Labs
 exploiting his expertise in machine learning.
 Articles published since 2014 have co-authors from 80+ universities in 30+ countries, making
 our research truly international. We have co-authors from 35+ companies including Alibaba,
 BNY Mellon, BT, IBM, Microsoft, Neo4j, Paddy Power, Samsung, Siemens, Telefonica Digital.
 Most of our funded research projects are in collaboration with colleagues from other universities
 in the UK and internationally, many from other disciplines, and with other stakeholders. For
 example,
    –   in KRDM, the OBDA projects are joint with the universities of Liverpool, Bozen-Bolzano
        and Sassari, and with Siemens (Germany), Sirius (Norway), Siris Academic (Spain), and
        the Pilsudski Institute of America;
    –   in EDS, one project is collaborative with University of the Arts, Proboscis and British
        Antarctic Survey; another is with UCL IoN, Benchmark Performance, Retechnica and
        Audience Focus;
    –   in BIDA, the new £19.76M UKRI GCRF project involves researchers from multiple
        science and social science disciplines affiliated with 18 institutions in the UK, India,
        Indonesia and Senegal;
    –   in BKL, the Mapping Museums project is collaborative with Birkbeck’s History of Art
        department and stakeholders from across the UK museum sector (including Arts Council
        England, DCMS and the Museums Development Network); the Samtla project with the
        British Library, Wellcome Trust, and SOAS; and the iTalk2Learn project with
        educationalists from several European universities.
 We frequently supervise students jointly with other departments and Bloomsbury Consortium
 Institutions: in this census period two students with Psychology (one MRC-funded, one College-
 funded), a College-funded student with Biology, and four Bloomsbury Consortium-funded
 students – two with UCL IoE, two with LSHTM.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to BIDA and BKL, staff are members of several other research centres, including the
 Centre for Cognition, Computation & Modelling, Centre for Innovation Management Research,
 Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, and Centre for Educational Neuroscience.
 4.2 Impact beyond academia
 Through implementation of our post-REF2014 impact strategy, our network of research users
 and beneficiaries has expanded substantially during the census period:
    –   In Healthcare, EDS has pioneered research into data-driven techniques to reduce
        ambulance arrival times, incorporated into decision support tools deployed by the London
        Ambulance Service (Impact Case Study Roussos-LondonAmbulance). In collaboration
        with clinical and commercial partners, we developed cloudUPDRS, the first smartphone
        app certified as a Class I medical device by the Medicines and Healthcare Products
        Regulatory Agency for assessing the motor symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. We are
        developing a secure platform for healthcare data analytics with Cambridge Medical
        Academy.
    –   In Information technology, KRDM has made significant contributions to the
        development of theory, practice and tools for OBDA, collaborating in the development of
        the Ontop platform with start-up Ontopic (Italy) and other partners as listed in 4.1 (Impact
        Case Study Kontchakov-VKG). We have secured funding from the European Space
        Agency to develop conceptual modelling-based techniques for data exchange between
        ESA and their suppliers of satellite and rocket technology.
    –   In Smart cities, Roussos is Associate Rapporteur of Study Group 20 of the International
        Telecommunications Union (ITU), developing standards in service interoperability and
        big data analytics for smart cities. He has led research into integrating diverse
        technologies into a comprehensive system of smart city universal entity identification,
        ratified as ITU Recommendation Y.4805 and providing a blueprint for smart cities in China
        and several African countries (Impact Case Study Roussos-ITU).
    –   In Cyber security, we have developed a data-driven cyber-intrusion detection platform in
        collaboration with KAIST, used at Samsung and BT. We are working with Samsung on
        next-generation monitoring and protection systems for IoT-enabled devices, and with a
        market-leading blockchain technology company on identifying abnormalities in
        blockchain data.
    –   In Linked Data standardisation, Hidders co-leads the Property-Graph Schema Working
        Group of the Linked Data Benchmark Council (LDBC). He is coordinating researchers
        and companies such as Neo4j, Amazon Neptune and Google to standardise the
        Property-Graph data model as LDBC’s representative on the international SQL Standard
        committee (ISO/IEC JTC1/SC34/WG3). The PGSWG is developing the GQL query
        language for graph data, to be incorporated also into SQL.
    –   In Digital Humanities and Cultural Heritage, the Samtla software has been deployed
        over the British Library historical text archive and Wellcome Trust Medical Library. UK
        museum organisations are using the Mapping Museums knowledge base to understand
        the current state of the sector. We are working with leading science museums including
        the Science Museum, London, and the Exploratorium, San Francisco, to develop
        audience research methods incorporating high-precision indoor location sensing and
        spatial analytics.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As shown by the above, our research focuses on timely technological and societal problems.
 Most recently, the Covid-19 emergency led several staff to initiate projects aimed at
 understanding and mitigating the effects of the pandemic: Poulovassilis obtained collaborative
 funding with History of Art and Geography from the UKRI Covid-19 Rapid Response Call to
 investigate the resilience of UK museums during the crisis; Levene and Weston are collaborating
 with doctors from two London hospitals to develop a machine learning model for diagnosing
 Covid-19 from patients’ medical social media posts; Provetti is collaborating with Philosophy to
 explore privacy issues arising from Covid-tracking apps.
 4.3 Wider influence
 We have served on the Editorial Boards of 30+ journals, including Artificial Intelligence, ACM
 ToCL, J. Applied Logic (Zakharyaschev), IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Computing, J. Big
 Data Research, IEEE Communications Letters (Yoo), Pervasive and Mobile Computing, IEEE
 Transactions on Technology and Society, IEEE Transactions on Big Data (Roussos), Computing
 and Informatics, International J. Computer Vision (Maybank), Applied Intelligence, Informatics,
 Open Journal of Information Systems (Magoulas), IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data
 Engineering (Poulovassilis).
 We were General or Programme Chairs of 23 international conferences and 10
 international workshops, including RuleML+RR (Kontchakov), BICOD (Poulovassilis, Cali,
 Wood), IEEE Int. Symposium on Smart Learning for the Next Generation (Yoo), IEEE PERCOM
 (Roussos), Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Computing, Int. Conf. on Information,
 Intelligence, Systems and Applications (Sotiriadis), Int. Symposium on Intelligent Data Analysis
 (Weston), IEEE/WIC/ACM Web Intelligence (Zhang), BeyondMR@SIGMOD (Hidders).
 We organised at Birkbeck the RuleML+RR 2017 Conference (Organisation Chair Kontchakov)
 and the BICOD 2017 Conference (Organisation Chair Martin) and served on 250+ other
 conference/workshop programme committees.
 We have served on 10 Steering Committees, including RR (Kontchakov), TACL, AiML
 (Zakharyaschev), BICOD (Cali, Poulovassilis), FSCD (Fuhs), IDA Society (Weston),
 BeyondMR@SIGMOD (Hidders).
 We have given 15 invited Keynotes, including at the 12th Int. Conf. on Flexible Query Answering
 Systems, 14th Int. Conf. on Formal Concept Analysis (Poulovassilis), 11th Computer Science and
 Electronic Engineering Conf. (Roussos), 28th Conf. on Information and Knowledge Management
 (Maybank), 8th Hellenic Conf. on Artificial Intelligence, 6th Conf. on Information and
 Communication Technologies in Education (Magoulas), 8th Danish Static Analysis Symposium
 (Fuhs).
 We have given invited lectures/courses at 10 Summer Schools, including EDBT
 (Poulovassilis), Reasoning Web (Kontchakov, Ryzhikov, Zakharyaschev), International School
 on Rewriting (Fuhs), Probabilistic Model Checking (Han), ESSLLI (Zakharyaschev), Data-Driven
 Incident Management (Yoo).
 Staff have been external examiners of 75+ PhD theses, 50+ in the UK and 25+ overseas.
 We have published 3 authored books (Wan, Hidders, Roussos), 7 encyclopaedia articles
 (Hidders, Poulovassilis, Wood), and co-edited the proceedings of 15 conferences.
 Our professional services include contributions to industry and open-source projects in software
 engineering, information management, and information retrieval; training events with the British
 Library; a video on data visualisation for a Publisher; advising Arts Council England on data
 collection strategy; advising on IoT legislation through the ACM Public Policy Committee.

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Panels: Staff have served on 4 EPSRC Prioritisation panels, 4 Horizon-2020 panels, research
 funding panels for the Academy of Finland and Research Council of Norway, and as reviewers for
 funding bodies in 20+ countries across Europe, Asia and America. Poulovassilis served on the
 REF2014 Subpanel for Computer Science & Informatics and participated in two EPSRC ICT
 Theme Delivery Workshops.
 Fellowships/Memberships: Maybank is Fellow of the Institute of Mathematics and its
 Applications, the IEEE, and the Royal Statistical Society; Poulovassilis BCS Fellow; Yoo Senior
 Member of the IEEE and Member of two IEEE Technical Committees; Fuhs Member of IFIP
 Working Group 1.6 on Rewriting; Magoulas Honorary Fellow of the Hellenic AI Society.
 Awards: We received the EATCS-IPEC Nerode Prize 2020 (Razgon), ACM-PODS
 A.O.Mendelzon Test-Of-Time Award 2019 (Cali), ICDT-2017 Best Paper award (H.Chen),
 SIGIR-2017 Best Paper Award Honourable Mention (Zhang), Semantic Web Journal
 2016 Outstanding Paper (Kontchakov), 2014 Marco Cadoli Student Paper Prize at KR-2014
 (Kontchakov, Zakharyaschev).
 Media: Our Web Search and Mapping Museums research was highlighted on the BBC; our
 collaboration with Samsung by Business Weekly; our work on AI by Prime Economy Korea; and
 on the IoT by New Scientist.
 Community and public engagement: Provetti spoke on AI and research ethics at the
 Bloomsbury Data Week 2017, Birkbeck’s Law on Trial Week 2019, and is a regular panellist at
 Royal Statistical Society meetings. Poulovassilis engaged with several UK museum sector
 organisations during the design, evaluation and dissemination activities of the Mapping
 Museums project. Fuhs hosted the 10th South England Regional Programming Language
 Seminar, with 60+ participants. Weston spoke on cryptography at the ICSA Technology
 Conference 2016. Yoo spoke on data-driven incident management at the UK Defence Academy
 in 2019. BKL researchers took part in a Virtual World Tour on the Future of Work, invited by
 Germany’s Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
 Emeritus Reader Roger Johnson continues to serve as the department's Historian, writing
 articles publicising the work of Andrew and Kathleen Booth and others and co-authoring the
 National Museum of Computing's guidebook on HEC1 – the UK's first mass-produced computer
 that incorporated also the Booth Multiplier, used in billions of chips manufactured around the
 globe every year. Johnson is also the official Historian of IFIP; secretary of the BCS Computer
 Conservation Society, the world’s largest computer history group, which includes organising a
 rolling programme of monthly lectures put out on YouTube; and a Trustee of the Board
 responsible for the replica of Alan Turing’s Bombe at the National Museum of Computing.




                                                                                         Page 18
