Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Huddersfield


 Unit of Assessment: UoA28 History


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Historical research at the University of Huddersfield (UoA 28) is situated within the Department
 of History, English, Linguistics and Music, a subdivision of the School of Music, Humanities and
 Media. On the REF census date, the History subject area had 15 members of academic staff,
 including researchers at all career stages: one deputy vice chancellor (Thornton), one head of
 department (Doyle); one full-time professor (Hallett); one part-time professor (Webster); one
 head of subject (Bastow); one full-time reader (Gill); one part-time reader (Foard) six full-time
 senior lecturers (Cullum, Dodd, Ellis, Lewis, Visana and Von Lunen), one post-doctoral research
 fellow (Sambells), and one research project manager (Light). In addition, Laybourn remained,
 as professor emeritus, following his retirement in 2019. All team members hold doctorates, and
 all permanent members of staff hold higher education teaching qualifications.

 History at Huddersfield has four areas of strength. We have an international reputation in the
 history of healthcare and a longstanding reputation in medieval and early modern culture. Our
 most rapidly expanding focus is global and transnational history, with existing strengths in war
 trauma, holocaust studies, humanitarianism, childhood, and post-colonial history; and our
 newest research group, Feelings, Affects, Emotions, supports our emerging expertise in
 humanities-led interdisciplinary emotion work. We value the co-creation of historical knowledge
 with partners outside academia and have expanded our public history focus during this REF
 period.

 Our expertise has been recognised in a number of ways, including: 16 conference keynotes and
 60 other invited lectures; 16 external PhD examinerships; a visiting fellowship at the University of
 Lyon (France); distinguished visitor invitations to the University of Auckland (New Zealand) and
 L’École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris (France); and links with a number of
 prestigious overseas institutions, including Heidelberg University (Germany), Paris Diderot and
 Paris Nanterre Universities (France), and the Universities of Zurich (Switzerland), The Free
 State, Bloemfontein (South Africa), and Osaka City (Japan).

 Research structure and strategy

 History at Huddersfield has undergone a significant shift in emphasis during this REF period. In
 2014, our research was concentrated within narrow fields and most of our partnerships were
 local and regional. During the last four years we have widened and internationalised our focus,
 by broadening our existing bodies of work and appointing new staff, enabling us to sustain our
 core team whilst nurturing new talent and bringing greater vitality to our research environment.
 Towards the end of this REF period, we recognised the need to integrate Huddersfield’s history
 research expertise, by creating the Centre for History, Culture and Memory (CHICAM), with four
 recognised research groups: Global and Transnational History; Medieval and Early Modern
 Culture; Feelings, Affects, Emotions; and Health Histories. Within these interlocking Groups, we
 are pursuing five main strategic goals:
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (a) to ensure that all the research we produce is of world class or world-leading quality;
 (b) to enhance grant-capture, including funding for interdisciplinary projects;
 (c) to demonstrate the reach and significance of our research in relation to its impacts on
 society, culture, public services, and quality of life;
 (d) to enhance interdisciplinary collaboration whilst also bringing a more international focus to
 our work; and
 (e) to strengthen and nurture our community of postgraduates and early career researchers.

 The strategic aims presented in our REF 2014 submission are paraphrased below:
 A1 To strengthen, expand and, where necessary, remodel and modify, existing Research
 Groups.
 A2 To enhance and extend public engagement and partnership working, especially through the
 co-production of content with heritage and community partners at local, national and
 international levels.
 A3 To enhance the UoA’s ability to meet aims one and two by appointing staff within areas of
 strength, and to extend the geographical reach of the research team.
 A4 To move towards the more focussed recruitment and support of postgraduate students.
 A5 To ensure more effective use of departmental, university and external funding to meet these
 objectives.

 Our strategies for meeting these goals are summarised below:

 A1: Strengthening research infrastructure:
 We initially developed and strengthened Health Histories, extending our community partnerships
 through Ellis’s work on the Animating Heritage and Stigma project, which also enhanced our
 international focus through a collaboration with Osaka City University, Japan. This international
 emphasis has been extended by Doyle’s work on first aid in Britain and France (in collaboration
 with the University of Hull); his project on Central European hospitals (in collaboration with
 Charles University, Prague); and his interdisciplinary research on relief work in Finland and
 Zambia (with Sheffield Hallam, the University of Tampere, and the University of Zambia). The
 work of both Ellis and Doyle has been extensively supported by investment from both the History
 Quality-Related Research Fund (QR) and the University Research Fund (URF), permitting
 groundwork for significant external grant capture.

 In 2018, we made a strategic appointment (Hallett) in order to add the history of nursing to our
 research portfolio, bring a more interdisciplinary perspective to our coverage of healthcare
 history, and extend our public engagement initiatives. Since her arrival, Hallett has strengthened
 and developed her national and international partnerships (notably through the European
 Association for the History of Nursing); published one monograph with a strong public history
 emphasis (Edith Cavell and her Legend; Palgrave, 2018) and completed a short research study
 in collaboration with the Royal College of Nursing, UK (Emblems of Resilience; 2020).

 We developed our research excellence and international reach through new work by established
 Huddersfield historians. In 2014, Dodd collaborated with colleagues at the Universities of Leeds
 and Sheffield on an AHRC-funded project: Agents of Future Promise. In 2016, she secured (as
 Co-Investigator, with colleagues at Bath Spa University, Université Paris Nanterre and Université
 Paris Diderot) a joint AHRC/LabEx Passés dans le Présent grant for Disrupted Histories,
 Recovered Pasts, going on to develop insights gained from this work during a one-year

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fellowship at the Collegium de Lyon (University of Lyon, France) (2018-2019). Dodd
 has now taken on research leadership of our Feelings, Affects, Emotions Research Group.

 In 2014 Webster obtained an AHRC Leadership Fellowship, for her Mixing It project, which
 enabled her to produce a book with Oxford University Press in 2018, and to collaborate on an
 exhibition at Imperial War Museum North (Mixing It: The Changing Faces of Wartime Britain). In
 2016, Gill secured (as Co-Applicant) AHRC funding for an international project: The Emily
 Hobhouse Letters: South Africa in International Context, with colleagues at Leeds Beckett
 University, the Bodleian Library, Oxford, the University of Geneva, Switzerland; and University of
 the Free State, Bloemfontein, South Africa.

 As part of our investment in global and transnational history, we made three strategic
 appointments (Visana, Von Lunen and Sambells). Soon after his arrival at Huddersfield, Visana
 secured joint British Academy-Leverhulme funding to develop work on postcolonial India based
 on previously un-used sources (The Political Thought of Swatantra, 1959-1974). Both Von
 Lunen’s and Sambells’ interdisciplinary expertise has enabled them to collaborate with the
 Holocaust Exhibition and Learning Centre (HELC; https://holocaustlearning.org.uk/) which was
 jointly established on campus by registered charity, The Holocaust Survivors Friendship
 Association (HSFA) and the university, following a successful National Lottery Heritage Funding
 (NLHF) joint bid (2018). We invested History QR funding in the appointment of Sambells as a
 postdoctoral research fellow. In addition to managing and supporting the development of
 CHICAM and strengthening our strategic links with HELC, Sambells has enhanced our work in
 the field of international humanitarianism, through her co-investigation of Swiss archive materials
 with Elisabeth Mockli (University of Geneva).

 We consolidated our existing expertise in medieval and early modern culture, developing a
 deeper focus on religious and gender studies and building public partnerships. Bastow’s
 Defending the Faith project involved collaborations with the University of York and Trinity
 International University and culminated in an international conference held at Saren College,
 Salisbury. In 2016, Lewis collaborated with colleagues at Nottingham Trent University, and the
 University of Zurich on an international symposium, Crusading and Masculinities (held at the
 University of Zurich).

 As per university policy, we track citations of our research through Scopus, SciVal and Google
 Scholar. Between 2014 and 2020 historians at Huddersfield are recorded as having produced
 55 scholarly outputs. Some of our academics had high citation rates (for example, Hallett’s
 Scopus H-Index was 17).

 A2: Public engagement and partnership working:
 We have established a number of partnerships in this REF period, and these have facilitated our
 achievement of specific research impact. Among our partnerships are those with African-
 Caribbean groups in Yorkshire, working with local media organisation, Kirklees TV, to secure
 NLH Funding for a documentary film, Windrush: The Years After. A Community Legacy on Film
 (Ward, Doyle, Warwick, Webster). In 2017 the university funded Historia Ludens, a project
 exploring the relationship between history and gaming which yielded a symposium and an edited
 collection (Von Lunen, Cullum, Lewis).




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our impact strategy included the extending of our reach via national and international
 partnerships, and this resulted in two strong REF Impact Case Studies. Ellis’s project Animating
 Heritage and Stigma, a collaboration between the University of Huddersfield and New Vic
 Borderlines, UK, developed a training resource, The Bag of Tricks, and was rolled-out as a
 series of public engagement collaborations with Mind, UK, The National Trust, UK, and the
 Mitsuwakai Social Welfare Corporation, Neyagawa City, Japan.

 Thornton’s research on the charters of liberties governing the distinctive autonomous status of
 the Channel Islands of Jersey and Guernsey also became the subject of an impact case study
 within this REF period. Thornton’s latest publication, The Channel Islands and the Courts of
 Westminster from the Fourteenth to the Sixteenth Centuries is part of a body of work that has
 been cited in rulings by both the Supreme Court and the Privy Council. In the period of
 uncertainty preceding Britain’s Exit from the European Union (2016 to 2020), Thornton’s work
 was consulted by senior legal figures in the administrations of both bailiwicks, particularly in
 relation to customs controls and cross-border trade. His books on the Charters of Guernsey and
 Jersey have also been used extensively in the professional education of lawyers.

 Beyond our two submitted impact case studies, we developed a number of initiatives and
 partnerships which will be further developed within the next REF period. Von Lunen’s expertise
 in medical research in Nazi Germany, including its legal and ethical ramifications, has resulted in
 an invitation to join the Academic Advisory Board for HELC. Both Von Lunen and Sambells
 collaborate with HELC to deliver research-led outreach work, including public engagement
 events. Von Lunen is also co-investigator on the Hansard at Huddersfield (HAH) project,
 working directly with colleagues in the Institute for Applied Linguistics and supervising the
 integration of the HAH software into the official Hansard Website and Database.

 We supported Foard in developing his partnership project on the policy and practice of battlefield
 archaeology with Historic England, and with the Flanders Heritage Agency, to produce work that
 has influenced the conservation practices and public-facing work of the Battlefields Trust, UK,
 and the inclusion of specific battlefields on the Belgian National Register of Monuments.
 Through Hallett’s work, we have developed significant partnerships with professional nursing
 organisations, including the Royal College of Nursing, UK and The Nursing and Midwifery
 Council, UK. Hallett also built a collaborative partnership with El Dorado Films, San Francisco
 State University, California, and the Cemetery Administration of the Veteran’s Affairs
 Department, US Government, in developing two short documentary films The War to End All
 Wars and Nurse Helen Fairchild.

 In May 2019 The School of Music, Humanities and Media received significant investment from
 the URF to appoint a dedicated Impact Officer, Elizabeth Pente, who has offered significant
 support to our public engagement and partnership work.

 A3: Staff support and appointments:
 Staff support and appointments will be discussed in Section 2. In brief, in addition to supporting
 the career-development of our existing staff, we have also made four strategic appointments.

 A4: Postgraduate student recruitment and support:
 Postgraduate student support will be discussed in Section 2. We have been successful during
 this REF period in graduating a total of 32 PhD students.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A5: More effective use of funding:
 Historians at Huddersfield have the opportunity to apply to a range of internal funding schemes,
 including the History QR, the URF and the Collaborative Ventures Fund (CVF) (designed to offer
 match-funding to joint projects with external partners). These pump-priming opportunities have
 enabled the development of work leading to successful external funding applications. Full
 details are given in Sections 2 and 3.

 Open Research and Research Integrity

 We have made progress towards our aim of developing a more open research environment.
 Many of our publications are available in an Open Access format. See, for example, Hallett’s
 monograph, Nurse Writers of the Great War (Manchester University Press) and Doyle’s book
 chapter, ‘The development of hospital systems in new nations’ (University of Huddersfield
 Press). The code for the AHRC-funded Hansard at Huddersfield website is freely available on
 ‘GitHub’. We have made dedicated training available to History academics to enable
 compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data.

 We are committed to the principles of research integrity. Where necessary, research projects
 are subject to ethical approval from our School Research Ethics Committee. Dedicated
 research integrity training sessions form part of our undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes and are included in our staff training programmes.

 Development plan

 Our development plan for the next six years is underpinned by the following aims:

 A1. To strengthen our Research Groups under the supportive, intellectual and organisational
 structure of our Centre for History, Culture and Memory (CHICAM), with the aspiration, in the
 longer term, of developing this Centre into an Institute for History, Culture and Memory (IHCAM).
 At the University of Huddersfield, the creation of an Institute is an ambitious development,
 permitting a move towards greater formalisation, financial independence and an opportunity to
 work across university structures. This strategy will enable our Research Groups, both
 established and developing, to thrive and expand, and harmonises well with our Institutional
 Areas of Strategic Research Importance (ASRIs) on ‘Culture, Health and Wellbeing’; ‘Creativity’;
 ‘Sustainable Societies’ and ‘Responsible Leadership’).
 A2. To use this more integrated structure as a platform which will enable all staff - from
 postdoctoral to senior level - to obtain the academic and financial support they require to plan
 and develop their work.
 A3. To strengthen the culture of collaboration we have already fostered, enabling large,
 interdisciplinary research funding bids with national and international research partners, leading
 to rigorous, influential and highly cited research outputs.
 A4. To enhance our already-strong reputation for expertise in public engagement and research
 impact.
 A5. To build further on our solid reputation for excellence in supporting postgraduate students
 and early career researchers.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This REF period has seen the consolidation of some existing research foci and the emergence
 of new areas of expertise. The Research Groups we are taking forward, under the banner of
 CHICAM, are Global and Transnational History; Medieval and Early Modern Culture; Feelings,
 Affects, Emotions; and Health Histories. Our aim is to further strengthen the rigour, reach and
 relevance of our work in these areas, by capitalising on our network of local, national and
 international partnerships, and by further augmenting our already-strong public engagement
 profile.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Our staff contract level profile on the REF census date reflected the contracts of 15 individuals
 (12.7 FTE). Thirteen had significant responsibility for research, one was an independent
 researcher and one (on a 0.2 contract) had no independent research. The UoA had two
 declared Early Career Researchers (ECRs). One member of staff was at contract level B0
 (senior management); one at E1 (head of school); two were at F1 (professors one of whom was
 part time); 3 were at I0 (one principal lecturer, and two readers one of whom was part time); six
 were at J0 (senior lecturer); and one was at K0 (research fellow). All but one member of staff
 returned in this REF period were on permanent contracts.

 Equality and Diversity Indicators

 The ratio of male to female members of staff was 7:8. We undertook an Equality Impact
 Assessment of gender balance between our staff profile and our portfolio of submitted outputs,
 finding that there was a close fit between the two. The School achieved an Athena Swan
 Bronze level award for the advancement of gender equality in November 2020, and we are now
 working towards the Silver Award. In terms of ethnic background, 12 members of staff indicated
 ‘white British’, one ‘Indian’, one ‘other white background’ and one ‘preferred not to say’. One
 member of the team had a declared disability. The team had a wide age-range with 1 member
 in the 25-34 age range, two members over 65 and the remainder aged between 35 and 65. All
 staff returned in the REF had either significant responsibility for research or were independent
 researchers.

 PGR and Staff Development

 Our staffing strategy has emerged from the strategic approach which saw the development of
 CHICAM during the current REF period, and which enables us to build research capacity in a
 sustainable way. Integral to this is our carefully planned support for our postgraduate
 researchers (PGRs) and early career researchers (ECRs), whose career development is
 nurtured within a clearly recognised and supportive community. The University of Huddersfield
 is committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 embracing its principles in a number of ways. Our programme of support extends across the
 entire academic career-span and takes full account of the current constraints and pressures
 within the UK academic environment, offering wide-ranging support to students and ECRs,
 including advice on careers beyond academia. We have made use of History QR funding and
 URF to appoint research associates to support specific projects (particularly Healthcare Before
 Welfare States, and Animating Heritage and Stigma).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Although we have seen some staff movement, our overall staffing level has been stable. Ward
 left the university. Laybourn retired but continues to work closely with CHICAM as professor
 emeritus. Our new appointments have reflected our strategic ambitions, notably those relating
 to health histories (Hallett), and global and transnational history (Von Lunen, Visana, Sambells).

 Support for PGRs:
 The History subject area normally has a community of around 25 postgraduate students which is
 fully integrated into our research and education infrastructures. This REF period has seen 32
 successful PhD completions. Central to our approach is the embedding of an academic culture
 which is both supportive and inclusive. At undergraduate level, we stimulate interest in
 postgraduate study through workshops at which students are enabled to present their own
 research; and we have opened up our external research seminars and CHICAM workshops to
 undergraduate students. A university policy which permits us to offer scholarships to our highest
 achieving students has enabled the recruitment of a number of PGRs from within our own
 undergraduate pool. At the same time, our reputation for excellence in supervision has enabled
 us to invigorate the student population via the recruitment of external students (including a
 number of international students). These strategies have permitted us to retain talented
 students, create a clearly defined career pathway for PGRs and ECRs, and build critical mass in
 certain areas (for example, public history, medieval and early modern culture, history of nursing,
 postcolonial history). Our approach mitigates the widening wealth inequalities within academia
 across the UK, by ensuring that opportunity to study and work at Huddersfield is not restricted to
 those with private wealth.

 During this REF period, we have benefitted from involvement in the AHRC-funded Heritage
 Consortium, a doctoral training initiative for the co-supervision and support of postgraduate
 students between the Universities of Hull (lead institution), Huddersfield, Leeds Beckett,
 Bradford, Sheffield Hallam, Teesside and Northumbria (total funding: £1.8m; £288,000 to the
 University of Huddersfield). Doyle is a member of the Consortium Management Committee.
 Huddersfield recruited six students directly from this initiative, and, to date, four doctorates have
 been awarded. This initiative gave rise to the North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities in
 2015.

 Every PhD student has at least two supervisors, and is offered the equivalent of one hour per
 fortnight of dedicated face-to-face supervision. In the case of students living at some distance
 from the university, online virtual meetings are offered, and this provision has been massively
 expanded during the Covid-19 pandemic.

 We support postgraduate students through our Graduate Academy, which offers sessions on
 careers, funding, working with external partners, and writing for publication. Our Graduate
 Seminar provides research skills and methods training. We also hold small, dedicated
 workshops in specific subject areas. In 2020, we had a good level of student attendance at our
 online CHICAM inaugural lectures, and two of our speakers, Naomi Rogers (Yale) and Santanu
 Das (Oxford) went on to lead online Masterclasses with our students.

 The progress of every postgraduate student is carefully monitored via the online platform,
 SkillsForge. Every full-time student submits a Research Plan and Skills Audit after 3 months (6
 months for part-time students), and progress reports are submitted at approximately 9 and 21

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 months (or at 18 and 42 months P/T). Postgraduate student progress is monitored at School
 level by Progress Review Boards held in October, February and June.

 We encourage PGRs to attend and present at conferences. In February 2020, three of our
 students presented at the international Florence 2020 conference, of which the University of
 Huddersfield was a co-sponsor, and at which there were approximately 125 delegates from 24
 countries. Students in our Medieval and Early Modern Culture Research Group present each
 year at the International Medieval Congress in Leeds. School funding is available to support
 research trips and conference attendance; all PhD students are able to access up to £800 over
 the course of their degree, with Masters students being offered £300. The application process
 mirrors that of making application for conference funding to a research council or charity. Two of
 our students have successfully obtained competitive funding awards (Bradley, £3,935, 2014-15;
 Brumby, £1,250, 2014-15), whilst Leese, with the support of Foard, was awarded a PhD
 studentship by AHRC (£52,380, 2014-18). Our students have organised a number of successful
 postgraduate conferences. Funding was, for example, awarded to Ashbridge, for the Modern
 Conflict Symposium at the Imperial War Museum North (£3,220; 2020; in collaboration with
 King’s College, London).

 A number of History students, staff and African-Caribbean groups in Yorkshire collaborated in
 the making of the film, Windrush: The Years After, which received NLH Funding and was
 launched by local media organisation Kirklees TV in Summer 2019. The project was supported
 by History staff (Ward, Webster and Doyle), with input from one of our former PhD students,
 Warwick, and received pump-priming funding from the URF. Additional funding was
 subsequently received from the Social History Society (£750) to make a further short film on
 Migration and Health.

 For those PhD students who wish to gain experience of undergraduate teaching, we provide
 opportunities for co-teaching of small groups, seminar tuition, and (in the case of more
 experienced PGRs) the delivery of lectures under the supervision of permanent staff members.
 The University of Huddersfield provides a Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme, enabling
 PGRs to graduate with formal training as well as experience.

 Postgraduate completion rates are good, and some of our students have gained external
 recognition for the excellence of their work. In 2018, for example, Hopkinson was awarded the
 Royal Historical Society/Institute of Historical Research Student Public History Award for a
 documentary film produced as part of his Master’s degree, and also won a place on the AHRC-
 Edinburgh TV Festival Award Talent Scheme in July 2020. During the current REF period,
 several of our students have been successful in securing permanent positions in academia.
 These include Brumby, now a lecturer at York St John University, and Warwick, now an Impact
 Support Officer at Manchester Metropolitan University.

 Support for academic staff:
 Introduced in 2014, our research audit process provides a five-year perspective on researcher
 development. Every member of academic staff meets with the History Research Coordinator
 and Associate Dean for Research each year for support in setting and attaining research goals,
 including the development of new projects, the successful acquisition of external grant funding,
 the production of high quality outputs and the delivery of research impacts. The meeting is
 separate from, yet aligned with, the appraisal system, is preceded by a meeting with the staff

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 member’s research mentor, and includes a detailed discussion of support and training needs. In
 this way, staff receive dedicated time and attention, and the UoA is able to align individual
 aspirations with strategic goals. There are annual conferment rounds for promotion. This REF
 period has seen three promotions: one from lecturer to senior lecturer (Visana) one from senior
 lecturer to reader (Gill) and one from pro vice-chancellor to deputy vice-chancellor (Thornton).
 These promotions, along with our new appointments, have enabled us to enhance equality,
 diversity and inclusivity within our team, particularly in terms of gender and ethnicity.

 We offer tailored support to staff whose work may be affected by personal circumstances (for
 example, individuals on part time contracts, and those returning from periods of leave). This
 support has been of significance during the Covid-19 pandemic, permitting us to offer ‘work from
 home’ and ‘phased return’ to colleagues with vulnerabilities. Personal circumstances are
 discussed confidentially at appraisal and audit meetings and through discussion with the Head of
 Subject and the Research Coordinator.

 All academic staff have dedicated research time, and staff on permanent contracts can apply for
 one term’s sabbatical leave on a rotational basis. The School also awards short term ‘impact
 sabbaticals’ and 0.5FTE year-long sabbaticals to members of staff who can demonstrate that
 their research has the potential to produce high-level public impact. This has enabled the
 development of two of our most significant contributions to impact in this REF cycle: Animating
 Heritage and Stigma (Ellis) and Hansard at Huddersfield (Von Lunen, in collaboration with
 Linguistics).

 All staff may apply for funding support from a range of sources, including the History QR budget,
 dedicated School research funds, and university-level funding (both URF and CVF). Over the
 course of the REF period, School and university funding has been used to support researchers
 in a number of ways, including teaching relief, research assistance, travel to archives, the
 purchase of hardware and software, and conference attendance. During the earlier part of this
 Cycle, URF funding was awarded to Ward [Beyond Borders: International Co-Production;
 £7,657] and Doyle [European Healthcare Before Welfare States; £87,734]. Ellis was awarded
 funding to develop the Heritage and Stigma project and to attend conferences in Luxembourg
 and Gothenburg. Staff are encouraged to apply externally for research council and charitable
 funding and are supported in grant writing by a dedicated School Research Development
 Manager, Peter Fenlon.

 Early career researchers:
 Our approach to staff development is guided by our recognition that ECRs are independent
 researchers but also require support. These colleagues are integral to the ongoing evolution
 and development of our research groups and centres, and we aim to recognise and nurture their
 potential. This is achieved through mentorship and peer support.

 Dodd was awarded ECR funding of £4,695 for her project Vichy and the Everyday, which (in
 collaboration with the University of Warwick) yielded an international conference and edited book
 (Vichy France and Everyday Life: Confronting the Challenges of Wartime, Bloomsbury, 2018).
 Sambells was awarded ECR funding to attend conferences in Vienna, Austria, and Florence,
 Italy, and to conduct research at the Swiss Federal Archives in Bern, Switzerland, and Visana
 received ECR funding for attendance at a book launch in New York for an international
 collaboration, The Political Economy of Colonial Debt.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The History Subject Area is committed to supporting the long-term career development of staff
 on fixed-term contracts. To this end, in 2019 and 2020, we used our own QR funding to extend
 the contract of Sambells. This enabled us not only to retain a highly valued colleague, but also
 to gain dedicated support for the development of our research centre, CHICAM. Doyle has co-
 authored two articles with research fellows from the URF-funded Healthcare Before Welfare
 States project. During 2015 History QR was used to employ two research associates, Taylor
 and Thorstad, to support research in health histories and early modern culture. Both are now in
 academic roles - at the Universities of Leicester and North Texas respectively. Another former
 research fellow, Kishore is now a Teaching Fellow at the London School of Economics. During
 the 2014 REF cycle, we supported seven visiting research fellows, including Delgado (University
 of the Basque Country).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External Research Income

 During the period 2014-2020, we spent £950,863 of external research funding, 87% of which
 came from research councils (including the British Academy) and most of the remainder from
 UK-based charities with open competitive bidding processes. Our key strategy for securing
 external income was to use QR and University sources such as Global Challenge Research
 Fund Sandpits, as ‘seedcorn’ for external funding applications. We also bid as Co-Investigators
 on larger UKRI projects with external academic and non-academic partners, and applied to non-
 UKRI funders in the UK and Europe. Some examples are mentioned below.

 At the beginning of the period Webster’s AHRC-funded project, Mixing it: Diversity in Second
 World War Britain was ongoing [spend in this REF Cycle: £109,700; 2014-2017], as was Ward’s
 significant involvement in the ESRC funded Imagine project, and his Civic Engagement project
 [£97,292; 2013-2018]. Ward’s Connected Communities Festivals were funded by AHRC [total
 spend: £24,586; 2014-2016].

 Dodd was Co-Investigator (in collaboration with the Universities of Leeds and Sheffield) on the
 AHRC project Agents of Future Promise: The Ideological use of Children in Culture and Politics
 (Britain and France, c.1880-c.1950) [AH/M006220/1; £39,565; Huddersfield spend: £7,322;
 2015-2016]. She was also Co-Investigator on Disrupted Histories: Recovered Pasts: A Cross-
 Disciplinary Analysis and Cross-Case Synthesis of Experience and Memory in Post-Conflict and
 Postcolonial Contexts (in collaboration with the Universities of Bath Spa, Paris Nanterre and
 Paris Diderot) [AH/N504579/1; £99,877 + €79,662; Huddersfield spend: £16,730; 2016-2018].
 Dodd also secured a Fellowship at the Collegium de Lyon, France [£23,936; 2018-2019], and
 small grant funding in 2015 from the Association for the Study of Modern and Contemporary
 France [£500], the Royal Historical Society [£500] and the Society for the Study of French
 History [£300], for her Vichy and the Everyday conference [2016-19].

 In 2014, Ellis was awarded £3,300 by the Wellcome Trust for Scoping London’s Asylums which
 permitted research for the monograph, London and its Asylums, 1888-1914. Politics and
 Madness (Palgrave Macmillan, 2020). His AHRC-funded project, Mental Health and Learning
 was ongoing at the beginning of this REF Cycle [£16,456 spend during this Cycle; 2014-15]. He
 was further awarded £99,813 from the AHRC Connected Communities strand for the Animating

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage and Stigma project [Spend to date: £80,497; 2018-20]. In 2016 Doyle successfully
 secured (as Co-Investigator with University of Hull), AHRC project-funding for Crossing
 Boundaries: The History of First Aid in Britain and France, 1909-1989 [£50,000 to the University
 of Huddersfield; spend to date £40,834; 2016-2020]. Doyle was also awarded funding by the
 Rockefeller Archive Center, New York to research Central European Healthcare [$3,500; 2017].
 From 2019 to 2020, Doyle was Co-I on the AHRC project, Life Saving Lullabies, led by David
 Swann (Sheffield Hallam) [Huddersfield spend: £2,103]. Von Lunen collaborated with Lesley
 Jeffries (Department of Linguistics) on an £80,510 AHRC-funded project, Hansard at
 Huddersfield: Making the Parliamentary Record More Accessible [AH/R007136/1; 2018-
 ongoing]. The project team was awarded a further £50,000 by the Parliamentary Data Service in
 November 2020, to be spent in the next REF Cycle. Von Lunen was Co-Investigator with
 Jessica Malay (English Literature) on Autobiographical Acts in Seventeenth-Century England,
 Scotland, Wales and New England [The Leverhulme Trust; RPG-2018-370; £335,595; 2019-
 ongoing]. He also secured a conference grant from the Royal Historical Society in 2017 to co-
 fund Historia Ludens: The Playing Historian which yielded an edited volume of the same name
 [£500; 2017-2018]. Gill secured funding as Co-Investigator (in collaboration with Leeds Beckett
 University) for the Emily Hobhouse Letters project [AHRC; Huddersfield spend to date: £79,732;
 2015-20]. She also obtained funding via the University of Kent Gateways to the First World War
 project [AHRC; £11,958; 2015-2017]. Visana secured joint British Academy-Leverhulme funding
 to develop his project: The Political Thought of Swatantra, 1959-1974 [£5,280; spend to date
 £1,563; 2019-ongoing].

 Bastow and Lewis received small-grant support from the Society of Renaissance Studies
 [£1500], and the Society for the Study of Medieval Languages and Literature (SSMLL) [£750] to
 support the conference: The Material Culture of Religious Change and Continuity 1400-1600
 [2017]. Lewis received further small grant funding from SSMLL and from The Society for the
 Study of the Crusades and the Latin East for the Northern Network for the Study of the Crusades
 Annual Symposium [2019]. Bastow was awarded funding by the Davenant Trust (USA) for:
 Defending the Faith; The Material Culture of Religious Change and Continuity, 1400-1600, a
 conference held at Sarum College. Between 2014 and 2020, Foard secured funding from the
 British Academy [£3,803; 2014-15], the Hadley Trust [£53,353; 2014-20], AHRC [‘Ploughzone
 Archaeology’; £56,741; 2014-19] and the Battlefield Trust [£7,417; 2018-20] for his investigation
 into Barnet Battlefield. He was awarded £9,440 in European Union funding for his research into
 battlefields in Belgium.

 Infrastructure and research facilities

 Our Centre for History, Culture and Memory (CHICAM), directed by Hallett, provides the
 operational infrastructure for our research activity and supports our high-quality research and
 public impact. All members of the History Subject Area are also members of the Centre, with
 four acting as Research Group leads: Visana heads Global and Transnational History, Bastow
 Medieval and Early Modern Culture, Dodd Feelings, Affects, Emotions, and Doyle Health
 Histories. Nineteen of our colleagues from across the university are also formally named as
 members of CHICAM, ensuring that History at Huddersfield is both interdisciplinary and
 influential. We have formal collaborations on research projects with the Schools of Human and
 Health Sciences (Hallett) and Art, Design and Architecture (Gill); the Department of Education
 (Doyle); and the Linguistics and English Subject Areas (Von Lunen).



                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The development of our research strategy, along with the support and development of our staff
 and the consideration of applications for support from History QR funding, are managed by our
 Research Coordinator in collaboration with the History Subject Area Lead and the Associate
 Dean for Research. Strategic decisions relating to the use of History QR funding are made
 collegially by our team of permanent academic staff.

 History is situated in purpose-built accommodation with dedicated teaching space and staff
 offices. The Oastler Building was shortlisted for the Guardian HE Award for Outstanding
 Building (2019). Our University Library subscribes to an extensive range of major online journal
 packages (for example, Wiley, Taylor & Francis, Project Muse, OUP and ScienceDirect) and a
 large number of resources for online primary research, including Gale Primary Sources,
 Manuscripts Online and the UK Medical Heritage Library. History has a dedicated subject
 librarian, Zoe Johnson. Library staff offer skills development sessions for students, and were
 awarded the THELM award for outstanding library team in 2016. Based within and funded by the
 library is The University of Huddersfield Press which produces traditional print monographs,
 open access books and peer reviewed journals.

 University facilities include an archive, Heritage Quay, which was established by a NLH Funding
 grant of £1.6 million. The History Team has close links to Heritage Quay, which has 146 square
 metres of exhibition space and 84 square metres of group space with a large interactive screen.
 Its staff consists of three full time (ARA and HEA accredited) members deployed to support
 teaching, research and public engagement. Heritage Quay was awarded the Royal Historical
 Society Public History Prize Commendation (2015) and the Guardian Inspiring HE Building
 Award (2016) and has been a National Archives accredited Archive Service since 2016. It has
 also been approved by the Arts Council National Security Advisor as a trusted recipient of loans
 from National Libraries and Museums, and has met the PD5454 standards for compliance in
 collections storage and display. The support of staff at Heritage Quay was integral to our
 project: Windrush: The Years After.

 Alongside Heritage Quay sits the Holocaust Exhibition & Learning Centre (HELC), which was
 opened in 2018 and is run by HSFA in collaboration with the university. The on-campus facility
 features a permanent exhibition with learning and events spaces, and offers bespoke learning
 programmes for primary and secondary schools and frequent public-facing activities including
 conferences, events and temporary exhibitions. This unique facility secures the legacy of
 Holocaust refugees and survivors in Yorkshire and provides access to its archive of documents,
 photographs and oral histories in partnership with Heritage Quay. History academics, notably
 Sambells (currently Co-Director of HELC), Doyle (a Trustee of HSFA) and Von Lunen (adviser to
 the Trustees), collaborate with Centre staff as part of the Holocaust and Genocide Research
 Partnership, consisting of HSFA/HELC, University of Huddersfield, Royal Holloway, London, and
 the Wiener Holocaust Library. The Partnership aims to become an authoritative source of
 research and practice, establishing Huddersfield as a world-class destination for Holocaust and
 genocide scholarship in the North of England. Since July 2019, Huddersfield has been a formal
 base of Wiener Library North, with direct access to the library’s collections.

 Along with our seminars, History at Huddersfield also coordinates public lectures, including the
 CHICAM Inaugural Lecture Series (2020), and our annual events: the Whitley Lecture, held each
 autumn, and the Luddite Lecture (in collaboration with the Huddersfield Local History Society)
 held each Spring. In these ways, we are able to support the vitality of our discipline and to

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensure that our staff are linked both to an international network of historical research and to an
 informal network of heritage organisations and enthusiastic amateur societies. In 2016 we co-
 convened the Voices of Madness conference with colleagues from the School of Human and
 Health Sciences; in 2017 we hosted the annual colloquium of the UK Association for the History
 of Nursing; and in 2018, we hosted the What’s Happening in Black British History conference.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have sustained our contribution to the discipline through involvement in journals, editorial
 boards and the management of scholarly societies; by leading and supporting a range of events;
 and by accepting a number of prestigious national and international invitations. There has been
 a clear internationalisation of both the content and context of our research: during this REF cycle
 we have extended our field of historical research into India (Visana), France (Dodd, Sambells,
 Doyle), Central Europe (Doyle) Zambia (Doyle), South Africa (Gill), Switzerland (Sambells, Gill),
 Belgium (Hallett, Foard, Sambells), New Zealand (Hallett), Germany (Von Lunen, Hallett,
 Sambells), and the USA (Hallett, Sambells).

 External collaborations, networks and partnerships

 During this REF period historians at Huddersfield entered into formal collaborations with 21
 different universities and scholarly associations. Highlights include Dodd’s work with the
 Universities of Paris Nanterre, Paris Diderot, Bath Spa, Leeds, Sheffield and Warwick in projects
 relating to children, childhood and memory in wartime France, along with her more recent
 involvement in the French Agence Nationale de la Recherche (AHR) project RUINES which
 brings together scholars from the universities of Lille, Caen, Limoges, Poitiers, Grenoble, Lyon
 and Lorraine. Gill’s collaboration with the Universities of Leeds Beckett, Geneva and The Free
 State, Bloemfontein enabled the conduct of the project The Emily Hobhouse Letters (2016-
 2019). Between 2017 and 2018, Von Lunen was consultant to The German National Academy
 of Sciences, Leopoldina, advising on the project: Brain Research at Institutes of the Kaiser-
 Wilhelm Society in the Context of National Socialist Crimes. Visana collaborated with Prof Nadia
 Urbinati (Columbia University) on a joint project: Beyond the Polis (2018-2019). In 2020,
 Sambells launched a new project with Elisabeth Mockli (University of Geneva): Humanitarian
 Action and Translation: Exploring Switzerland’s Language Practices and Policies in the Red
 Cross Child Evacuations during the Second World War.

 In 2018 and 2019 Ellis collaborated with Osaka City University, Japan on the Heritage and
 Stigma project, and during the same period, Doyle worked with the Universities of Tampere
 (Finland) and Zambia on Lifesaving Lullabies. Doyle also led two workshops in partnership with
 Charles University, Prague, attended by around forty scholars from North America, Europe and
 Australasia. Since her arrival at Huddersfield, Hallett has consolidated her links with the
 European Association for the History of Nursing (EAHN), a collaboration between a number of
 Universities and scholarly associations, including the Universities of Heidelberg, Münster
 (University of Applied Sciences), Dublin (University College) and Milan. As part of this
 collaboration, the University of Huddersfield co-sponsored Florence 2020: An International
 Conference in the History of Nursing (2020). Hallett was Distinguished Visitor at the University
 of Auckland in 2019.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2016, Lewis collaborated with the universities of Zurich and Nottingham Trent on the project,
 Crusading and Masculinities. Between 2018 and 2020 Bastow collaborated with colleagues at
 University of York and Northland University, USA on Defending the Faith.

 Much of our research has a strong public history emphasis. Highlights include our links with
 Imperial War Museum North (Mixing It: The Changing Faces of Wartime Britain; 2015-current;
 Webster); Kirklees TV, Huddersfield, UK: (Windrush: The Years After; 2017-2019; Ward,
 Warwick, Webster, Doyle); New Vic Borderlines, Mind UK, The National Trust, and the
 Mitsuwakai Corporation, Japan (Animating Heritage and Stigma; 2018-2020; Ellis); The Royal
 College of Nursing, UK (Emblems of Resilience; 2020; Hallett); The Hansard Database, UK
 Parliament (Hansard at Huddersfield, 2017-2020; Von Lunen); The Holocaust Exhibition and
 Learning Centre, Huddersfield (2019-current; Sambells, Von Lunen, Doyle); Historic England
 and The Flanders Heritage Agency (2014-2020; Foard); and Sarum College and The Davenant
 Trust (Defending the Faith, 2018; Bastow). Between 2018 and 2019 Hallett collaborated with
 San Francisco State University (USA), Arizona State University, (USA), El Dorado Films and the
 National Veterans Administration (USA Government) on The War to End All Wars and Nurse
 Helen Fairchild documentary film projects. The latter was launched at the US National World
 War I Museum and Memorial, Kansas, in 2019, and has been released on the ‘Kanopy
 Education Films’ platform used by most schools in the USA.

 Contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Editorships and reviews
 Among our prestigious journal editorships are Doyle’s service as Joint Editor of Social and
 Cultural History (2015-2019) and Series Editor for Cambridge University Press (New
 Approaches to Economic and Social History, 2014-2016); Hallett’s Associate Editorship of the
 journal Nursing History Review and Co-Editorship of the Manchester University Press
 monograph series, Nursing History and Humanities; and Von Lunen’s Associate Editorship of
 the International Journal of Humanities and Arts Computing. Collectively, historians at
 Huddersfield hold positions on five scholarly editorial boards (including Women’s History
 Review, Social History of Medicine and Oral History) and have conducted reviews for 18 book
 publishers (including Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, and Cornell
 University Press). We have reviewed for 58 different scholarly journals (including Journal of
 Medieval and Early Modern Studies, Speculum, Twentieth Century British History, Modern
 Intellectual History, Labour History, Britain and the World, Journal of Ethnic and Racial Studies,
 Cultural and Social History and Bulletin of the History of Medicine); and for 10 different funding
 bodies, including the European Research Council, the Wellcome Trust, the British Academy and
 the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC). Doyle is a member of the Peer Review
 Colleges for both the Arts and Humanities Research Council and the ESRC.

 Advisory board membership, PhD examining, and reviews of promotion applications
 Gill was a member of the Academic Advisory Network at the Imperial War Museum North from
 2014 to 2015, and Von Lunen is currently a member of the Academic Advisory Board, HELC,
 Huddersfield. Historians at Huddersfield have undertaken reviews of promotion applications at
 several universities around the world, including: University of Edinburgh, UK, Emory University,
 USA, and University of Pretoria, South Africa. Additionally, we have undertaken external PhD
 examinerships at 16 universities, including Nottingham, Birmingham, Copenhagen, Ghent and
 Sciences Po, Paris.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Organisation of conferences and other events
 Huddersfield historians have been involved in the organisation of 28 academic conferences.
 Highlights include: Crusading and Masculinities, University of Zurich (funded by the Swiss
 National Science Foundation) (Lewis, 2016); International Network for the History of Hospitals
 Conference, Dubrovnik (supported by a £1000 grant from the Economic History Society, UK)
 (Doyle, 2014), and Heritage and Public Engagement: A Workshop for Historians and Heritage
 Professionals, Anglo-Boer War Museum, Bloemfontein, South Africa (Gill, 2018). Gill has,
 further, organised an international touring exhibition: War Without Glamour: The Life and Legacy
 of Emily Hobhouse (Bloemfontein Literature Festival, Bloemfontein, South Africa, with satellite
 displays of archive material at: The National Museum, Bloemfontein, SA, Anglo-Boer War
 Museum, Bloemfontein, SA; Sol Plaatje University, Kimberley, SA; Bodleian Library, Oxford, UK;
 University of Huddersfield, UK; Hull History Centre, UK; Leeds Beckett University, UK; Alfred
 Gillett Trust, Liskeard Museum, UK. 2019-2020). We have organised several major impact
 events, including: Faith in Reform at The University of Huddersfield (Ellis, 2017, in collaboration
 with the University of Birmingham and Imperial College London); Animating Heritage and Stigma
 impact events at The University of Huddersfield, the West Yorkshire Archive Service, and the
 Mental Health Museum, Wakefield, in collaboration with New Vic Borderlines and The National
 Trust (Ellis, 2018-2020); and Holocaust, Refugees and Humanitarianism, two-day public event,
 University of Huddersfield (Von Lunen and Gill, 2018).

 Esteem: keynotes, plenaries, public invitations and media appearances
 During this REF period, historians at Huddersfield have given 16 keynote presentations and 50
 plenaries and other invited presentations. Laybourn spoke by invitation at the Labor and
 Working Class History Association of America Conference in Seattle in June 2017; Webster at
 the Cambridge Union Debating Society, at the Anglosphere Conference of the British Academy
 (both in 2019), and at the Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies, Amsterdam (2018);
 and Gill at The German Historical Institute, Washington DC (2014), the Bodleian Library, Oxford
 (2017 and 2019), the Biblioteca Nicola Bernardini, Lecce, Italy (2017) and the University of
 Geneva (2018). Hallett gave a keynote lecture at the Australian and New Zealand Society for
 the History of Medicine Conference in Auckland (2019)

 Members of the History team also, collectively, received 10 invitations to give public lectures.
 Highlights include Dodd’s lecture, Bombed to be Free, at an Institut Français event to
 commemorate the 70th anniversary of the liberation of France (2014); Ellis’s lecture, Animating
 Heritage and Stigma, at the Mitsuwakai Corporation, Japan (2019); Hallett’s keynote lecture to
 The Annual Conference of the Queen Alexandra’s Royal Army Nursing Corps at The
 Headquarters of the Surgeon General, UK (2018), and her Nurses of Passchendaele public
 lecture and discussion at The Auckland Museum and War Memorial, New Zealand (2019).

 Members of the team have also frequently been invited to appear on radio and television.
 Highlights include: Radio 4, ‘In Our Time’: ‘Margery Kempe’ (Lewis, June 2016); ‘Margaret of
 Anjou’ (Lewis, May, 2018); ‘Is Shakespeare History: The Plantaganets’ (Lewis, October 2018);
 ‘Melisende, Queen of Jerusalem’ (Lewis, November 2019); Radio 4 ‘Toynbee at War’ (Gill,
 2017); Radio 4 ‘The Matter of the North’ (Bastow, 2016); France Télévisions ‘The Windrush
 Scandal’ (Webster 2019); and the BBC 4 documentary ‘Everest on the Track’ (Webster 2019).




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Particular esteem and awards

 Our staff have received particular esteem for contributions to both research and public impact.
 Webster’s monograph, Mixing It (Oxford University Press, 2018) was Oxford University Press
 Book of the Month in April 2018, Book of the Month in History Revealed (March, 2018), and one
 of the Books of the Year in History Today for 2019, making it an exemplary academic-and-trade
 book of both recognised academic rigour and widespread popular appeal. Gill’s exhibition, War
 Without Glamour, was nominated for a Visual Arts Award in Bloemfontein in 2019.

 From 2018 to 2019, Dodd was an Invited Research Fellow at the Collegium de Lyon, the School
 of Advanced Studies of the University of Lyon. Her successful candidature enabled her to
 pursue her research on an ‘original and outstanding scientific project’: Remembering Wartime
 Childhoods: Memory, Feeling and Imagination.

 In 2020, Nurse Helen Fairchild a short documentary film, for which Hallett was both a featured
 interviewee and historical consultant, gained entry to the American Documentary Film Festival, a
 qualifying Festival for the Academy Awards. Hallett is President Emerita of the European
 Association for the History of Nursing, Doyle was, until 2016, a Council Member and Trustee of
 the Economic History Society, and, until 2018 a Committee Member for the Social History
 Society, and Laybourn is President of the Society for the Study of Labour History.




                                                                                          Page 16
