Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 31 Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a) Context and Structure

 The Theology and Religious Studies (TRS) UOA in the University of Gloucestershire is situated
 in a context of research, scholarship, research-informed teaching and engagement with partner
 communities. Having achieved university status in 2001, the UOA was submitted in the RAEs in
 2001 (with 9 FTEs) and 2008 (with 4 FTEs). In the 2014 REF, we were able to enter six
 researchers, three in biblical studies, our traditional focus, and one in Jewish theology, while
 expanding into new areas, with one colleague in philosophy and one in Islam. This expansion
 was the direct result of the successful growth of Religion, Philosophy and Ethics as a taught
 course, as it continues to be, together with a university-wide commitment to research-based
 teaching. This mixture of colleagues, which we retain, means we are strongly interdisciplinary
 and encourage the cross-fertilisation of ideas that feed back into the UOA and ensure its
 vibrancy.

 In REF 2014 33.3% of the outputs entered were 4* or 3*. For 2021 we have expanded
 somewhat and are entering seven researchers, but with the same broad representation of our
 subject areas. The staff members for REF 2021 are Philip Esler, Crispin Fletcher-Louis, Roy
 Jackson, Will Large, Gordon McConville, Pekka Pitkanen and Melissa Raphael. The core
 research area is biblical studies (Esler, Fletcher-Louis, McConville and Pitkanen), but the
 UOA extends to theology (Esler, Fletcher-Louis, McConville and Raphael) and also includes
 the study of major world religions, especially Judaism (Raphael) and Islam (Jackson), and
 continental philosophy (Large).

 The colleagues in the TRS UOA combine rigorous critical research and an engagement with
 issues in the world beyond academe: social, political and religious. Our biblical research has
 developed an emphasis on the relationship between critical biblical study and ways in which the
 Bible is used theologically and received artistically. Our research in Judaism and Islam is
 socially, culturally and artistically engaged, while our philosophy is concerned with philosophical
 thinking in relation to personal and social as well as theological issues. TRS staff include high-
 profile researchers who are active internationally both in research and in the development of
 their disciplines.

 The UOA benefits from a strong position within the University, deriving from an institutional
 foundation that set the subject at its heart and its hosting the only endowed chair in the
 University (the Portland Chair in Portland Studies, held by Esler in succession to Professor
 Andrew Lincoln). This has been undergirded by specific investment. The Unit has three
 Professors, two Readers, a Senior Lecturer and a Senior Research Fellow (who lives in
 Cheltenham and has been a highly active Visiting Fellow since June 2018). Another research-
 active biblical researcher (Matthew Lynch in Old Testament) lived locally and was active in the
 unit as a Visiting Fellow through much of the REF period.

 In addition to producing major research outputs, members of the unit are engaged more broadly
 with the work of scholarship and research-informed teaching, evidenced for example in the

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 production of widely used textbooks (see details below), all of which contribute to the intellectual
 excitement in this area. There is also a lively postgraduate research programme, training, and
 participation in research seminars along with staff and external speakers, and weekly Hebrew
 and Greek Reading Classes (Hebrew and Greek in alternate weeks, run by McConville and
 Esler then Fletcher-Louis respectively) and a weekly Latin learning class (run by Esler)
 involving staff, postgraduates and local researchers. During the Covid 19 lock-down, all of these
 were continued on a well-frequented online basis.

 Organizationally, the UOA sits within the School of Education and Humanities, at Francis Close
 Hall in Cheltenham, the attractive sandstone buildings of which form the historical core of the
 university. Overall research strategy in the University is monitored by the Research Committee,
 chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. Under that framework the University has established a number
 of cross-disciplinary Research Priority Areas (“RPAs”) and the UOA falls within one of these,
 Being Human, chaired by Nigel McLoughlin, Professor of Creativity and Poetics and (since
 2020) the University’s Dean of Academic Development. Significant amounts of research funding
 are distributed through the Being Human RPA at regular meetings (see Section 3). Being
 Human embraces a number of UOAs and at its meetings each UOA is represented by its
 institutional lead. The School of Arts is also part of Being Human and since the last UOA a
 significant collaboration (‘Painting the Bible as a Force for Artistic, Cultural and Theological
 Transformations’) inspired by the (US-based) Ahmanson collection of contemporary British
 biblical art and 1 Enoch and Ethiopian art and tradition involving Esler and Angus Pryor (an
 artist and Head of the School of Arts) has developed between this School and the TRS UOA.
 This collaboration embraces research, impact and shared doctoral supervision. The TRS share
 of the Being Human budget funds activities such as semester sabbaticals to complete
 monographs, conference attendance, impact projects, and activities aimed at improving the
 research environment. All members of staff are allocated at least one research day per week,
 within the University’s Work Allocation Model, with higher allocations for Professors and
 Readers.

  a. Research and Impact Strategy
 The research strategy of the TRS UOA aims to build on and develop past successes. This
 research strategy is based on the University of Gloucester’s Strategic Plan 2017-2022 (‘the
 Strategic Plan), in particular the First Goal: ‘To undertake excellent research and innovative
 professional practice which enrich students’ learning and create impact and benefit for others.’
 The main way in which the University has decided to implement that goal is by giving specific
 support (in terms of budget and time allocation) to areas of perceived strength, especially via
 major investment in the RPAs (above), for the purpose of raising the University’s profile and
 developing income streams by encouraging cross-disciplinary and thematic research units and
 projects. As noted above, the TRS UOA falls within the University’s Being Human RPA. In line
 with the First Goal of the Strategic Plan and our membership of the Being Human RPA, the
 research strategy of the UoA is to promote research (individual and collaborative) and impact at
 the highest level in the areas of its greatest strengths, based on exacting yet innovative critical
 enquiry and aiming to benefit both our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching programmes
 and our partners and constituencies beyond the academic environment and to generate income
 streams related thereto. All seven staff members of the UOA are aligned with and committed to
 this strategy.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research collaboration that embraces biblical criticism, theology and the visual arts with
 colleagues in the University and in other HEIs in the UK and abroad is, as noted above, a central
 part of our strategy, with the Biblical Spirituality project funded by the Bible Society, especially
 involving McConville, important in our research efforts in the last RAE, and that approach
 continues in this REF period. In addition, in this REF period we have had a £10,000 British
 Academy/Leverhulme Trust funded project, on 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology involving
 collaboration between researchers from Ethiopia, the UK, Germany, the US and South Africa.
 The three researchers who submitted the application were Esler (the PI), Professor Loren
 Stuckenbruck of the University of Munich and Professor Grant Macaskill of the University of
 Aberdeen. The project culminated in the publication of The Blessing of Enoch: 1 Enoch and
 Contemporary Theology (Eugene, OR: Cascade Press, 2017), edited by Esler, and contains
 essays by Esler, McConville and Pryor, together with essays by contributors from Ethiopia, the
 UK, Germany and the USA. This project (together with their work on the still small voice
 exhibition of the Ahmanson collection of contemporary British biblical art at the Wilson Gallery in
 Cheltenham in early 2015) also led to the collaboration between Esler and Pryor on a project
 involving the latter’s painting of twelve 2 x 2 meter paintings and creation of a large-scale model
 of an Ethiopian church, both featuring themes from 1 Enoch and Ethiopian pictorial tradition
 (works that are now the core of one of our two impact projects), with their joint illuminated article
 on the project appearing in the Biblical Theology Bulletin in August 2020. In addition,
 involvement in the 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology project led to Esler’s being invited to
 write a monograph on Ethiopian Christianity and his resulting volume Ethiopian Christianity:
 History, Theology, Practice (benefiting from significant input from Ethiopian scholars) was
 published in 2019 by Baylor University Press and has begun to attract favourable reviews.
 Other aspects of international collaboration include Esler’s role on the steering committee of the
 ‘Social Identity Commentaries on the New Testament’ section at the annual Society of Biblical
 Literature (‘SBL’) meeting (and membership of the editorial board of the related T & T Clark
 Social Identity Commentaries on the New Testament Series) and Pitkanen’s being a co-chair of
 the ‘Ritual in the Biblical World’ Section at the International SBL meetings.

 Our research strategy, both in REF 2014 and in this REF, includes providing funded
 opportunities for postgraduate research to students from outside of the UK and Europe (in the
 REF period aided by £90,000 over four years from the Kirby Laing Foundation). Our research
 strategy builds on and organically develops from previous successes.

 Our impact strategy in the last REF period embraced activities by two researchers (Professor
 Andrew Lincoln and Raphael) to generate public awareness of and interest and knowledge in
 biblical issues and Jewish theology and art. This continues in the current REF period in Esler’s
 more thematic and focused work with four churches from three parishes (in England and
 Scotland) integrating biblical research to generate public benefit in the form of increased moral
 and cultural capital in the UK. In addition, our impact strategy has developed in an entirely new
 direction with the work of Esler and Angus Pryor on the still small life exhibition of contemporary
 British biblical art at the Wilson Art Gallery and Museum in February 2015 and a major online
 exhibition of artistic works on 1 Enoch by Pryor (aided by Esler) in 2020 that builds directly on
 their involvement in the 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology research project (see below) and
 collaboration in still small voice.

 The UOA’s current activities and future plans align with the way in which University’s research
 strategy has been articulated to achieve the First Goal of the Strategic Plan 2017-2022 (quoted

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 above), which is (in terms of budget and time allocation) to concentrate on areas of perceived
 strength, especially via major investment in the Research Priority Areas, for the purpose of
 promoting research to give specific support to the University’s profile and developing income
 streams by encouraging cross-disciplinary and thematic research units and projects. In the UOA,
 this is reflected in several ways. The UOA’s historic and continuing strength in biblical studies is
 attested by the fact, noted above, that the subject has the University’s only endowed chair. The
 Portland Chair in New Testament Studies, endowed by the Sir Kirby Laing Trust, was held, since
 its inception in 1999 and up to 2013, by Prof Andrew Lincoln. This Trust has also endowed
 Biblical Chairs at Oxford, Cambridge and Aberdeen. The endowment totals £1,750,000. The
 holder of the Kirby Laing Chair in succession to Professor Lincoln, Esler, also directs the
 International Centre for Biblical Interpretation (ICBI), the University’s first Research Centre,
 which was inaugurated with Professor Lincoln’s appointment in 1999.

 The ICBI co-ordinates research activities for staff and students in biblical studies, including
 research seminars; it convenes international symposia, and hosts an annual lecture in biblical
 studies. Past lecturers attracted by its growing status to give the lecture in the years before the
 previous REF were Paul Fiddes (Oxford, 2008), Markus Bockmuehl (Oxford, 2009), Robert
 Gordon (Cambridge, 2010), David Ford (Cambridge, 2011), John Barclay (Durham, 2012) and
 John Rogerson (Sheffield, 2013). The lecturers and topics alternate between the Old and New
 Testaments and in some cases (such as Prof Fiddes in Christian Theology) are given by
 scholars who bring a perspective on the Bible from their own subject areas. In 2014 the lecturer
 was Prof Valentine Cunningham, Professor of English Language and Literature in Oxford
 University. More recently the lecturers have been Larry Hurtado (Edinburgh, 2015), John Barton
 (Oxford, 2016), Janet Soskice (Cambridge, 2017), Chris Keith (St Mary’s, 2018), Craig
 Bartholomew (Cambridge, 2019), while the presentation of Ben Quash (Kings) due in 2020 was
 postponed due to Covid. This cross-disciplinary ICBI comprises staff from Biblical Studies and
 Theology, as well as Art and Design, various members of whom have contributed to its regular
 series of research seminars, and a postgraduate student representative. The ICBI has been at
 the forefront of developments in the relatively new academic discipline of Biblical Spirituality
 which received significant funding in the last REF period and reached its conclusion with the
 successful completion of the doctorate by Sheona Beaumont, a professional artist, on modern
 photography in relation to biblical spirituality and hermeneutics. Beside the ICBI, there is a series
 of research seminars in Religion, Philosophy and Ethics, with external and internal speakers.

 During this REF period Kirby Laing Foundation has now added to its investment in the ICBI by
 adding £500,000 to the endowment supporting the Portland Chair in New Testament Studies
 (bringing the total grant to £1,750,000) and by allocating £30,000 per annum for five years for
 doctoral studentships in the biblical/theology area (with £90,000 of that paid in the REF period).

 We have achieved our research strategy in the current research period, both in the production of
 high quality monographs, edited works, journal articles and essays and in the major
 collaboration on 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology, in the continuation of our tradition of
 collaborative research in an area straddling biblical criticism and theology, and in the
 maintenance of an exciting research culture for staff and students.

 As to research outputs, our principal achievements are listed elsewhere in our submission. But
 colleagues produced a significant number of articles and essays that were rated 3* by our
 external assessor (Professor Grant Macaskill) but which we could not include by reason of the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 restraints on the number of outputs. On the collaborative research side, as noted above, the
 research project 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology was granted £10,000 by the British
 Academy that funded conference in Addis Ababa and Cheltenham. Selected papers presented
 at those conferences were published in Esler (ed), The Blessing of Enoch: 1 Enoch and
 Contemporary Theology, and of the twelve essays appearing therein, four were by Ethiopian
 researchers.

 Over the REF period we have had twenty-three postgraduate research students complete their
 degrees, fifteen with doctorates and eight with research master degrees.

 Our future research strategy represents a development of our existing approach with some new
 elements added to the mix. Esler’s research is focused on 2 Corinthians (with a 175,000 word
 social identity commentary on 2 Corinthians in the T & T Clark Social Identity Commentaries on
 the New Testament series submitted to the publishers in October 2020), further work on the
 Babatha archive (building on his 2017 OUP book Babatha’s Orchard) in the form of a life of
 Babatha, and a substantial monograph on Matthew building on several recent articles and
 essays. Jackson will continue research on transhumanism, more generally than in his Muslim
 and Supermuslim to embrace the philosophy of religion. McConville is working on a 350,000
 word commentary on Isaiah. Pitkanen will be focusing on the formation and reception history of
 the Pentateuch with the book of Joshua, including the reception of these texts in Judaism,
 Christianity and Islam and will also undertake research in comparative ritual studies that relate to
 ancient Israel, the wider ancient Near East and beyond. Raphael’s research and publication will
 be focused on the visual expressions of theology in contemporary Jewish feminist art and on the
 re-imagination of the Shekhinah, the female figure of divine presence in contemporary Jewish
 feminist theology and spirituality.

 2. People

    a) Staffing strategy and staff development

 The TRS UOA consists of seven staff, four of them full-time: Esler (Professor), Jackson
 (Reader), Large (Reader) and Pitkanen (Senior Lecturer) and three on 0.2 fractional contracts:
 Fletcher-Louis (Senior Research Fellow) and McConville and Raphael (Professors). All
 members of the UOA are research-active, and also have postgraduate and/or undergraduate
 teaching responsibilities on courses in Theology, and in Religion, Philosophy and Ethics. We
 have a research-active Visiting Fellow, Dr Matthew Lynch (Old Testament). Our strategy will
 continue to be to maintain a spread of subjects embracing biblical studies (with theological
 interests), Jewish studies, Islamic Studies and Philosophy (of a Continental character).

 In essence, the strategy of the University, School and TRS itself is to encourage and promote
 the flourishing of its staff as researchers, scholars and teachers and its students as partners in
 the production of knowledge and understanding. Their shared commitment to all these aspects
 of the work issues in a range of scholarly activity beyond outputs that are strictly research.

 This is evident in the kinds of scholarly activity that are carried on here apart from that which is
 represented in REF 2, but which form an essential part of the lively academic environment of
 TRS.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b) Research students

 The training and supervision of PGR students is the responsibility of the University Research
 Degrees Committee (‘URDC’), whose powers are delegated to it by the University Research
 Committee (chaired by the Vice-Chancellor). The URDC oversees the admissions process,
 normally arranging for applicants to be interviewed, the appointment of first and second
 supervisors, a system of online recording of supervision sessions and a Joint Annual Progress
 Report (JAPR). The URDC maps PGR research at the University against the QAA Researcher
 Development Framework. Students’ research projects are submitted, following a careful process
 of scrutiny of their viability to the URDC. This happens normally within six months to a year from
 registration, and is a pre-requisite of proceeding to submission of the thesis. The monitoring and
 training process addresses the broad range of skills and development that a student needs in
 preparation for employment and effective further academic work. The JAPR identifies specific
 training needs, and the means for meeting them.

 The University is also one of the sponsors of the Annual PGR TRS Conference held at Bristol
 University, at which many of our students have given papers during the present REF period.

 Students are encouraged to participate and network nationally in their subject area. Some attend
 conferences, such as the annual meetings of the British New Testament Society and the Society
 for Old Testament Study. Full-time students are allowed £300 p.a. for the purpose, and part-time
 students £200. Every Thursday evening there are reading classes (alternately in Hebrew and
 Greek led by McConville and Esler (initially) and (during 2020) Fletcher-Louis respectively)
 that mainly cover biblical texts but sometimes ancient inscriptions and papyri in Greek. Some
 postgraduate students attended or attend a Latin learning class introduced by Esler in the
 academic year 2018/2019 and continuing. Occasional day visits for staff and postgraduates are
 arranged, such as to the Roman sites at Caerwent and Caerleon. The postgraduate students
 meet and interact with one another in all of these activities and at the social gatherings
 frequently convened after the Greek and Hebrew reading classes in a local restaurant.

 Five of the postgraduate students/recent doctoral graduates are ministers of religion (in the UK
 or in their home countries in Asia and Africa) and most of them are actively involved with their
 denominations (or denominations closely related thereto) in and around Cheltenham or in the
 University Chaplaincy. Two have received substantial grants from Anglican charities in the UK
 with our support.

 PGR students are encouraged to engage fully with the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES).

 In the present REF period there have been fifteen PhD and eight research masters completions
 in TRS. Of the fifteen students graduating with PhDs the following now have academic positions:

 *Andy Dvoracek (Gateway Seminary, Portland, Oregon);
 *Peter Ho (Singapore Bible College);
 *Meredith Nyberg (Bethel University, Minneapolis);
 *Matt O’Reilly (Wesley Biblical Seminary, Mississippi); and
 *Carl Sweatman (Johnson University, Tennessee);



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ben Trubody (PhD, 2014) has published eleven articles and essays generally in the area of the
 philosophy of science.


    c) Equality and Diversity

 The UOA has always promoted Equality and Diversity both as an intrinsic value and also as part
 of its culture of the UOA, within the wider framework of the policy and practice of the University
 which oversees and monitors it, through a carefully thought out, wide-ranging and proactive
 Equality and Diversity policy. This advocates and promotes the well-being of all students and
 documents proscribed kinds of direct and indirect discrimination in accordance with the 2010
 Equality Act. County statistics show that Gloucester (10.9 %) and Cheltenham (5.7%) have
 higher proportions of BAME residents than other areas of the county, though these are
 considerably lower than the national figure of 14.6%. Within our UOA our postgraduate
 recruitment is higher than these proportions (being over 30%), with several of our students
 coming from Asia and Africa, with most of them in receipt of doctoral studentships covering 60%
 of the international fee. As a matter of routine also, staff work very closely with the Senior Tutor
 and the University’s disability, dyslexia and learning support service to offer confidential, one-to-
 one support to prospective and current students with with disabilities, learning difficulties and
 medical conditions. Assistance available includes advisory visits, help with diagnosing specific
 learning difficulties, assistance with applying for disabled students’ allowance, and training,
 consultation, and advice on a range of matters including disability access, awareness training
 and students’ specific needs. The University’s Helpzone provides a portal for these and other
 students, supporting students with their mental health and wellbeing, directing students for
 instance, to student services, or to free counselling, as well as to advice or assistance with
 childcare, or academic writing skills. The Helpzone also provides information on other University
 services, such as sport, music, faith and the Student Union.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Total external research income for the UOA during the REF period was very significant and
 totalled £675,000.

 The UOA benefits greatly from the Kirby Laing Trust endowment (valued at £1.95 million and
 increasing with investment) that funds the salary of the Portland Chair in New Testament
 Studies, held by Esler, his research expenses and various expenses of the International Centre
 for Biblical Interpretation. The original grant was £1.25 million made in 1999. The Kirby Laing
 Trust then added a further £500K endowment in September 2013, making £1.75 million and by
 July 2020 this had increased by investment to £1.95 million. We are one of only five universities
 in the UK to receive Kirby Laing Support for such a position in the biblical/theological area (the
 others being Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Cambridge and Oxford).

 As noted above, in 2016 the Kirby Laing Trusts also increased their support by providing new
 funds to fund doctoral studentships by making available £30,000 per annum for five years. In
 June 2020 we received the third tranche of £30,000 under this provision, making a total of
 £90,000 received in the REF period. The university added £10,000 per annum to this provision
 and the total sum allowed us to fund six ‘Kirby Laing Doctoral Studentships’, most non UK/EU,
 by providing them with a 60% discount on the fee.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The UOA received £10,000 from the British Academy under its Small Grant Programme for the
 project 1 Enoch and Contemporary Theology.

 The Bible Society award of £45,000 for Biblical Spirituality (2011-14) covered part of the period
 (2013-14) and we received £7,000 of this grant in current REF period. The project came to a
 successful finish with the completion of Sheona Beaumont’s PhD in 2017.


 These sources of research funding comprised the total sum of £675,000 mentioned above.

 The UOA also received significant internal designated funding for research and impact activities.
 The Being Human RPA manages an annual budget and makes awards to staff for the purposes
 of conference attendance, the support of projects by granting relief from teaching, and the
 production of research and impact outputs (see above). Large amounts of research funding are
 distributed through the Being Human RPA at regular meetings (see Section 3). In 2017/2018 the
 TRS UOA’s share of the Being Human budget was £22,000, in 2018/2019 £19,500 and in
 2019/2020 £17,500. Some of this money helped fund the Kirby Laing Doctoral Studentships
 mentioned above.

 The UOA is located in the Francis Close Hall Campus, the historic 19th century heart of the
 building in neo-Gothic sandstone. Staff are located on the top floor of the Quad West section of
 the campus, with the Library conveniently located on the ground floor. There is an office for
 postgraduate researchers, with networked desks for their use, in the same building and adjacent
 to the Library. The Library has a significant collection of books and printed journals on biblical
 studies, theology and philosophy that reflects the decades long interest in these areas in the
 institution. There is a very significant availability of online journals in these subject areas. UOA
 colleagues, among whom interdisciplinarity is a major feature of their work, also benefit from an
 extensive range of books (located in the same Library) and online journals in the social sciences.
 Staff and postgraduates have an annual allowance for Inter-Library loans for works unavailable
 physically or digitally. Postgraduate researchers are also encouraged to register with the
 Bodleian Library in Oxford, only one hour away by car, for access to resources beyond what we
 can provide. During the Covid 19 lock-down significant extra digital resources were made
 available through the Library.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UOA’s central research collaboration in the REF period has been one on 1 Enoch and
 Contemporary Theology with Professor Loren Stuckenbruck of the University of Munich,
 Professor Grant Macaskilll of the University of Aberdeen, Dr Daniel Assefa of the Capuchin
 Franciscan Research and Retreat Centre in Addis Ababa and, in the University of
 Gloucestershire, Esler and Angus Pryor. The £10,000 funding for this project by the British
 Academy under its Small Grants Scheme allowed conferences to be held in Addis Ababa (with
 a large number of Ethiopian colleagues present) in February 2015 and in Cheltenham in
 October 2015. A selection of the papers delivered at these two conferences, and two added
 later to cover our evolving thinking, were published as The Blessing of Enoch: 1 Enoch and
 Contemporary Theology (Eugene, OR; Cascade Books, 2017), edited by Esler. UOA personnel
 Esler, Fletcher-Louis and McConville contributed essays to that volume, as did Angus Pryor.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The unit’s second area of collaboration involved Esler and Pryor. In 2014 and 2015 Esler and
 Pryor had collaborated on the still small voice exhibition of the internationally significant
 Ahmanson collection of contemporary British biblical art at the Wilson Art Gallery and Museum
 in Cheltenham (February 2015). Pryor had created a work of art for that exhibition, a
 transcription of Stanley Spencer’s painting The Angels of the Apocalypse, which was one of the
 Ahmanson Collection works being exhibited. This exhibition attracted over 10,000 visitors,
 engaged with a considerable number of school pupils and had significant impact. Later in 2015
 Esler and Pryor, having visited Addis Ababa in March of that year, decided that the 1 Enoch
 and Contemporary Theology project provided the possibility for the continuation not only of
 practice- based research and but also of the impact arising from the way in which painting the
 Bible can be a force for artistic, cultural and theological transformation. Accordingly, after a
 subsequent research visit by Esler and Pryor to Ethiopia in March 2017, especially the Christian
 sites in the north, Pryor, in close consultation with Esler, then initiated and completed a series
 of twelve 2 x 2 meter paintings on themes from 1 Enoch 1-36 and a large scale model of an
 Ethiopian church illuminated with Enochic imagery and motifs from the unique Ethiopian
 ecclesiastical painting tradition. These works formed part of one of the unit’s two impact projects
 for this REF, initially planned as an exhibition in the South Transept and Ambulatory of
 Gloucester Cathedral in April – May 2020 but then, because of the Covid 19 pandemic,
 converted to a virtual exhibition in July 2020. Post Covid 19, we hope to exhibit these works in
 Munich and Aberdeen, so that the collaboration with Stuckenbruck and Macaskill, who will make
 arrangements in those locations, will continue. In addition, in consequence of word getting out
 on his involvement in this project Esler was invited by a US publisher to write an introduction to
 Ethiopian Christianity. This book appeared in 2019 as Ethiopian Christianity: History, Theology,
 Practice (Waco, Texas: Baylor University Press).

 The third major area of collaboration has involved Esler’s long term membership (since 1990)
 of the Context Group: Project on the Study of the Bible in Its Cultural Environment. This led to
 meeting of the Group in Cheltenham in June 2015 that involved researchers from the UK, the
 USA, Norway, Canada and South Africa.

 The fourth area of collaboration has been the Co-Chairship by Pitkanen of the ‘Ritual in the
 Biblical World’ Section at the International Meeting of SBL.

 Fifthly, Fletcher-Louis is the owner and director of a research and training company
 (Whymanity: Research and Training Ltd). Inter alia, the purpose of Whymanity is to explore
 biblical and theological resources for an understanding of what it is to be human and to bring
 those to the collaborative work of leadership training and strategy development in the church
 and business environments.

 Learned Societies

 Esler is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature and was a member of its Council of the
 Society of Biblical Literature for six years until 2016 and a member of the Society of New
 Testament Studies. Large is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and President of the British
 Society of Phenomenology (to the present). Pitkanen is a Co-Chair of the Ritual in the Biblical
 World Program Unit for the International Meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature, a member
 of of the Society of Biblical Literature and of the Society for Old Testament Study. Jackson is a

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Authority. He is
 also a Council Member for BRAIS (British Association of Islamic Studies) and is on its Planning
 Committee for the Annual Conference. Large and Jackson contribute frequently to the work of
 the Gloucestershire Philosophical Society at whose meetings scholars of international standard
 from around Britain present their work to other scholars and to interested members of the public.
 McConville is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature, the Society for Old Testament

 Study, and the Tyndale Fellowship. Raphael is a member of the London Society for the Study of
 Religion. Fletcher-Louis is co-chair of the British New Testament Conference “New Testament
 and Second Temple Judaism” Seminar and is a member of the Society of Biblical Literature,
 Society of Old Testament Studies, British Association of Jewish Studies, and the Society of New
 Testament Studies.


 Editing, Editorial Boards and Reviewing for Learned Journals

 Esler served on the Editorial Boards of New Testament Studies, the Biblical Theology Bulletin
 (continuing) and Biblical Reception and reviewed article manuscripts for each of them. He is on
 the editorial board of the Bloomsbury T & T Clark Social Identity Commentaries on the New
 Testament series. He is also on the Editorial Board of ‘Tesi y Mongrafías’ of the Spanish Biblical
 Association. McConville served on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Theological
 Interpretation (Eisenbrauns, USA, 2007-11), and is General Editor of the Two Horizons Old
 Testament Commentary series (Eerdmans), and of the Baker Commentary on the Old
 Testament (Prophets) (Baker Academic). Pitkanen is a member of the Editorial Board of Canon
 & Culture (a journal published in Korea). He has reviewed several articles for Cogent
 Humanities, Cogent Social Sciences, Old Testament Essays and Ancient West & East. Raphael
 is on the international editorial boards of The Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, The
 Journal of the European Society of Women in Theological Research, Religion and Gender and
 European Judaism: A Journal for the New Europe.She has also reviewed articles for the Journal
 of Contemporary Religion, Leo Baeck Institute Year Book (Queen Mary University,
 London), Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, Religion and Gender, and European Judaism.
 She is also an editor for The Oxford Encyclopedia for Religion and the Arts 1600-The Present,
 New York: Oxford University Press, forthcoming.


 Book and Project Refereeing

 Esler was a panellist for the Icelandic Research Fund for six years till 2016 (when he rotated
 off). He has also refereed for OUP, Yale University Press, Bloomsbury and Routledge. He has
 also reviewed for the Hong Kong Research Agency, the Helsinki Collegium for Advanced
 Studies and the Research Council of Israel. He was an external advisor to the relevant Spanish
 Government body in the application by the University of Deusto to establish a Máster en
 Estudios Bíblicos: Historia e Influencia de la Bibia (2016). Large has refereed for the OUP,
 Edinburgh University Press, and Bloomsbury. McConville Is a regular reader for the Tyndale
 Bulletin. Pitkänen has reviewed book proposals and a book manuscript for Routledge. Raphael
 has frequently reviewed manuscript submissions to Routledge. Fletcher-Louis has reviewed a
 book proposal and a manuscript for CUP and a book for the Journal of Theological Studies.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited papers/lectures

 Esler delivered the Kennedy Wright Opening Lecture at the University of Edinburgh on 6th
 October 2014 (on the heavenly abode in 1 Enoch 1-36). At a conference in Berlin from 20-21
 May 2016 organised by the Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft für Theologie, Fachgruppe Neues
 Testament to discuss Ulrich Luz’ Theologische Hermeneutik des Neuen Testaments he was the
 first respondent. On 16th February 2017 he delivered an Ehrhardt Seminar lecture at the
 University of Manchester on ‘New Light on Babatha and Her Final Days.’
 Fletcher-Louis has given invited lectures (about his forthcoming book on Philippians, Temple
 Theology, Ben Sira, and angels in the Dead Sea Scrolls) at seminars and conferences in Zurich
 (Jan. 2015), St Andrews (Feb. 2016, Feb. and June 2018), Cambridge (Nov. 2017, Nov. 2018),
 Oxford (June 2017), Durham (Feb. 2019), King’s College London (Nov. 2014), Birmingham
 (May, 2017).
 Jackson gave a paper at an invitation-only conference on Islamic Philosophy (funded by the
 Templeton Institute) at the University of Edinburgh in December 2017.
 Large presented ‘Remembering the Impossible Future: Kierkegaard and Human Capital, Royal
 Institute of Philosophy, University of the West of England, March 12th, 2014; ‘Problems from
 Levinas’s Totality and Infinity, University of Staffordshire, April 11th, 2014: ‘The impossible
 possibility: Politics and subjectivity, a Kierkegaardian response to Autonomia’, Politics of
 Consumption Workshop, Affiliated with the European Consumer Culture Theory Doctoral
 School, Bloomsbury, London, August 21-25th, 2014; and ‘Singing is not Seeing: Will Oldham
 and the Authenticity of the Voice’, Royal Institute of Philosophy, University of the West of
 England, Bristol, 15th March, 2017.
 McConville delivered invited papers at Wheaton College, Illinois (2015), Institute for Biblical
 Research, San Antonio, 2016; King’s College, London (March 2017); Oak Hill College, London
 (2017). He was a guest lecturer at the Sydney Mission and Bible College, March 2018.
 Pitkänen, on invitation in each case, presented the papers ‘Detecting migration in the late
 second millennium Levant’, at SOAS/London Centre for the Ancient Near East, London, UK
 ( 20 March 2017); “Reconstructing the Social Contexts of the Priestly and Deuteronomic
 Materials in a Non-Wellhausian Setting” at a conference on the Pentateuch (Paradigm Change
 in Pentateuchal Research) in Basel, Switzerland, March 2017; “Settler colonialism and the
 vomiting out of the inhabitants of the land in Lev 18:25-28”, at the SBL annual meeting in San
 Antonio, Texas, in the Warfare in Ancient Israel section, November 2016; , “The Structures of
 Numbers”, at the British Society of Old Testament Studies biannual meeting, July 2016,
 Manchester, UK; and “P/H and D in Joshua 22:9-34”, at the EABS conference, Biblical Law
 section, Cordoba, Spain, July 2015. Raphael has given several invited Lectures, including being
 keynote speaker on feminist religious and philosophical thought at the Sherman Conversation
 2017 - an international colloquium on Judaism and Gender, University of Manchester; a keynote
 on the theology of the messianic in Rosenzweig and Arendt, at an international conference on
 modern European philosophy funded by the Thyssen Foundation at the Institut für die
 Wissenschaften des Menschen in Vienna (10-12.10. 2018); and a keynote on the impact of
 Rudolf Otto's phenomenology of the sacred on modern Jewish thought at the international
 conference of the Existential Philosophy & Literature (the Franco-Scottish Connection: Past &
 Present) funded by the Royal Society, Edinburgh, which took place in France, at the Fondation
 des Treilles, in February 2019, examining the evolution of religious existential thought during the
 modern period.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the Research Base

 One of our major contributions to the research base has been in the area of postgraduate
 training, especially in the supervision of students to the successful completion of fifteen PhDs
 and eight research masters’ degrees:
 Esler supervised to completion one doctoral (Nedkha 2020) and two research masters students
 (Bruce Goodwin and Robert Walker, 2018).
 Jackson supervised Masako Ueda to a successful doctorate (2020) and Andrew Thompson to a
 research masters (2020).
 Large supervised Ben Trubody to a successful doctorate (2014) and Andrew Bates to a
 successful research masters (2018).
 McConville supervised to completion doctoral theses by Timothy Davy (2015), Cynthia Parker
 (2015), Peter Ho ( 2017), Andrew Dvoracek (2017), Sheona Beaumont (2017), Mark Arnold
 (2018) and Meredith Nyberg (2018) and research masters by Peter Myers (2015).
 Pitkänen supervised to completion a doctoral thesis by Patricia Jelbert (2018) and two students
 for a research masters (Zach Thomas 2014 and Andrew Wickham 2019).
 Raphael supervised C. L. Nash to a successful doctorate (2015) and Corrie Agnolutto (2016) to
 a research masters.
 Other PhD graduates were Matthew O’Reilly, Carl Sweatman and Elizabeth Talbot.

 Some colleagues have been active in contributing to the research base by providing textbooks at
 undergraduate level. Esler’s The Early Christian World: Second Edition (London: Routledge),
 expanded from fifty to sixty chapters, was published in 2017 (the first edition of this now
 standard text was in 2000). He also published Ethiopian Christianity: History, Theology, Practice
 (Waco, Texas: Baylor University Press, 2019). Jackson published Nietzsche: A Complete
 Introduction: Teach Yourself (Teach Yourself Books, 2014; eBook) and What is Islamic
 Philosophy? London: Routledge, 2016). Large published Levinas’ ‘Totality and Infinity’: A
 Reader’s Guide (London: Bloomsbury Academic) in 2015.

 Another contribution to the research base has come in the area of external examining and
 appraisals for academic promotions and research grant applications.

 Esler has been an external for PhDs at the University Helsinki (the opponents in Philippians,
 2015), the University of Manchester (on boasting the Cross in Galatians, 2016), Charles Sturt
 University (conversion in Philippians, 2017), the Australian College of Theology (social identity
 theory and John’s Gospel, 2018), Macquarie University (on law in the Dead Sea legal papyri,
 2019), the University of Divinity, Melbourne (the Holy Spirit as legitimator in Luke-Acts, 2019)
 and the University of Birmingham (on siege mentality in Deuteronomy). Jackson has been an
 External for two Ph Ds in religious studies at Lampeter in 2017. Large has been an external for
 PhDs at Newcastle University (The genealogy of Nick Land’s anti-anthropocentric philosophy,
 2016) and Nottingham University (cryptotheologies of judgement, time and nature in the
 dominant economics and economy, 2017).McConville has been an external for PhDs at Oxford
 University (2016), Bangor (University of Wales) (2016), Edinburgh University (2016) and Trinity
 St David’s (University of Wales) (2017). He has also been an external for the BA/MA at Queen’s
 University, Belfast, 2012-15; BA at Oxford Brookes University, 2014-) and Irish Baptist College
 (Chester University) (2016-). Pitkänen has been an external for PhDs at the University of
 Nottingham (Genesis 2-3: The Hidden Polemic against Excesses of Royal Ideology, 2016) and
 the Memorial University of Newfoundland, Canada (War Narrative in the Book of Joshua, 2014)
 and from 2019-2020 External Examiner for the BA in Theology and MA in Christian Thought and
 Practice for Spurgeon’s College (University of Manchester). From 2019 Raphael has been the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External Examiner for the MA in Religion, Culture and Death at the University of Winchester and
 the External Examiner for the BA and MA in Theology, Philosophy and Religion at Liverpool
 Hope University.
 Esler has been an external adviser on professorial and tenure-tract promotion applications by
 colleagues at Emory University (2016), the University of Manchester (2018) and the University of
 California (2018). He is also on the three-person International Academic Advisory Committee of
 the 8 million Euro project funded by the Academy of Finland: ‘Ancient Near Eastern Empires’
 and attends its annual meetings. During the period November 2011 – 2019 Raphael was a
 member of the international research project on idolatry and representation in the Dept. of
 Systematic Theology, University of Copenhagen.


 Wider Contributions to Society

 The TRS UOA also hosts the Gloucestershire Philosophical Society, which is funded by the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy. The aim of the society is to promote the public understanding of
 philosophy. It has over 120 public members. It invites scholars from around the UK to share their
 research with the public in a twice weekly seminar during term time. Topics range from the
 importance of Plato today to philosophy in prisons.

 In addition to the parish work in Cheltenham and St Andrews presented in the Impact Case
 Study, Esler has spoken twice at the recently established Cheltenham Christian Art Festival, on
 ‘Biblical Women in and out of Trouble’ August 2016 and ‘Jesus Encountering Women in Paint’,
 in May 2019. In each case his presentation was accompanied by a PowerPoint presentation of
 approximately thirty images of relevant scenes from the Western painting tradition.

 Raphael teaches a vocational/pastoral course on Jewish Responses to Evil and Suffering at Leo
 Baeck College, London. She also works with the Department of Education in the University
 mentoring British student RE teachers on how to avoid 'othering' non-Christian religionists.

 Fletcher-Louis has given lectures and seminars at (Anglican and non-conformist) churches in
 Maidstone (July 2018), Preston (Sept. 2019, Feb. 2020), Reading (Oct. 2018), Southampton
 (Jan.-Feb. 2015, April 2017), Manchester (May 2018), Cairo, Egypt (Nov. 2016), Amsterdam
 (Sept. 2017), and in the Cheltenham area (April 2018, June 2018, Oct. 2018, Sept. 2019, Oct.
 2019). He has also provided training and consultancy services (on theologically informed
 business leadership, entrepreneurship and marketing) to Savills Estate Agents (on behalf of
 Interactive Workshops) (April 2017, March 2018, 2019) and to D2M Design Agency (May 2015).

 Fletcher-Louis was interviewed about his Jesus Monotheism research project for a theological
 podcast series by The Bible Project (BibleProject.com) in July 2019. As of 31.12.2020 the
 podcast had been downloaded 220,000 times.




                                                                                           Page 13
