Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 17: Business and Management Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context
The Unit of Assessment for business and management at the University of Oxford
comprises research staff from six academic departments/colleges, although mainly from
Saïd Business School (hereinafter referred to as the School). This statement therefore
refers primarily to the research environment at the School.
The School’s goal is to address major global challenges in business and society, with
research motivated by real-life challenges. We work with businesses, policymakers,
governments, and international organisations to help our research have impact beyond
academia.
The UOA’s REF2014 environment statement articulated a strategy for improving the
quality of its research performance. This strategy focused on appointing, developing,
and supporting world-class faculty, providing more support for research, and
encouraging a vibrant research culture. Since REF2014, the School has advanced
significantly on these fronts. This is most recently reflected in the 2021 Financial Times
MBA Rankings, where the School climbed 31 places in the research ranking, to 23rd
globally and 2nd in the UK. This is a remarkable achievement and a testament to the
excellent work of the School’s research community over the years. This statement
highlights the improvements made to the research environment at the School.


1.2 Unit structure
For REF2021, UoA 17 is submitting 89 research staff, totalling 84.2 FTE. This includes
35 full professors and 9 early career researchers (ECRs). Three of the ECRs hold
British Academy Fellowships and five are funded through external corporate gifts or
research grants, including gifts from companies such as Google and awards made to
the School’s Centre for Business Taxation.

This REF submission covers all eligible staff in our research community. Eligible staff
make up 63% of our wider research community. The other 37% – ineligible for REF but
important members of our community – includes 22 junior postdoctoral researchers and
31 doctoral research students. All research staff (faculty and research fellows) are
members of one of the School’s academic areas. Many also have affiliations with
specialised research centres/initiatives either within the School or in other parts of the
University. For example, Professor Andrew Stephen is affiliated with the Leverhulme
Centre for Demographic Science; Dr Amir Amel-Zadeh, Dr Martin Schmalz and Dr Nir
Vulkan are members of the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance within the
Department of Engineering Science; and Professor Rafael Ramirez, Professor Felix

                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Reed-Tsochas, Professor Peter Tufano, Dr Eric Thun and Dr Marc Ventresca are
affiliated with the Technology and Management Centre for Development within the
Oxford Department of International Development.



                               FTE of research staff by
                                 department/college
                                              111
                                        3 2




                                                     76.2

                                Number of research staff by
                                   department/college
                                              111
                                        3 2




                                                     81
            Saïd Business School                    Blavatnik School of Government
            Oxford Internet Institute               Oxford Martin School
            Pembroke College                        St Edmund's Hall




                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.2.1 Research centres
The School hosts five research centres – formal sub-
organisations that focus on specific areas of research.
These are externally funded, often by multiple donors,
and are established on the expectation of a lifespan of
10+ years. Each centre is formally reviewed every three
to five years by senior faculty. In 2018, the ten-year-old
Centre for Corporate Reputation (CCR) was reviewed.
This provided constructive feedback to the CCR to help it
shape its research strategy for the next five years.
                                                             ‘I really believe that
Research centres are thriving hubs of research activity.
They house several ECRs, provide researchers with            CBT has been a great
funding, host conferences and bring research into the        home for me as an
School’s education programmes.                               early career
                                                             researcher – I cannot
                                                             imagine a better
                                                             place in the world to
                                                             carry out research in
                                                             the area of business
                                                             tax. CBT gave me the
                                                             tools to advance my
                                                             academic career and
                                                             be selected for an
                                                             Associate
                                                             Professorship at
                                                             Oxford’s Blavatnik
                                                             School of
                                                             Government starting
                                                             in 2021’


                                                             Dr İrem Güçeri

                                                             British Academy
                                                             Postdoctoral Fellow
                                                             and Research Fellow,
                                                             Centre for Business
                                                             Taxation, Saïd
                                                             Business School




                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research centres at Saïd Business School




                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.2.2 Research initiatives
Since REF2014, the School introduced a new sub-
organisation called a research initiative, which is a
smaller-scale version of a research centre that may, over
time, develop into a larger centre. Research initiatives
have an agile and impact-oriented approach to research
by conducting relevant research in collaboration with
external partners, typically corporations. The purpose is
to build capacity, produce outputs and facilitate impact in
domains. This model started in 2016 with the Future of
Marketing Initiative (FOMI) and has grown to a set of six     ‘At Teradata, we love
research initiatives. We have found that leaders from         the spirit and culture
major companies (e.g. Google, L’Oréal, Facebook,              of the Oxford Future
CBRE, WPP, UBS) are willing for their organisations to        of Marketing Initiative.
be involved in research that will help address questions      We thrive on new
of mutual interest to academics and practitioners.            ideas. When we learn
                                                              from each other, we
                                                              multiply our value.
                                                              We were excited
                                                              about the FOMI
                                                              vision when we
                                                              joined. It only gets
                                                              more extraordinary.
                                                              FOMI keeps us
                                                              grounded in relevant
                                                              research today and
                                                              with an eye on the
                                                              future.’

                                                              Mary Gros

                                                              Director of Business
                                                              Relations, Teradata
                                                              Corporation




                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research initiatives at Saïd Business School




                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


External funding is used largely to employ ECRs, who
bring new ideas and expertise into the School.
Importantly, the direct engagement with corporate
partners provides our faculty/researchers with unique
opportunities for collaboration with practitioners to
address real-world challenges. Additionally, these
relationships give ECRs and junior faculty career-
enhancing access to senior executives in world-leading
companies.


The value of research initiatives to partners is                ‘The career
demonstrated by their enthusiastic engagement with              development
research staff, their willingness to recommit funding past      opportunities I have
the initial period (usually three years), and their desire to   as part of FOMI are
deepen engagement with the School over time. For                amazing. I’ve found
example, Teradata Corporation (a global enterprise              new ways to bring my
cloud data and analytics company) was a founding                skills in machine
partner of FOMI. Since then, it has not only renewed its        learning to business
funding commitment but also donated substantially more          and learned first-hand
to establish a postdoctoral research fellowship and fund        about practical issues
executive education programmes that showcase FOMI               that big companies
research to senior executives from large companies.             face implementing
                                                                AI.’

1.3 Strategies for research and impact                          Dr Natalia Efremova
Our research activities are guided by the School’s
                                                                Teradata Research
research strategy, the most recent version of which was
                                                                Fellow in Marketing &
formally agreed in the 2018-19 academic year after a
                                                                AI, Oxford Future of
consultation process in 2017-18. The research strategy
                                                                Marketing Initiative
(1) details the School’s research mission, (2) states our
core research values of excellence, innovation and
relevance, (3) outlines key topic areas of strength and
those for priority future development (see sections 1.3.1
and 1.3.2), (4) presents key performance indicators to
use for measuring achievements against the values and
mission, and (5) describes the resources and
infrastructure the School has or will invest in to deliver on
the strategy.




                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




The Associate Dean of Research (Professor Andrew Stephen) is responsible for the
delivery and implementation of the research strategy, supported by and in collaboration
with the School’s Faculty and Research Committee (FRC). The FRC is regularly
updated at its meetings on matters pertaining to implementation of the strategy and
performance against its key performance indicators (KPIs). The School Board is kept
informed of research progress annually.
It is important to note what the research strategy is not intended for. The School does
not specify the topics that research staff must work on, as our research culture is
underpinned by a strong belief in academic freedom. Instead, to the extent that the
research strategy influences research topics, its intended purpose is to provide staff
with clear guidance on areas that the School considers to be priorities and where we
have a critical mass of research staff. These are described as areas of (current)
strength and priority (future) development areas. We believe that this type of guidance
and prioritisation signals externally what the School is best at and most focused on.
This also helps in attracting faculty and research staff, corporate funders and other
interested parties.




                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.3.1 Areas of strength
These are topic areas in which the School has groups of
like-minded research staff and already has a strong
reputation and publishing track record. They are topics of
relevance to both academic and external stakeholders,
and where research produces excellent outputs and/or
examples of impact.
Existing areas of research strength at the School are:
      Complex organisations and systems, covering
       areas such as scenario planning, megaprojects            ‘Our research
       and systems change                                       strategy recognises
      Digital transformation, covering areas such as           our strengths and will
       finance, marketing, operations, organisational           help to guide our
       behaviour and strategy                                   activities in the
      Entrepreneurship and innovation                          coming years,
      Finance, financial markets, financial institutions,      ensuring that Oxford
       private equity and taxation                              Saïd continues to
      Leadership, corporate governance and                     have a real and
       professional services                                    positive impact on the
      Social impact, responsible business, sustainable         world through
       development and the environment.                         business.’

                                                                Professor Peter
1.3.2 Priority development areas                                Tufano
In keeping with our aim to address world challenges,
these topic areas have been identified by faculty               Peter Moores Dean
leadership as areas in which the School should focus            and Professor of
more research effort. They are highly important, relevant       Finance, Saïd
topics and are used to guide fundraising/development            Business School
activities for research, as well as faculty recruitment (we
consider a candidate’s fit with our priorities). This list is
reviewed every three years and updated as appropriate.
The current priority research topics, all considered
equally important, are:
      Accountability of and trust in business and
       institutions, including the financial industry,
       central banks, multinational corporations and
       governments, with considerations extending
       beyond traditional business outcomes (e.g.
       financial performance, investor returns) to include
       societal concerns (e.g. environmental impact,
       social impact) and new ways of measuring and
       accounting for impact


                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Artificial intelligence, algorithms, data science
       and machine learning applications to business
       and their implications for consumers, employees,
       leaders and society
      Emerging technologies, such as fintech,
       blockchain and augmented/virtual reality, with a
       focus on impacts on consumers, employees,
       leaders and society
      Emerging societal issues that arise from macro-
       factors such as climate change, cybersecurity,
       diversity, privacy, politics, shifting demographics
                                                             ‘As we look towards
       and automation – and the associated business
                                                             an increasingly
       and leadership challenges
                                                             complex future, we
      Healthcare, including with respect to issues
                                                             strive to work to solve
       pertinent to leadership, operations, data and
                                                             some of the most
       patient management
                                                             important issues
      Senior executive leadership and boards,
                                                             facing business and
       including with respect to issues pertinent to
                                                             society. Our research
       corporate governance, diversity, corporate
                                                             priorities reflect the
       reputation and strategy
                                                             issues where our
      Sustainable development, especially issues
                                                             research community
       aligned with the United Nations Sustainable
                                                             can have an impact.’
       Development Goals and how companies
       transform and align their decision making, assets
                                                             Professor Andrew
       and activities to these goals, including new
                                                             Stephen
       business and investment models focused on
       impact and sustainability
                                                             Associate Dean of
      Issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic,
                                                             Research & L’Oréal
       including how consumers, businesses, employees
                                                             Professor of
       and systems have had to adapt to a changed
                                                             Marketing, Saïd
       world and the leadership challenges related to
                                                             Business School
       building back.


1.3.3 Research KPIs
The School’s research strategy details KPIs for
assessing research and impact performance in relation
to the research mission. The KPIs are primarily designed
to be applied at School level, but centres and initiatives
are encouraged to use them where appropriate in self-
assessing their own performance. The KPIs are shown
below, organised around the three core research values
of excellence, innovation and relevance.




                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Key Performance Indicators at Saïd Business School

                                 Number of publications in the last five years

                                 Number of academic citations that the School’s research publications have generated

                                 Number of research groups in the School ranked in the top-10 groups/departments in Europe
EXCELLENCE
Research of the highest          Amount of research funding secured
academic quality
                                 Prizes and awards won by the research community

                                 Membership of editorial boards
                                 Participation in research-relevant academic professional development activities, meetings,
                                 workshops, training programmes
                                 Members of the research community winning or being finalists for national and international research
                                 excellence awards, particularly those recognising innovative thinking

INNOVATION                       Interdisciplinary research collaborations with non-business disciplines
Research that is imaginative
and innovative, looking to the   Number of internal special interest groups
future
                                 Development of research that addresses new issues, creating new areas of academic inquiry

                                 Development of research that challenges the status quo




                                                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                Number of publications involving relevant external stakeholder groups, prompted by a relevant
                                external issue/question
                                Research with demonstrable impact on one or more external stakeholder groups

                                Publication in business-oriented outlets, such as the Harvard Business Review
RELEVANCE                       Members of the research community speaking at industry conferences and events about their
                                research
Research that is meaningfully
                                Members of the research community designing/delivering executive education programmes
relevant to business practice
                                Recognition of research by non-academic industry organisations
                                Number of external funders of research projects that are not government entities or research
                                councils
                                External engagement with digital content related to research (e.g. blogs, social media content, the
                                Oxford Answers website)




                                                                                                                               Page 12
1.3.4 Impact strategy
Impact from research is part of the School’s research mission and a key part of the
current research strategy. ‘Business and management studies’ is an applied academic
discipline with the potential to make positive differences to the world managerially,
economically, socially and politically. Note that our impact strategy goes beyond REF,
as we strive to have a variety of impacts, not only those that fit specific REF definitions
of impact.
For impact, we encourage research to be conducted according to several key
principles.
      Multi-stakeholder: There should always be a relevant stakeholder audience for
       whom the findings will be appealing, meaningful and of practical value.
       Stakeholders of the School’s research typically include commercial
       organisations, governments, policy groups, professional associations, industry
       bodies, communities and individuals. Our research should have a demonstrable
       impact on practice and improve the functioning of markets and organisations.
       Examples of this include REF impact case studies highlighting the engagement
       of Jenkinson and Jones with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK.
       Their collaborative research proving that investment banks favour their long-term
       clients when issuing IPO shares has been used by the FCA and the European
       Securities and Markets Authority to implement new regulation requiring greater
       transparency from banks. This has delivered better outcomes for issuing
       companies, more efficient functioning of the stock market, and necessitated
       significant change in practice by individual investment banks in the UK.

      Multi-level: The School’s research has positive impact on thinking, policy and
       practice at multiple levels of analysis, including the global, regional (geographic),
       national, industry, organisational, group and individual levels. For example, our
       REF impact case study on improving organisational capability and approach to
       strategy using strategic alignment shows that Dr Jonathan Trevor’s research and
       engagement benefits individuals’ leadership skills as much as transforming the
       organisation’s value chain around them. This multi-level impact has been
       witnessed in organisations including Essex County Council, the British Army and
       the Education & Training Foundation in the UK, and Ricoh Europe and the
       Development Bank of Japan internationally.

      Multi-disciplinary: Through our focus on research impact, we encourage
       interdisciplinarity through research that may be relevant to either core business
       areas such as finance, accounting, strategy and marketing, or to broader areas
       such as social policy and social innovation, and climate change and the
       environment. The research insights that underpin another of our impact case
       studies – strategic benefits arising from organisations using the Oxford Scenario
       Planning Approach (OSPA) – are informed by Professor Ramirez’s action




                                                                                    Page 13
       research with practitioners and scholars from
       other disciplines at the triennial Oxford Futures
       Forum (OFF). To date, OFF has confronted
       scenario planning with the fields of social ecology,
       sensemaking, complexity theories and design to
       produce the distinctive insights that inform
       OSPA’s pedagogic design. Our research is
       regularly conducted with researchers in other
       departments of the University of Oxford (the
       Oxford Internet Institute, for example) and in other
       universities.
                                                              ‘Oxford has a long
                                                              history of technology
      Multi-pathway: Our research impact is achieved
                                                              transfer, and an
       through several pathways, including our education
                                                              incredibly well-
       and outreach programmes. Custom executive
                                                              established process
       education, for instance, is led by our academics
                                                              to do so. It certainly
       and provides opportunities to apply action
                                                              was very helpful to
       research insights to improve corporate practices
                                                              deal with people who
       at the industry, organisational or sub-organisation
                                                              have enormous
       (team) levels. Each programme is an incubator for
                                                              amounts of
       ideas and provides a direct interface with practice.
                                                              experience in
       An example is research by Professor Bent
                                                              commercialising
       Flvvbjerg and Dr Alexander Budzier on the theory
                                                              research.’
       and methodology of quality control and due
       diligence in megaproject management. This long-
       running research programme has improved the            Dr Felipe Thomaz
       performance of governments and companies
       around the world in managing megaprojects              Associate Professor
       through a combination of custom executive              of Marketing, Saïd
       education training through the Major Projects          Business School
       Leadership Academy, advisory and consultancy
       roles via Oxford Global Projects, and major media      Co-Founder,
       outlets such as the Financial Times (FT).              Augmented
       Similarly, our start-up incubator, the Oxford          Intelligence Labs
       Foundry, provides an environment for students
       from across the University to access the School’s
       research and faculty thought leadership to support
       their business ventures and personal
       development.

Our impact case studies reflect our approach to
achieving international societal and economic impacts
through knowledge exchange and collaborative research
with public bodies and business, and via custom
executive education offerings underpinned by our
faculty’s research.

                                                                                  Page 14
1.3.5 Support for impact
The importance of and focus on research impact has increased since REF2014.
Following the formal process put in place to identify and prepare our impact case
studies for REF2021, we have created a new leadership role to further develop and
foster our impact activities. The role of Faculty Director for Impact was created in 2020
and is held by Dr Jonathan Trevor. Building on the work done informally on impact
since REF2014 and recently in preparation for REF2021, this role will develop a
detailed impact strategy and put in place new ways to help all researchers in the School
to generate more impact from their research, whatever their career stage or rank. This
will include closer links between our research activities and executive education
programmes, as the high calibre of senior leaders who attend these programmes
provides excellent opportunities for impact pathways as well as for generating new,
managerially relevant research ideas.
Another avenue for research impact in which the School has invested recently is the
commercialisation of research-generated intellectual property. As a pilot exercise
starting in 2019 and concluding in 2020, with Oxford University Innovation (OUI), we
formed our first-ever research spinout company, Augmented Intelligence Labs (AIL).
AIL is based on research conducted by Dr Gregory Clark (research fellow), Dr Felipe
Thomaz (faculty) and Professor Andrew Stephen (faculty). They developed new
algorithms and methods for using social media data to detect emergent trends for
product innovation in consumer-packaged goods. AIL has partnered with the global
market research/insights agency Kantar to bring AIL’s technologies to Kantar’s clients
such as L’Oréal, LVMH, Unilever and Nestlé. The School’s research support team
learnt a great deal from this exercise and are generating guidance for research staff to
encourage and support future commercialisation activities, in addition to workshops with
OUI on how to commercialise research (which falls under the ‘Innovation’ part of our
research strategy).


1.4 Research integrity, data protection and openness
1.4.1 Integrity and ethics
The School is committed to supporting a healthy culture of research integrity.
For research ethics, the School has a Departmental Research Ethics Committee
(DREC), under the auspices of the Central University Research Ethics Committee
(CUREC). In most cases, research ethics applications from a member of the School’s
research staff are handled by our DREC without having to go to a central committee.
This saves time, as our DREC operates efficiently and usually turns applications around
very quickly. The DREC has four faculty members on it, who each serve for a three-
year term, with one acting as the chair. Committee members rigorously review
applications, provide feedback if necessary, and all have substantial experience with
human-subjects research. In recent years, the DREC has evaluated and approved
approximately 75 applications per year. Applications are exclusively for research
projects that are submitted by the School’s research community and taught students
                                                                                 Page 15
carrying out research projects as part of their degree. The DREC mostly handles basic
issues that occur in the regular practice of research involving collecting data from
individuals, such as rights to privacy, confidentiality and preserving anonymity.
Additionally, the School is quick to adapt its practices on research integrity in line with
changes in the wider academic community. For example, in 2019 we acted quickly to
institute a policy on the fair treatment of research participants. This policy concerns fair
compensation for research participants, aimed particularly at research projects using
crowdsourcing platforms. This was enacted in a matter of weeks in response to press
reports that participant payment on such platforms was low and unfair.


1.4.2 Research data protection
Research staff are ultimately responsible for maintaining research data. All staff have
access to secure, professionally managed IT services housed in the School. Within the
suite of IT services, staff have access to secure cloud-based file storage (as part of the
Microsoft Office 365 suite). This is a managed service that provides security to the
standards required by the University and has backups/redundancy in the event of lost
or damaged files. This system works well and is satisfactory for the needs of most staff.
In some other cases, where data is of a more sensitive nature and requires special
handling (for example, higher levels of data and network security), our IT staff have
worked effectively with the central university and contractors to design custom secure
systems for research staff.

1.4.3 Research openness and reproducibility
In recent years in many scientific disciplines, including many within
business/management, there have been calls for ‘open science’ (for example, making
research data available on public repositories such as Open Science Framework
(OSF)), as well as concerns about the reproducibility of certain types of research. The
School supports calls for a more open, transparent and reproducible science as a
matter of principle. We do, however, recognise that in practical terms data used in
business research often cannot be publicly shared because of the proprietary nature of
the data. For instance, if a company provides data to one of our academics under a
legal data-sharing agreement, it is usually the case that the data cannot be accessed by
anyone outside that particular research team.

Where possible, however, we encourage our research staff to be as open and
transparent as possible with respect to data and associated research processes (for
example, computer code used for data analysis). We do not have a strict policy on this
as norms and requirements differ between sub-disciplines and much of the push for
open science practices in business/management has been made by academic journals.
We therefore have left it to individual staff to ensure that they follow the rules set by the
journals to which they send manuscripts.




                                                                                     Page 16
1.4.4 Output selection
The unit convened a REF steering committee in 2019, with activities conforming to the
University's REF Code of Practice. The committee was led by the REF lead, the Associate
Dean of Research, with a further five academic representatives from across the School,
including the REF coordinator and REF impact lead. The committee was supported by six
professional staff members. The Associate Dean of Research provided updates on the REF
process to all academic staff at the School at termly meetings.
The selection of outputs was a rigorous process to ensure parity of treatment across all 89
researchers. The initial call for nominations in March 2019, with additional nominations added to
the pool throughout 2019 and 2020. All Category A staff members were asked to nominate up
to five outputs they felt represented their strongest work. We trained all full and associate
professors at the School in REF output grading; each nominated output was reviewed by two
readers from this group according to the REF criteria for output excellence. From the pool of
assessed outputs, based on the review grades, those finally returned were selected to meet the
minimum criteria of one per Category A staff and output excellence. This process was handled
confidentially by the REF Lead, REF Coordinator and the Research Manager.




                                     Distribution of number of outputs per category A staff member
                                45
                                40
   Number of category A staff




                                35
                                30
                                25
                                20                                                          ECR

                                15                                                          Other Cat A staff

                                10
                                5
                                0
                                     1 output 2 outputs 3 outputs 4 outputs 5 outputs

                                                 Number of outputs in submission




1.5 COVID-19 impact on research
COVID-19 has impacted the School’s researchers. Most, although not all, researchers
in a December 2020 survey indicated that their research productivity was below
average throughout much of 2020. In addition to health- and family-related reasons,
those surveyed stated that an increased need to spend time on teaching activities

                                                                                                       Page 17
reduced their research time. The School has recognised this and has taken various
compensatory steps, including supporting extensions of tenure clocks for junior faculty
and (where funding permits) extending the contracts of fixed-term ECRs. In 2021 we
plan to find other ways to help research staff ‘get back on their feet’ as much as
possible. This process of preparing for 2021 began during the autumn of 2020 with the
Associate Dean of Research having conversations with affected faculty members and a
survey of research staff to help understand what the School can do and what would be
most effective and helpful. To date, we have encouraged research staff to apply to the
University’s COVID-19 recovery fund where appropriate. In addition, in early 2021 the
School leadership approved a package of measures to ensure that internal
grants/funding for planned research that could not be conducted due to COVID-19 will
be rolled over to the next academic year for many staff, with preference given to ECRs
and pre-tenure faculty members. This means that stalled projects can be restarted
when possible without the need to reapply for internal funding.




                                                                               Page 18
 2. People


2.1 Overview and major improvements since REF2014
Saïd Business School has a vibrant, diverse research community. In addition to our
core research staff of faculty members and ECR (postdoctoral) researchers, our wider
research community includes doctoral students (average incoming class size of 7.6
students between 2014 and 2020), visiting academics, affiliated faculty from other
departments in the University (for example, the Oxford Internet Institute), and our
research support team.




                                         Faculty


                     Research                                Early-
                      support                                career
                       team                               researchers


                                        Research
                                       community


                     Academic                              Doctoral
                      visitors                             students

                                        Affiliated
                                        faculty in
                                           the
                                        University
                                        of Oxford




The School and the UOA has broad international representation, with research staff
from 23 different countries and 56% of the UOA declaring a nationality outside the UK.




                                                                                Page 19
                     Nationality groups making up UOA-17



                        12%

                                            31%
                                                                   United Kingdon
                                                                   European Union
                                                                   Rest of the world
               33%
                                                                   Unknown


                                     24%




In terms of the core research staff (faculty and researchers), since REF2014 this group
has increased by 18.3% (from 93 to 110).
Along with this growth we have seen quality improvements in terms of publications in
top-tier journals (such as those on the ABS 4* and FT50 lists) generated by our
research staff, particularly faculty members. We attribute this to six main reasons:
      Annual faculty development reviews that help faculty develop and improve
       through constructive feedback.
      Cooperation between the School and the central University to allow faculty
       to be paid competitive salaries and receive merit-based increases to help with
       recruitment and retention in a highly competitive global labour market for
       business academics.
      Investing in more internal funding resources for research. For example, from
       2018 the School has doubled the annual research allowances for all pre-tenure
       faculty and for tenured faculty with a very good level of research productivity. An
       internal grant scheme for small grants, the Faculty Research Fund, was
       established in 2017.
      Focus on continual improvement to the vibrancy of the research
       environment, led by the Associate Dean of Research and the research support
       team. Initiatives on this front have included an internal Dean’s Research Seminar
       Series (held up to 6 times a year, at which faculty present research to colleagues
       and getting feedback); a research newsletter (produced three times a year,
       celebrating research excellence); and workshops/seminars for research staff (for
       example, a ‘How to publish in top journals’ session featuring professors with
       significant publishing and editorial experience).

                                                                                   Page 20
   Emphasis on senior faculty mentorship of junior faculty and ECRs. On
    joining the School, every pre-tenure faculty member is assigned a mentor from
    the professoriate. ECRs are mentored by their faculty PI and, in some cases, by
    other interested faculty members. In 2020 we created a new leadership position,
    Faculty Director for the Researcher Community (Professor Felix Reed-Tsochas),
    responsible for pastoral care and career development mentoring for early-career
    researchers.
   A successful faculty recruitment strategy focused on attracting top global
    academic talent at all career stages, including emphasis on new senior faculty.
    Nine new professors have joined the School since REF2014.




                                                                             Page 21
New senior faculty at Saïd Business School: 2014-20

             Renée Adams, Professor of Finance and recent finance editor of
             Management Science



             Marya Besharov, Professor of Organisations and Impact



             Thomas Hellmann, DP World Professor of Entrepreneurship and
             Innovation


            Matthias Holweg, American Standard Companies Professor of
            Operations Management



            Tom Lawrence, Professor of Strategic Management



            Sally Maitlis, Professor of Organisational Behaviour and Leadership



            Pinar Ozcan, Professor of Entrepreneurship and Innovation


            Andrew Stephen, L'Oréal Professor of Marketing and editor of Journal
            of Consumer Research


            Eero Vaara, Professor of Organisations and Impact and recent
            associate editor of Academy of Management Journal



2.2 Research leadership
The School is run by the Dean, as the head of department. The diagram shows the
leadership team that supports the Dean. Additionally, for research, the Associate Dean
of Research has two Faculty Directors.




                                                                               Page 22
Page 23
The academic leadership meets fortnightly as part of the
Senior Leadership Group (joined by the School’s Chief
Operating Officer, Director of Faculty Services and
                                                              Faculty Career
Director of Finance). This group advises the Dean on a
                                                              Development
variety of matters that affect our research staff, directly
or indirectly.
The School’s primary governance body for research is
the Faculty and Research Committee (FRC), convening
twice a term. This committee maintains oversight of
research strategy and is responsible for ensuring that
research and impact are given priority in the allocation of   ‘Being an associate
resources. The membership is the Associate Dean of            fellow at Saïd
Research, Faculty Dean, Academic Area Heads,                  Business School
Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, and Director      allows me to engage
of Faculty Services.                                          Dr
                                                              withRhonda
                                                                     great Hadi
The other relevant committee in the School oversees the       researchers and
                                                              •faculty
                                                                   Completed
                                                                       that givePhD
                                                                                 me at
annual developmental reviews of all research staff. For
                                                                   Baruch
                                                               ideas,      College,
                                                                       as well as who
faculty, the FRC is joined by the Associate Dean for
                                                                   New   York in 2014
                                                               benefit from insights
Executive Education and becomes the Faculty                    •from
                                                                   Joined  Saïd
Development Review Committee. For ECRs, the Faculty                  my extensive
                                                                   Business School
Director for the Researcher Community also joins.               business and
                                                                   as untenured
                                                                leadership
For operational matters pertaining to research, the                Associate
                                                                experience.’
                                                                   Professor of
School has a research support team (see section 3.2.1).
                                                                    Marketing in 2014
                                                              •Seth   Rogin by
                                                                    Mentored
                                                                    Professor Sally
2.3 Academic visitors and associate fellows                    Associate
                                                                    Maitlis and
                                                                            Fellow,
                                                                                 senior
In support of the research strategy’s values of                Saïd colleagues
                                                                      Business in  the
                                                                                 School
excellence, innovation and relevance, and in common                 marketing faculty
                                                               CEO, group
                                                                       Magnolia Media
with most business schools, we accept visiting
                                                               •Partners
                                                                    Awarded tenure in
professors and academic visitors. We currently host
                                                                    2020
seven visiting professors, and in 2019/20 we hosted 18          • Joined the
academic visitors; these are usually early- or mid-career       Chief Commercial
                                                                    School’s
academics who visit us for between one month and one            Officer, Future team
                                                                    leadership   Media
year and contribute to the research activities in the           Group
                                                                    as the first
School.                                                             Associate Dean
                                                                    for Diversity and
Additionally, we have a community of associate scholars             Inclusion in
who include academics from other institutions who have              December 2020
a relationship with the School and collaborate closely
with our research staff (in 2019/20, we had 20 associate
scholars). Non-academics can be associate fellows and
are typically senior practitioners who bring a wealth of
knowledge and experience into the School primarily for
executive teaching, but also engage with research staff


                                                                                  Page 24
to improve the relevance of their research and establish potential pathways to impact.




2.4 Career development and progression
2.4.1 Faculty
New faculty support. New faculty receive specific support during their first two years at
the School to enable them to focus on their research. They receive a 33% teaching
remission, a doubled personal research budget and have a senior faculty mentor with
whom they are encouraged to discuss their personal research plans and identify
anything that may be inhibiting their productivity. Academic professional development is
currently considered the Faculty Development Review (FDR) process. More informal
opportunities for academic professional development are available to our faculty and
researchers through research seminars, retreats/camps, symposia and conferences run
by academic areas.


Faculty Development Reviews. In 2016, the FDR process became the foundation for
the annual pre-emptive retention alignment exercise with the added step of a formal
evaluation of teaching, research, and citizenship. FDRC’s formal evaluations, with
supporting documentation and data, are passed to the School’s Remuneration
Committee for consideration for salary alignment (which is solely within the School and
is unique in Oxford). This process has proved to be successful. Although some faculty
have received competing offers, we have not lost a single faculty member apart from
two resignations from faculty who relocated for family reasons.


Sabbatical policy. The University of Oxford has a generous sabbatical leave policy for
faculty members. Faculty are eligible for sabbatical leave, accruing one term’s leave for
every six terms of qualifying service. This amounts to a full year of sabbatical
entitlement for every six years of service. Sabbaticals are used to focus on research,
which may entail progressing research to publication, completing book projects,




                                                                                  Page 25
undertaking fieldwork or visiting other academic
institutions. Faculty must submit a plan for their
sabbatical for approval by the FRC. Following the            Faculty
sabbatical, faculty submit a brief report. During
                                                             Sabbatical
sabbatical leave, faculty will not be required to teach or
be expected to conduct any activities such as committee
                                                             Benefits
memberships or examiner roles.


2.4.2 Early-career postdoctoral researchers
Early-career postdoctoral researchers are valued
members of our research community. The School
recognises that it has a duty of care to prepare
postdoctoral researchers for the next stage in their
career, whilst ensuring that they have the necessary
skills to succeed in their current role. In line with our    Dr Pedro Bordalo
research strategy and since the last REF we have
developed more formal to supporting ECRs. The School         •   Joined Saïd
agrees with the UK Concordat to Support the Career               Business School
Development of Researchers and its implementation. All           as untenured
major aspects of the Concordat were already in place at          Associate
the School because of continual improvements in                  Professor of
researcher development.                                          Finance in 2016
                                                             •   Awarded tenure in
Responsibility for ECR development and support is                2018
shared across several people:                                •   Sabbatical at
                                                                 Harvard
      The researcher themselves: ownership of their             University,
       personal development, a commitment to complete            Department of
       a Career Development Plan, to attend available            Economics in
       training, seek out opportunities as appropriate,          autumn 2018
       and request support from the School.                  •   Sabbatical led to
                                                                 new collaborations
      PI and/or mentor: set appropriate standards               and projects that
       including publication standards, offer career             have resulted in
       advice and career development opportunities, and          top-tier journal
       advise on and oversee the completion of the               publications
       Career Development Plan.
      Associate Dean of Research: oversight of the
       Researcher Development Review (RDR) process
       and of the School’s support for researchers, be an
       additional point of advice, manage disbursement
       of the Researcher Development Fund.
      Faculty Director for the Researcher
       Community: an additional point of advice, work
       with researchers and PIs to ensure work and

                                                                                Page 26
       mentorship standards are upheld, provide pastoral care to researchers, assist in
       the RDR process.
      Researcher HR Officer: coordination, administration and monitoring of the
       researcher Career Development Plan and the Researcher Development Fund.
      Faculty and Research Committee: ongoing oversight of researchers and form
       the committee that undertakes the annual RDR process.


The annual Researcher Development Review process has been in place since
REF2014; it is similar to and aligned with the FDR process for faculty. The RDR
provides all eligible ECRs with an opportunity for an annual review conversation with a
faculty member and a thorough review by the senior faculty leadership team with formal
feedback, and follow-up conversations as needed.

In 2018, we introduced a bespoke Career Development Plan (CDP) for ECRs following
consultation with researchers. The CDP encourages research staff and PIs/mentors to
achieve higher levels of development in the areas of research skills, teaching and
personal development. The framework seeks to provide clear guidance to ECRs as
they embark on their academic careers, sets goals and expectations, and identifies
training needs (met by, for example, in-house training courses in the University or,
external training funded by the School).

An example of internal training for ECRs is the Early Career Write Club, run by
Professor Tom Lawrence. This is an intensive and highly effective academic writing
course where researchers work on writing all parts of an academic paper over the
course of several weeks with close faculty mentorship. Each week they read each
other’s work and give feedback that helps improve their writing.

At the end of an ECR’s contract, research staff are exited in line with the University’s
procedure for termination of fixed-term contracts. Since REF2014 the School has
required the fixed term to be three years unless exceptional circumstances require it to
be shorter. Researchers usually go on to permanent academic posts at other
universities. In the past three years, 19 ECRs have left the School, and have gone to
institutions that include Manchester University, Alan Turing Institute, King’s College
London, McGill University, Lisbon University, University of Amsterdam and the
University of Pavia.


2.4.3 Doctoral students
All our research students are in the doctoral (DPhil) programme and are an important
part of our research community. Since REF2014, an average of 7-8 students have
joined the doctoral programme each year (0 research-based professional doctorates).




                                                                                 Page 27
                          Doctoral students joining per year
   14


   12


   10


    8


    6


    4


    2


    0
           2014       2015       2016        2017         2018      2019      2020

                               female students      male students




Doctoral students are encouraged to work closely with faculty on research. Such
collaboration often leads to the publication of co-authored papers that further doctoral
students’ careers. On average, four students have co-authored a journal article with a
faculty member per year during the REF period.




                                                                                     Page 28
                                             Publications co-authored by faculty and doctoral students

                                         9

                                         8
  Number of published journal articles




                                         7

                                         6

                                         5

                                         4

                                         3

                                         2

                                         1

                                         0
                                              2014      2015       2016      2017       2018      2019       2020



Several changes have been made to the School’s doctoral programme since REF2014,
aimed at recruiting high-potential students and improving their experiences and
outcomes.
                                        Improved doctoral programme marketing/promotion: the academic directors
                                         of the programme have invested more time in promoting the programme,
                                         including running webinars, hosting information sessions and experience days.
                                         We have also begun developing a ‘pre-doc’ programme, aiming to enhance the
                                         prospective student pipeline by providing research experience to interested
                                         candidates in advance of them applying. We plan to target populations that are
                                         underrepresented in academia.
                                        Separate streams for management and finance: the programme has been
                                         split into two formal streams to provide clarity to prospective students. This also
                                         enhances employability of students by identifying their research areas to
                                         employers.
                                        Support/encouragement for industry and interdisciplinary work: doctoral
                                         students are supported in undertaking fieldwork in industry and/or at other
                                         academic institutions by allowances to assist in funding these activities. Since
                                         REF2014, this includes linking with other Oxford departments (for example, the
                                         Oxford Internet Institute, the Oxford-Man Institute, Centre for Experimental Social
                                         Science, Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies), visiting MIT and Wharton, and
                                         linking with various industries (such as accounting, investment, oil and gas,
                                         technology).


                                                                                                                     Page 29
      Expansion of scholarships: the School offers
       full scholarships to all doctoral students, with
       funding from various sources, including the Saïd
       Foundation, Green Templeton College, ESRC
       Doctoral Training Centre, Sasakawa, Pembroke
       College, Oxford, the Clarendon Fund and our
       research centres.
      Development and training: doctoral students
       present research at the School’s annual DPhil
       Research Day. They also receive funding support
       of £1,200 throughout their programme to                 ‘The RA scheme has
       encourage them to present at major international        given me the
       academic conferences and doctoral symposia in           opportunity to work
       their disciplines. In addition, doctoral students are   more closely with
       coached by faculty for the academic job market.         faculty, in my case
                                                               Rhonda Hadi and
      Research assistance/teaching assistance
                                                               Andrew Stephen. As
       (RA/TA) scheme: the research and teaching
                                                               a result, I have
       assistance scheme was developed in 2019
                                                               accelerated my
       following consultation across the School on the
                                                               learning and we now
       level of stipend support to students. The scheme
                                                               have a co-authored
       offers an opportunity for students to earn extra
                                                               paper that is at an
       money while enabling them to gain essential
                                                               advanced stage of
       experience through supporting faculty on
                                                               review at a top
       research, teaching, or both. This also helps the
                                                               journal.’
       research productivity of faculty members, who
       receive additional RA support. The scheme is
       flexible, allowing the students to spread the work      Bill Fritz
       across the four years of their degree. The funding
       available to each student is equivalent to an           Doctoral student in
       average of 206 hours per year or 4 hours per            management/
       week.                                                   marketing



2.5 Diversity and inclusion
We have worked on improving diversity in our research
staff for many years and this work continues. We believe
that our research community benefits from diversity in all
forms, including but not limited to gender, race,
professional and personal backgrounds, research
methodologies and academic disciplines. This
commitment was reaffirmed in 2020 by the School’s
senior leadership team, and in late 2020 the Dean
appointed the School’s first Associate Dean for Diversity
and Inclusion (Dr Rhonda Hadi).


                                                                                 Page 30
2.5.1 Gender
We have made significant improvements in gender
diversity since REF2014. We went from 15.9% to 22.1%
female representation among the faculty; among ECRs,
female representation has dropped from 63.3% in 2014
to 45.5% in 2020, but in absolute terms is still close to
our target of 50%. On the faculty side, 22.1% female
faculty is still not good enough, and we will continue our
efforts to increase the number of female faculty. Faculty
recruitment panels for the last few years have refused to
advance a search to the interview stage if the shortlist     ‘Following maternity
lacks sufficient gender diversity (close to 50/50). We       leave, the School
have had some success in recruiting pre-tenure women         suspended my
(five since 2014) and female ECRs, but attracting senior     teaching
female faculty is harder. Nevertheless, of the nine          responsibilities for a
professors appointed during 2014-20, four are women.         term so that I could
Ensuring gender diversity across our research                focus on research.’
community has been and will continue to be a strategic
priority. We were awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in              Dr Cammy Crolic
2018, and our Athena SWAN action plan details more           Associate Professor
than 70 actions to make positive changes across the          of Marketing, Saïd
School’s community including research staff. We have         Business School
committed resources to deliver these actions including a
faculty lead, professional staff time and a dedicated
budget. Guided by the Athena SWAN action plan (2017-
21) and the Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion,
we will continue to pay close attention to the following:
      Identifying better ways to attract strong female
       applicants to our faculty posts: including how we
       run our search processes, marketing materials,
       recruitment experience, internal pipeline, and
       taking a long view in relation to identifying and
       engaging with individuals of interest through
       visitor and affiliate schemes.
      Considering how we ensure that we develop and
       retain our female faculty, including culture,
       working practices, promotional pathways and
       family leave policies. We are reviewing our
       parental leave policy and in recent years have
       supported two female faculty members in their
       applications to the Vice-Chancellor’s Returning
       Carers’ Fund.
      Looking at how we develop and guide: including
       career development support for doctoral students

                                                                                Page 31
       and postdoctoral researchers, having visible role models and support networks.
       For example, the School has a Women Faculty Network that meets regularly,
       and female doctoral students and early-career researchers are also invited to
       participate.


2.5.2 Race and other types of diversity
With respect to race and other types of diversity, more work is to be done. To advance
our efforts in this, the Dean established an Anti-Racism Initiative Taskforce (ARIT) in
2020, consisting of 65 voluntary members made up of faculty, professional staff,
researchers, students and alumni. This group was charged with making
recommendations on the actions that the School should take on the heels of the global
outrage over racial inequity and injustice developments.
Within ARIT, a workstream focused on understanding and promoting racial diversity,
inclusivity, and equity within the research community at the School. After broad
consultation, the group came up with several recommendations, which the School will
pursue in the coming months and years. These include:
      Gathering confidential data on racial and ethnic origins of all research staff, to
       enable evaluation of the nature of racial inequality at the School.
      School-wide education initiatives such as a mandatory reading project for all our
       staff and students. Such material could then be openly discussed in reading
       circles to initiate and normalise discussions pertaining to race and racism.
      Providing opportunities for open discussions around race and racism, and
       creating safe spaces where students, staff and faculty can share their lived
       experiences without repercussions in a peer-facilitated format.
      Training for the research community and teaching staff in how to facilitate a
       progressive discussion that is more inclusive of underrepresented voices, such
       as women, people of colour and individuals whose primary language is not
       English.
      Developing metrics for evaluating equity and inclusion initiatives.
      Hiring more researchers and faculty from traditionally underrepresented groups
       in business education. In the long term, the School should represent diverse
       leadership, perspectives, and expertise to authentically execute its mandate of
       creating leaders for the future.




                                                                                    Page 32
2.5.3 Disability
In 2020 the School launched a new employee resource
group, Saïd Enabled, which aims to increase support
and training for staff with disabilities. The group is led by
Dr Rita Mota, Intesa Sanpaolo Research Fellow, and is
made up of research and professional staff at the
School.




                                                                ‘Saïd Enabled is
                                                                working to develop a
                                                                disability policy
                                                                outlining how we are
                                                                creating an inclusive
                                                                and accessible
                                                                working environment
                                                                for our staff, students
                                                                and visitors. This will
                                                                be key to our
                                                                development as an
                                                                inclusive employer
                                                                and School’

                                                                Dr Rita Mota

                                                                Intesa Sanpaolo
                                                                Research Fellow,
                                                                Oxford University
                                                                Centre for Corporate
                                                                Reputation, Saïd
                                                                Business School




                                                                                   Page 33
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research income
The research activities of the Unit are supported by internal (School and University) and
external (government and non-government) sources. Since REF2014, the total annual
value of external grants/gifts has increased.

                          Research income - UOA-C17
 £7,000,000.00

 £6,000,000.00
                                                                  Research Councils
 £5,000,000.00                                                    UK Public Sector
                                                                  EU Government
 £4,000,000.00
                                                                  UK Industry
 £3,000,000.00                                                    EU Industry
                                                                  Non-EU Industry
 £2,000,000.00                                                    UK Charity
                                                                  Non-EU Charity
 £1,000,000.00
                                                                  Health Research
             £-                                                   Other Sources




3.1.1 Research grants and gifts
Externally, funding comes from governmental funding bodies such as UK Research and
Innovation and, increasingly, non-government sources, including corporate gifts and
research contracts. The School encourages its research community to pursue all
relevant types of external research funding.
The School recognises the benefit of external funding from non-government sources,
particularly corporate entities. Research initiatives such as the Oxford Future of
Marketing Initiative, the Oxford Future of Real Estate Initiative, and the Oxford AI and
Sustainable Development Initiative are where external corporate funding is being used
to directly fund research costs and to enhance the potential for subsequent impact by
helping to ensure that research undertaken has relevance to external stakeholders
through business engagement.



                                                                                  Page 34
In the REF period, the School has received research gifts from organisations based in
23 countries. Gifts from the UK and USA account for over 75% of gifts; gifts have also
come from Pakistan, China, Italy, Brazil and other countries.
The following graphs show performance on various sources of external funding for
2014-20.



                                          Competitive grant applications
                           50                                                          70%

                           45
                                                                                       60%
                           40

                                                                                       50%
  Number of applications




                           35




                                                                                             Success rate (%)
                           30
                                                                                       40%
                           25
                                                                                       30%
                           20

                           15                                                          20%

                           10
                                                                                       10%
                           5

                           0                                                           0%
                                2014   2015     2016    2017    2018    2019    2020

                                       Funded          Not funded      Success rate




                                                                                                                Page 35
                    Industry and charity research income
 £5,000,000.00

 £4,500,000.00

 £4,000,000.00

 £3,500,000.00

 £3,000,000.00

 £2,500,000.00
                                                                           Charity
 £2,000,000.00                                                             Industry

 £1,500,000.00

 £1,000,000.00

   £500,000.00

           £-
                 13/14   14/15   15/16   16/17   17/18   18/18   19/20
                                     Academic year


3.1.2 Internal research funding
The School provides sources of funding for research activity in the form of research
allowances to faculty and researchers, as well as through competitive internal funding
schemes.
Faculty members receive an annual research allowance of £3,000. This is doubled to
£6,000 automatically for pre-tenure faculty and for tenured faculty with a very good
publication record based on outputs over the previous three years. These ‘enhanced’
research allowances started in 2018 and equate to approximately an extra £125,000
per year of internal research funding. This is a significant investment in research
excellence and represents a doubling of our annual budget allocated to research
support. This is a reasonable figure within Oxford, but we acknowledge that it is low
compared with other leading research-focused business schools.
The competitive internal funding schemes are deliberately light touch, ensuring that the
application process is not onerous and that funding decisions can be made and
disseminated promptly. Within the REF period, the School has had three internal
funding schemes, the Faculty Research Fund (FRF), the Researcher Development
Fund (RDF) and the Research Assistance Fund (RA fund). Each scheme had a formal
application round each term, with off-cycle applications being considered where the
request is urgent. The RA fund, which was in part funded by the Saïd Foundation,
closed in 2020 to simplify the number of funding applications research staff had to
make, and because the research and teaching assistance scheme for doctoral
students, which came into effect in 2019, offered more RA resources. The budgets and
remits of the FRF and RDF were simultaneously expanded to ensure that funding-levels
were maintained.


                                                                                     Page 36
Details of these funding sources are as follows:
                           Researcher Development Fund: £40,000 per annum for early-career
                            researcher development, including research assistance support, conference
                            travel, development/training courses. In 2020, the fund received 6 applications,
                            of which 5 were supported. This equated to an ask on the fund of £27,772, with
                            £23,119 being awarded. The high success rate indicates our desire to provide as
                            much support to early-career researchers as feasible.


                           Faculty Research Fund: launched in 2017, initially £75,000 per annum and then
                            raised to £100,000 per annum for faculty research activities that are highly likely
                            to lead to publications in leading journals, which will seed research that could
                            help with large external grant proposals and/or generate significant impact.
                            Applications of up to £7,500 are welcomed termly. To date, 66 grants have been
                            awarded to 40 faculty for a total of £389,525. The success rate has been 90.9%.
                            Among projects funded is Women Transforming Leadership, which aims to
                            understand how female leaders reach the top of organisations and what makes
                            them effective once they get there. The fund’s support led to a draft paper being
                            presented at the 2019 European Group for Organizational Studies Conference,
                            ahead of submission to an ABS 4* journal. This support has also pump-primed a
                            successful application to the University’s John Fell Fund – an internal research
                            fund.


                                                      Faculty Research Fund
                                                   Applications and success rates
                           25
                                                                                                              100%

                           20
                                                                                                              80%
  Number of applications




                                                                                                                     Success rate (%)



                           15
                                                                                                              60%


                           10                                                                                 40%


                           5                                                                                  20%


                           0                                                                                  0%
                                    2017                  2018                2019                     2020

                                           Female total applications         Male total applications
                                           Female applicants, success rate   Male applicants, success rate




                                                                                                                      Page 37
                             Research Assistant (RA) Fund: an annual fund of £60,000 jointly funded by the
                              School and the Saïd Foundation between 2013 and 2020. Over the last three
                              years, 24 faculty have received support, 13 of whom received more than one
                              award. Between 2014 and 2019 the success rate was 81%. This scheme was
                              ended in 2020.


                                               Research Assistant Funding Scheme
                                                 Applications and success rates
                         35
                                                                                                                    100%

                         30

                                                                                                                    80%
Number of applications




                         25




                                                                                                                           Success rate (%)
                         20                                                                                         60%


                         15
                                                                                                                    40%

                         10

                                                                                                                    20%
                         5


                         0                                                                                          0%
                                   2014       2015            2016            2017           2018            2019
                                            Female total applications            Male total applications
                                            Female applicants, success rate      Male applicants, success rate




                              In addition to these three funding sources, our faculty can apply to the Saïd
                              Foundation Strategic Development Fund as well as (at the University level) the
                              Strategic Research Fund and the John Fell Fund.


                              Details of these funding sources are as follows:


                             Saïd Foundation Strategic Development Fund: this fund is provided by the
                              Saïd Foundation and is administered within the School. It can provide support for
                              any type of strategic project, including but not limited to research. Non-research
                              projects supported through the fund include the Teaching and Learning Initiative,
                              which offers support for faculty in teaching excellence. During this REF period,
                              this fund has supported a number of research projects: (1) the RA fund; (2)
                              £20,000 initial seed-funding for the Future of Marketing Initiative; (3) £62,000 for
                              ‘Engaging with the Humanities’ led by Dr Pegram Harrison, an interdisciplinary
                              project that aimed to increase the ties between the business school and
                              humanities and that led to several publications, seminars and the Art at Oxford


                                                                                                                           Page 38
    Saïd programme; (4) £10,500 for ‘Science,
    Humanity and Meaning’ led by Professor Teppo
    Felin and Professor Colin Mayer with University-
    wide collaboration including the Blavatnik School
    of Government; and (5) £22,000 for ‘50–16’ led by
    Professor Matthias Holweg, a project focused on
    studying email use and productivity, the aim being
    to reduce unnecessary emails. The Saïd
    Foundation also funds doctoral scholarships
    (approximately £300,000 per annum) and a
    doctoral student research allowance fund
                                                         ‘We value our
    (£57,600 over eight years).
                                                         relationship with Saïd
                                                         Business School and
   John Fell Fund (JFF): an internal research fund
                                                         the Engaging with the
    financed by Oxford University Press, intended to
                                                         Humanities
    pump-prime external research activity. The fund
                                                         programme. There is
    recently announced a priority focus for new
                                                         still very little real
    researchers. The School’s research staff have
                                                         research being done
    been reasonably active in applying to the JFF and
                                                         at the intersection
    have had good success rates in a highly
                                                         between business
    competitive field.
                                                         and the humanities,
                                                         and what is being
                                                         done needs to be
                                                         more international in
                                                         scope. We look
                                                         forward to
                                                         strengthening the
                                                         impact of this
                                                         partnership between
                                                         our two ancient
                                                         universities, and to
                                                         developing new
                                                         knowledge as well as
                                                         more humane
                                                         management
                                                         practices.’


                                                         Professor Luca Zan

                                                         Professor of
                                                         Management,
                                                         University of Bologna




                                                                           Page 39
                               John Fell Fund: overall applications and success rates
                          12                                                               70%


                          10                                                               60%
 Number of applications




                                                                                           50%
                          8




                                                                                                 Success rate (%)
                                                                                           40%
                          6
                                                                                           30%
                          4
                                                                                           20%

                          2                                                                10%

                          0                                                                0%
                               2014    2015     2016      2017    2018     2019     2020

                                      Total awards, funded       Total awards, unfunded
                                      Success rate, overall



3.1.3 Diversity in income support
When determining allocations of internal research funds, allocations are made in one of
three ways. Annual research allowances are either (1) automatic based on pre-tenure
rank or (2) determined based on research productivity (that is, having at least one
publication in an ABS 4 or 4* journal or a book from a university press in the past three
years). In the case of competitive internal funding schemes, allocations are determined
on the merits of the proposal in relation to the funding need and the likelihood of
publication and/or impact success. The School does not explicitly consider diversity
when awarding research funds to its research staff.
Upon analysis of internal funding schemes success rates by gender, we do not see
major differences between the success rates of females and males. For the Faculty
Research Fund, annual female and male success rates have both been in the 80-100%
range during this REF period. Given that there are more men than women faculty
members, there are typically more applications from male faculty, but success rates are
similar. For the Researcher Development Fund, which started in 2020 and has had few
applications, numbers of applications and success rates are roughly the same for
female and male researchers. And for the Research Assistance Fund, annual female



                                                                                           Page 40
success rates have been in the 71-100% range whereas
annual male success rates have been more varied in the
33-93% range.


3.2 Research infrastructure
The School is committed to ensuring that its research
community has access to state-of-the-art research
facilities, data access and support services.


3.2.1 Research Office                                         ‘I would like to thank
                                                              the Research Office
As in REF2014, the primary professional support team
                                                              for the fantastic
for research is the Research Office with four full-time
                                                              support on my
staff members, a Research Manager, Research
                                                              successful British
Facilitator and Impact Support Officer, Research
                                                              Academy
Communications Officer, and Research Administrator.
                                                              Postdoctoral
Since REF2014, a Researcher HR Officer was added,
                                                              Fellowship
along with access to a Data Officer and a Research
                                                              application. The team
Finance Officer. The team provides strategic and
                                                              was superb in guiding
operational support for the benefit of the research
                                                              me through the
community in service of our research mission. The
                                                              complex proposal
Research Office supports research staff with research
                                                              protocols and
grant applications and reporting (including REF2021),
                                                              institutional
contracts, research IP and commercialisation, open-
                                                              processes, ensuring
access compliance and research communications and
                                                              that I got the right
impact. The team also oversees internal funding
                                                              support from the
schemes and compliance with all our research policies,
                                                              School and the wider
including research ethics. The Research Office has a
                                                              University, while also
budget of £117,000 (for the 2020-21 financial year)
                                                              making sure I stayed
which is distributed across various initiatives including
                                                              on track with the strict
research communication and researcher development.
                                                              application deadline. I
                                                              appreciate their
                                                              support very much
3.2.2 Publications and open access
                                                              and have been
For REF2014, the School had its own research                  successful with
repository (Eureka) to enable sharing of research             follow-up funding
outputs. Since then, the School has migrated to the           applications.’
University’s Symplectic service in June 2019. Through
Symplectic, we now use the University’s official research     Dr Abrar Chaudhury
repository, Oxford Research Archive (ORA).                    British Academy
The School subscribed to and maintained its own               Research Fellow,
working paper series through SSRN. However, an                Saïd Business School
evaluation in 2019 revealed that the SSRN working
paper series no longer provided increased visibility of the

                                                                                 Page 41
School’s research outputs. This finding, along with the redevelopment of how research
outputs are displayed on the School’s website through Symplectic and ORA, led to the
SSRN series being decommissioned. Individual research staff continue, in some cases,
to make their working papers available on SSRN.
A component of the Research Office budget is ringfenced to cover open access fees
where required. The School is aligned with the University open access policy, and the
Research Office helps researchers identify routes to green open access whenever
possible. When gold open access is required for compliance, the researcher can apply
to the Research Office for support to cover these fees. This support is granted on an
ad-hoc basis. The broader administrative staff at the School also assist in assuring
compliance with open access rules, assisting with the upload of papers to the
University’s research repository on a regular basis. The efficiency of this process is
evident in the high percentage of open access compliant papers within the School’s
portfolio since the new rules came into force in 2016.


3.2.3 Research communications
Beyond academic publications, the School invests in the wider dissemination of
research activities, supported by a dedicated full-time Research Communications
Officer, as well as the School’s central marketing/press team. The Research
Communications Officer oversees all research-related content developed for the School
website, the School’s social media channels and the termly research newsletter. This
role has existed at the School for several years and continues to support the research
community in producing content and liaising with the wider University communication
teams to ensure wide reach of our research.
The School uses its own digital media channels to disseminate research-related content
to external stakeholders. These include the Oxford Answers website, the School’s
social media channels, and press/news sections of the School website. Reach is high
across these channels: for instance, the @OxfordSBS main Twitter account currently
has more than 70,000 followers and the Oxford Answers website (which features a
great deal of research-related content) has an average of 19,600 monthly visits.
Since REF2014, the School has increased its focus on research communications, most
recently with the launch of the Oxford Answers website in 2019 to provide a place to
showcase our research in a format that is appealing and accessible to a non-academic
(typically business) audience. In response to COVID-19, Oxford Answers has hosted
the ‘Leadership in extraordinary times’ webinar series. The webinars brought the
School’s academics together with industry experts to discuss research and industry
findings relating to the effects of the pandemic on business.


3.2.4 Experimental/behavioural research facilities
For many years, staff needing to run behavioural experiments have used a physical
state-of-the-art laboratory facility at the Centre for Experimental Social Sciences


                                                                               Page 42
(CESS) at Nuffield College or have collected data via online platforms such as Amazon
Mechanical Turk and Prolific Academic.
As part of the implementation of the School’s research strategy, in early 2020 we also
invested in IT equipment to allow for a ‘pop-up’ (temporary) lab to be set up in any
suitable room at the School. This involved £7,000 from our IT budget for the purchase
of 20 iPads reserved exclusively for research staff to conduct behavioural experiments.
Research iPads facilitate cloud-based data collection, including with survey software
such as Qualtrics. The aim of this investment is to make it easier for the School’s
research community to carry out behavioural research within the School itself, which
tends to be quicker and easier than booking time at the CESS lab. This recently came
in handy during the COVID-19 pandemic when the School was open to students with
COVID-safe provisions in place when doctoral student Bill Fritz needed to run an
experiment so that he could complete the revision of a journal article. The CESS facility
was closed as it was not COVID-safe. Instead, Mr Fritz was able to collect data he
needed by using lecture theatres with participants (MBA students) spaced out and with
the research iPads.


3.2.5 Library services
In addition to our research support team, other research-related support staff work in
the Sainsbury Library, which is part of the University’s famed Bodleian Library. The
library is located in the main building and provides both physical space and access to
books and journals, as well as subscription services that some research staff use to
obtain data for research projects. In 2020, the library expanded its offering by providing
free access to new digital resources. In partnership with the School’s Digital Learning
Technology team, the library acquired tablets, e-readers and other digital tools that are
lent to library users. This initiative was launched to the School’s community through
showcases in March 2020, which were widely attended. Although use of the tools has
been limited due to the pandemic, the library will continue to offer these resources and
explore similar opportunities.


3.2.6 Data access
Large-scale data sets are available to research staff and students through the
Sainsbury Library. With an annual budget of £200,000, the library provides access to 35
databases, some of which are shared with other University departments, such as
Global Financial Data, EMIS and Sabi which are provided by the Department of
Economics, and the Bloomberg and Eikon datasets which are split between the School,
the Department of Economics and the Oxford-Man Institute. The data offering is
reviewed regularly in consultation with relevant faculty members (typically in the
accounting and finance groups); a subscription to the IBES dataset was acquired in
2020.
Research staff also frequently access data through data-sharing agreements, a process
managed by the Research Office in liaison with the University’s central research
services legal/contracts team. Data-sharing agreements are arranged for accessing
                                                                                   Page 43
data from commercial data providers and corporations collaborating on research. When
there is a charge for access, this is often paid through School funds, through either the
School’s internal funding schemes or personal research allowances.


3.2.7 Research computing and IT services
The School has not had its own high-performance computing (HPC) facility, and instead
has encouraged research staff with HPC needs to make use of services available
centrally in the University. Some faculty, such as Dr Amir Amel-Zadeh, have also
worked with colleagues in the Department of Engineering and the Oxford-Man Institute
to use their HPC facilities for computationally intensive machine-learning tasks.
As the number of research staff with HPC needs has increased in recent years,
however, the Associate Dean of Research and Chief Information Officer have brought
together a group of staff to identify HPC needs. In 2020-21 a group of academics from
across the School (Dr Amir Amel-Zadeh, Dr Jason Bell, Dr Gregory Clark and Dr
Natalia Efremova) have worked with IT to define, configure and test Microsoft’s Azure
cloud-computing platform for research. Azure allows for advanced data analytics and
the application of AI and machine learning to large datasets through a secure cloud
platform. This trial appears to have been successful and we will negotiate a contract for
this service with Microsoft.


3.2.8 Buildings and physical spaces
The majority of the School’s research staff have dedicated or shared office space in the
main building at Park End Street, Oxford, a modern building in a convenient location in
the city centre. The building also provides space for informal meetings and flexible
working such as the Club Room where research staff can get refreshments, mingle and
discuss research.




                                                                                 Page 44
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Collaboration and interdisciplinarity is increasingly in focus in the academic world, with
knowledge from traditionally disparate fields being brought together to facilitate a step-
change in research and impact on our communities. The Business School recognises
this, and since REF2014 has emphasised and encouraged collaboration and cross-
disciplinary work. Research collaborations involving Saïd Business School research
staff span the globe and include both academic and organisational/industrial
collaborations.




   Global location of co-authors of Saïd
   Business School research staff




4.1 Academic collaborations
Most of the research work done at the School involves one or more of our research staff
collaborating with one or more colleagues at another academic institution. In business
disciplines, this is the norm. In this REF period, our staff have published research
articles with collaborators from 66 other UK higher education institutions. They have
published 198 papers co-authored with members of other Oxford departments,
including computer science, pharmacology, experimental psychology, zoology and law.
This demonstrates our embeddedness within both the wider University of Oxford and
the UK university sector. An example of a successful national collaboration can be seen
in our impact case portfolio. Dr Jan-Emmanuel De Neve collaborated with academics at
Warwick University and the London School of Economics to investigate measures to



                                                                                   Page 45
increase tax compliance in Belgium. Examples of successful international collaborations
are Professor Alex Nicholls and Professor Mari Sako, who both hold EU Horizon grants.
Additionally, substantial amounts of our research outputs 2014-2020 have been the
result of collaborations with academics at non-UK institutions across 53 countries.



                                    Journal articles resulting from international
                                                   collaborations
                             90
                             80
    Number of publications




                             70
                             60
                             50
                             40
                             30
                             20
                             10
                             0
                                  2014    2015     2016     2017     2018     2019   2020



The School has a long history of international research collaboration. Traditionally, this
has centred on Europe and the USA; however, this is now changing as our academics
are engaging on an increasingly global scale.
Local, national and international research collaborations are encouraged and are
largely left up to individuals to arrange. Support from the School includes the internal
research funding schemes that are often used for travel costs related to working on
research with non-Oxford collaborators. Academic visitors who come for extended
periods have benefit from to the academic visitor programme, and the faculty services
team support any relevant needs they might have, such as access to office space or
help with immigration and visas.




                                                                                       Page 46
                                                                ‘Our UKRI-funded
                                                                research programme
                                                                has pushed inter-
                                                                disciplinarity beyond
                                                                my comfort zone. But
                                                                the reward in
                                                                collaborating with
                                                                computer science,
                                                                economics, and legal
                                                                scholars has been
                                                                high, with novel lines
                                                                of research enquiry
                                                                and policy impact
                                                                within Britain and
                                                                beyond.’


                                                                Professor Mari Sako
4.2 Interdisciplinarity
Many of our research community are actively engaged in          Professor of
interdisciplinary research, with some of the School’s           Management Studies,
research centres and initiatives directly fostering this type   Saïd Business School
of work. For example, the Centre for Business Taxation
(CBT) has close links with the Department of Law, and
frequently publishes work on tax legislation. Professor
Mari Sako has a long-standing research collaboration
with the departments of Law, Computer Science,
Education, Economics, Social Policy and Intervention, all
contributing to an ESRC-funded project focusing on the
use of artificial intelligence in law. Another example is the
Initiative on AI and Sustainable Development Goals,
which is hosted at the School with Professor Andrew
Stephen as co-director alongside Professor Luciano
Floridi, a philosopher and ethicist from the Oxford Internet
Institute. The School also has close links with the

                                                                                 Page 47
Department of Sociology’s Leverhulme Centre for
Demographic Science with a postdoctoral researcher
jointly appointed between the School and the
Department of Sociology to develop the field of
consumer demography using digital trace data (working
with Professor Stephen at the School and Professor
Melinda Mills in Sociology).
Another example of interdisciplinary work is led by Dr
Felipe Thomaz, Associate Professor of Marketing, with
early-career postdoctoral fellow Dr Ewan Macdonald.         ‘This research is a
They are collaborating with the Wildlife Conservation       clear demonstration of
Research Unit in the University of Oxford’s Department      the benefit of working
of Zoology on a project that has analysed the network       across disciplines and
structure underlying the online illegal trade in donkey     departments. Our
skins. Findings from the research are being used to         international and
inform law enforcement and are being used by The            interdisciplinary team,
Donkey Sanctuary in its efforts to curb illegal trade in    led by Saïd Business
donkey skins.                                               School, has brought
                                                            quantitative market
                                                            network analysis and
Much of the interdisciplinarity in our research comes       wildlife trade expertise
from having ECRs in the School with doctoral training in    to a complicated
non-business fields. These include Dr Ewan Macdonald        question of critical
(geography and conservation biology), Natalia Efremova      interest to wildlife
(computer science), Dr Gregory Clark (mathematics), Dr      conservation, a
Bridget Kustin (anthropology), Dr Alice Pirlot (law), Dr    question that neither
Francesco Rampazzo (demography), Dr Francesca               business researchers
Mazzi (law), Dr Rita Mota (law) and Dr Fabian               nor conservationists
Braesemann (economics). Although many of these              would have the
researchers are ineligible for REF2021, nevertheless        expertise to tackle
they make substantial contributions to research             alone.’
productivity and the research environment.

                                                            Dr Ewan Macdonald

                                                            Research Fellow,
4.3 Organisational collaborations
                                                            Future of Marketing
Being a business school, it is essential for our research   Initiative, Saïd
to be meaningful to and impactful on business. Hence, a     Business School
significant amount of our research involves engaging
with external parties in relevant business and/or policy
communities. Corporate involvement in our research can
take many forms, such as corporate funding of research
centres, initiatives or specific projects; academics
collaborating with their business counterparts on
research; companies providing access to research sites

                                                                               Page 48
and datasets; and business leaders sitting on internal
advisory councils to help with research ideas and assist
with identifying pathways to impact. The primary vehicles
for research collaborations between our academics and
external organisations (usually businesses, but in some
cases NGOs or international organisations) have been
research centres and research initiatives, as described
earlier.
Examples of academic-organisation collaboration since
REF2014 include:                                              ‘In 2019 I worked
      The Mutuality in Business project, which ended in      closely with Professor
       2019, was a multi-year research programme              of Practice Andrew
       funded by and in close collaboration with Mars         Baum on his
       Inc. Led by Professor Colin Mayer, it explored         contribution on finance
       ‘mutuality’ as a new principle for organising          for homes which
       business. Parallel workstreams took a                  became a key part of
       multidimensional approach to understanding             a wider Housing Sprint
       mutuality, resulting in the development of a new       managed by the
       management framework, ‘The Economics of                Oxford Future of Real
       Mutuality’. This was refined into a set of tools and   Estate Initiative and
       metrics designed to help leaders ‘put purpose into     co-sponsored by
       practice’. All the knowledge created by the            government and
       Mutuality in Business project is now being made        leading industry
       freely accessible through the creation of a new        players. The
       foundation.                                            recommendations
                                                              from the Housing
      The Future of Real Estate Initiative for several       Sprint were
       years has been investigating the effects of            instrumental in the
       technology and digital innovation on the vast,         chain of discussions
       important, yet under-researched real estate            that led me to be
       sector. This is practice-oriented research             considered as Chair of
       involving close work with and steering from the        Homes England.’
       initiative’s partners (including Arcadis, The Crown
       Estate, CBRE, EY, Redevco and UBS). A key              Peter Freeman
       event for the initiative was the Oxford Housing
       Sprint in 2019, in which 56 practitioners,             Chair of Homes
       academics and related experts used a modified          England
       ‘design sprint’ approach to think creatively about
       solutions to the UK’s national housing emergency.
      Dr Jonathan Trevor’s research on strategic
       alignment, which culminated in a book published
       in early 2020 (Align: A Leadership Blueprint for
       Aligning Enterprise Purpose Strategy and
       Organization) and is related to one of our impact
       case studies, was developed in part through a

                                                                                Page 49
       successful executive education programme that he designed and ran, on behalf
       of the School, for Ricoh Europe and its business partners. This provided Dr
       Trevor with real-life case studies and access to senior executives with whom he
       could test frameworks developed for his book.


4.4 Journal editorship
Several of the School’s faculty have held or are holding editor and editorial board
positions, including:
      Professor Renee Adams, editor, Management Science
      Professor Alex Nicholls, editor, Journal of Social Entrepreneurship,
      Professor Andrew Stephen, editor, Journal of Consumer Research
      Professor Eero Vaara, associate editor, Academy of Management Journal


Of editor posts held, 48% are of 4 or 4*-ranked journals (ABS rank).




             Editor and editorial board positions, Saïd Business
                         School faculty 2014-2020
 60%

 50%

 40%

 30%
                                                                       Editor
 20%                                                                   Editorial Board

 10%

  0%
              1             2            3             4/4*
                           ABS journal rank



4.5 Prizes
Our faculty regularly are recognised nationally and internationally for research
excellence by being awarded prizes, including:

                                                                                   Page 50
   Professor Andrew Baum, IRES Lifetime Achievement Award, 2020,
   Dr Cammy Crolic, John A Howard Doctoral Dissertation Award, 2016,
   Professor Bent Flyvbjerg, PMI Research Achievement Award, 2019,
   Dr Irem Güçeri, Young Economists Award, 2015,
   Professor Tom Lawrence, Research Impact on Practice Award, 2018,
   Dr Akshay Mangla, World Bank Development Marketplace Award, 2019,
   Professor Colin Mayer, Commander of the Order of the British Empire, 2016,
   Dr Chris McKenna, Harold F. Williamson Prize, 2016,
   Professor Andrew Stephen, top marketing scholar in UK, American Marketing
    Association, each year 2014-2020,
   Dr Mungo Wilson, Spängler IQAM Prize in Financial Economics, 2020.




                                                                          Page 51
