Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 Politics and International Studies at Oxford consists of researchers in the Department of Politics
 and International Relations (DPIR), the largest unit of this UoA, and researchers in politics and IR
 in three further departments: the Blavatnik School of Government (BSG), the School of Global and
 Area Studies (OSGA), and the Oxford Internet Institute (OII). All four departments are part of the
 University’s Social Sciences Division. The UoA is united by a shared commitment to cutting-edge,
 impactful and innovative research that aims to understand the world’s most pressing questions.
 While each department has its own distinct research foci and resources to support them, there are
 many shared interests across them. These shared interests are realised through research projects
 and collaborations involving members of different departments, and in overlapping memberships
 and participation in research seminars and networks. These are underpinned by interlocking
 administrative support at the departmental and divisional levels and guided by the strategies and
 structures of the Division’s policies on research, planning and impact. The results are visible in
 joint funding bids and co-publications, and in the UoA’s culture of interdisciplinary research and
 multi-stakeholder engagement (see 1.2 below).
 The UoA has grown in size and research reach since the last REF in 2014, submitting 121
 individuals (114.8 FTE) in 2021 compared to 80 individuals (76.65 FTE) in 2014. This expansion
 has been underpinned by sustained successes in raising research funding from mainstream
 research councils as well as large private and charitable donations totalling over £31 million over
 the REF period. Our hard work in this regard has enabled the UoA to support all researchers at
 every career stage with significant resources and opportunities. For instance, over the REF period
 the UoA partly or fully funded 365 doctoral students with almost £7million in internal scholarship
 funds. Over 80 of our doctoral students have gone on to take up faculty or post-doctoral research
 positions (see 2.2 below).
 Our success in building a vibrant research culture has been internationally recognised. Politics
 and International Relations at Oxford was ranked first in the world in H-INDEX citations by QS in
 2020. It is ranked first for research overall in the most recent THES global university rankings for
 Politics and International Studies, consolidating its position as one of the top four in the world
 which it has held in the QS rankings since 2017.


 1.1. UoA structure and context of research
 The UoA is distinguished by its commitment to addressing the most significant and salient
 questions and challenges in Politics and International Studies with the most appropriate methods
 and approaches. The UoA bridges four departments:
       Department of Politics and International Relations (DPIR),
       the Blavatnik School of Government (BSG),
       the School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA),
       the Oxford Internet Institute (OII).
 Each of these departments hosts research centres and programmes that support specific in-
 depth research, interdisciplinarity, engagement and impact in a way that is agile and responsive
 to real-world challenges.
 As the largest unit within the UoA, DPIR is Oxford’s home of teaching and research in politics and
 international relations. DPIR covers three main sub-fields of the discipline: Comparative
 Government, International Relations, and Political Theory. It also hosts the Reuters Institute for
 the Study of Journalism (RISJ), which extends our research to media and digital politics.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BSG is dedicated through its research, teaching and engagement to improving the quality of
 government and public policy worldwide. It hosts several research programmes which further
 these objectives, such as the Alfred Landecker Programme in Values and Public Policy, the
 People in Government Lab, the Global Economic Governance programme, and Government
 Outcomes programme.
 OSGA adds in-depth expertise in the study of different areas of the world, via its many centres of
 regional specialism. These include the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies, Asian Studies
 Centre, Dickson Poon China Centre, Middle East Centre, Russian and East European Studies,
 Latin American Studies, and European Studies.
 OII’s main focus is the social science of the internet. It is home to the Oxford node of the Alan
 Turing Institute for Data Science and AI, as well as political research projects such as the
 Computational Propaganda Project.
 Substantive research in politics and international studies across the UoA is strongly rooted in a
 commitment to methodological rigour as evidenced by the study of social science data in OII,
 BSG’s Government Outcomes programme, and the Centre for Experimental Social Science
 (CESS) in Nuffield College. Moreover, DPIR’s Oxford Spring School in Advanced Research
 Methods offers training to graduate students and faculty from universities across the United
 Kingdom in cutting edge methods in social science. We also take training in qualitative methods
 very seriously, as shown in the decision in the REF period to create a permanent position in the
 Qualitative Study of Comparative Political Institutions. Ezequiel Gonzalez-Ocantos who was
 appointed to the post has acted as the Director of Research Training for doctoral programmes in
 politics. He was also awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2017.
 Oxford’s UoA-19 submission includes 114.8 FTE and 121 individuals with outputs broken down
 by subject orientation as follows (see Figure 1).


               Figure 1: Composition of outputs by subject area




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                    Figure 2: Cross-cutting themes across the departments




 Cross-cutting specialisms: As Figure 2 above shows, the research supported by our four
 departments is characterized by a rich array of expertise and shared areas of interest. We have
 depth of expertise in comparative government (46 FTE) and international relations (29 FTE)
 in DPIR, BSG, OSGA and OII. The study of politics and international relations in DPIR, OSGA and
 BSG is closely connected to history and area studies and embraces international security and
 conflict through the Changing Character of War (CCW) centre. OII, BSG and DPIR (particularly
 through RISJ) have great strengths in the study of the politics of the media and digital politics
 (8 FTE). DPIR and BSG share a strong focus on political institutions and on public policy (9
 FTE) which is at the core of the BSG mission, and on political behaviour as evidenced by our
 involvement, through Jane Green and Geoff Evans, in the British Election Study. We have
 considerable depth in political theory, which includes almost a fifth of our researchers (23 FTE).
 All departments of our UoA are embedded in the university’s collegiate structure. Colleges are
 a unique feature of the Oxford research landscape and a major contributor to the strengths of our
 UoA. All permanent faculty have college affiliations. Colleges also provide a major forum for
 interdisciplinary collaboration. They contribute to the research environment by employing their own
 research active staff and by supporting research centres in which cross-departmental
 collaboration takes place. Examples include the Changing Character of War Centre (CCW) at
 Pembroke College, the Centre for South East European Studies (SEESOX) at St Antony’s
 College, and Nuffield Elections Unit (home of the Oxford-part of the British Election Study team)
 and CESS, both at Nuffield College.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DPIR hosts three research networks that reflect and support the vitality of its three main pillars
 of research. The Centre of International Studies, Oxford Political Theory Network, and Research
 Network in Government and Politics organise regular events, host visitors, integrate researchers
 at all career stages, and facilitate collaboration in their respective areas within the University.
 The UoA organised a large number of seminars, public lectures and conferences in the REF
 period: more than 1000 seminars, public lectures and conferences took place in DPIR; OSGA held
 over 1300 events across their 6 regional studies centres; BSG held over 400 high-profile events
 attracting audiences from within and beyond the university, and a wide variety of events in OII –
 over 350, including 297 that were open to the public - were specifically intended to reach a broad
 academic and non-academic audience. Examples include the annual Fulbright Distinguished
 Lecture (e.g., David Miliband and Michael Ignatieff), and the annual Cyril Foster lecture (e.g.,
 Federica Mogherini), and the annual Elliot lecture (e.g., Fiona Hill).
 Our international collaborations support a vibrant research culture. Via the Oxford-Sciences Po
 Paris (OXPO) programme we support faculty and research student exchanges that have led to
 close collaborations via seminars and more than 50 publications in the REF period. The Oxford–
 Berlin Research Partnership is a strategic research partnership, formed in 2017, between Oxford
 and the four universities making up the Berlin University Alliance: Freie Universität Berlin,
 Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Technische Universität Berlin and the Charité. It supports high
 quality joint research initiatives and collaborative funding applications across all disciplines – for
 example, it supports Annette Idler’s (DPIR), Justice, Peace, and Politics in the Creation of a
 Lasting Peace in Colombia’s Marginalised Regions project in which Sérgio Costa from Freie
 Universitat Berlin is the collaborator.


 1.2 Strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period
 The UoA’s research aims are embedded in each department’s research strategies that are agreed
 by Social Science Division and regularly reviewed by divisional quinquennial external reviews. Our
 chief strategic aims over the assessment period were to:
    1. produce world-leading research with a plurality of foci that address the most important
       and salient challenges nationally and globally; and to support that research with
    2. increased research funding and diversifying our funding base in order to support more
       and wider-ranging research;
    3. further embed interdisciplinarity and collaboration;
    4. enhance public engagement, research-to-policy translation and impact;
    5. foster an inclusive and participatory research culture.


 Through these strategies, we have addressed topics of major importance ranging from Brexit and
 anger in politics; no-platforming, the rise of populism and authoritarianism; climate change; the
 role of religion in liberal societies; slavery, colonialism and racial hierarchy; the regulation of big
 data; digital news; responses to COVID-19; and making democratic governments more efficient
 and representative.
 Our hiring policy, with faculty appointments specialising in the politics of Western and Eastern
 Europe, the USA and Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Asia, ensures that our
 researchers have exceptional international reach, geographical depth and area expertise, in
 addressing these challenges.
 Research-to-policy translation, public engagement and knowledge exchange are embedded in
 each department’s research strategy, supported by both departmental (9 FTE) and by Social
 Sciences Divisional administrative staff (11.9 FTE) specialising in these functions. Our diverse
 portfolio of REF2021 impact case studies reflects the contribution of our research across the
 international community, governments, NGOs, the private sector, and civil society. The list below
 illustrates the wide range of beneficiaries from these case studies:
       Australian government & communities
       Financial regulators & pensioners

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Colombian borderland communities, the Colombian government, the Colombian military,
        UN agencies in Colombia
       United Nations Systems Staff College & international UN practitioners
       Royal College of Defence Studies, the Higher Command and Staff Course, NATO Defence
        College
       Military professionals including US Special Operations Command Europe (SOCOM) &
        Afghan National Army Territorial Force (ANA-TF)
       Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport
       Home Office
       Ofcom
       Information Commissioner's Office
       International Consortium of Investigative Journalists
       Angolan communities
       UN Office on Genocide Prevention and the Responsibility to Protect
       African Union Commission
       Albanian government, civil society & communities


 The following sections summarize key actions and achievements relating to each of the strategic
 goals:
  Strategic aim 1: To produce world-leading research reflecting the diversity and
  plurality of our substantive foci and addressing the most important and salient
  challenges nationally and globally.

 Actions:
 Since REF2014, we have broadened and strengthened our research portfolio by continuing
 to:
       appoint, develop, reward and retain outstanding researchers in areas of research that
        were identified as of emerging substantive importance and of need for the progression of
        our doctoral community;
       support our researchers at all career stages with the training required to develop their
        careers, with research allowances, research leave, and technical support (e.g.
        supercomputing infrastructure);
       foster a vibrant and inclusive research culture that generates the collaborations and
        interdisciplinarity needed to address the most challenging and important research
        questions;
       provide researchers with expert support to secure research funding through our research
        support teams.


 Achievements:
 The success of this strategy is illustrated by our growth as a UoA in strategically defined areas of
 research, in our many funded and collaborative research projects, our prize-winning publications,
 and success in publishing with the highest ranked journals and publishers and presses.
 (i) The UoA expanded its research reach substantially in the REF period, particularly in public
 policy at the BSG (from 25 research active faculty in 2015 to 64 in 2020) and in digital politics (OII
 has almost doubled in faculty size since the last REF with 40 faculty).
 (ii) The range of large, funded and collaborative research projects hosted by UoA 19 includes:
       DPIR – Elite Framing of Migration (BA), Fairness, Risk and the Welfare State (BA),
        Impacts of the Transformation of Post-War Education (ERC), EU Differentiation and
        Democracy (ERC), Consequences of UN Peacekeeping Withdrawal (ESRC), the Crime-


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Terror Nexus (ESCR), Changing Character of Conflict (AHRC), Politics of Wealth
        Inequality (ERC), Changing Party Stances in Europe (BA).
       OII – Online Populist Challenges to Europe (Volkswagen Foundation), Governance of
        Emerging Technologies (EPSRC, BA), Computational Propaganda (ERC).
       BSG – Reducing State Fragilities (DFID, Rockefeller Foundation), Future of Climate
        Cooperation (Mission 2020, ClimateWorks Foundation), Trust, Distrust and the
        Legitimacy of Government (Leverhulme Foundation).
       RISJ – Communications in the Coronavirus Crisis, Digital News Project, Trust in the
        News Project.
       CESS – Measuring Public Opinion via Digital Footprints.
       CCW – Rebellion Defense Collaboration, NATO Intra-Alliance Diplomacy after 2014.


 (ii) The prize-winning quality of the monographs and articles written by our researchers (see
 section 4 for highlights). Of the 36 monographs included in our submission, over 80% are
 published with leading university presses including CUP (8), OUP (14), Yale (1), Princeton (2),
 Harvard (3), and Cornell (1).


  Strategic aim 2: To increase our research income by facilitating and encouraging
  high quality research funding applications to national and international funders, and
  to diversify our funding base to include the Research Councils, Charities,
  Foundations, Trusts, and the corporate sector.

 Actions taken:
 Our research support teams, comprising research facilitators and research administrators, work
 closely with colleagues in finance, communications, and research project administration, to:
       Promote diverse funding opportunities (e.g. weekly research funding newsletter).
       Provide bespoke 1:1 advice to applicants on developing and strengthening funding
        applications.
       Understand funder priorities to maximise award success rates (see section 3.1 below).
       Assist in costing funding applications.
       Co-ordinate joint applications with other institutions.
       Support the research ethics approval process.
       Collaborate with specialist research support teams across the University including the
        Policy Engagement Team, the Social Sciences Divisional Research, Impact &
        Engagement team and the Knowledge Exchange & Impact team, the Public Engagement
        with Research team, and the Strategic Research team.


 Highlighted achievements:
     Since REF2014, we have significantly increased our research income, from £2.08 million
        at the outset of the REF period to £6.57 million in 2019-2020.
     Funding applications are more numerous and are increasingly large, multi-disciplinary,
        complex applications to diverse funders. In 2019-2020, DPIR’s research team alone
        supported 91 research applications, 58 of which were to 26 external funders. 32
        applications were for more than £50,000. 25 applications to date were successful and 40%
        of these were awards for over £50,000.
     We have had particular success in supporting Early Career Researchers to find funding to
        drive their careers. 27% of internal university seed-grant money went to ECRs, to a total
        of over £278K; 24% of successful external grants were won by ECRs, to a total of over
        £2.6 million.
     The UoA is continuing its drive to broaden its external funding sources. In 2019-2020 we
        engaged with over 26 different funders. Trusts & Foundations included: Leverhulme Trust,
        Hewlett Foundation, Nuffield Foundation, Onassis Foundation, Smith Richardson

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Foundation, Issachar Fund, Newton-Caldas Fund, Templeton Religion Trust, Korea
        Foundation, European Investment Bank, Microsoft, Rockefeller Foundation, International
        Red Cross, UN Habitat, Volkswagen Stiftung, Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust.
       The UoA has used internally held Trust Funds of almost £2.2 million p.a. to support
        research positions, research activities especially among doctoral students, and major
        public lectures.


  Strategic aim 3: To encourage interdisciplinarity and a collaborative culture of
  engagement with international and national partners, other UoA’s of the university,
  research centres and the broader academic community


 Interdisciplinarity and collaboration are embedded in the strategy, structure and policies of the
 UoA. All four departments foster collaborative research through an extensive range of research
 events (seminars, conferences, workshops) and visitor and exchange programmes. Three of
 the departments that form part of this UoA – OSGA, BSG and OII - are explicitly
 interdisciplinary in nature, bringing together researchers in political science, international
 studies, media studies, medicine, computer science, economics, history etc. We have eight joint
 appointments (shared by two departments, some of whom are entered in the REF through other
 UoAs), which foster interdisciplinary approaches between political science and related disciplines.
 The majority of our appointments are embedded in colleges, which provide an additional arena
 for interdisciplinary and collaborative research. All of our research centres, networks and
 programmes are collaborative in nature and many focus on interdisciplinary research.
 Actions taken:
       Hosting research events, conferences, workshops and external speaker series.
       Investing in extensive visitor programmes.
       Hosting exchange programmes (e.g. DPIR’s exchange programme with Sciences Po and
        the Berlin-Oxford Initiative).
       Continued investment in joint appointments.
       Continued investment in research Centres, networks and programmes that take a
        collaborative interdisciplinary approach (see page 3 for examples).
 Highlighted achievements:
       College support for interdisciplinary research includes the Area Studies Centres at St
        Antony’s College which focus on the intersection between politics and international studies
        with history, cultural studies, economics, and languages. They include the Middle East
        Centre, Russia and Eurasian Studies Centre, Latin American Centre, European Studies
        Centre, African Studies Centre, Asian Studies Centre, and Nissan Institute of Japanese
        Studies. Our college-based interdisciplinary research centres also include the Changing
        Character of War (CCW) programme (Pembroke College) and CESS (Nuffield)
       The Oxford Martin School (OMS), which exists to support interdisciplinary research on
        urgent global problems, funded three collaborative projects that involved politics and
        international studies with departments in other UoAs, including: with the Environmental
        Change Institute on transboundary cooperation on climate, water and energy; the
        Department of Economics on governance in African transitions; and OII on junk science,
        fake news, and public understanding of artificial intelligence and climate change
       Collaboration is supported by our extensive research events programme. Over the REF
        period DPIR and OSGA, for instance, hosted over 1000 research events each.
       Over the REF period DPIR made four joint appointments with OSGA and one with
        History.
       The DPIR visitor programmes brought 369 extended visitors to Oxford, including Zsolt
        Enyedi, Leverhulme Trust Visiting Professor in 2020 who is working with us on European
        populism; BSG brought 190 academic visitors for the REF period. These visits have
        resulted in collaborations on substantive research outputs, such as:

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o  Svitlana Chernykh from the Australian National University whose visit in 2017
               resulted in a co-authored book by Timothy Power, David Doyle and Svitlana
               Chernykh, Measuring Legislative Power: An Expert Reweighting of the Fish-
               Kroenig Parliamentary Powers Index.
            o Stefano Costalli from Universita degli Studi di Firenze whose visit in 2019
               produced a co-authored book by Andrea Ruggeri and Stefano Costalli,
               Indignation, Ideologies, and Armed Mobilization: Civil War in Italy, 1943-45.
       Our extensive research programmes, networks, and centres support a wealth of
        collaborative and interdisciplinary research (please see section 1.4 for detail).


  Strategic aim 4: To support policy-relevant interdisciplinary academic work and
  engage with a greater variety of external stakeholders across policymaking, the
  private sector, and civil society

 Actions taken:
 The UoA has sought to develop its engagement and impact through:
 (i). Developing individual and collective understandings of impact among academics and project
 administrators.
       Building pathway-to-impact-plans into research bids
       Encouraging successful applications by new members of the UoA for Open Policy
        Engagement Network (OPEN) Fellowships funded by the UK Higher Education Innovation
        Fund (e.g. Sullivan de Estrada).
       The appointment of a knowledge exchange officer (2013-17), a research communications
        and impact manager (2017-19), and a research impact facilitator (2018-2020). In 2020, a
        permanent research facilitator, with expertise in impact support and policy engagement,
        was appointed to lead the research support team at DPIR.
       Promoting funding opportunities relating to impact including a weekly research funding
        newsletter.
       The provision of strategic advice on knowledge exchange, public engagement with
        research, pathways to impact, engagement activities (including policy engagement),
        communications, evaluation, recording and evidencing impact by dedicated research
        support teams across the University.
 (ii). Profiling and recognising research impact.
       Holding impact workshops to widen departmental awareness of impact.
       Recognising impactful research through the creation of departmental and university impact
        awards.
       Holding research impact showcasing events to facilitate collaboration between different
        fields of research.
       Promoting impactful research in our communications and blogs.
  (iii). Building links with policy stakeholders
       The construction of a policy hub to connect academic researchers with policymakers.
       Events, workshops, conferences and programmes bringing policymakers to Oxford.
       Visiting fellowships for policymakers and support for secondments of academics to policy
        positions.
 Highlighted achievements:
       OxPoD - Oxford Policy Dialogue, established in 2016, is a hub which aims to source and
        share the best research (in Oxford and beyond) with policymakers, so as to insert
        academic research into each stage of the policy process. It has provided tailored 'state of
        the art' research briefings and methodological advice to policymakers and analysts in the
        Home Office and the FCO including one in 2018 specifically on impact which brought UoA

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        academics specializing in counter-terrorism and countering violent extremism together with
        FCO officials.
       BSG hosts a regular Policy Research workshop, a one-day event which deepens
        researchers’ understanding of how evidence is used in policymaking; enhances their ability
        to deliver impact through research; and widens their network of policymakers to influence.
       RISJ’s world leading Journalist Fellowship Programme allows practising, mid-career
        journalists to come to Oxford to explore journalism in depth with our academics.
       BSG policy fellowships bring political leaders to Oxford over several months to engage
        with faculty, the wider Oxford community, and our students.
       St Antony’s College’s Visiting Parliamentary Fellowships bring sitting MPs to Oxford to
        organise policy and research relevant seminars.
       OII’s Internet Leadership Academy, a short course supported by Google and Microsoft,
        brings up-and-coming policy and thought leaders from around the world to engage with
        OII’s researchers. OII also has a Visiting Policy Fellowship programme which provides
        opportunities for in-depth engagement between OII researchers and senior leaders in
        government, industry and civil society organisations.
       Funding from Pembroke College and DPIR has enabled the Fulbright Annual
        Distinguished Lecture which has attracted Nobel Prize winners (Joseph Stiglitz 2014) and
        leading politicians (David Miliband 2019), diplomats (Ambassador Jack Matlock 2015), and
        academics (Louise Richardson, 2016, Michael Ignatieff, 2017, Lord Stern 2018) to speak
        on major issues in global politics.


  Strategic aim 5: Grow and nurture our vibrant community of postdoctoral
  researchers, and to recruit, train and place world class research students


 Actions taken:

 Postdoctoral researchers and doctoral students are vital to the research conducted by the UoA.
 Actions taken to recruit and develop graduate and postdoctoral researchers include:
      Supporting ECRs with the same high-quality research support that is offered to more
        advanced researchers.
      Recruiting post-doctoral researchers and research students from around the world.
        Training our doctoral students and post-doctoral researchers, who benefit from
        departmental methods training, the ESRC Doctoral Training Centre, and DPIR’s Spring
        School in Advanced Research Methods, as well as the opportunities to conduct
        experiments provided by CESS and the £10,000 DPIR-funded YouGov scheme, which
        subsidizes survey-experimental research by our research students.
      Creating the role of Director of Research Training and Professional Development,
        dedicated to ensuring that research students and ECRs receive targeted training,
        mentoring, support in professional development and placement support.
      Providing world-class libraries, data and IT resources.
      Growing our research student funding (scholarships, bursaries, travel funding, writing-up
        allowances) and funding for post-doctoral fellowships.
      Providing numerous opportunities to present work in graduate and post-doctoral
        workshops.
      DPIR has set up an Early Career Network with termly meetings for fixed-term ECRs to
        strengthen mentoring, training opportunities, and network building.

 Highlighted achievements:

       In line with our strategic aims, we have increased our doctoral funding support by more
        than 46% over the REF period, to a total financial support to our doctoral students from
        internal funds of almost £7 million.


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We have attracted large numbers of research student applicants – 3,393 in the REF
        period – with 379 enrolments in our doctoral programmes.
       Our four departments have entered 35 Early Career Researchers in REF2021, who
        represent 30% of our total FTE. ECRs come from a large number of European countries,
        Asia, South America and the United States.
       Publication of the DPIR-funded peer-reviewed St Antony’s International Review, which was
        created and is edited by our graduate students as a cross-disciplinary outlet for research
        on the most pressing contemporary global issues and which provides a forum for emerging
        scholars to publish their work alongside established academics and policymakers.
       DPIR’s British Academy post-doctoral Fellow Martijn Van der Brink has joined the
        Divisional Forum of Fixed Term Researchers to represent the interests of fixed term
        researchers, to address the issues they face, and to ensure that their voices are heard in
        the groups set up by the University for the development and implementation of a research
        strategy.

 1.3. Future research objectives and plans for vitality and sustainability of impact
 Over the next five years we will seek to sustain our main research goals in a number of ways.
 We will continue to sustain individual research excellence by:
       enhancing research support for staff seeking external research funding and further
        broadening our research income streams.
       supporting all academic staff at each career stage to continue with research methods
        training; supporting secondments to public interest think tanks; government and
        international organisations.
       raising annual research allowances to enable researchers to attend conferences and
        undertake fieldwork trips.
       Supporting researchers in accessing internal university funding for both large and small
        research projects.
       attracting national and international donor funding for new posts and graduate scholarships
        from diverse sources.

 We will facilitate the progression of early career researchers by:
       continuing to support and host large numbers of post-doctoral fellows.
       further developing advanced research methods training via the DPIR and the Oxford
        Spring School.
       supporting applications for external and internal funding, such as applications to the John
        Fell OUP Research Fund, which is an important source of seed funding for ECRs.
       maintaining a strong track-record for the placement of ECRs in academic posts.
 We will build upon our commitment to maximising research impact by:


       Strategically collaborating across the four departments, and other Oxford departments and
        college centres in our field.
       Exploring with Oxford University Innovation how to better support consulting opportunities
        for our researchers.
       Providing training for researchers, research students, and research project administrators
        to develop knowledge of engagement and impact.
       Creating an annual event to showcase research impact with involvement of high-profile
        external beneficiaries, to coincide with the award ceremony for DPIR’s research impact
        awards.
       Ensuring that impact is embedded into the design and content for DPIR’s new website,
        using the strong examples from OII and BSG as models.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4. Support for interdisciplinary research
 We support interdisciplinarity in our organisational structure (three of our departments are explicitly
 interdisciplinary) and interdisciplinary research institutes by integrating strategies at the Divisional
 level; in our recruitment strategy, particularly in our joint appointments; and in our infrastructure of
 libraries, and shared IT facilities in the Manor Road Social Sciences building. We actively promote
 interdisciplinary applications through proof-of-concept pilot studies (via the University’s John Fell
 Fund) and the strategically-directed interdisciplinary project funding supported by the Oxford
 Martin School; in research presentations and feedback from our research clusters; and in our
 search for external research funding in research projects that involve colleagues from different
 departments.
 As noted above, the UoA consists of researchers based in multiple departments and many of our
 academics are jointly appointed, including with colleges with particular strengths in collaboration
 across politics, public policy, political communication, media, history and area studies. Two
 colleges are particularly notable for their concentration of politics and international studies
 researchers in a multi-disciplinary environment. Nuffield College is a graduate college of the
 University of Oxford dedicated to advanced study and research in the social sciences, particularly
 economics, politics, and sociology. 14 permanent politics faculty are employed there and the
 college supports a further 13 post-doctoral researchers. St Antony’s College is a centre for
 research and teaching in global and regional issues and provides an interdisciplinary environment
 to study a range of subjects from development to international relations, with a multitude of
 regionally focussed research centres. 9 permanent politics faculty are employed there.
 Our faculty lead seminars and research programmes that bring together many sub-disciplines of
 Politics and International Studies. For example:
       The research project on Politics of Wealth Inequality and Mobility in the Twenty-First
        Century has created a policy database on how governments have tried to manage wealth,
        bringing insights from economics and politics together to examine how European citizens
        think about the distribution of wealth in their countries.
       The Ethics in AI programme focuses on the ethical challenges posed by AI to fields ranging
        from medicine to technology and government.
       The Alfred Landecker Programme in Values and Public Policy draws on cutting-edge
        research across disciplines to understand how the rights and interests of vulnerable people
        and groups are under threat through the overreach of authority, and to recommend and
        advocate policies that benefit the integrity of democratic institutions.
       The Changing Character of War (CCW) platform challenges unidimensional
        understandings of conflict that derive from adopting single disciplinary and epistemological
        approaches. It draws on work in political science, international relations, military history
        and social psychology to explore the dynamism and non-linear nature of change in armed
        conflict.
       RISJ conducts social science research on changes in journalism, news, and media, and
        the social and political implications of these changes, bringing together expertise in media
        studies, political science, sociology, economics and other disciplines.
       CESS includes researchers from political science, sociology, social psychology, and
        economics using a highly interdisciplinary mix of methods, including laboratory, lab-in-the-
        field, online, and field experiments. Current research by members of CESS covers topics
        across the social sciences, including cheating and tax compliance across cultures, the
        dynamics underlying socially harmful traditions like female genital cutting, and the link
        between religion and social insurance in small-scale societies, as well as general research
        on experimental methodology.
 The UoA’s interdisciplinary structure encourages close collaboration on research across its
 component units including funded projects involving members of multiple departments, including:
       Kate Sullivan de Estrada (DPIR and OSGA), Maritime Security Strategies in the Indian
        Ocean: Learning from the Indian Ocean Commission, OPEN Fellowship/Knowledge
        Exchange Fund.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Phil Howard (OII) and Rasmus Nielsen (RISJ), Trusted Innovation: junk science, fake
        news, and public understanding of artificial intelligence and climate change, OMS funded.
       Ricardo Soares de Oliveira (DPIR) and Stefan Dercon (BSG and Economics) Governing
        the African Transitions, OMS funded.
       Marina Borges Martins da Silva, Nuffield College, Vote Buying, Political Recruitment, and
        Representation: The effects of vote buying on minority-groups representation, British
        Academy funded.


 1.5. Our commitment to an open research environment and research integrity
 The UoA is committed to the University’s Open Scholarship policy. All outputs submitted in
 REF2021 are available through the Oxford Research Archive. Our research officers monitor the
 University’s Act on Acceptance reports, and we encourage staff to make data and other research
 material available through Researchfish and other platforms. We seek to make our research data
 available to the social science community as a whole for the public good. As one of the institutions
 involved in the British Elections Study (BES), we support the sharing of its recent and historical
 data.
 We expect high standards of research integrity, and require staff to adhere to ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks. Since REF2014, the university has become a signatory of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), as part of a movement towards the
 responsible use of research metrics. Every piece of research involving human participants and
 personal data is subject to review by the Central University Research Ethics Committee (CUREC),
 and since 2020 DPIR has its own Departmental Research Ethics Committee (DREC), created to
 address the specific ethical issues arising in politics and international studies, such as how to
 conduct research in authoritarian states, how to conduct experiments, and how to use and cite
 digital sources.



 2. People

 Our strategic goal to achieve individual and collaborative research excellence is an essential
 component of staff recruitment, retention and career development. We seek to deliver on this goal
 by attracting, recruiting and retaining the highest calibre staff; by attracting and supporting the
 strongest research students and helping them build successful academic and other careers; by
 achieving a diverse staff profile; and supporting staff in their personal and professional
 development.
 2.1. Our staffing strategy and commitment to staff development
 Recruitment and hiring follows from the strategic goals of the UoA outlined above. We aim to
 ensure that our faculty can produce high quality publications and can contribute to the creation of
 a collaborative and pluralistic research environment. In addition, following our regular strategic
 reviews, we have shaped our recruitment to enable us to meet the interests and methodological
 needs of our research students by focusing on growing substantive areas of research, particularly
 in political economy and public policy, and by hiring faculty with specialisms in qualitative research
 methods, experimental methods, and the analysis of big data.
 The four departments of the UoA currently employ 244 academic staff (of whom 18 are Statutory
 Professors, 21 are Professors, 63 are Associate Professors, 53 are Research Fellows, 15 are
 Departmental/College Lecturers and 74 are Early Career Researchers (included permanent and
 fixed-term contracts). Many of the faculty in our four Departments are returned to other UoAs,
 including Business and Management Studies, History, Economics, Social Policy, Law, Education,
 Area Studies, Development Studies, Philosophy, and Public Health, which provides another
 important basis for interdisciplinary collaboration and insight.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                Figure 3: Academic staff categories in the UoA (October 2020)

                              Academic staff categories in the UoA
                                                    Statutory Professors,
                                                             7%

                                                                      Professors, 9%
                    Early Career
                  Researchers, 30%




                                                                             Associate Professors,
                                                                                     26%




               Research Fellows, 22%

                                                              Deptarmental/College
                                                                 Lecturers, 6%

 Of all the posts listed above, 43% are held by women.
 Appointments to the UoA are based on teaching and research excellence with an explicit focus on
 quality of publications, research impact, the expected contribution to departmental citizenship, and
 social and intellectual diversity. In the first instance, all newly appointed tenure-track faculty
 (excluding Statutory Professors) are appointed for a five-year probationary period. This period
 may be shortened in cases of outstanding performance. During this period, staff:
       are assigned a research mentor with whom they can discuss current and planned
        research.
       are exempted from major administrative and examining roles.
       receive both an interim and formal review of their research achievements.
 Research excellence is central to career progression and promotion, which occurs first through
 reappointment to retirement age and then through the promotion to Full Professor. Staff can
 achieve promotion through the University’s Recognition of Distinction exercise, in which external
 assessments are used to award the title of Professor. Evidence of our success in this goal can be
 seen in the fact that of UoA staff appointed as Associate Professors in the REF period, 21% had
 achieved the title of Full Professor by spring 2020.
 We support the career progression of our faculty through a variety of well-embedded mechanisms.
 Appraisal: We conduct annual non-compulsory and quadrennial compulsory appraisal meetings,
 in which all UoA academic staff members meet with the Head of their Department to discuss their
 experience of teaching, administration and research, with the aim of exploring opportunities for
 future development, setting goals, discussing areas of concern and identifying ways of providing
 support.



                                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentoring: All ECRs and academic members of staff in their probationary period are assigned a
 mentor to support their research, teaching and professional development. In case of desire or
 need, informal mentoring is also arranged for senior members of staff.
 Balancing burdens: Consideration of the additional burdens faced by new members of staff is
 reflected in reduced administrative and examining burdens, and enhanced research funding. For
 established staff holding onerous administrative duties, additional research leave is provided as
 compensation, along with research assistance and reduction in teaching commitments. Examining
 duties are treated separately, by monitoring examining commitments among all members of staff
 to ensure equality of contribution. Finally, we seek to balance burdens among members of staff
 with joint appointments by regular monitoring of their activities.
 Research support: The university provides generous sabbatical entitlement with faculty eligible
 for one term’s research leave after six terms of service (or one full year after six years). Staff are
 supported with a buy-out from teaching when leading major research projects, or with leave-of-
 absence as recipients of residential fellowships outside Oxford. Each Department provides
 generous research allowances for all staff, including post-doctoral researchers. For example, each
 established member of DPIR receives an annual research allowance of £3,000, which is often
 supplemented by college research allowance. Each ECR receives an annual allowance of £1,500.
 These funds may be used to support data collection, attendance at conferences, equipment, and
 travel and research assistance.
 Additional research assistance is provided to those holding significant administrative offices and
 to others on application depending on need. For example, all faculty undertaking administrative
 responsibilities are given up to 60 hours of research and administrative assistance by graduate
 students, who are of course paid for their work. To compensate those who undertake
 administrative work that is highly demanding, such as Head of Department, additional academic
 leave is given in compensation. The Departments hold separate funds in support of
 conferences/workshops which are open to bids from all staff members. Seminar funding is also
 available for events that are open to all members. Both these additional support costs are available
 to academic staff and students (with the endorsement of a permanent academic staff member) in
 the department. Departments also seek to support all staff in the dissemination of their research
 and in achieving impact, through the research support teams.
 Training and other support: Across the UoA, we support the on-going upgrading of staff’s
 methodological skills by making available all methods courses and, in particular, those in
 quantitative methods, via the Oxford Spring School in Advanced Research Methods run by the
 DPIR every year. We also encourage staff to select courses to support their specific career
 development needs from the broad range of training options offered by the University’s unit for
 People and Organisational Development. For instance, for first-time PIs, training is available on
 project management (grants), as are courses for senior staff taking on administrative leadership
 roles. The communications teams of each department also provide assistance with media
 engagement as does the University’s media office.
 The UoA strongly supports our Early Career Researchers, including in response to the many new
 challenges that they face as a result of the impact of COVID-19 on their research and career
 trajectories. We follow the University’s Code of Practice for the Employment and Career
 Development of Research Staff.


 2.2. Integrating doctoral students into the UoA’s research environment
 Our aim is to recruit the highest quality students from around the world, who demonstrate
 excellence in their academic records, clarity and significance in their proposed research,
 methodological rigour from a plurality of perspectives in their approaches, and a strong connection
 to the expertise and diverse interests of our faculty. We aim to provide our students with the
 training, supervision, research support, infrastructure and pastoral and career advice that will
 enable them to achieve superlative careers on completion.
 DPIR offers two 3-year doctorates (DPhils): one in Politics – with distinct research streams in
 Political Theory and in Government – and one in International Relations. BSG offers a doctoral

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme in Public Policy. OII has two doctoral programmes: in Social Data Science and in
 Information, Communication and the Social Sciences. The spread of applications and
 enrolments across each of these pathways is presented in the table and two figures below.
 Applications for each doctoral programme are robust. The size of each doctoral programme is
 capped by the University and has therefore remained fairly constant over time, other than in
 strategic investment in those in Digital Politics which has grown steadily from 5 on course in 2014
 to 17 in 2020. Our growing numbers of applicants have led to increasing competitiveness of the
 application pool. Approximately 29% of on-course students are from the UK, 26% from the EU
 and 45% from non-EU overseas countries. Of those current students from outside the UK, there
 are significant cohorts from the United States (35 students) and from Germany (21 students).


              Table 1. Graduate applications and enrolments in the REF period
  Totals for DPIR,
                          2020    2019     2018    2017   2016      2015    2014            totals
  BSG & OII
  Applications             609     602      544     428     424      389     397             3393
  Enrolments                60      51       53      57      54       46      58              379
          Government          18       12        19       16       22        19       23      129
                       IR     14       15        15       15       16        13       19      107
                 Theory       10        4         6       11        4         6        8       49
          Public Policy        1        6         4        4        3         2        3       23
         Digital Politics     17       14         9       11        9         6        5       71



                               Figure 4. Applications by sub-field




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                Figure 5. Enrolments by sub-field




 Candidates are normally admitted as Probationer Research Students (PRS) and gain DPhil status
 if they successfully complete Transfer of Status (normally by the end of term 4). On students’
 arrival, we provide induction weeks, and devise a programme of training in consultation with
 supervisors. This may involve:
       research methodology seminars (both qualitative and quantitative)
       research ethics training
       language tuition
       training modules offered by the Social Sciences Division in topics such as research
        integrity, additional research methods, writing and communication
 A second progression milestone, Confirmation of Status, must be completed by term 9. Each
 doctoral student has a departmental assessor in order to ensure more timely completion of
 milestone assessments. These assessors can also serve as second supervisors for RCUK-funded
 students.
 The structure of doctoral research achieves a balance between rigorous assessment and expert
 input, and timely completion of the students’ dissertations. Of a total of 379 DPhil students who
 were enrolled across the UoA in the REF period, only 4% (14) students have withdrawn from
 their programme of study and 3 have transferred to other programmes at Oxford. Over the
 period 2003-2020, the UoA has a 94% completion rate, and a completion rate in the current
 REF period of 79%. Over the last 5 rounds, over 83% of our research students report themselves
 satisfied or very satisfied (Student Barometer, 2014-19).
 We also invest in the training of doctoral supervisors. The Oxford People and Organisational
 Development unit trains academics in doctoral supervision, and other relevant topics, including
 implicit bias, admissions, and preventing harassment. Termly reports on each doctoral student are
 scrutinised by the Directors of Graduate Studies in each department and by college mentors in


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 order to provide feedback to students and faculty on progress and problems in a timely and
 effective way.
 As doctoral students are an important part of the research environment in each department, we
 seek to maximize their contribution through:
       opportunities to present their research at centre and departmental research seminars
       funding for conferences and other dissemination events
       representation of graduate students on departmental and divisional graduate studies
        committees
 Doctoral students are well supported by a variety of funding sources. 91% of students (365)
 received almost £7 million in internal funds as scholarships over the REF period. An additional
 £198,000 in hardship awards was also given to a further 41 students.


                        Table 2. Internal scholarships in the REF period (£)

              2020         2019        2018        2017       2016      2015        2014      totals


  Amount    918,939**    1,407,766   1,132,599   1,184,329   856,789   771,341   626,160   6,897,923
 ** The decline in 2020 is due to the impact of COVID-19 on doctoral enrolment.


 Additionally, many students were in receipt of external scholarships, including:
       ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership awards (7 per year)
       Clarendon Scholarships (2 per year)
       AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership awards (2 per year)
 Doctoral students are provided with teaching training and opportunities:
       The Preparation for Learning and Teaching at Oxford course is open to all graduate
        students.
       Graduate students are also advised to take advantage of the Centre for Teaching and
        Learning course on Developing Teaching and Learning and the postgraduate Certificate
        in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education.
       DPIR offers a Graduate Teaching Scheme that offers substantial teaching opportunities to
        doctoral students in the department. In this scheme, supervisors work closely with their
        doctoral students to teach “from the ground up,” devising their own syllabi from which they
        deliver up to four hours of lectures within existing undergraduate course modules.
       OII puts on an annual summer doctoral programme that brings together outstanding
        doctoral students from around the world.
 Oxford Politics and International Relations dissertations are recognised internationally for their
 excellence. Over the REF period DPIR DPhils were awarded a combined 3 American Political
 Science Associations awards, 9 Political Studies Association awards and 4 International Studies
 Association awards, amongst other prizes (see section 4 for highlights).
 Our doctoral students completing their degrees in the REF period have an outstanding record of
 further achievement. DPIR supports their academic career progression by organising a Politics
 Research in Progress Workshop for DPhil Politics job market candidates to present their work. Of
 the 297 doctoral students (no research-based professional doctorates) who graduated during the
 REF period:
       29 have obtained tenure-track positions across 13 countries, including at the Universities
        of St Andrews, Toronto, Geneva, Amsterdam, Belfast, UCL, Leiden, LSE, Hong Kong,
        SOAS, Western Australia



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       39 have secured post-doctoral research positions across 12 countries, including at the
        Universities of Frankfurt, Nottingham, Zurich, Princeton, Harvard, Stanford, Berlin, EUI,
        UCD, Sciences Po, Yale
 Furthermore, many of our former doctoral students (a further 80 in the REF period) have gone on
 to deploy their expertise across 19 countries in fields outside academia. This includes work for
 foreign ministries (UK and elsewhere), advisors to government ministers, founding or working in
 commercial and risk consultancy companies, positions in human rights and international law
 organisations, NGOs and charities, working in media organisations, and as independent scholars
 and writers.
 Responding to COVID-19, the UoA has responded swiftly to the major disruption that the
 pandemic is causing to the research trajectories of many of our doctoral students, including delays
 in gaining access to libraries and archives, conducting interviews and fieldwork, in addition to
 significant financial pressures. We responded by providing broad academic support to the
 students in adjusting their research to COVID-19 restrictions, additional workshops on updating
 research plans and, where necessary, in redesigning their research. We have supported
 extensions to their stages of research progression and expanded our teaching assistantship
 scheme to provide additional career development opportunities. We also supported applications
 to the GCRF QR fund by eligible students.


 2.3. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The UoA follows the University’s policy and codes of practice regarding equality, diversity and
 inclusion. The University’s suite of professional development and training courses available to all
 members of staff include, for instance, modules on implicit bias, race awareness and inclusive
 teaching. All four departments have taken initiatives to attract strong and diverse candidates to
 apply for their posts by reaching out to underrepresented groups, updating their advertising
 practices and highlighting attractive HR policies such as flexible working. All recruitment panel
 members are expected to complete recruitment and selection and implicit bias training, and panels
 are balanced to ensure diverse representation. Each department has either been awarded or has
 embarked upon Athena Swan accreditation. The UoA operates under the University’s Policy and
 Procedure on Harassment and each department has at least one fully trained dedicated
 Harassment Officer.
 All staff are supported with departmental mentoring schemes which are ongoing for new and
 existing staff; strong HR teams supporting and being available for staff throughout their career;
 and specific policies such as the Returning Carers Fund, which awards grants up to £5,000.
 Targeted professional leadership support and training is also offered to women in the form of the
 University’s Oxford Senior Women’s Mentoring Network (OxSWMN), a mentoring scheme
 intended to encourage senior women to explore their leadership potential within academic life.
 The UoA as well as the University as a whole have also been highly engaged in supporting all
 faculty and students – as well as all staff in general – to deal with the effects of the pandemic, and
 in particular the effects of COVID-19 on their research, by supporting applications for funding
 extensions; extending deadlines for submission of doctoral research materials; hardship funding;
 and seminars and mentoring about how to adapt research plans that were dependent on access
 to materials and resources that COVID-19 made unavailable.
 There has been an increase of 11% in the number of female academics across Politics and
 International Studies since 2016, including Early Career Researchers (many of whom are
 women) on funded research projects who are not yet REF eligible, up to the current level of 43%
 of the total.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 2.3.1. Equality and diversity in constructing this REF submission
 The unit convened a REF Working Group in 2016, with activities conforming to the University's
 REF Code of Practice. The Group comprised 18 members, including 13 senior research faculty
 and 3 senior administrators, of which 6 were women. It was supported by a dedicated REF
 Research Administrator and by relevant administrators for Finance, Graduate Studies, and the
 Head of Administration. Following Divisional practice, the Head of Department was the unit’s REF
 Coordinator and another group member was the unit’s REF Co-ordinator. Members of the Group
 ran regular information sessions at department meetings open to all staff to discuss the REF
 process, and the REF Coordinator and Head of Department have communicated regularly with all
 researchers throughout the preparation process. The Head of Department and REF Coordinator
 undertook equality and diversity training organised by the University Central REF team.


 The selection of outputs followed a rigorous process to ensure parity of treatment across all
 researchers. Starting in autumn 2018, all Category A staff were asked to nominate up to 5 outputs
 they felt were their most REF-suitable work. Each nominated output was then reviewed twice and
 blind by faculty in relation to the REF criteria for output excellence. Three external assessors were
 then engaged in their area of expertise to review divergent internal scores and to validate the
 overall quality assessment. From the pool of assessed outputs, based on the review grades, those
 finally returned were selected to meet the minimum criteria of one per Category A staff and overall
 output excellence for the UoA. This confidential process was co-ordinated by the REF Lead, REF
 Coordinator and the REF Research Administrator.


 Our data on submissions profiles by gender indicates that while men were more likely on average
 to be submitted with more than 1 publication, female staff were significantly more likely to be
 submitted with 5 publications (17% of women) than men (9%), were as likely to be submitted with
 3 publications (20% and 19%), and that no women, as compared to 3 men, were returned with 0
 outputs.
 Tables 2 and 3 below provide a breakdown by gender and ECR status of the UoA’s output profile.




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



       Table 2: Output profile for all FTE’s                 Table 3: Output profile for ECR’s
      No of                          Total No of            No of                       No of
                 Female Male                                         Female Male
     outputs                        researchers            outputs                      ECRs
  0              0        3         3                      0         0        0        0
  1              17       25        42                     1         11       13       24
  2              7        20        27                     2         3        7        10
  3              8        14        22                     3         0        2        2
  4              1        12        13                     4         0        0        0
  5              7        7         14                     5         0        0        0
  Total No of                                              Total
  researchers                                              No of
  (inc. ECRs) 40          81        121                    ECRs      14       22       36



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Research funding portfolio


                         Table 4: Research funding in the REF period (£)
  Source          2013/14     2014/15     2015/16     2016/17     2017/28     2018/19     2019/20
  Research
                  661,643     671,589     572,146     727,180     799,520     463,081     557,899
  Councils
  UK Charity
                  389,907     536,482     753,183     521,086     607,948     546,970     627,042
  (QR)
  UK Charity
                   34,386     281,752     186,569      25,000      133.56     142,331     198,653
  (no QR)
  UK Public
                   30,483      30,527      47,850     415,309     577,960     1,025,314   1,583,572
  Sector
  RDEC                        390,094      -960.49     32,961      5,821
  UK Industry
                  134,483     187,336      66,730      31,539      58,981     165,567     283,380
  (QR)
  Other
                   16,232      18,855      41.26      £25,000     500,000     500,000     166,792
  Sources
  EU
                  298,149     346,264     309,300     416,140     404,090     752,114     1,142,787
  Government
  EU Charity
                   24,547      43,305      3,190        £992                               30,382
  (QR)
  EU Industry
                   62,323      24,281     866,079     1,608,411   1,697,618   1,676,130   1,443,729
  (QR)
  EU Other         51,875      96,425      73,836      42,104      61,036      80,448      79,427
  Non-EU
                  306,052     379,500     244,811      50,818     124,850     462,738     118,801
  Charity (QR)
  Non-EU
                   28,788      56,505      5,051       7,435      289,121     497,595     104,941
  Industry (QR)
  Non-EU Other     38,398      82,771     167,946     124,831     222,028     259,288     232,310
  Health
                                                       12,781       991         834
  Research
                  2,077,271   3,145,692   3,295,777   4,041,591   5,350,103   6,572,414   6,569,720




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy for increasing and diversifying research income
 Research income over the current review period has increased three-fold, with gains achieved
 across a very wide range of funding sources, including research councils, UK, EU and non-EU
 charities, the UK public sector, and UK and EU industry, in line with our funding diversification
 strategy. This was achieved through stronger support for grant applications by our departmental
 research support teams, including the organisation of peer review by experienced scholars
 through our research networks, workshopping of large applications, and the use of mock
 interviews for shortlisted applicants. For example, political theory funding applications are
 reviewed through the Political Theory Network and Centre for the Study of Social Justice.
 Workshops and mock interview panels benefit from participation by experienced colleagues
 within each department, assisted by successful applicants from other related departments and
 divisional research support staff.
 The research support teams play a central role in advertising funding schemes, advising
 academics about the most appropriate funding sources for their projects, costing grant
 applications, assisting academics in research activity and impact-planning for research grants,
 processing grant applications, reviewing approaches by corporate donors and giving post-award
 support.


 Infrastructure and facilities
 The UoA is committed to maintaining a work environment that supports the research activity of
 its members through the following provisions:
        Well maintained office space for ECRs and work station facilities for research students
         and visitors at its premises in the Social Sciences Building, BSG Building and the OII
         building.
        The provision of the Social Sciences Building which has a lecture theatre and seven
         seminar rooms, with improved A/V and lecture capture capabilities, available for
         research training, meetings and conferences.
        The provision of the innovatively designed BSG building which, through its award-
         winning design, represents the values of openness, collaboration and transparency that
         are key to the School’s overall mission of improving public policy.
        Enlarged research spaces and upgraded communal areas to encourage greater
         interaction between faculty, staff and students in all three buildings.
        Access for its staff, students and visitors to the University’s world-class library facilities
         including electronic holdings
 During the pandemic, we have worked with the University to ensure that all our buildings and
 infrastructure have been made safe and compliant with government regulations, to provide
 resources to access materials online, and to provide support for students and faculty who are
 unable to work at home.
 Investment in new areas of research and innovation
 Decisions on the allocation of resources and on hiring are coordinated across the UoA by the
 Social Sciences Division, to which an academic as well as a business case for appointments need
 to be made. The Division has supported the expansion of research in public policy at BSG and
 digital politics at OII and in RISJ, as well as joint appointments between DPIR and OSGA in area
 studies. It has also supported our goals in developing strategic concentrations of expertise in
 political economy, political behaviour, international relations, political theory, research methods
 and area expertise. Since the last REF we have made nearly 100 appointments of academic staff
 (including replacements and new posts), covering a wide range of permanent and fixed-term roles.
 BSG has seen considerable growth since its foundation, increasing from 25 researchers in 2015
 (including 8 post-doctoral researchers) to 64 in 2020 (including 12 post-doctoral researchers and
 24 research staff). OII has almost doubled in faculty size since the last REF with 40 faculty
 (including 11 post-doctoral researchers and 17 research staff).


                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2. Addressing equality and diversity issues in research funding
 All departments in the UoA closely follow university-wide policies on equality, diversity and
 inclusion as they pertain to funding. These policies are detailed in the institutional-level
 environment statement. The UoA supports all academics in acquiring research funding, and all
 opportunities for early career applicants are regularly published through its website, notifying
 applicants of internal deadlines and giving detailed information on application procedures. We
 provide details of the success of our ECRs in obtaining research funding in the list of highlighted
 achievements regarding strategic aim 2 above.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UoA regards methodological rigour and collaboration across disciplinary and methodological
 boundaries as central to its approach to research. Collaboration is underpinned by the place of
 the UoA in Oxford’s collegiate system. Additionally, we foster such collaboration through academic
 appointments, in our research publications – 121 (42%) of our submitted outputs involve
 collaborative partnerships – our research centres and seminar series, and our doctoral training
 and methods. We host academic visitors from around the globe, welcoming their contributions
 while in Oxford, and engage with them in ongoing academic partnerships. Our researchers
 routinely work in collaboration with non-academic partners from the public, private and voluntary
 sectors. It is central to our mission to contribute to the research base in politics and international
 studies and to realize research impacts in our work with practitioners, policymakers, and the
 private sector globally and in the UK.
 4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships support
 The UoA promotes and actively supports collaborative work through multiple institutionalized
 schemes.
       joint academic appointments across departments, colleges and disciplines – for example,
        Rana Mitter who is a joint appointment between the Faculty of History and DPIR; Paul
        Chaisty (Russia and Eastern Europe), Kate Sullivan de Estrada (South Asia), Miles Tendi
        (African Studies), David Doyle and Tim Power (Latin America), and Yaacov Yadgar (Israel
        Studies) who are joint appointments between DPIR and OSGA
       shared research training and teaching programmes across departments and disciplines
       research centres, institutes and programmes for advanced research that provide a
        collaborative interdisciplinary approach to specific areas of Politics and International
        Relations
       a vibrant visitor programme which hosts visitors from Europe, North America, South
        America, Africa, and Asia each year. BSG, for instance, appoints over 50 Visiting Fellows,
        each with an academic sponsor to oversee and coordinate the collaboration with faculty
        and research teams. A dedicated visitor programme team works with each appointed
        Fellow to identify opportunities for engagement with faculty, students and research
        programmes and for lectures, workshops and knowledge exchange. Visiting Fellows
        continue their engagement once they have returned to their home institutions, providing
        an ongoing channel of communication, shared practice and global collaboration. As we
        note in section 1.2, our visitor programmes regularly result in collaborative research
        projects, funding applications and publications.
       formal collaborative research partnerships with several external institutions, including
        OxPO (Oxford-Sciences Po) and the Berlin-Oxford Initiative. For instance, 13 monographs
        or edited volumes and more than 40 articles have been published in the REF period that
        were supported by the seminars, conferences and collaborations facilitated by the OxPO
        network.
       collaborative research projects within the University and with external HEIs and/or policy
        institutes, and international non-governmental organisations (INGOs)




                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                   Table 5. Academic visitor profile across research centres

                              Centre
                                           Ethics,              Reuters
                              for the
              Centre    for                Law                  Institute
                              Study                                              Cyber
              International                and           OXPO   for       the                Dept        Total
                              of                                                 Studies
              Studies                      Armed                Study       of
                              Social
                                           Conflict             Journalism
                              Justice
  2013-14                 2            1             4      1               7        n/a            10       25
  2014-15                 4            2             3      2               5        n/a            5        21
  2015-16                 4            3             4      0               6            1          10       28
  2016-17                 1            4             2      3               4            3          9        26
  2017-18                 3            3             1      1               5            6          6        25
  2018-19                 3            3             0      1               5            5          6        23
  2019-20                 3            6             0      2               8            1          11       31
  Totals                 20        22            14        10               40       16             57      179


 4.2. Impactful research
 The UoA's research impact has international reach and significance, making contributions to the
 understanding and solution of many current global challenges. The UoA’s strategy and institutional
 support for impact, engagement and knowledge exchange are highlighted in Section 1 (strategic
 aim 4). Following departmental and divisional reviews of research impact in 2016 and a
 commitment in the 2019 impact strategy to developing clusters of impactful work, four principal
 areas have been the focus of impact work, supported and developed by impact leads in each of
 the four departments and a linked team of impact facilitators in DPIR and the Division.
 (A) Influencing policymakers and practitioners in the field of peacekeeping and conflict
 resolution.
 Work in this area aims to provide policymakers in governments and international organisations
 with cutting-edge research to inform their policymaking on issues concerned with security and
 conflict. Jennifer Welsh's work on the Responsibility to Protect and humanitarian intervention has
 been deeply influential at the United Nations, where she served as Special Adviser to the UN
 Secretary-General and developed a toolkit and training for the United Nations. Richard Caplan
 has continued to work with the UN Peace Building Support Office to inform the UN's peace building
 practices and stabilisation measures, through the use of benchmarking and measurement
 techniques to evaluate the success of peacekeeping measures after the withdrawal of UN
 missions. Andrea Ruggeri's research has been impactful in evaluating the work of UN missions in
 three countries, and especially in guiding the choice of staffing by the Swedish national
 government, the UN and other international organisations including NATO and UNDP. Annette
 Idler's research on Columbia has informed the Columbian Government's approach to peace
 negotiations and provided the basis for UN training and toolkits for practitioners to use in this and
 in other borderland areas. Idler won the 2020 Early Career Innovator category in the Vice-
 Chancellor Innovation Awards for her work on rethinking conflict to build peace and was highly
 commended in the Inspiring Leadership category.
 Impactful work has a strong historical dimension: Robert Johnson's research has guided the
 development of NATO peace negotiation tactics in Afghanistan as well as shaping NATO's policy
 on work with the Afghan National Army. He has trained UK military leaders and helped to develop
 UK military training curricula. Karma Nabulsi's website The Palestinian Revolution is a major
 bilingual Arabic-English digital resource which has brought together 300 original archives and
 primary texts, linked by twelve research-led essays, and which aims to secure a better
 understanding of the historical origins of conflict in Palestine among interested publics. The
 website was awarded the 2019 Middle Eastern Studies Association (MESA) Undergraduate

                                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education Award and its Youtube channel has achieved 2,230 subscribers and 428,861 views of
 its videos since it was created on 2 Sept 2016.
 UoA researchers have also had impact in assisting policymakers to identify new challenges in
 this field. Impactful work here has been concerned with the ending of civil wars and the processes
 of adjustment that this requires. Lucas Kello's research and that of the Centre for Technology and
 Global Affairs has informed stakeholder understanding of cyber-security issues and policy
 developments in NATO’s Emerging Security Challenges Division, GCHQ and the Estonian
 Government.
 (B) Improving the understanding of developments in political communication and among
 media professionals and the public.
 Impactful work in this area aims to raise the level of understanding of trends in media and public
 opinion and electoral outcomes.
 RISJ produces the annual Digital News Report (2012-present) which is the most authoritative, up-
 to-date and influential source of information on cross-national trends in digital media. It is required
 reading among decision-makers in the media who use its data and analysis for strategy
 development and ideation in areas such as online disinformation. The Report is presented at all
 the most significant media conferences and gatherings worldwide (more than 50 events in 20
 countries in 2018) and at annual private briefings for companies and senior media figures (RISJ’s
 Editor-in-Chief/CEO Forum, Public Service News Forum, and News Innovation Forums). RISJ has
 provided 200 research-led briefings for almost all the principal stakeholders in digital news
 research, including Ofcom, the Cabinet Office, the Department for Culture, Media & Sport, the
 BBC, the Irish Broadcasting Regulator, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, and
 media companies including the Google, Facebook, Reddit, SnapChat, Twitter, YouTube, the
 Financial Times, the Indian Express, the South China Morning Post and the Washington Post.
 RISJ was a major participant in the European Commission high-level hearing on Preserving
 Democracy in the Digital Age (2018) and 'Countering Online Disinformation: Towards a more
 transparent, trustworthy and accountable digital media ecosystem' (2019).
 The British Election Study (BES) is co-directed by Jane Green and Geoff Evans of this UoA, in
 collaboration with colleagues at the University of Manchester and Royal Holloway. Its impact
 strategy is designed to maximize the use and reach of BES data and BES research findings so as
 to raise the level of discussion of electoral data by communicators, especially politicians, media
 commentators, campaigns, charities and think tanks and other civil society / democratic
 stakeholders. It also aims to achieve impact through public events, expert commentary, and policy
 influence through work with the Electoral Commission to improve levels of voter registration.
 (C) Improving political accountability
 Impactful work in this area has focused on (1) the political regulation of financial institutions in the
 wake of banking crisis and globalised finance and (2) improving parliamentary accountability,
 especially in the UK.
 Walter Mattli's work on the regulation of global capital markets was the foundation of an impact
 conference in April 2017 attended by key figures in capital market regulation from the European
 Securities and Markets Authority, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the IMF
 High-Level Advisory Group on Finance and Technology and the EU Commission. Pepper
 Culpeper's ERC-funded research project on the feedback loops between policies regulating
 banks, public anger towards banking elites and mass media framings has identified shortcomings
 in the democratic oversight of bank regulation, and formed the basis of a formal submission for
 the UK Treasury’s consultation on the Future Regulatory Framework for Finance. Ricardo Soares
 De Oliveira's research has been impactful in two areas: in shaping Oxfam America’s global
 strategy for the extractive industries and the governance of natural resources and - as evidenced
 in the impact case study - in informing investigative journalism concerning financial corruption in
 Angola (the Luanda leaks of 2020).
 Parliamentary accountability, legislation, representation and constitutional rules have also
 been the focus of impactful work. Petra Schleiter has given written and oral evidence to several
 UK parliamentary committees and to the Irish Citizens' Assembly on no confidence motions, and

                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fixed term Parliaments. Radoslaw Zubek and David Doyle's machine-readable textual analysis of
 UK parliamentary legislation has been used in support of proposals to make legislation more
 business friendly. Zubek, a recipient of knowledge exchange seed funding and funding from the
 University’s Research & Public Policy Partnership Scheme, has also created a data website
 (ParlRulesData.org) which digitizes, analyses and makes available to interested publics historical,
 machine-readable records of parliamentary rules. He has formed an ongoing research and public
 policy collaboration with the House of Commons Library (HCL) and the Parliamentary Digital
 Service (PDS). Matthew Williams' work, also on textual analysis of legislation, has helped to inform
 policymakers of the consequences of the changing language and complexity of legislation, via
 briefings of Canadian legislators, UK parliamentary councillors (legislative drafters) and the Home
 Office. Stephen Whitefield’s research has been instrumental in efforts to raise women’s
 representation in the Albanian legislature. Also in the field of UK political accountability, Stuart
 White's research has been used in advocacy by the Labour Party and UK think tanks for the
 development of a constitutional convention for the UK.
 (D) Improving governmental efficiency
 The UoA's research has also been impactful in generating new ideas and approaches to improve
 efficiency in government. Since 2018, Helen Margetts has been Director of the Public Policy
 Programme at the Alan Turing Institute, the UK’s national institute for data science and artificial
 intelligence. The Programme works with policymakers to research and develop ways of using data
 science and AI to improve policymaking and service provision, foster government innovation and
 establish an ethical framework for the use of data science in government. It comprises over 25
 research projects involving 60 researchers across 10 universities. Martin Williams's research has
 made improvements to the delivery of public services in Ghana. Ray Duch's impact case study
 shows the impact of his research on the Financial Conduct Authority's consideration of pension
 freedom. Thomas Elston and Ruth Dixon's research on local government resource pooling and
 the sharing of public services since 2010 has implications for the future of the policy. Emily Jones
 directs the Global Economic Governance Programme which examines how global markets and
 institutions can better serve the needs of people in developing countries. She has helped train 45
 senior government officials in Indonesia and 100 UK civil servants.
 Our research impact work has responded with agility to the challenges presented by the COVID-
 19 pandemic and government efforts to manage it. Ngaire Woods has contributed to the OECD
 forum 'Tackling COVID-19' (July 2020) and to the World Economic Forum discussion of Global
 Governance after COVID-19' (May 2020). RISJ’s COVID-19 Information Project has provided
 policy briefings and analyses on how the British public navigates information and misinformation
 about coronavirus and about how the government and other institutions are responding to the
 pandemic to the World Health Organisation. Stephen Whitefield has produced a report for the
 European Commission (via the Mayors for Economic Growth Project) on policy responses to
 COVID-19 on economic development projects in 6 Eastern Neighbourhood countries. In the field
 of knowledge exchange, Thomas Hale has led a collaboration to produce the Oxford COVID-19
 Government Response Tracker (OxCGRT) which systematically collects information on several
 different common policy responses that governments have taken to respond to the pandemic on
 18 indicators such as school closures and travel restrictions. Its Risk of Openness Index aims to
 help countries understand if it is safe to ‘open up’ or whether they should ‘close down’ in their fight
 to tackle the coronavirus.


 4.3. Public engagement with research
 In line with our strategic commitment to connect our core academic research with a broad range
 of stakeholders, including public servants and officials, private and charitable sectors, and with
 citizens more broadly, UoA staff have worked to deepen public engagement through numerous
 public events. Some examples include:
       BSG holds a regular series of major open public events – more than 36 in 2020 alone – on
        topics such as Reimagining Public Service in the Wake of COVID-19, Harnessing Data to
        Improve Government Effectiveness, Remote Work in Governments, Politics of Vaccines,


                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        an Online Summer School on Minorities, Rights and Inequality, Coronavirus and Minority
        Rights, a series in the build-up to COP26, People in Government from a Behavioural
        Perspective, and many others.
       OII similarly holds public events to connect its research with a wider public, on topics such
        as AI and Fairness, Data Science for Resilient and Fair Policy Making in Crises, Countering
        the COVID-19 Misinfodemic with Text Similarity and Social Data Science, What Big Tech
        Does to Discourse, Tech Responses to COVID-19, Data, Governance and Geopolitics,
        Digital Racism, How Social Media Disrupts our Elections, Economy and Health.
       DPIR hosts the annual FCO-Chevening Gurukul Programme for Leadership and
        Excellence which brings 12 high-flying mid-career Indian leaders from business,
        government, and civil society organisations to Oxford to engage with many issues of core
        research interest to the UoA, especially connected with the politics of globalisation. Faculty
        in the UoA also contribute to other FCO-Chevening funded programmes, including CRISP,
        and the Africa Media Fellowships. We maintain our connection to the alumni of these
        programmes through an active outreach programme to update them of our latest research
        achievements.
       The British Election Study (BES) website aims to provide a 'data playground', allowing any
        interested user to access and analyse BES data online.
       RISJ held over 50 public events again in 2020 alone on subjects such as the Importance
        of Young Voices in the British Media, Reporting on COVID-19 in South Africa, the Value
        and Future of Public Service Media, Missing Perspectives of Women in COVID-19 News,
        How People Get Their News about Climate Change, Public Sector Broadcasting and Trust,
        Holding Power to Account, Brexit in a Time of Crisis.
       CCW held regular public seminars that brought together academics and policymakers and
        military officers on subjects such as Maritime Strike Warfare (Rear Admiral Mike Utley and
        Commodore Steve Moorhouse), Rethinking Western Strategy and the Character of War in
        the 21st Century, the Future of Western Overseas Counter-Terrorism Intervention (William
        Evans, FCO), Russian Military Modernisation, Cognitive Biases in International Politics,
        Forecasting Political Violence, Terrorism and Human Rights.
       St Antony’s College hosts Visiting Parliamentary Fellows on an annual basis including in
        the REF period Lord Inglewood, Baroness Andrews, Lord Lipsey, Lord Cooper, Baroness
        Rock, Lord Collins, Lord Bridges and Lord Wood.


 Public engagement and knowledge exchange also occur via broadcasting and print media:
       James Tilley has written and presented six documentaries for BBC Radio 4, and two for
        the BBC World Service, since 2017 which have covered a range of topics from the
        politics of primates, to conspiracy theories, to the voting age.
       Jane Green was the psephologist on ITV News coverage of the UK general elections
        in 2017 and 2019, using British Election Study data to inform her commentary.
       Ngaire Woods makes regular high-profile contributions to World Economic Forum and
        Davos.
       Sudhir Hazareesingh’s research on Toussaint L’Ouverture was presented in a five-part
        BBC Radio 4 series, Black Spartacus.
       Amia Srinavasan has written essays and criticism on subjects including politics, sex,
        animals, death, the university, technology, anger, in The New Yorker, The New York
        Review of Books, Harper’s, the Times Literary Supplement, The Nation, The New York
        Times and TANK.
       Rasmus Kleis Nielsen gives frequent presentations on the changes and challenges facing
        news media, at both academic conferences and industry events, and his work has been
        covered by a range of news media including the BBC, the Economist, Financial Times,
        The Guardian, and various other international media.




                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4. Contribution to the academic research community
 Among the highlights of our contributions to the research community are:
       Editing: Members of the UoA hold 72 editorships and editorial board memberships of
        scholarly journals, including Comparative Political Studies (co-editor); British Journal of
        Political Science (editor); African Affairs (co-editor).
       Conferences convened: These include 55 conferences, seminars and webinars, jointly
        organised with Sciences Po in Paris alone in the REF period, on subjects as diverse as
        ‘ethics and public policy’, ‘the transformation of connectivity’, ‘primaries and populism’,
        ‘War, Overconfidence and Perceptions in International Politics’. Many of these conferences
        were specifically designed to allow our graduate students to present their work to faculty
        and their counterparts in Paris.
       Prizes: Member of the UoA have won best paper prizes at APSA every year since 2014
        (in different categories). Among other prizes are 'Research Communicator of the Year'
        2015 (Jane Green); Bill Gates Sr Award for Research 2015 (Raphael Lefevre); 2015 winner
        of Grand Prix du Livre d'Idées (Sudhir Hazareesingh); Guardian Higher Education Network
        Inspiring Leader award 2017 (Karma Nabulsi); Arab Woman of the Year 2018 (Karma
        Nabulsi); BA Brian Barry Prize for Excellence in Political Science 2018 (Zeynep Pamuk);
        BA Academy of Management Teaching Excellence Award 2019 (Thomas Elston);
        European Consortium for Political Research Lifetime Achievement Award 2020 (David
        Miller), Historical Association Medlicott Medal for Outstanding Services 2020 (Rana Mitter).
       Elections to learned societies: The UoA’s researchers include 27 faculty members who
        have been elected to learned societies, including the British Academy (9 Fellows); Royal
        Irish Academy; John Hopkins Society of Scholars; National Academy of Insurance and
        Policy; Royal Historical Society; Academy of Social Science; American Academy of Arts
        and Sciences; Council of the American Political Science Association; Alan Turing Institute
        Public Policy Programme; Royal Society of Edinburgh; and Académie Royale de Belgique.


 Our faculty research has been widely recognised via international prestigious prizes, as illustrated
 by the following highlights:
       Ben Ansell won both the 2015 APSA Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award and the 2015
        APSA William Riker award for his 2014 CUP book with David Samuels, 'Inequality and
        Democratization: An Elite-Competition Approach
       Sudhir Hazareesingh’s monograph How the French think: an affectionate portrait of an
        intellectual people was awarded the Grand Prix du Livre d’Idées (2015). His 2020 book,
        ‘Black Spartacus: The Epic Life of Toussaint Louverture’ was short-listed for the UK’s
        Baillie Gifford Prize for Non-Fiction.
       Cecile Laborde’s Liberalism’s Religion was awarded the Spitz Prize (2019) for its
        ‘outstanding intellectual achievement’.
       Todd Hall's, ‘Emotional Diplomacy: Official Emotion on the International Stage’, was joint
        winner of the 2016 Best Book Award, by the Diplomatic Studies Section of the International
        Studies Association.
       Sophie Smith's paper The Language of “Political Science” in Early Modern Europe was
        awarded the Selma V. Forkosch Prize for the best paper by the Journal of the History of
        Ideas, and her paper "Okin, Rawls and the Politics of Political Theory" was awarded the
        Best Paper Award from the Foundations of Political Thought section of the American
        Political Science Association 2018..
       Thomas Hale’s ‘Between Interests and Law: The politics of transnational commercial
        arbitration’ was runner up for the Harold and Margaret Sprout Award for best book in global
        environmental politics by the International Studies Association (2015).
       Robert Johnson’s ‘The Great War in the Middle East: A Strategic Study’ ( 2016) was
        awarded The Trench Gasgoigne Prize , 2016 by The Royal United Services Institute and
        shortlisted by the Society for Army Historical Research for the Templer Medal and the
        Royal United Services Institute prize.


                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Patricia Owens’ Economy of Force: Counterinsurgency and the Historical Rise of the
        Social was awarded the Susan Strange Prize (2016) by the British International Studies
        Association.
       Jan Zielonka’s 'Counter-Revolution: Liberal Europe in Retreat' was awarded the 2019 Best
        Book Prize of the University Association for Contemporary European Studies.
       James Tilley was awarded the American Political Science Association prize for best paper
        2019 for ‘Divided by the vote: Affective polarization in the wake of Brexit’ (with Sara Hobolt
        and Thomas Leeper) in the Elections, Public Opinion, and Voting Behavior section. He
        also received the Political Studies Association Richard Rose Prize 2016 for a ‘younger
        scholar who has made a distinctive contribution to the study of British politics’.
       Ezequiel Gonzalez Ocantos’ book Shifting Legal Visions: Judicial Change and Human
        Rights Trials in Latin America (2016) won the Herman Pritchett Best Book Award from
        APSA's Law and Courts Section, the best book award from ISA's Human Rights Section
        and the Donna Lee Van Cott Best Book Award from LASA's Political Institutions Section.
       Alex Kuo’s paper ‘Why do Asian Americans Identify as Democrats? Testing Theories of
        Social Exclusion and Intergroup Solidarity’ (with Neil Malhotra and Cecilia Mo) (2015)
        received the Franklin Burdette/Alpha Pi Award for best paper presented at 2014 APSA.
       William Allen’s paper ‘Factors that Impact How Civil Society Intermediaries Perceive
        Evidence’ was awarded the Carol Weiss Prize for Best Paper by an Early-Career
        Researcher in Evidence & Policy (2016).
       Zeynep Pamuk’s paper ‘Justifying Public Funding for Science’ received the British
        Academy Brian Barry Prize for Excellence in Political Science (2018).


 Oxford Politics and International Relations doctoral dissertations are recognised internationally for
 their excellence, with multiple awards. Just in 2019-20, these include:
       2019 Walter Dean Burnham Best Dissertation Award by the American Political Science
        Association in Politics and History (Matthias Dilling)
       2019 Thomas E. Patterson Award dissertation award in political communications
        American Political Science Association and the 2019-20 Lord Bryce Prize, Political
        Studies Association (William Allen)
       2019-20 Elizabeth Wiskemann Prize for the best dissertation in (in)equality and social
        justice, Political Studies Association (Diana Koester)
       2019-2020 Shirin M. Rai Prize, for the best dissertation in international relations, Political
        Studies Association (Annette Stimmer)


 4.5. Contributions beyond the academic research community
 Many members of the UoA serve on Government, NGO and INGO advisory boards. Prominent
 examples from a total of 81 such memberships include:
       Member of CEBRI Brazilian Council of Foreign Relations, Rio de Janeiro (Andrew Hurrell)
       Member of the Advisory Council of the European Centre for Minority Issues (ECMI)
        (Gwendolyn Sasse)
       UK Government Department for International Trade: Member of the Trade and Economy
        panel; Member of President’s High-Level Panel on the Future of the African Development
        Fund; Co-Chair of the World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on Values,
        Technology and Governance; UK Government National Leadership Centre's Expert
        Advisory Panel; Department for International Trade’s Trade and Economy Panel (Ngaire
        Woods)
       Member of the UK Cabinet Office Cross-Whitehall Trial Advice Panel (Ray Duch)
       Max Planck Scientific Advisory Board; American Political Science Association Council
        (Ben Ansell)
       Advisor to the French Conseil d’Etat (higher administrative Court) on the secularism laws
        (Cécile Laborde)


                                                                                               Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Member of two expert advisory groups for UK Department of International Trade; Trade
        and Development Expert Advisory Group and the Trade and Sustainability Expert Advisory
        Group (Emily Jones)
       Member on the UK Government's Digital Economy Council; Member of the Home Office
        Scientific Advisory Council and the Government Digital Advisory Board (Helen Margetts)
       Council of European Council on Foreign Relations; founding member of the Spinelli Group;
        RENEW programme (Rethinking Europe in a Non-European World); and Programme on
        Global Trade Ethics (Kalypso Nicolaidis)
       International Supervisory Board of Georgia’s Shota Rustaveli National Science Foundation
        (Neil Macfarlane)
       European Commission’s High Level Expert Group on Online Disinformation; chair of the
        Independent News Emergency Relief Coordination (INERC); chair of the working group on
        sustainability of Reporters without Borders’ Forum on Information & Democracy (Rasmus
        Nielsen)




                                                                                        Page 29
