Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London
 Unit of Assessment: 29 Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
King’s Classics is distinctive for the breadth, dynamism and inclusivity of its research. Our
scholarship encompasses all aspects of the Graeco-Roman world, including reception and legacy.
The Classics that we champion is emphatically participatory, empowering local, national and global
communities to engage with classical traditions in ways that are meaningful to them.

Situated in the heart of London, King’s Classics forms part of a vibrant, multicultural and
international university. Our close ties with specialist libraries, museums, cultural institutions and
educational charities provide unparalleled opportunities for transformative research and impact.
Inspired by the capital’s complex heritage, we are committed to challenging the privileged past of
the discipline and to shaping a more inclusive future, with particular emphasis on global and
postcolonial perspectives. This strategic focus invigorates our present research and impact
initiatives, while securing our sustainability into the future.

1a. Unit structure and context
King’s Classics draws on a tradition spanning almost 200 years. At the heart of our community is
the Department of Classics, with its integrated Centre for Hellenic Studies. But our interdisciplinary
research embraces all 14 departments within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities: of 32 submitted
staff (31.46FTE), seven share affiliations with other departments (Comparative Literature, History,
Liberal Arts and Philosophy); additional Classics researchers have been returned in four other
REF2021 UOAs (e.g. Dunn, Earl, Papadogiannakis, Woolf).

Within the Department, King’s Classics embraces not only Category A staff, but also Academic
Education Pathway lecturers, PGR students, honorary fellows, visiting scholars, research
associates, emeritus staff and an artist in residence. Since King’s is among four British HEIs
offering a PGCE in Classics Education, staff and students from the School of Education are also
integrated within our research community, as are members of the Classics for All charity, whose
administrative hub is housed in the Department.

In King’s more widely, our research benefits from the productively porous boundaries between
departments. Interdisciplinary work is supported by not just cross-departmental appointments
(which have doubled since 08/2013), but also the Arts and Humanities Research Institute (AHRI).
Of the AHRI’s 13 affiliated centres (cf.5A:4.5), unit staff lead the Centre for Hellenic Studies, and
help manage those for Enlightenment Studies, Late Antique and Mediaeval Studies, Philosophy
and Visual Arts, Digital Culture and Queer@King’s. Within the University of London, the Institute of
Classical Studies offers superlative resources for specialist research: King’s Classicists are active
in leading the Institute and its associated Hellenic and Roman Societies.

1b. Research strategy implementation, 08/2013–07/2020
In line with REF2014 aims and King’s Vision 2029 (cf.5A:1.4), King’s Classics has successfully
implemented five principal objectives:

  i.   To maintain and enhance existing research strengths, supporting creative, innovative and
       dynamic projects
       Through careful resource management, we have sustained critical strength in all research
       areas, while maintaining overall staffing growth. Four factors lie behind this success. First,
       our grant income – with average annual expenditure up 34% in REF2020 over REF2014.
       Second, our research fundraising, generating >£2.6 million. Third, our recruitment of 18
       postdoctoral researchers – nurturing talent that is sustaining the discipline. Fourth, our
       hosting of so many Visiting Research Fellows – 33 during the cycle, from 12 countries
       (including Brazil, China, Colombia and India).

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         The vitality of this research is demonstrated by the number and range of cycle publications.
         Outputs by Category A staff have averaged 19.7 per FTE. This total of 621 outputs
         (excluding eight major digital databases and >120 book reviews) sets an all-time record,
         tripling the achievements of REF2014: 32 monographs (excluding seven new editions and
         >25 translations, including Arabic, Japanese, Mandarin, Russian, Taiwanese and Turkish);
         64 edited books; 155 (103 peer-reviewed) articles; 370 book chapters.

         Our publications stand out not only in quantity, but also in variety, quality and innovation.
         They reflect breadth of coverage – across literature, history, philosophy, art/archaeology,
         reception and Hellenic studies. Monographs range from editions and commentaries (e.g.
         Meeusen, Plutarch’s Science of Natural Problems and Plutarque: Œuvres Morales XIII;
         Trapp, Aelius Aristides: Orations), to authoritative reference works (e.g. Beaton, Greece;
         Herrin, Ravenna; Mouritsen, Politics in the Roman Republic; Stathakopoulos, A Short
         History of the Byzantine Empire). They also include innovative studies completed over
         multiple REF-cycles (e.g. Adams, Cultural Identity in Minoan Crete; Corke-Webster,
         Eusebius and Empire; Fitzgerald, Variety; Matzner, Rethinking Metonymy; Pillinger,
         Cassandra and the Poetics of Prophecy; Stead, Cockney Catullus; Tor, Mortal and Divine in
         Early Greek Epistemology).

  ii.    To foster interdisciplinarity, championing diverse contemporary and global classical
         receptions
         Classics faces substantial challenges in decolonising and diversifying the discipline. But
         both nationally and internationally King’s Classicists have championed issues of
         appropriation, resistance and access. Landmark publications include: Allan/Cahill/Squire’s
         The Classical Now; Andújar’s Greek Trilogy of Luis Alfaro; Hall’s Greek & Roman Classics
         in the British Struggle for Social Reform, Women Classical Scholars and A People’s History
         of Classics; McConnell’s Performing Epic; Orrells’ Mudimbe Reader.

         Our conferences have nurtured interdisciplinarity, interrogating the relevance of Classics
         within a globalised world. Staff have organised 49 major conferences at King’s during the
         cycle, with 24 additional PGR-led workshops and 58 co-convened conferences outside
         London. Of these 131 events, the majority have received full or partial funding from King’s
         (>£500,000: cf.5B:3c). Conference themes range from Women Thinkers in Antiquity
         (O’Reilly, 2020) and Music as Classical Reception (Pillinger, 2018), to Classical and
         Western Legacies Revisited (1500–1900) (Genghini, 2019) and Ancient Mythology in
         Contemporary Hispanic Theatre (Andújar, 2018). Of these conferences, 32 have also
         already resulted in edited volumes, including Beaton/Levidou’s Music, Language and
         Identity in Greece (2019), Dinter’s Intermediality in Classical Literature (2019), Fitzgerald’s
         Production of Space in Latin Literature (2018) and Squire’s Rethinking Lessing’s Laocoon
         (2017).

  iii.   To create new pathways to impact – emphasising accessibility, education, creative industries
         and heritage
         Our three Impact Case Studies reflect the symbiotic relationship between research and
         impact. They document how our work has effected real change – locally, nationally and
         globally, especially within the creative and museum industries (e.g. Modern Classicisms),
         and in the cultural heritage sector (by restoring looted Iranian antiquities, or enabling local
         communities to preserve heritage in Libya, Syria and Tunisia). Our research has benefited
         museums, galleries and schools in particular, including major access-oriented projects like
         Museum Access Network for Sensory Impairments, London, Advocating Classics Education
         and Conflict Resolution through Classical Literature (cf.5B:4a,b). Two factors have been
         instrumental to this success. First, we have benefited from extensive institutional training
         (cf.5B:2d) and financial support (cf.5B:3c). Second, we have adopted a collaborative
         approach: as a research community, King’s Classics has committed to common objectives,
         sharing good practice and working together (including with students) to achieve our goals.


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  iv.   To ensure accessibility of research, including Open Access initiatives
        Access has also been fundamental to our publication agendas. As editors or board
        members of 32 journals, unit staff have led debates about Open Access; as editors of the
        International Journal of the Classical Tradition, for example, Orrells and Matzner have
        ensured that King’s Classics research is Open Access (e.g. recent articles by Trapp and
        Squire). Classics lags behind other subjects in Open Access monographs. But King’s
        Classicists have worked with publishers to make research freely available after initial
        embargo – as with Hall’s People’s History of Classics (Routledge: OA from 2023), Squire’s
        Art of Hegel’s Aesthetics (W. Fink: OA from 2020) and Morphogrammata (W. Fink: OA from
        2019) and Van Steen’s Adoption, Memory, and Cold War Greece (Michigan: OA March–
        August 2020). Collaborating with King’s Digital Lab (cf.5A:4.4), staff have also pioneered
        free online databases, resources and publications: e.g. Mouritsen, Digital Prosopography of
        the Roman Republic; Papacostas, Inventory of Byzantine Churches on Cyprus; Polinskaya,
        IOSPE: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea; Roueché, Inscriptions of Roman
        Cyrenaica, Heritage Gazetteer of Cyprus, Heritage Gazetteer of Libya and Prosopography
        of the Byzantine World 2016; Wootton, Art of Making in Antiquity.

  v.    To sustain in number and quality our PGR community, while forging new international
        connections
        King’s maintains one of the largest Classics PGR communities in the world: between
        08/2013 and 07/2020 we supported 115 registered PGR students (cf.5B:2c).

        We have developed diverse global PGR and staff exchange partnerships – e.g. with UNC
        Chapel Hill, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Sydney, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität
        Munich, Stanford and Hong Kong. Such partnerships are embedded in our PGR
        programmes – for example, via an annual exchange with UNC Chapel Hill (with two unit
        staff and five PGR students). We also provide support to researchers from other institutions:
        on average, our Centre for Hellenic Studies has hosted three PGR students and four visiting
        scholars annually, providing a haven for researchers, especially from Greece and Cyprus.

1c. Administering research and impact
King’s Classics adopts a facilitative rather than prescriptive approach to research and impact, with
an emphasis on sharing knowledge, experience and expertise. Administrative structures for
implementing strategy were revised in 2015. Within the Department, responsibility is vested in a
Research and Impact Committee, chaired by the Research Lead: the Committee meets five times
per year, reporting to the Department and Faculty. Membership represents all staff, including at
least one ECR and PGR, administrative leads for ED&I, PGR, impact and external relations, and
other colleagues in annual rotation.

The Committee maintains oversight of all research events, including an annual Department
Research Away Day, PGR theory reading groups, weekly seminars, conference programmes and
twice-termly work-in-progress seminars by staff.

The Committee is also responsible for implementing Faculty and College guidelines for research
integrity (including for projects with human participants). One issue addressed during the cycle was
the importance of giving full credit to ECRs in joint publications with more senior staff, as reflected
in our outputs. Another is ethical questions surrounding scholarly engagement with illicitly acquired
antiquities (cf. Allen’s Impact Case Study).

1d. Future strategy (2020–27)
Over the last decade, King’s Classics has pioneered research into the intricate entanglements
between past and present: how classical antiquity shapes questions of cultural, religious and social
identity; debates about global identities; and not least challenges of equality, diversity and
inclusion. This self-positioning puts us in prime position to forge opportunities out of recent
challenges – including Brexit and the aftermath of Covid-19.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Four future aims stand out, aligned with College Research Strategy:

  i.     To diversify research horizons, including interdisciplinary collaborations
         We will build on existing expertise in geographically diverse Classics (from Britain to the
         Black Sea, from Africa to Persia), and in global classical reception. Faculty structures
         (including from 2022 a new Institute for Global Cultures) will boost interdisciplinary
         collaboration: an emerging project on Gandharan art, for example, will involve collaboration
         with the King’s India Institute. New Faculty frameworks will support British Academy Global
         Professorship and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship applications. Fundraising will remain
         key, too. Here our emphasis on global identities gives us particular strength: we intend to
         capitalise on recent successes to secure research gifts (cf.5B:3aii), including a 2023
         campaign for our Greek Play’s 70th anniversary (cf.5B:4biii).

  ii.    To use our digital expertise to maximise accessibility, especially given commitments to
         ecological sustainability
         While we have already improved our ED&I record, more remains to be done – including our
         decision to embark upon Athena Swan in 2021 (cf.5B:2d). More generally, the 2020
         pandemic – and the turn to online fora – is a spur to rethink how to maintain global research
         connections in ecologically sustainable ways. Given our ethical concerns about the
         environmental damage of frequent international travel, two colleagues (Adams, Pillinger)
         helped draw up the Faculty’s Sustainability policy. Our aim is to be leaders in what we
         foresee as a general trend to digitalisation: to capitalise on existing partnerships with King’s
         Digital Lab, especially expertise in managing online research resources, fora, events,
         training, seminars and publications.

  iii.   To nurture PGR and ECR talent, providing training for both research and alternative academic
         careers
         Our decision to maintain rather than expand PGR numbers reflects ethical concerns about
         accepting all possible PGRs when some suffer financial problems – and when job prospects
         are contracting short-term (cf.5B:2c). Nurturing transferable career skills will become
         especially important. We plan for PGRs to play a still more pivotal role in planning,
         implementing and analysing impact, not least in reforming British secondary-school
         education with Classics for All (cf.5B:4biii).

  iv.    To reform UG and PGT curricula, supporting interdisciplinarity and creating new PGR
         pipelines
         Despite the segregation of REF from TEF, research does not happen in an educational or
         administrative vacuum. King’s Classics has begun implementing extensive curriculum
         reform and flexible degree programmes (from 2023). By recruiting students from non-
         Classics programmes (especially Liberal Arts), these reforms will diversify our student base,
         including at PGR level. More of our advanced UG and PGT teaching will also become
         research-led (cf.5A:1). Such educational initiatives will maximise staff research time, while
         creating new student pathways to independent research.

 2. People
2a. Staffing strategy
Staffing strategy centres on two aims: first, to maintain the vitality and sustainability of longstanding
strengths (including breadth of coverage); second, to bolster areas of global and modern classical
reception.

Our success in implementing this strategy is demonstrated in four ways:

  i.     We have maintained critical strength in all research areas, with an overall increase in
         Category A staff (31.46FTE – vs 27.75 [2008], 29.90 [2014]). There have been four
         retirements (Beaton, Mayer, Roueché, Silk), and two permanent staff have moved (Lunn-

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Rockliffe, Moul). These six departures provided an opportunity to recruit new talent, with nine
         permanent appointments. Three posts were made on a Departmental model (Avlamis, Corke-
         Webster, Orrells), four across departments (Andújar, McConnell, Matzner, Papadogiannakis);
         a ninth professorial appointment was secured through fundraising (Van Steen).

  ii.    In recruiting permanent staff, we have strengthened coverage in global and modern classical
         reception. Five appointments stand out: Orrells (research links to sub-Saharan Africa);
         Andújar (Central/South American reception, especially Cuba, and Chicano culture); Matzner
         (global LGBTQ reception); McConnell (reception and black diasporas); and Van Steen (global
         Hellenic communities, including decolonising international adoption: cf.5B:4biv).

  iii.   Staff in the Department of Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies were formally integrated into
         Classics in 2015. In 2018 we successfully completed a campaign permanently to re-endow
         the Koraes Chair of Modern Greek and Byzantine History, Language and Literature
         (cf.5B:3aii). Our staffing strategy here aims to sustain specialist Byzantine and Modern Greek
         Studies scholarship in the UK: King’s Classics is now uniquely placed to research the long
         Hellenic tradition, from the Bronze Age to the modern day. Integrated within Classics, the
         Centre also strengthens our collective research in reception, globalisation and the Greek
         diaspora.

  iv.    We have recruited ECR staff to bolster emerging research strengths, particularly in modern
         global reception. Our careful mentoring of ECR talent enriches our research environment. By
         forwarding the careers of 18 postdoctoral researchers, King’s Classics has also sustained the
         discipline nationally and internationally (cf.5B:2b).

2b. Support for career development
Our ethos is rooted in the equitable distribution of teaching, administrative and research roles, with
varied opportunities for career development.

            Category A staff by career level               Fig.1 shows the distribution of Category A
                                                           staff by career level in July 2020. The
                                                           chart reflects a positive culture of
                                                           promotion from a base of rising talent, as
                              16%                          well as an even spread across career
                     34%                                   stages. The high proportion of professorial
                                  12%                      colleagues, many long-serving, attests to
                                                           our success in motivating and retaining
                                                           staff.
                            38%
                                                       Support for career development begins
                                                       with the induction of new staff. Incoming
                                                       lecturers receive reduced teaching loads
  Fixed-term position (Lecturer / Postdoctoral Fellow) and minimal administrative duties. They
                                                       are mentored by an experienced
                                                       colleague, with regular probationary
  Lecturer
                                                       meetings to review objectives in research,
                                                       education and leadership: all eligible unit
  Senior Lecturer / Reader                             staff have passed probation. Additional
                                                       support is provided from the Faculty
  Professor / Senior Research Fellow                   Research Development Manager and the
                                                       Arts and Sciences Research Office, while
                                                       the Centre for Research Staff
                                                       Development runs workshops and tailored
             Fig.1: Distribution of unit staff
                                                       advice sessions.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The same structures extend to all fixed-term appointments, supplementing College-level support
(reflected in the Concordat to Support Career Development of Research Staff). To enhance
employability, postdoctoral researchers are encouraged to undertake monitored teaching, paired
with an established colleague. ECRs are typically allocated smaller administrative roles (e.g.
Personal Tutor) and co-organise Departmental Research Seminars. Every Departmental
committee has at least one ECR member. Our success in nurturing ECRs is demonstrated by the
high number to obtain research and permanent positions within the cycle, nationally and
internationally: Allen (Emory), Bakola (Warwick), Jackson (Durham), Langellotti (Newcastle),
Levidou (Athens), Meeusen (Turku), Petsalis-Diomidis (St Andrews), Piacentin (Bordeaux),
Sopracasa (Sorbonne), Stead (St Andrews), Stoyanova (London).

Related support continues after probation for permanent staff. Our Departmental Professional
Development Review (PDR) plays a key role. Each year, professorial colleagues review Readers,
Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and postdoctoral researchers; the Head of Department reviews
professors, and consults with all colleagues to ensure equal opportunity. Appraisers are obliged to
complete regular College training, including Diversity Matters (focused on unconscious bias). PDR
conversations support staff in three key ways. First, they provide an opportunity to discuss career
progression and promotion; this in turn informs teaching and administrative allocations. Second,
they set annual goals for research, impact and work–life balance. Third, they help disseminate
funding and training opportunities.

The effectiveness of this support is reflected in the unit’s outstanding record of promotions – almost
triple that of REF2014. The Department has the highest record of promotion within the Faculty: all
cycle applications were successful. Between 08/2013 and 09/2019, 17 UOA staff were promoted,
six female and 11 male, roughly mirroring staffing proportions (Adams, Bowden, Corke-Webster,
Dinter, Lada-Richards, Lunn-Rockliffe, Matzner, Moul, McConnell, Orrells, Papacostas, Pearce,
Polinskaya, Squire, Stathakopoulos, Tor, Wootton); this trajectory is set to continue, with three
successful applications in 2019–20 (including two female staff: Allen, Dinter, Pillinger). The same
commitment to motivating and rewarding staff extends to the professoriate: a 2018 review
established three new tiers of professorial pay (multiple spine points, but no cap); all eligible King’s
Classics professors were awarded significant salary increases.

The Department understands that supporting careers means supporting research. Provisions here
are centred on time and money. Our formalised system of research leave is generous and
transparent: all post-probation staff are encouraged to take one term of paid leave in seven, free
from teaching and administrative duties (doctoral supervision continues, minimising PGR
disruption); during the cycle, all applications (64 terms) have been accepted. All Classics staff are
given financial support: they receive an annual £1,000 research allowance, with additional funding
available from Faculty and College; during the cycle, staff have received >£550,000 of institutional
research funding (cf.5B:3c). The Department also has autonomy to allocate funds according to
research and impact priorities (‘RISM funding’): our internal annual competition has distributed
>£100,000 in the last three years, seeding projects that subsequently received external funding.

2c. Support for PGR students
King’s Classics has a distinguished record of recruiting, nurturing and furthering PGR careers. We
have had 115 registered PGR students in the current cycle, with 75.25 completions by 2020
(compared with 33.5 completions in REF2014): our annual average of 10.8 completions represents
a 60% increase over the REF2014 average of 6.7. We have also hosted >30 visiting PGR
students, including through international PGR partnerships and Erasmus/EURES schemes.

Our PGR support is grounded in close academic mentorship, as reflected in the increased number
of completions in REF2021 over REF2014. The Department has implemented the College’s Core
Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research Degrees, working with the Faculty PGR Committee
and the Centre for Doctoral Studies (cf.5A:3.2). Student progression is formally reviewed after
three months, and every six months thereafter. Each student has a first and second supervisor


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(including from other King’s departments or London institutions); the Department PGR lead
provides additional advice and pastoral support.

The diverse origins of PGR students – from over 20 countries – reflect our international reputation
and commitment to global Classics. Anonymised College statistics confirm diversity: of Classics PGR
students in this cycle, an annual average of >20% have declared a disability; around half declared
non-UK origin; 20% were aged over 40.

The excellence of our students is demonstrated by our success in attracting PGR funding. Through
LAHP (London Arts & Humanities Partnership), King’s Classics students have won 28 awards
between 08/2013 and 07/2020 – a 350% increase on the eight awards received via the AHRC
block grant in REF2014. Although LAHP encompasses eight London institutions and 21 subjects,
awards to King’s Classics represent a disproportionately high 4.4%. Additional financial support
has come from three further national awards, Il Circolo (London) and our new Niki Marangou
Memorial Studentship. Internationally funded PGR studentships include those of the China
Scholarship Council (three), King’s International Office (two), the British School at Athens (one),
Leventis Foundation (two) and the Niarchos Foundation (two).

What makes the King’s Classics PGR experience so rich is the panoply of resources available within
the Department, Faculty, College, LAHP and University of London. Within the Department, PGR
access to the King’s Classics Common Room confirms our sense of research as collective
enterprise. During the last six years, >60 PGR students have given papers in the Departmental
Research Seminars; our students also hosted the Annual Meeting of Postgraduates in Ancient
History (2017). King’s Classics runs a twice termly PGR Theory Reading Group, with additional
seminars led by our Centre for Hellenic Studies (averaging 25 events per year in the last cycle). In
2018, our PGR students launched their own international, open-access journal, New Classicists: the
Department funds the enterprise, and provides mentoring on editing, peer-reviewing and
international publicity. Given the increasing value of teaching experience to PGR career paths,
Graduate Teaching Assistants standardly run undergraduate seminars, mentored by staff: an
average of 15 Assistants have been recruited each year.

The Faculty plays a key role in distributing financial support to PGR students, supplementing
Departmental resources. During the cycle, 67 Classics PGRs made successful bids to the Faculty,
totalling £28,597. This has helped our PGR community to organise 24 conferences, with subjects
ranging from Current Research in Egyptology (2014) to Time, Tense, and Genre in Ancient Greek
Literature (2019). Additional LAHP training is tailored to PGR needs: staff have taken a lead in
organising and delivering this training through workshops – on disability and museum access
(Adams), for example, and neo-Latin (Nicholson).

Within the University of London, our PGRs have every year co-organised weekly Postgraduate
Work in Progress seminars at the Institute of Classical Studies (cf.5B:3d). The seminar has an
international following, attracting participants from across Britain and Europe. Such international
networking opportunities have been supplemented by other large-scale events – from the Annual
Conference of the Association for Art History (King’s Classics and Courtauld, 2018: >700
delegates) to the FIEC/Classical Association Meeting (King’s Classics and other London Classics
departments, 2019: >500 delegates).

One way of gauging PGR support is by tracking subsequent careers. We know the destinations of
47 PGR students who completed during this cycle. Over half now hold academic positions: 11 (seven
female, four male) have been appointed to lectureships in Canada, China, Cyprus, Greece, Hong
Kong, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, UK and USA; 15 (eight female, seven male) hold postdoctoral
researcher posts in Europe, Israel, Turkey, Mexico, UK and USA. King’s Classics is proud of this
international reach, and the global vision it reflects. But we are equally proud of our provision for
alternative academic careers. Our programmes have equipped students with skills for varied careers:
21 former PGR students (11 female, 10 male) are now employed in industries including archaeology,
civil service, museums, heritage management, education, theatre, video-design, IT and business, in
turn extending our professional network and yielding new opportunities for research-driven impact.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2d. Equality and diversity
Our ED&I agenda is aligned with our larger vision for research and impact, oriented around
democratisation and accessibility.

We have come a long way on our ED&I journey since 2013. We have now achieved inclusive staff
representation – irrespective of career stage and gender – on all committees and appointment
panels. We are an internationally diverse unit, with 13 of our 32 Category A staff originating from
10 countries outside the UK. Almost a quarter of staff identify as non-heterosexual, and many are
actively involved in the College’s LGBT+ Inclusion Plan. Careful succession planning has ensured
an even spread of ages, too: of our 32 Category A staff, seven are under 36 years, 10 are 36–45,
five are 46–55 and 10 are over 55. Two colleagues declare a disability (with adjusted working
conditions), another is a registered carer: in each case, our provisions have been guided by the
King’s Staff Disability Network and Parents & Carers Network (cf.5A:3.5).

But more remains to be done – and in two areas in particular.

First, retirements and departures mean that our current gender distribution – 41% female (13 of 32
returned staff) – is a slight but disappointing aberration from earlier cycles (50% in REF2014).
Strategic appointments and equal opportunity for promotion have ensured that this distribution is
consistent across career levels, including the professoriate. But addressing the gender imbalance
in future staffing is a priority.

Second, King’s Classics shares in our discipline’s wider challenge to increase BAME
representation. Our hiring strategy during the current cycle has already begun to improve BAME
representation, but further work is required.

Since 2016, our efforts to improve these – and other – areas have been spear-headed by a
Departmental Diversity and Inclusion Lead. In 2018 we took the decisive step of conducting an
extensive, anonymous ED&I survey of Department staff (39 people, including Professional
Services): 79% agreed or strongly agreed that the Department had a supportive and co-operative
culture. Collective discussions of this survey are helping us to improve this status quo, including
our decision to embark on the Athena Swan programme in 2021 (cf.5B:1dii). The survey has also
already resulted in four actions. First, on gender, we have rethought how we conceptualise gender
representation on committees: while we will strive for 50:50 parity in staffing, our current
proportions are replicated on committees, to avoid inequitable administrative burden. Second, we
have adjusted how we record and allocate research leave, publishing a transparent and formalised
five-year plan. Third, we have reconsidered our provisions for supporting parents, carers and staff
with special needs. College leave entitlements here already exceed legal requirements: over the
last cycle, staff have taken six periods of extended parental leave (including two male staff); two
colleagues (one male, one female) currently take advantage of the College’s Flexible Working
Scheme. But we have taken practical steps to further integrate parents and carers within our
research collective – for example, by rescheduling Department seminars from Tuesday evenings to
Monday lunchtimes. Fourth, given the crisis in BAME representation, the survey spurred us to
dedicate a King’s Classics 2019 Research Away Day to Classics, Race, and Diversity – a
workshop with assigned readings, with particular attention to new PGR student pipelines: one
concrete outcome has been our new collaboration with the King’s Parent Power initiative.

Our ED&I journey is far from over. But we now have a clearer future vision, informed by College
initiatives and training programmes (cf.5A:3.5: King’s Race Equality Action Plan), as well as
discipline-specific initiatives (e.g. 2020 CUCD survey). Classics is leading aspects of this King’s
agenda, with staff actively involved in College Gender Equality, Staff Disability, Race Equality and
LGBT+ Networks, as well as associated research groups (e.g. Queer@King’s – Matzner has been
Director, Orrells Events Manager). At the national and international level, too, King’s Classicists are
leading conversations and enacting change: Andújar co-organised an international initiative on
Racing the Classics in 2019 (with Orrells and McConnell contributing); Pillinger co-authored a 2019

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
article on ‘Gender bias and the Journal of Roman Studies’; Andújar and Jackson were founding
members in 2015 of the Women’s Classical Committee, which a King’s PGR student currently co-
chairs.

REF2021 has been a milestone on this ED&I journey. Our submission has been a genuinely
collaborative effort – overseen by the Research and Impact Committee, with input from every
member of staff (including non-Category A and Professional Services staff, whom REF risks
excluding). Preparations have been steered by three subcommittees, each with rotating
membership.

         An Outputs subcommittee selected submissions from 200 longlisted publications (each
          reviewed by three King’s Classics researchers). The committee ensured that final
          submissions are broadly representative of the unit’s research – across gender, career stage
          and specialism. Since all staff have reviewed outputs, our preparations have helped inform
          staff about REF assessment criteria, ensuring succession planning for future exercises, and
          embedding our work within a broader programme of career development support.

         An Impact subcommittee selected our three Impact Case Studies (from five developed during
          the cycle), with each penholder leading a diverse team of colleagues. These preparations
          have enriched our understanding of impact: our 2018 Research Away Day centred on the
          theme, and all staff have benefited from Faculty training. This has been a steep but
          energising learning curve. It has equipped staff with career-enhancing skills, and in a wholly
          inclusive way: on the one hand, this is reflected in our upward trajectory of AHRC grants
          (where impact looms large); on the other, it contextualises our record success in academic
          promotions (cf.5B:2b), since ‘impact and innovation’ comprises one of three College
          promotion criteria.

         An Environment subcommittee has met at least twice a year since 2017. Our 2019 Research
          Away Day focused on the Environment Statement, enabling all colleagues to contribute, while
          again informing a collaborative understanding of our shared research and impact agenda.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

              Average annual research finance                   King’s Classics has generated more
                                                                research income in this cycle than any
         1000000
                                                                other – over £5.9 million, in HESA-
                                                                reported grant expenditure and
                                                                fundraising. Our average annual
         800000
                                                                HESA-reported expenditure of
                                                                £469,895 represents an increase of
         600000                                                 34% over REF2014 (average
                                                                £351,050 from £1,755,250 total), to
  in £




                                                                which fundraising has added an
         400000                                                 average £378,975 (Fig.2). One
                                                                reason for this success has been the
                                                                College’s major investment in
         200000                                                 infrastructure, facilitating new
                                                                pathways to impact. Another is the
                                                                College’s strategic support in seed-
                0                                               funding interdisciplinary initiatives.
                        REF2014              REF2021            Importantly, our research facilities
                                                                also extend beyond King’s –
                    Research gift income                        encompassing the Institute of
                    HESA-reported expenditure                   Classical Studies, which King’s
                                                                Classics helps to energise and
          Fig.2: Comparative annual grant expenditure and      sustain.
             research gift income in REF2014/REF2021

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3a. Research funding
i) HESA-reported grant expenditure
From 08/2014 to 07/2020, King’s Classics has been running 48 HESA-reported external research
grants, with a total expenditure of £3,289,268 – an annualised increase of 34% over REF2014. We
have diversified the range of applicants, too: almost all King’s Classics staff have submitted at least
one external research grant application. The 48 successful grants were held by 20 individuals, of
whom nine were female (45%, responsible for 44% of income; 41% of current Category A staff are
female).

Grants reflect the breadth of King’s Classics research, as well as research and impact priorities (all
following figures are HESA-reported expenditure). Our commitment to modern classical reception,
for example, resulted in Classics and Class in Britain, 1789–1917 [£274,941: AHRC – Hall]; our
drive to diversify the field led to a subsequent project Studying Classical Civilisation in Britain
[£199,553: AHRC – Hall], an impact-oriented initiative centred on British state schools. Other
reception projects include Byzantine Pharmacology between East and West [£177,097: Wellcome
– Stathakopoulos] and Latin Poetry in English Manuscript Verse Miscellanies, c.1550–1700
[£135,348: Leverhulme – Moul]. Applications have taken advantage of collaborative partnerships
with King’s Digital Lab: major examples include Digitising the Prosopography of Roman Republic
[£439,994: AHRC – Mouritsen] and IOSPE: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea
[£206,694: Leventis – Polinskaya].

A key objective of grant capture has been to nurture PGR and ECR talent. Around a third of our
grants (15) have incorporated postgraduate and postdoctoral positions. These include PGR
fellowships that have already led to major monograph publications, as with Stead’s Cockney
Catullus (2015, OUP: AHRC), Meeusen’s co-edited Plutarque: Œuvres Morales XIII (2018, Budé:
British Academy) and Jackson’s Chorus of Drama in the Fourth Century BC (2019, OUP:
Leverhulme).

Beyond 2020, our grant capture is on an upward trajectory. Of the 73 external grant applications
made from 08/2013 to 06/2020, six are pending, while 22 of the other 67 (33%) were successful.
From 2020 onwards, projects which resonate with our strategic focus on modern reception,
educational impact and global heritage include Wootton’s projects on Managing Libya’s Cultural
Heritage [total grant value $733,075: ALIPH] and Roman Empire Seen from the Provinces
[£248,131: ERC], Cahill’s Ovid’s Metamorphoses in Contemporary Art [£93,000: Leverhulme] and
Holmes-Henderson’s Improving Access to Classical Studies in Museums and Schools [£73,758:
AHRC].

ii) Non-HESA income
HESA-reported grants constitute only part of our research income. During the present cycle, King’s
Classics has generated an additional £2,652,827 (excluding standard gift-aid at 25%) – from
foundations, charities and private donors, and funding research projects, events and posts.

Our largest fundraising campaign, raising over £1.54 million, supported the Koraes Chair. College
support was demonstrated by its pledge to match our funding target of £1.5 million, re-endowing
the Chair in perpetuity on its 2018 centenary. Between 08/2013 and 07/2020, the Centre for
Hellenic Studies raised an additional £810,752, supporting one PGR studentship, two postdoctoral
fellowships, an annual PGR studentship and numerous outreach and research events. Van Steen’s
appointment to the Koraes Chair is helping us to sustain this record, including a new postdoctoral
fellowship from 2021/22.

Additional philanthropic gifts have underpinned global research initiatives. One example is the
donation of £412,037 that funded Herrin’s post (Ahmanson Foundation), leading to her Ravenna
monograph; the gift was renewed in 2020, increasing Herrin’s post from 0.80 to 0.86 FTE. Other
donations include a gift from the Michael Marks Trust (£7,000), contributing to the costs of
designing Polinskaya’s IOSPE online critical corpus.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our impact agenda has been key to these research-fundraising initiatives. Four projects
demonstrate the point. First, our commitment to public outreach has enabled us to found landmark
lectures, bringing international scholars to London (with associated PGR networking opportunities):
our annual Runciman and Rumble Lectures on Hellenic identity and classical art each regularly
attract up to 400 participants; in 2019–20, we secured funding for a third, annual Marangou lecture
(held alternately at King’s and in Athens), as well as a substantial gift to endow the Runciman
Lecture in perpetuity (£293,215). Second, King’s Classics secured an initial £135,000 gift to launch
Modern Classicisms: Classical Art and Modern Artists in Dialogue, which in turn led to The
Classical Now exhibition in 2018 (cf. Squire’s Impact Case Study). Third, the King’s Classics
Rumble Fund (est. 2014) covers the cost of staff-led tours of students (including PGT and PGR) to
classical lands each year, as well as numerous outreach events: the Fund demonstrates our use of
gifts to support and diversify student pipelines. Fourth, fundraising is enabling us to extend the
provision of classical studies in British state schools, thereby widening participation and
diversifying the subject-base. Quite apart from our collaborative work with Classics for All, our
Advocating Classics Education initiative has recently received private funding (2018–20, £91,860;
cf.5B:4biii).

Such gifts demonstrate our ability to adapt within a fast-changing Higher Education landscape.
They look set to play an increasing role in the 2020s. As our record demonstrates, we have
established excellent relations with the King’s Development team, proactively supported by College
Senior Management. On the one hand, we have taken strategic advantage of our central London
location, especially the Centre for Hellenic Studies’ foundational support for the Anglo-Hellenic
community. On the other, this success grows directly from our research and impact strategy: our
vision for an accessible, relevant and global classics is resonating with the donor community –
reflecting the vitality of our work and sustaining it into the future.

3b. Facilities and infrastructure
College investment is fundamental to our research and impact successes (cf.5A:4). Part of this
investment has been in physical fabric. King’s Classics has its hub in three converted Victorian
buildings overlooking the Aldwych in central London. The configuration of space gives all full-time
staff an independent office, with larger rooms reserved for research teams. Staff are provided with
their own computer and the software licences needed for individual research, supported by the
College IT team. Access to offices – as well as to the King’s Maughan Library – is 24 hours. In
2017, King’s Classics inaugurated a shared Common Room for staff and PGR students. So
important is this space to our shared community that King’s Classics implemented a weekly virtual
common room during the 2020 lockdowns, with internal chatrooms for conversation and collegial
support (Fig.3).




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                        Fig.3: King’s Classics virtual common room (05/2020)
Recent College investments in the Strand Campus have further enriched this physical
environment. The Safra Theatre, Anatomy Theatre, Great Hall and now Bush House Auditorium
(capacity 396) allow us to mount major cultural events. The Bush House Arcade (opened 2017,
530m2) supplements the Somerset House Inigo Rooms (300m2) to provide a pair of distinctive
university exhibition spaces in central London: both together housed The Classical Now (cf.
Squire’s Impact Case Study). College support for such initiatives is demonstrated by its financial
contribution to this 2018 exhibition, including its extraordinary efforts to transform the fabric of Bush
House: with generous sponsorship from Overbury, King’s Estates commissioned Léo Caillard to
dress the colossal stone statues that crown the north entrance (Fig.4). This pattern of
infrastructural investment looks set to continue, not least via the King’s Cultural Quarter initiative,
culminating in the pedestrianisation of the Strand in 2022 (Strand Aldwych Project: two unit staff
have been actively involved).




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                       Fig.4: The Classical Now / Caillard’s installation (02/2018)




Equally important is the College’s in-person research support. Among Professional Services
support for King’s Classics is a dedicated Research & Business Support Manager, assisted by a
Research Administrator (shared between Classics and History), part of our seven-person
administrative team. At Faculty level, a Research Development Manager provides tailor-made
advice sessions, with annual one-on-one meetings with King’s Classics staff to ensure equal
opportunity (cf.5B:2b). Three other College structures are crucial: first, the Arts and Sciences
Research Office, which assists with grant applications and budgets; second, the King’s Culture
team, who assist in delivering impact from our research (as with The Classical Now); third, King’s
Digital Lab, which helps manage online publications. College investment in King’s Digital Lab (with
13 permanent staff: cf.5A:4.4) has been particularly crucial to our research successes: the team
currently hosts 13 King’s Classics projects, with eight major collaborations in the cycle (cf.5B:1biv).

3c. Strategic support
The College’s emphasis on interdisciplinarity and global impact has yielded significant new internal
funding streams. Taking strategic advantage of these developments, King’s Classics staff received
£204,844 in College grants between 08/2013 and 07/2020. This total excludes an additional
£350,000 of funding from annual personal research allowance grants (almost £200,000), ‘RISM’
income (over £100,000 since 2017) and the Faculty Research Grant Scheme (unit staff have
received £50,113 since 08/2013; cf.5B:2b). The total also excludes funding from schemes like
King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships, which have benefited six colleagues while training
future PGR students (in one case even leading to a co-authored publication).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The range and extent of this institutional investment can be demonstrated by four examples. First,
King’s Together funds (cf.5A:3.1) have supported two Classics staff within cross-Faculty teams,
launching research initiatives on Religion and War and The Voice of God. Second, the London
Challenge Fund and Service Fund seed-funded Adams’ Access All Senses, leading to her larger
project on Museum Access Network for Sensory Impairments, London (cf.5B:4biv). Third, King’s
Culture funding has supported numerous research and impact initiatives: aside from contributing
over £50,000 to The Classical Now, King’s Culture awarded £15,000 to Trapp’s project on the
Strand’s so-called Roman bath, as well as funding an artist installation in 2018 (cf.5B:4bii). Fourth,
King’s Classics has received 11 King’s Global Engagement awards, facilitating international
collaborative research partnerships in Colombia, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, Russia and
the USA supplementing Faculty funding for projects in Belgium, Brazil, China, Cuba, Greece, Iran
and Kenya.

These initiatives have contributed enormously to the vitality of our research. But they also
demonstrate the College’s investment in sustaining our global connections and impact beyond
2020.

3d. Cross-HEI shared resources
A statement like this inevitably focuses on resources specific to King’s. But our research
environment in London is also supported by shared facilities – from museums, galleries and
theatres to research archives and libraries (not least the British Library). Particularly important is
the University of London’s School of Advanced Studies. Staff and students profit from all nine of
the School’s institutes (including the Warburg Institute, Institute of Philosophy and Institute of
Historical Research), but especially from the Institute of Classical Studies (ICS).

The ICS enriches King’s facilities in two major ways. First, its Combined Library is one of the
world’s largest resources for classics research, with >150,000 books and 645 periodical series.
Second, Institute seminars provide an international forum for specialist research, with >100 events
per year, structured along sub-disciplinary lines (Greek and Latin Literature, Ancient History,
Ancient Philosophy, Classical Archaeology, Roman Art, Classical Reception, Fellows Seminar,
Mycenaean Seminar, Postgraduate Work-in-Progress, Digital Classicist).

King’s Classics plays a leading role in the intellectual life of the Institute. During the cycle, King’s
Classics staff and PGR students have organised >30 seminar series, attracting scholars from
around the world. We are also active in managing Institute resources. Trapp is the current chair of
the Library Collections Development Committee, and Herrin and Trapp have served on its Advisory
Council during the cycle; five staff have also served on the Councils of the Hellenic and Roman
Societies (cf.5B:4c). As Roman Society President, Rathbone led negotiations of the current library
agreement between the Societies and the University of London. Inspired by our development
successes, King’s Classics has also helped launch the Library’s own fundraising drive, ensuring its
sustainability as a global research resource.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
4a. Networks and partnerships
King’s Classics actively engages with a diverse range of research and user communities – locally,
nationally and internationally.

Research partnerships are embedded in our PGR programmes, not least through the UNC Chapel
Hill exchange (cf.5B:1bv). During the cycle, King’s Classics staff have founded or developed over
30 research networks, with an emphasis on outward-looking collaboration, interdisciplinarity and
impact.

Some of our research networks are primarily national, as with the London Centre for Ancient
Philosophy which Tor co-founded in 2019 and co-directs. Others are oriented around national
impact agendas, as with Hall’s Advocating Classics Education project, with 15 British HEI partners

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and one in Ireland. The global reach of our partnerships is demonstrated through five examples.
First, Polinskaya’s IOSPE project – with Université Bordeaux-Montaigne, Russian Academy of
Sciences, Hermitage and Ukrainian National Academy of Science (2018–). Second, Wootton’s
Getty-sponsored digital art history project on Ancient Itineraries (with Dunn in Digital Humanities),
partnered with the Getty Research Institute, Umeå University and the Swedish Institute in Athens
(2018–). Third, Avlamis’ role in the Epeios: Greek Epic of the Roman Empire network (with Oxford,
Cambridge and Princeton, already resulting in 20 publications). Fourth, Fitzgerald’s long-standing
co-organisation (with 10 universities) of the Augustan Poetry Network, with its associated Dictynna
journal. Fifth, Squire’s New Antiquity network on Graeco-Roman art (with Chicago, Cornell,
Stanford and Yale): King’s Classics hosted the biennial workshop in 2017, and network
publications include Squire’s co-edited The Embodied Object in Classical Antiquity (2018).

Accessibility and inclusion are central to our networks. Initiatives include our Museum Access
Network for Sensory Impairments, London (cf.5B:4biv), as well as Queer Research UK – a new
nationwide network for British queer studies (co-founded by Matzner, with seven British HEIs). An
emphasis is on the contribution of Classics to pressing contemporary issues – from Religion and
War from Antiquity to Modernity (with War Studies: Polinskaya) to The Voice of God in Revelation
and Illness (with the KCL Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience: Bowden). Our
partnerships also reflect a global vision, often supporting under-resourced international partners. A
case in point is Dinter’s project on Conflict Resolution through Classical Literature (with universities
in Bogotá, São Paulo and Juiz de Fora, with GCRF-AHRC Education in Conflict and Protracted
Crises funding, 2018–20 [Fig.5]): on the one hand, the partnership champions Classics for conflict-
affected youth in Columbia and Brazil; on the other, it is devising free, multilingual resources for
South American schools, expanding the global reach of our educational impact (cf.5B:4biii).




                 Fig.5: Conflict Resolution project meeting in Juiz de Fora (03/2018)
4b. Impact and wider contributions
King’s Classics thrives on the synergies between research and impact. During the cycle, we have
expanded the beneficiaries of our research, proactively responding to national and international
priorities: we have involved a diverse and inclusive range of stakeholders, while diversifying and
democratising the discipline.

We highlight here four key beneficiary groups:

  i.   To maintain and enhance existing research strengths, supporting creative, innovative and
       dynamic projects
       All three Impact Case Studies emerge from a contribution to heritage preservation,
       curatorial practice and cultural management, at home and abroad (Fig.6). Unit staff have
       acted as consultants for London museums, frequently featuring in audio and digital guides:
       these include special exhibitions on Roman death at the Museum of London Docklands
       (Pearce), and on Defining Beauty, Egypt: Faith after the Pharaohs and Troy at the British
       Museum (Rathbone, Squire), as well as permanent displays at the Bloomberg Mithraeum
       (Bowden) and Freud Museum (Orrells). Three King’s Classicists (Pillinger, Avlamis and

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Dinter) worked with the National Gallery to develop a digital app for their exhibition on
        Titian: Love Desire Death (2020) – itself part of a larger NGX collaboration between King’s
        and the National Gallery. Throughout the cycle, Pearce has acted as consultant for the
        Portable Antiquities Scheme, helping to register hundreds of significant archaeological
        objects (as documented in his Fifty Roman Finds from the Portable Antiquities Scheme
        book [2020]). Our contributions have been invigorated by ECR research, too: Alkhalaf has
        helped Libyan, Syrian and Tunisian archaeologists document damage to cultural property
        during civil conflict, not least via a 2019 Arup workshop on gathering evidence for criminal
        prosecution; Payne’s three-dimensional modelling of 19th-century Parthenon casts has
        highlighted the deterioration of the sculptures in both the British Museum and in Athens,
        attracting major media attention.




                    Fig.6: Training in Action course at Al-Maharas, Tunisia (06/2019)

  ii.   Creative industries and arts institutions
        Wootton’s and Squire’s Impact Case Studies showcase the significance and reach of our
        impact within the creative industries. Our contributions take inspiration from not only the
        London arts scene, but also our campus. Trapp’s research on the cultural mythology of the
        ‘Roman Bath’ in Strand Lane demonstrates the point: his work led to a collaboration with the
        National Trust on ‘Virtual Bathing’, leading to the appointment of Gen Doy as King’s Artist in
        Residence in 2018; Doy’s multimedia installation, Layers and Echoes, coincided with the
        Association for Art History Festival in April 2018 (itself curated by a King’s Classics PGR
        student, with >1000 visitors). Our contributions extend to the performing arts, too. During
        the cycle, Hall has been consultant on over 10 theatre productions, including the Old Vic’s
        Medea (2014) and the National Theatre’s Antony and Cleopatra (2018); Pillinger has
        illuminated the classical aspects of operas and ballets at Glyndebourne, the Royal Opera
        House and English National Opera; McConnell was academic consultant for Almeida’s
        Odyssey (2015), and Jackson for Churchill’s Glass. Kill. Bluebeard. Imp at the Royal Court
        (2019); Jackson also designed a major online exhibition on Greek tragedy performances at
        the National Theatre (2014).

    iii. Primary and secondary educators
         King’s Classics has a long history of supporting classics education – in Britain and
         increasingly abroad (cf.5B:4a). Our annual Greek Play, now in its 67th year, attracts
         audiences of >1,000 (around 40% secondary-school students), with staff delivering
         curriculum-oriented pre-performance talks and seminars (e.g. Jolowicz’s 2020 Greek Drama
         Day). This educational contribution extends to primary schools, not least via our partnership
         with the Iris Project (led by Wootton): each year up to 15 undergraduates undertake
         teaching experience at partnered schools in deprived areas of London.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        The need to forge a more inclusive, diverse and democratic subject has recently taken on a
        particular urgency. Our longstanding connections with the King’s PGCE in Classics
        programme (cf.5B:1a) have helped us to deliver the pedagogical support required. Our
        annual Teacher Day provides free curriculum-focused workshops to secondary-school
        teachers: up to 100 teachers take advantage of these events each year. King’s Classics has
        curated an expanding Schools Network website, with tailored resources for every
        component of the GCSE and A-level Classical Civilisation syllabuses. Working with the
        King’s School of Education, we have also developed an outreach programme for nine core
        local state schools (with high FSM, PP and ESL indicators), enabling teachers to integrate
        antiquity within A-level English, History and Philosophy curricula.

        A major recent spur for this work has been the AHRC-funded Advocating Classics
        Education (ACE) project, led by Hall and Holmes-Henderson (Fig.7). This impact-oriented
        project grows organically from King’s Classics research, including Hall’s A People’s History
        of Classics (2020) and Holmes-Henderson’s Classical Languages in Schools and
        Communities (2018). The project has organised 13 one-day public events across the UK, a
        five-day teacher summer school at King’s and three collaborative events with the British
        Museum. Around 400 teachers have attended events, and the project’s digital reach is still
        greater (including a 3,000-person ACE twitter community and 1,820 Facebook members).
        As a direct result of ACE initiatives, >20 British secondary schools have so far introduced
        Classical Civilisation or Ancient History subjects, c.120 schools have integrated the study of
        antiquity into other taught curricula and >100 have introduced extra-curricular Classics
        activities. Our new partnership with Classics for All, housed in the King’s Classics
        Department since 2019, brings exciting future opportunities for sustaining and developing
        this impact agenda.




  iv.   Diverse communities through inclusive public engagement
        Our central London location brings unparalleled opportunities for widening
                     Fig.7: ACE event at Jack Hunt School, Peterborough (07/2019)
        participation, including via our annual Runciman and Rumble lectures, Greek Play
        and impact-oriented exhibitions like The Classical Now. Four initiatives reflect our
        innovative engaging of new communities. First, Adams’ Museum Access Network for
        Sensory Impairments, London, derived from her research into disability in antiquity:
        in partnership with >20 institutions (including the British Museum, Royal Academy,
        Soane and Science Museum), the project has especially enhanced the experience of
        those visiting museums with limited hearing or sight, including via audio describers
        and British Sign Language interpreters (Fig.8). Second, Alkhalaf’s work in Tower
        Hamlets (ultimately deriving from Wootton’s Training in Action project): Alkhalaf co-
        directs the HEFCE-funded project Sensing Place, which builds digital platforms to
        research and publish the heritage of Syrian refugees in London. Third, Matzner’s

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       directorship of Queer@King's, incorporating various minority groups (e.g. his Building a
       LGBT Asian Community in the UK initiative, a 2019 Queer Classics event and, since 2018,
       the Activist in Residence scheme with ParaPride). Fourth, Van Steen’s research into the
       adoption of >3000 Greek children, with major impact in the USA (following her Adoption,
       Memory, and Cold War Greece): as Vice-President of the US-based Eftychia Project, Van
       Steen has enabled adoptees of Greek origin to find their records, tell their stories, reconnect
       with Greek families and enact international policy changes. What unites these and other
                   initiatives is our interpretation of Classics as a powerful tool for staking,
                   interrogating and debating identity – in ways that are not exclusive or elitist, but
                   inclusive and celebratory.




                            Fig.8: ‘Access all Senses’ British Museum event,
                             with audio description and BSL tours (12/2018)



4c. Contributions to the research base
Unit staff have energised and sustained our subject not only at King’s, but also nationally and
internationally.

Given the importance of PGR students to the subject’s sustainability, we begin with our
contribution to supporting national and international doctoral programmes. During the period, staff
have examined >70 PGR theses at 30 institutions, many of them international – including Dublin
(TCU, UCD), Berlin (Humboldt), Aix-Marseilles, Pisa, Cagliari and Tampere in Europe, Stanford
and Yale in the USA, and Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney in Australia. Our PGR leadership is
exemplified by Bowden, who currently serves as Deputy Director of LAHP (cf.5B:2c).

Staff continue to contribute to the quality, vitality and interdisciplinarity of Classics research through
managing book series, peer-reviewing research, editing journals and publishing book reviews.
King’s Classics maintains two book series: with Routledge (Publications of the Centre for Hellenic
Studies), producing seven volumes during the cycle; and with Boydell and Brewer (King’s College
London Medieval Studies), producing four volumes. We also fund the open-access PGR journal,
New Classicists (cf.5B:2c). During the cycle, colleagues have edited or co-edited seven additional

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
book series and participated in editorial boards for 10 more. In total, they have refereed 179
monographs for academic presses. Journals with King’s editors or associate editors include
International Journal of the Classical Tradition (Matzner, Orrells), American Journal of Philology
(Andújar), Mosaic (Wootton), Journal of Conservation and Museum Studies (Payne), Byzantine
and Modern Greek Studies (Ricks) and Classical Receptions Journal (Matzner). Periodicals with
King’s board members range from Journal of Hellenic Studies (Hall) and Journal of Roman Studies
(Pillinger) to Art History (Squire), Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies (Ricks, Stathakopoulos,
Van Steen) and the Journal of Ecclesiastical History (Herrin). During the cycle, staff have reviewed
>240 articles for around 100 journals and published >120 book reviews.

Staff have served as assessors for numerous research grants, appointments and promotions.
Since 08/2013, 21 staff have reviewed 118 major grant applications: Dinter, Moul, Rathbone and
Squire have been members of the AHRC Peer Review College, and Papacostas, Rathbone,
Squire and Stathakopoulos have reviewed applications to the ERC Beginner and Consolidator
schemes. We have also reviewed proposals for research bodies in Austria, Belgium, Canada,
Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland and the USA. King’s
Classics staff have assessed appointments and promotions at 25 institutions, including Aarhus,
Barcelona, Berlin (F-U), Cyprus, Dublin (UCD) and Patras within Europe, and 12 USA universities.

We continue our management roles for learned societies and steering groups. Many of us have
served on Institute of Classical Studies committees, steering groups and council, and Trapp
(2011–15) and Herrin (2014–19) on the Warburg Institute Advisory Committee. Andújar, Beaton
and Squire currently serve on the Council of the Hellenic Society; Moul served as Vice-President of
the Society of Neo-Latin Studies and on the Council of the Society of Renaissance Studies; Allen
and Holmes-Henderson serve as Trustees and Board Member/Officer of the Classical Association.
Beaton, Herrin, Ricks, Trapp and Van Steen have been members of the Council, Governance
Committee, Publication Committee and other management groups for the British School at Athens,
and Van Steen also of the Cavafy Archive Academic Committee. Rathbone was President of the
Roman Society (2012–15), and both he and Corke-Webster serve on its Council and as Trustees.
Rathbone also continues to chair the Oxyrhynchus Papyri Management Committee of the Egypt
Exploration Society, while Wootton sits on the Council of the Society for Libyan Studies. Hall was
Chair (2006–19) and remains Trustee of the Gilbert Murray Trust. Andújar has served on the
Public Information and Media Relations committee of the Society for Classical Studies, as well as
the Women’s Classical Committee.

4d. Recognition
Our research has been recognised with awards, prizes and honours – in Britain and across the
globe.

Our international reputation is reflected in the >20 institutions at which King’s Classics have held
visiting fellowships and residencies. These include Berlin’s Humboldt-Universität (Orrells 2013–14),
Wissenschaftskolleg (Matzner 2019) and Max-Planck-Institut für Wissenschaftsgeschichte (Squire
2018), Cologne’s Internationales Kolleg-Morphomata (Squire 2015–16; Dinter 2018–19), Getty
Research Institute (Wootton 2016), Harvard (Meeusen 2016–17), Leiden (Hall 2013–18), Princeton
(Papacostas 2020), São Paolo (Dinter 2012–15), Stanford (Squire 2016), Stellenbosch (Holmes-
Henderson 2018), Universidade Federal do Paraná (Andújar 2019), Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico (Dinter 2014), University of Western Australia (Corke-Webster 2020),
Venice’s Fondazione Giorgio Cini (Papacostas 2015) and Zhejiang University (Hall 2014). Space
prevents us from listing the many invited and named lectures delivered by staff (>800): they have
ranged across six continents and 49 countries [Fig.9].

Numerous prizes have recognised the quality, innovation and contribution of King’s Classics
research. Award-winning publications include: Beaton’s Byron’s War (Runciman Award 2014; Elma
Dangerfield Prize 2014; Nikos Themelis Prize 2016); Corke-Webster’s Eusebius and Empire
(Conington Prize 2018; North American Patristics Society Prize 2020); Hall’s Adventures with
Iphigenia in Tauris (Goodwin Award 2014) and People's History of Classics (Rhakotis Prize 2020);

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Herrin’s Ravenna (Duff Cooper Prize 2020); Meeusen’s Plutarch’s Science of Natural Problems
(Jan Gillis Prize 2018) and Plutarque: Œuvres Morales XIII (Prix Raymond Weil 2019); and Van
Steen’s Adoption, Memory, and Cold War Greece (2019 Book Prize of the European Society of
Modern Greek Studies). Beaton’s Greece was a finalist for the 2019 London Hellenic Prize, and
three 2019-20 King’s Classics books are longlisted for the 2021 Runciman Award (Beaton, Hall
and Van Steen). Other major awards during this cycle include: Fitzgerald’s (2015) and Lada-
Richards’ (2018) Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships; Hall’s European Academy ERASMUS
medal (2016) and honorary doctorates from Athens (2017) and Durham (2020); Herrin’s Heineken
Prize for History (2016); Meeusen’s Belgian Chair at the University of London (2018); Payne’s
Bernd Breuckmann Award (2014); Stathakopoulos’s Gerda Henkel Stiftung Forschungsstipendium
(2018); and Tor’s Philip Leverhulme Prize (2018).




            Fig.9: Map of countries (in red) where staff have given lectures during cycle

                                                  *****

While necessarily selective, this statement has aimed to map our research, impact and societal
contributions: to demonstrate how our work puts Classics at the heart of urgent contemporary
debates – around political, religious and cultural identities, socio-economic class, nationalism and
globalisation, regional inequality, ethnicity, and gender and sexuality. It reflects a thriving and
inclusive research culture, with a clear strategic vision (including the cultivation of emerging talent),
supported by proven institutional investment in both infrastructure and people. The future
sustainability of the unit is founded in the vitality of present research, with its emphasis on
accessibility, diversity and global communities. This collective vision for a multicultural, inclusive
and participatory subject gives King’s Classics its distinctive resilience: with a view to the unit’s
own health, diversity and contribution, certainly, but also our role in leading, reforming and
sustaining the discipline – in London, Britain and across the globe.




                                                                                                Page 20
