Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: 16 - Economics and Econometrics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Organisation and structure of the Unit

 The School of Economics (the “Unit”) is one of the top economics departments in the UK and is
 proud of its excellence in both research and research-led teaching and of its collegial and
 productive environment. It features an outstanding group of staff, who have been trained
 worldwide and who regularly publish in the best journals. Since the last REF, it has made
 substantial progress towards the goals of maintaining a steady flow of top publications, producing
 impactful research supported by a growing portfolio of funding, and offering PhD training in line
 with top UK institutions; the School is now home to a thriving community of PGR students who
 contribute to its vibrant research culture.

 Research, although often originating at individual level, is organised around a research centre and
 three groups, each designed to capture a core area of the discipline and provide balanced critical
 mass for research, grant bidding, impact generation, and PhD training. The areas covered are:

    •   Macroeconomics (through the Centre for International Macroeconomic Studies, CIMS)
    •   Applied Microeconomics
    •   Econometrics
    •   Economic Theory


 Many researchers belong to more than one group or centre and this flexible structure gives each
 group enough organisational autonomy, while encouraging collaboration between academics in
 the School. Indeed, in a couple of recent successful bids, staff from Econometrics and Applied
 Micro have joined forces to work on different aspects of international trade models. All groups
 organise their own seminar and workshop programmes. This is in addition to the weekly external
 seminar series, which in recent years had the participation of world-renowned academics such as
 Richard Blundell (UCL), Vincent Crawford (Oxford), Wouter den Haan (LSE), Ivan Fernandez-Val
 (Boston), Itzhak Gilboa (HEC-Paris), Johannes Hörner (Yale), Steve Machin (LSE), and Morten
 Ravn (UCL).

 CIMS conducts research in theoretical and computational dynamic macroeconomics, as well as
 on applied topics in the field. Research in the Group has covered topics such as fiscal policy and
 debt management (Joo, JEEA; Nunes, QJE; Oikonomou, REStud and EJ; Pascoa, JET),
 monetary policy (Cantore, JEEA; Lazopoulos and Gabriel, JBF; Holden and Levine, JMCB; Nunes,
 EJ), labour markets (Cantore, JEEA; Oikonomou, REStud), behavioural macro (Levine, JEBO);
 heterogeneous agents models (Jensen, JPE, REStud), recourse loans (Pascoa, ET), and long run
 comovements in equity markets (Gabriel, JBF). The Centre has attracted grants from the ESRC
 and European Commission and has a large international network of collaborators in central banks
 and universities. It has regularly provided training courses on Dynamic Stochastic General
 Equilibrium (DSGE) modelling since 2010.

 The Applied Microeconomics Group covers a variety of areas including education and labour
 economics (Blanden and McNally, EJ; Koppensteiner, JOLE; McNally, AEJ:EP, JEEA, EJ, JPubE;
 Parey, REStat), development (Avitabile, JDE; Jaimovich, JEEA; Koppensteiner, JDE, JHR), trade
 (Breinlich, AEJ:EP, JEEA, JIE), health (Moscelli, JHE; Parey, JEEA), crime/law and economics
 (Rickman, EJ; Witt, JEEA), and consumer behaviour (Blow, REStud, JPubE; Parey, ReStat). The
 Group attracts research funding from several sources including ESRC, Leverhulme and the


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nuffield Foundation, and has links with Government bodies in the UK and overseas, as well as
 other public policy stakeholders.

 The Econometrics Group works on a diverse set of areas, including theoretical and applied work
 on the econometrics of game theoretic models (Srisuma, RAND, QE, IER, JBES), financial
 econometrics (Corradi, JASA, JoE), macroeconometrics (Corradi, JAE; Santos Silva, JBES),
 microeconometrics (Corradi, JoE; Santos Silva, JoE), spatial and network econometrics
 (Martellosio, 2xJoE), and time-series analysis (Corradi, JoE). Members of the Group regularly
 collaborate with colleagues from different fields, at Surrey and elsewhere, and are currently
 involved in two projects on empirical international trade funded by substantial ESRC grants.

 Work in Economic Theory is both theoretical and applied and covers a wide range of topics at the
 frontier of microeconomic theory. Theoretical work includes very fundamental research on the
 general properties of large games (Carmona, JET 2014), social choice and dynamic mechanisms
 (Gershkov, JET, Management Science, Theoretical Economics and REStud), and general results
 on the existence of equilibrium (Carmona, JET 2018). Work with important applications covers
 topics such as welfare implications of shifting to cashless economies (Carmona, ET), the spread
 of misinformation (Tabasso, GEB), and collective decision making in multi-issue elections
 (Bozbay, GEB).

 1.2 Research objectives, impact and strategy

 The School’s research objectives and strategy have remained remarkably consistent since 2014.
 This is despite leadership changes at all levels (Santos Silva was hired as Head of School in 2015,
 and there have been changes in both the Executive Dean of the Faculty and Vice Chancellor
 during the REF period). The School’s objectives at the time of REF2014 were:

    1. Sustainable growth via a supportive, balanced and coherent research environment.
    2. International excellence in strategically identified core areas that build on existing
       strengths, provide balance and promote contributions to the discipline and wider social
       questions.
    3. Critical mass necessary to develop new PhD training in line with discipline best practice.
    4. Significant engagement with multidisciplinary initiatives across our Faculty and the
       University.
 In 2017 the School (in partnership with the Faculty and University) reviewed its strategy through
 the development of its five-year plan up to 2022, stating as its vision “The School of Economics is
 committed to, within the next five years, consolidating its position as one of the leading economics
 departments in the country, being internationally recognised for its world-class research and for
 the excellence of its research-led teaching at all levels.” This new strategy builds on the strategy
 presented in the REF2014, and thereby enabled the School to develop further and make
 substantial progress on the four objectives listed above.

 In pursuit of objective 1, the School made 20 appointments during this REF cycle, and therefore
 re-energised and expanded its research capability. As a result, the number of permanent staff with
 teaching and research contracts increased by more than 10% (3 FTEs). In addition, at the time of
 the previous REF the School did not have any academics on permanent teaching-only contracts.
 The School now has 7 colleagues with this type of contract, who make a crucial contribution to the
 School’s environment by greatly increasing our capacity for teaching and research.

 Growth is also dependent on retention and progression, where progression is a key indicator of a
 productive research environment and therefore feeds back into hiring; over this REF period 13
 colleagues have achieved promotion (see Section 2). Naturally, during this REF cycle there were
 staff changes, but moves have mainly been out of academia or due to changes in family
 circumstances.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To ensure objective 2, the School’s continued expansion has focused exclusively on excellent
 hires in our core areas (see Section 2) and has achieved the goal of rebalancing our research
 groups to ensure that the School has the means to regularly attract sizeable research grants and
 produce research with impact. As discussed in detail below, our research capability was also
 greatly reinforced by our new PhD programme that brought to the School about 30 excellent and
 very active doctoral students, who have transformed the School’s research environment.

 As noted above, our commitment to addressing “wider social questions” has been delivered, in
 part, by hiring colleagues with research agendas that deliver impact, and who have strong
 networks outside academia.

 Breinlich, Koppensteiner, Moscelli and Parey have been key strategic hires in Applied Micro. For
 example, Koppensteiner is a member of the UK Government’s What Works Trial Advice Panel
 and works closely with the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais on the reduction of youth crime and on
 the effects and prevention of dengue fever. Breinlich was a member of the Department of
 International Trade’s Strategic Trade Advisory Group between April 2019 and April 2020 and is PI
 on a recently awarded ESRC grant with Corradi and Santos Silva that also involves researchers
 at the World Bank. In addition, colleagues who were already working closely with policy makers
 have continued with, and in some cases expanded, this commitment. For example, since 2015
 McNally has been running the Government-funded Centre for Vocational Education Research
 while on a part-time secondment at LSE, and this work is reflected in her Impact Case Study.

 In Macro, the appointment of Nunes, who has visiting research positions at the Boston Fed and
 the Bank of England, filled the gap at senior level in Macro that was noted in the previous REF,
 and is one factor driving our strengthening links with central banks (which are reflected in the
 Impact Case Study). These links also include the appointment of Karantounias (from the Atlanta
 Fed), who was hired during this REF cycle but started in December 2020, Gabriel’s position as a
 visitor at the Bank of Portugal, and the fractional positions held by Cantore and Holden, long-
 serving staff members who now also have positions at the Bank of England and Bundesbank,
 respectively. Nunes was also part of the Council of Economic Advisors to the Chancellor of the
 Exchequer, Phillip Hammond, from February 2018 to July 2019 and advised on key budget
 decisions.

 More generally, we have also sought to raise the profile of impact within the School, with one
 colleague working as Impact Champion to support impact activities. Also, as the Co-Director of
 the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account awarded to the University from 2019-2023, Blanden
 supports colleagues across the social sciences in their impact work. This effort to raise the profile
 of impact has led to the establishment of longstanding partnerships with a range of policy makers
 and other stakeholders, as described elsewhere and evidenced by the impact case studies.

 At REF2014, we had committed to objective 3 and had started to develop a new PhD programme
 following the recommendations of the ESRC Benchmarking Review. This programme is now in its
 fifth year, and has been supported by extensive scholarships, with £1.4 million made available
 internally through School and Faculty funding. A further 5 students have been supported by ESRC
 scholarships. The 28 talented students who have joined the programme between 2015/6 and
 2019/20 have made an enormous contribution to the research culture of the School; they extend
 and challenge the research agendas of the staff they interact with, they are enthusiastic
 participants at seminars, and present their own work regularly. Their recruitment and contribution
 will be discussed in Section 2.

 Our approach to achieving objective 4 has changed since the last REF. In the previous REF
 period, the School’s multidisciplinary research was primarily led through two research centres:
 Surrey Health Economics Centre (SHEC) and Surrey Energy Economics Centre (SEEC). SHEC
 in particular was responsible for a large share of the research income received by the School. As
 explained below, our approach to multidisciplinary research has shifted in the last three years.
 SHEC, which focuses on Health Services Research, has been transferred to the Faculty of Health



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Medical Science; a more natural home. Health Economics, however, continues to be a focus
 for the School and a key topic for developing multidisciplinary collaboration.

 Rickman has long-standing interests in Heath Economics, with the focus in this area being
 strengthened when Blanden took over the large multidisciplinary “Better for Less” grant which
 explored public sector productivity primarily in the NHS context (see further details below). This
 area of work has expanded further since Moscelli joined the School. Currently, Blanden and
 Moscelli are developing research on the medical workforce; Blanden has recently completed work
 with Surrey Business School on the Gender Pay Gaps in Medicine Review, funded by the
 Department of Health and Social Care. Moscelli and Blanden have received a £550k grant from
 The Health Foundation to study NHS workforce retention, and the two are members of the
 University’s Lifelong Health research theme. This network will be used to engender further
 collaborations.

 The recent strategic hires of Breinlich, Koppensteiner and Parey are also important for developing
 multidisciplinary projects within and outside the University. Breinlich and Parey are affiliated with
 AI@surrey, which is an interdisciplinary collaboration in artificial intelligence and machine learning
 across the University of Surrey. Koppensteiner contributes to the Health theme through his work
 on the prevention and impact of dengue fever. Koppensteiner and Blanden are currently
 developing proposals to work on Early Years Education in Brazil which will include the input of
 education researchers and psychologists, and Koppensteiner is working with epidemiologists on
 dengue fever prevention.

 The research environment within the School is enhanced by strong links to other UoAs. Chitnis,
 whose outputs are submitted to UoA 12, has maintained the School of Economics tradition of
 research in Energy Economics and has been very active in multidisciplinary work related to the
 University’s Sustainability research theme. Her expertise in energy demand has led to her
 participation in two large multidisciplinary research grants. The Centre for Research into Energy
 Demand Solutions (CREDS) is funded by UKRI and includes 23 academic and industry partners
 from different disciplines. It has a vision to make the UK a leader in understanding the changes in
 energy demand needed for the transition to a secure and affordable, low carbon energy system.
 “Using Living Labs to roll out Sustainable Strategies for Energy Poor Individuals” (STEP-IN) is a
 H2020 funded project involving 13 academic and non-academic partners from different disciplines
 and energy sectors across Europe. The STEP-IN project develops an innovative global
 methodology for the effective analysis and tackling of energy poverty, i.e. how enhanced energy
 efficiency can improve quality of life and overall comfort levels. Chitnis is also involved in several
 smaller projects with a view to expanding her collaborations within and outside the University.

 Finally, as described below, Levine and Holden worked with Surrey’s Department of Sociology on
 a project investigating the connection between DSGE Models and Agent Based Modelling.

 1.3 School and University research support structures

 At School level, the Head of School, Director of Research and Impact Champion have
 responsibility for defining strategic aims and ensuring they are met. These are monitored and
 reviewed by the School Research Committee, of which all research active staff are members. The
 School Research Committee meets twice per year. The Faculty Research and Innovation
 Committee, led by the Associate Dean (Research & Innovation), meets monthly and acts as an
 intermediary between the School and the University Executive. The Faculty Research and
 Innovation Committee receives regular updates on schools’ and departments’ progress and
 performance against targets; as well as forwarding direction and support from the University
 Research and Innovation Committee, led by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation.

 This structure has served the School well on many occasions, for example by providing information
 about funding opportunities and other initiatives that are relevant to the School. Recently, the
 support of the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee also played a crucial role in the
 appointment of two Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows; Economics was one of the first Schools in the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University to be able to appoint VC Fellows, and one of very few Schools to have more than one
 Fellow (see Section 2). The Faculty is also supporting the generation of new and innovative
 research projects and corresponding research funding applications via a Research Fellowship
 scheme, and Koppensteiner and Parey have been successful in the most recent call.

 1.4 Research plans

 Each group has plans for development that are aligned with the School’s strategic priorities.

 CIMS (macro group): Further research plans are being pursued in several areas such as fiscal
 policy, optimal debt management, finance, macroeconometrics, behavioural macro, informational
 frictions, monetary policy, and more recently on the construction of epidemiological-
 macroeconomic models for the study of pandemics. Several new projects bridge different areas,
 including the intersection of macro with applied micro, econometrics, and theory; new bids in these
 areas are being prepared. CIMS will continue to deliver and update its courses in the Easter and
 Summer schools. These courses will support the research activity of the School and foster
 research networks. The Centre will also seek additional collaborations with central banks, and
 treasury departments, for instance developing the collaboration with the Bank of Portugal.

 Applied Microeconomics: Will develop further research collaborations within the Group as well as
 with external researchers in economics and other disciplines; several promising collaborations in
 Education, Health, Labour Markets, and Crime are already in progress. Benefiting from the new
 large-scale data storage and processing facilities (see Section 3), much of this work will make use
 of administrative data and Big Data more generally. Research bidding activity will be substantially
 expanded; this will initially be supported by Parey and Koppensteiner’s Faculty-funded Research
 Fellowships and will gather momentum as internal collaborations continue to develop.

 The Econometrics Group is working with the Applied Micro and with CIMS in several projects and
 plans to continue the collaboration with researchers from other groups (internal and external) on
 a range of projects, including bids for grants. In parallel, the Group has an active research agenda
 focused on theoretical and methodological areas such as models for spatial and network data,
 machine learning, quantile and modal regression, and identification in macroeconomic models.

 The research of the Theory Group will focus on projects with high potential impact, including the
 study of bubbles, capital taxation, voting rules, spread of rumours and diseases, cash and
 cashless trading rules, adoption of new technologies, large games, dynamic mechanisms, and
 organisation of knowledge. This research aims at obtaining theoretical breakthroughs as well as
 influencing real-world policies. The latter aspect will likely foster collaborations with more applied
 academics and with non-academic institutions and lead to successful grant proposals.

 1.5 Open research culture and ethics

 In line with the University’s Open Research Position Statement, the School is committed to
 transparency, reproducibility, open communication, and making research findings widely available
 to all. Researchers in the School aim for the highest standards of research ethics and openness.
 This is a requirement for publishing in the top journals where refereeing is rigorous, and code must
 be deposited as a matter of course, as well as data whenever permissions allow. The Surrey
 Research Insight (SRI) team supports and advises on open access and enhancing research
 visibility, and is trialling an online Open Research module that provides the main principles of open
 research and the tools to apply it in practice. Data and publications are shared through the SRI
 open access repository. Researchers deposit all outputs at the point of acceptance, and this is a
 formal objective in the appraisal process. The School has its own Discussion Paper series, and
 researchers also often publish their work in the working paper series of other institutions such as
 CEP, IZA, IFS, and CEPR. Upon completion, all PGRs deposit an electronic copy of their thesis
 in the SRI repository. The School is in close collaboration with the Library, and experts from the
 Library have presented to the School on issues related to open access.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Formal processes ensure research is of the highest ethical standard. The University Ethics
 Committee has a diverse, interdisciplinary membership including lay representation. It works
 closely with the Faculty Ethics Committee, where the School has been represented from the start.
 The University Research Integrity and Governance Office provides guidance on proposals and
 ethical review submissions. The School works closely with the University’s legal department over
 aspects including contractors, and sub-contracts for research partners. Data is stored securely,
 maintaining subject confidentiality where relevant, and preventing unauthorised access or loss.

 2. People

 At the census date, the School’s staff comprised of 8 full-time Professors, 6 part-time Professors
 (including 2 VC Fellows), 7 Readers (including 2 part-time), 8 Senior Lecturers (including 2 part-
 time), 5 Lecturers (2 part-time or on leave), 3 Senior Teaching Fellows, and 4 Teaching Fellows.
 Over 25% of staff are women and 16 nationalities are represented, giving the School a truly
 international flavour. Many staff have also received postgraduate training and/or have previously
 worked overseas, allowing the school to benefit from experience gained in top departments
 worldwide. 13 staff members have PhDs from the top 20 Economics Departments in the World
 (most recent QS rankings).

 2.1 Staff recruitment and development strategy

 The 2017 School of Economics’ Strategic Plan states that “The School’s number one priority and
 key to delivery of our action plan is to hire and retain excellent staff.” We have taken a three-
 pronged approach to recruitment.

 At the junior level, our recruitment is based on annual participation (since 2014) in the American
 Economic Association academic job market, complemented with participation in the European and
 British job markets. In each year, we have interviewed up to 80 candidates, and invited 15-20 of
 them to Surrey for full day visits and job talks. Over the last five years, this has led to 9 junior
 colleagues joining us (Blow, Camponovo, Garfagnini, Joo, Laczo, Moscelli, and Shakhnov, and in
 2020 Volpicella and Laohakunakorn). As well as enabling us to recruit excellent young colleagues,
 this strategy has the additional benefit of bringing many outstanding candidates to Surrey and
 giving colleagues and PGRs the opportunity to hear papers at the frontier of the discipline. It should
 be noted that the School’s recruitment effort has been supported by the University through the
 introduction of exceptions to the recruitment policies which allow the School to be competitive in
 the fast-paced economics job market.

 At the mid-level we have taken advantage of opportunities for additional hires and made 2
 appointments at the Senior Lecturer level (Koppensteiner and Oikonomou) and 1 at the Reader
 level (Karantounias), who started in December 2020.

 At senior level, we made 6 professorial appointments during this REF cycle (Breinlich, Jensen,
 Nunes, Parey, Santos Silva, and Zanardi who joined in 2021 as the new Head of School). These
 senior appointments, which include two Heads of School, have not only strengthened our research
 capability in core areas, but also provide leadership and mentoring of junior colleagues and PhD
 students. All these appointments were carefully considered and are in line with our strategic
 objective of having a diverse and balanced School that engages in research at the frontier while
 attracting research funding and delivering strong impact.

 The School was also very successful with appointments as part of the University’s Vice-Chancellor
 Fellowships scheme. As a result, Kjetil Storesletten (Oslo) and Volker Nocke (Mannheim) joined
 the School early in 2020 on 0.2 FTE contracts. The appointment of these world-renowned
 academics increases the visibility of the School, stimulates our research environment, enhances
 our ability to attract substantial research grants, provides mentorship to colleagues, and
 contributes to an even better PhD programme. Both VC Fellows maintain frequent contact with
 colleagues and visit regularly. They have already played a decisive part in the success of our 2020
 job market season and are actively developing research projects and bids with colleagues (for

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example Nocke is working with Breinlich and Jaimovich on first-mover advantage in export
 markets).

 As noted above, an indication of the School’s excellent performance is that we have achieved
 great success with promotions in this REF period, with five colleagues (Blow, Bozbay, Chitnis,
 Garfagnini, Moscelli) promoted to Senior Lecturer, four of whom were hired since the last REF.
 Five colleagues have also been promoted to Reader (Blanden, Cantore, Jaimovich, Martellosio,
 Srisuma). Colleagues with teaching-only contracts also achieved significant success with
 promotions. During this REF cycle we had one promotion to Principal Teaching Fellow and two
 promotions to Senior Teaching Fellow. This is a testament to the crucial contribution these
 colleagues make to the productive and harmonious environment of the School.

 Research and impact success has been ensured through several mechanisms.

    a) Ensuring sufficient time for research.

    The teaching load for staff on research and teaching contracts has been substantially reduced
    since the last REF. This was the most important strategic action taken to encourage research
    productivity and a more sustainable research environment. Staff cover no more than two
    modules per year (corresponding to 44 contact hours), and many concentrate their teaching
    into one semester to provide focused time for research. In line with the rest of the University,
    the School uses a Workload Allocation Model to ensure that workloads are balanced, and that
    time is protected for research. Where research time is specified in funding applications, this is
    built into the Model, irrespective of whether the funder directly covers overheads or salary
    costs. The University continues to operate a sabbatical system and in every academic year of
    this REF period the School received at least one application for sabbatical leave; all requests
    were approved.

    b) Formal and informal support

    The School’s supportive environment offers numerous informal opportunities for junior
    colleagues to learn from other colleagues. There are also several formal arrangements in
    place. New Lecturers usually have a 3-year probation period where targets are set and
    monitored. They are supported in this process by an assigned Senior Colleague. All Lecturers
    and Senior Lecturers have access to a mentor allocated specifically to support their research.
    Mentors provide advice on research, funding and publication strategy, and offer an
    independent listening ear to discuss all aspects of academic life. All grant applications are
    subject to an agile peer review process at the School and Faculty level. A wide range of
    additional research-focused developmental activities are available through the Faculty and
    University. These include courses aimed at developing leadership and management skills, and
    staff are encouraged to attend these; Blanden, Cantore, Nunes and Santos Silva have
    undertaken Senior Leadership training during this REF cycle. The University joined the Aurora
    national Women’s Leadership Programme on its launch and Blanden attended in the first
    cohort.

    All staff have an annual appraisal with the Head of School which focuses on progress towards
    meeting targets and career development; completion rates are 100%. Alongside teaching,
    targets relate to outputs, impact, and contributions to the wider research base. This appraisal
    process is an important part of helping colleagues work towards promotion. Targets are also
    used to effectively manage workloads and to regularly review the culture of the School. The
    School takes the results of the annual Staff Survey very seriously, raising relevant matters in
    Staff Meetings, and following up as necessary. As noted in the Concordat to Support the
    Career Development of Researchers, promoting good mental health and wellbeing is a core
    component of good research, and the Head of School takes care to encourage an open
    discussion around wellbeing issues. These of course, have been particularly relevant since
    March 2020 and the School has responded by scheduling regular catch-ups between staff



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    members and between faculty and the Head of School, as well as making more use of
    Microsoft Teams to encourage informal communication.

    c) Facilitating transitions into and out of academia

    During this REF cycle, five colleagues decided either to take permanent (Avitabile, Holden,
    Cantore) or temporary (Hunt, Dumitru) positions in non-academic institutions. In all these
    cases, the School was very flexible and facilitated these transitions either by providing unpaid
    leave or by offering the researchers fractional contracts that allow them to continue to
    contribute to the School while having the freedom to pursue new opportunities. These links
    keep a door open in case they decide to return to the School full-time and allow the School to
    benefit from their professional experience in prestigious institutions, all of which have a
    substantial research reputation, and provide opportunities for policy impact (Bank of England,
    Bundesbank, World Bank and King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center in Saudi
    Arabia).

 2.2 PGR and ECR training and support

 The PhD programme

 The new PhD programme that started in 2015 (with a pilot in 2014) has been transformative both
 for the students who have been part of it, and for the rest of the School.

    a) The structure of PGR training

    The first four cohorts of students enrolled directly on the PhD and, in their first year, undertook
    core courses in Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, Econometrics and Research Methods, all
    provided by leading scholars. As part of the Research Methods course students hear from all
    potential supervisors about their areas of research and their views on good potential PhD
    routes. The objective has been to enable students to effectively match with supervisors. In the
    second year, students completed six other state-of-the-art modules which enable the students
    to move beyond their core knowledge and focus on the techniques to be used in their research.

    Following their taught courses, all students go through the Confirmation process within 24
    months of their registration. This process requires students to submit their first chapter, which
    they present to the School. This is formally examined by two members of the School faculty
    who are not part of the supervision team. Following Confirmation, students are required to
    present annually as part of their group seminar series. They also regularly present to each
    other, particularly in preparation for conference presentations.

    Over time, we made several adjustments to the structure of the programme, the most important
    of which was the introduction of a new MRes from the Autumn of 2019. This MRes is formed
    from the modules that were previously offered in the first year of the PhD, with the addition of
    an advanced research project to be completed over the summer months. Naturally, the
    modules that were previously taught in the second year now form the first year of the PhD,
    and the rest of the structure of the programme remains the same. There are several
    advantages of the new structure with the MRes. It frees up more time for research during the
    PhD programme and gives students an early qualification in recognition of their studies. In
    addition, the inclusion of an assessed dissertation gives students early experience of the
    research and supervision process.

    b) Student support

    All students are allocated a desk and computer with access to appropriate software. We group
    students in rooms by their year of MRes/PhD entry, which contributes to a strong sense of
    community. Research students are allocated £3k towards their research expenses during the
    programme. This can be spent on conference attendance, data or external training. Our

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    students have been particularly visible at the Royal Economic Society conference with several
    presenting at both the main and PGR conferences in 2018 and 2019, with 5 others attending
    in 2018 and 8 attending in 2019. Students have presented at a range of other conferences and
    workshops including the European Economic Association, the European Meeting of the
    Econometric Society, and the Money, Macro and Finance Conference. Our students have also
    visited the Universities of Copenhagen, Venice, GSE Barcelona, Warwick, and LSE, and
    participated in our own CIMS Summer and Easter Schools, and in summer schools, courses,
    and master classes offered elsewhere.

    Alongside the external training opportunities available to students, the University of Surrey’s
    Doctoral College provides a wide range of additional training; e.g., in 2019/20 some students
    and supervisors undertook Mindfulness training. The Doctoral College also offers many other
    workshops and careers guidance. In 2020 Economics PGR students won competitive funding
    from the Doctoral College to hold an event that is part of the Doctoral College’s programme
    on Building Research Culture. Two of our students have successfully completed the
    University’s Graduate Certificate in Education and another is working towards it.

    In March 2020, the University received £100k of funding from the National Productivity
    Investment Fund-Doctoral Training Programme at ESRC. This supports collaboration between
    PGRs and private sector firms. One student (Dente) has already benefitted from an intensive
    training programme on Connecting and Engaging Researchers with Business, and we will be
    encouraging more to participate in these activities.

    Some PhD students have received additional support through employment in the School; this
    takes the form of fixed-term contracts that enhance their employability. Both Swarbrick and
    Boye have provided research and administrative support to CIMS, paid partially by income
    generated by CIMS. This was especially beneficial for Swarbrick, and paved the way for his
    recruitment to the Bank of Canada, from where he continues to collaborate with Surrey
    colleagues (he co-authors one of the outputs submitted in REF2021). Mello has recently
    accepted an 80% post-doctoral position to work on Moscelli’s NHS staff retention project. This
    will start after he submits his PhD and run until 2023.

    c) PGR recruitment

    The new MRes/PhD has attracted between five and six students a year; students originate
    from 15 different countries and over 35% are women. Our MRes/PhD students have been
    recruited through wide advertisement and we select students based on their GRE score and
    an interview. The programme is supported by the scholarships provided by the Faculty; 90%
    of our students receive a full scholarship and funding for fees. As well as being supported by
    the School and Faculty, five of our students (Swarbrick, Grilli, Higgins, Alvaro-Taus and Phella)
    also attracted funding from the relevant Doctoral Training Partnership (SENSS) and directly
    from the ESRC.

    The PGR community has been complemented with visiting students, most notably from the
    “Expectations and Social Influence Dynamics in Economics” PhD programme (ExSIDE), a
    multidisciplinary programme funded by the European Commission. These students complete
    their PhDs between two institutions, and the programme includes training in behavioural
    economics, psychoanalysis, opinion formation, network theory, agent-based simulation and
    economic modelling, complemented with extensive training in transferable skills. The three
    students on the Surrey-Bielefeld part of the programme visited Surrey in 2017/18 taking the
    2nd year PhD courses and returned in 2019/20. Chitnis also hosted a PhD student from the
    University of Santiago de Compostela; this led to a joint paper applying techniques from energy
    economics to the waste-water industry.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    d) Outcomes

    The employability of our graduates has been greatly enhanced by the new PhD programme
    and there has been a qualitative shift in the placement of students. Of the students in the first
    cohort, two placed at the ECB (one, Grilli, on an extended internship before moving to the
    OECD, and the other, Rhouma, on the graduate programme), one (Rahimi) at the Financial
    Conduct Authority, one (Rahman) at Frontier Economics, and one at a teaching position at
    Sussex (Rondina). Additionally, Tsiaras, who moved from Leicester to complete his PhD at
    Surrey, took up a postdoc position at the European University Institute. Of the second cohort,
    graduating in 2020/21, Higgins is at the University of Cambridge on a postdoc associated with
    Koen Jochmans’s ERC grant, Oparina is working in the Wellbeing Programme at the Centre
    for Economic Performance LSE, Dente is working at Lear (an economics consultancy), and
    Phella is doing an internship at the ECB and has just accepted a Lectureship position at
    Glasgow.

    In addition to the students from the new programme, 19 other students have completed since
    the previous REF (including 2 from the pilot year of the new programme). These students
    moved on to a mix of private sector and university positions around the world, including at the
    Bank of Canada, Central Bank of Nigeria, the University of Portsmouth, University of East
    Anglia (and from there to Kings College London), University of Birmingham, and KBR
    consulting.

 Post-doctoral researchers

 During this REF period the School has employed 10 Post-Doctoral Research Fellows:
 Chatzistamoulou, Deak, Elkomy, Laliotis, Mirfatah, Mirza, Mukerjee, Murad, Sayli, and Taneja. All
 have been on fixed-term contracts commensurate with the length of the project they worked on;
 these have varied from one year up to five years in the case of the 4 researchers working on
 “Better for Less”. These Research Fellows benefitted from and contributed to the thriving research
 environment in the School and were mentored by the leaders of the projects on which they were
 involved. Several of these colleagues have moved on to full time academic positions with Laliotis
 now at City, Murad at Portsmouth, Deak at Exeter, Mirza at Birmingham. Mukherjee is undertaking
 further research at Technische Universitaet Muenchen, while Elkomy continues to research and
 teach at Surrey.

 2.3 Support and promotion for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 EDI is valued and actively and effectively promoted at University and School level.

 The University commitment to EDI principles is evidenced by participation in various national
 schemes, e.g. Athena SWAN, Disability Confident, Race Equality Charter Mark, Stonewall
 Workplace Equality Index. Across the University, we have the Rainbow Allies scheme to enable
 staff to show their support for our LGBTQI+ colleagues, and we have established Mental Health
 First Aid and LGBTQI+ Awareness training for staff. Furthermore, the University organises many
 celebratory events throughout the year, such as events that commemorate Holocaust Memorial
 Day, International Women’s Day, LGBT History Month, Black History Month, Trans Memorial Day
 and Disability Awareness Week.

 This ethos is also evident in other University-wide practices that directly involve the School of
 Economics. For example, the School is working towards Athena SWAN accreditation, and online
 Unconscious Bias training is mandatory for all staff, with face-to-face training on this topic being
 mandatory for those involved in recruitment, disciplinary and promotion procedures. Therefore,
 EDI is always actively considered in all job-market decisions at the School level, and we make
 sure that the interview panels and the short-lists of candidates are diverse and balanced.

 The good practices at the University level are fed back to the School by our representatives on
 the Faculty EDI committee, but the School also takes many initiatives to promote EDI. For

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, all group meetings and seminars are held between the core hours of 10am to 4pm.
 Policies also allow for a phased return to work following parental leave or periods of illness, and
 the School has been very flexible in these cases. Caring responsibilities and health needs are also
 considered when organising any necessary travel to support research, with colleagues being
 authorised to use more expensive modes of travel when that is more convenient and justified.

 Flexibility and work-life balance is greatly assisted by the low teaching loads in the School, which
 allow colleagues to organise their research and other commitments in a way that, for example,
 suits their caring responsibilities or health needs. Moreover, the School has regularly championed
 more flexible working practices at the University level and some success has been achieved.
 These flexible practices allowing a good work-life balance gained a new impetus and a new
 importance with the COVID-19 pandemic, with all members of staff being able to work remotely
 and effectively while caring for their families.

 All staff can apply for flexible working arrangements with regards to the timetabling of their
 teaching, and many do. No members of staff work part-time for family reasons and we would argue
 that this is testament to the School’s ability to accommodate their need for flexibility in other ways.
 Several colleagues have fractional appointments either because they are in partial retirement, or
 because they have positions in other institutions. As noted above, the School also facilitates
 transitions between academia and industry. Tabasso is currently on unpaid leave while taking up
 a Marie-Curie Fellowship.

 Teaching and research in the School also address EDI related issues. Pay gaps and labour-market
 discrimination are discussed in several modules, and the second-year module World Economic
 History covers women’s rights, colonialism and decolonisation. Recently, Blanden and PGR Dente
 contributed to the Gender Pay Gaps in Medicine Review led by Surrey Business School.

 Finally, the School paid considerable regard to EDI in the construction of the REF2021 submission.
 Following the published Code of Practice, output selection was conducted at UOA level output
 selection panel meetings held in accordance with guidance set by the University’s REF2021
 Team. Members of the University’s REF2021 Team and of the University’s EDI Team were
 present, and all attendees completed REF2021 EDI training. Membership of the output selection
 panels took account of the population characteristics of the UOA.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 All offices for staff and PhD students are located on the ground floor of the Elizabeth Fry Building;
 this facilitates interactions between colleagues and students, and contributes to the sense of
 community. All permanent members of staff have individual offices with appropriate IT equipment
 and software and, as noted before, each cohort of the MRes/PhD programme has a dedicated
 room. The same space also houses dedicated computer labs for MA/MSc and MRes/PhD
 students, and we have just installed an experimental lab (in collaboration with the Surrey Business
 School), which was funded by the Faculty.

 The School has recently secured around £60k of funding from the University to expand its research
 computing capability and we now have a server with 384 cores, 12TB RAM and 100TB of file-
 storage. The server, which complements the existing HPC computer environment used by the
 School, is equipped with Stata MP, R, and Python. This brings us to the frontier in terms of working
 with very large datasets and allows researchers to perform computationally intensive operations
 on the largest administrative datasets available today. Having access to this facility widens the
 scope of research grants we can apply for and will facilitate collaborations with colleagues from
 other institutions who may want to benefit from this computing capacity. Through the Health
 foundation project led by Moscelli, the School (with co-funding from the University) has also
 created a separate secure IT infrastructure to host and analyse sensitive administrative health
 data such as the Hospital Episode Statistics. Having access to such data opens the possibility for
 new funding opportunities and collaborations in the domain of public healthcare and related
 studies. Furthermore, we are working with the Chief Information Security Officer on the

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reorganisation of the information governance processes; this will open up opportunities for further
 use of confidential data.

 At REF2014, most of the School’s research funding came through SHEC. This Centre was very
 successful at obtaining multiple small to medium grants related to health evaluation, but these
 rarely led to publications in economics journals. This approach changed markedly leading up to
 and following SHEC’s move to the Faculty of Health and Medical Science in 2018. The School
 now focuses on obtaining larger grants with the potential to lead to impact and high-quality
 publications in economics. In the four financial years between 2016/17 and 2019/20 the School
 has raised between £450k-£500k annually, without including SHEC’s contribution (compared with
 <£200k in the years before that) and has seen a steady widening of the pool of individuals involved
 in grant applications. Therefore, the new approach has been very successful in that it allows SHEC
 to develop its full potential in a more natural home, while allowing the School to focus on projects
 that are better aligned with its strategic objectives, while being able to more than compensate for
 the loss of SHEC’s research income; overall, the School’s annual research income has grown by
 more than 20% relative to the previous REF period.

 Research funding has come from the ESRC (McNally for the Industrial Strategy and for her work
 at the CEP, Breinlich and Santos Silva for the estimation of trade models; and Breinlich, Corradi
 and Santos Silva for the application of machine learning techniques in international trade research,
 Levine and Holden on Agent-Based Modelling, Chitnis as part of CREDS, also funded by the
 EPSRC), the British Academy (Corradi, Srisuma and Carmona have received separate awards),
 the Nuffield Foundation (Blanden on the Early Years’ workforce), the European Commission
 (Holden on research and innovation, Chitnis on Sustainability for the Energy Poor, Levine to fund
 the ExSIDE PhD programme and CIMS on Macro-Modelling), The Health Foundation (Moscelli
 and Blanden’s recent £550k award to investigate NHS staff retention over four years), and a
 private donation (£200k to fund a project on the Macro-Modelling of Emerging Economies).
 Effectively a further £500k was awarded in 2016 when the Leverhulme Research Leadership
 Grant “Better for Less” on public sector productivity was transferred to the School of Economics
 from the Surrey Business School.

 CIMS has a long history of successful collaborative funding applications, and joint bids are
 becoming increasingly common among researchers in other groups. The projects from Breinlich
 and Santos Silva, Breinlich, Corradi, and Santos Silva, and Moscelli and Blanden have already
 been mentioned. These are particularly important as the Breinlich-led ESRC bids are examples of
 work across the research groups, while the Moscelli-Blanden project shows successful mentoring;
 Moscelli applied for the grant in his first year at Surrey and benefitted from Blanden’s experience,
 especially on those aspects of the bid which related to impact. In addition, Blanden and
 Koppensteiner have been exploring combining their expertise to study Early Years interventions
 in Brazil.

 In addition to leading a growing number of funded projects, the School has also been a partner in
 several successful multidisciplinary projects over the REF period. Levine and Holden joint with
 Surrey’s Department of Sociology received £620k to investigate the connection between DSGE
 Models and Agent Based Modelling, a core area of expertise in Sociology at Surrey. This project
 led to three papers, and the growth of a new area of research at Surrey in Behavioural
 Macroeconomics (with four Surrey PhD students involved in this area) and the ExSIDE
 multidisciplinary doctoral programme previously mentioned. As noted, Chitnis has been
 contributing to energy demand modelling in large scale projects with international partners. For
 example, as part of the CREDS project mentioned before, Surrey received around £150k which
 was used, among other things, to hire a research assistant (Taneja). Blanden and PGR Dente
 have recently contributed to the Gender Pay Gaps in Medicine Review led by Surrey Business
 School, paving the way for future multidisciplinary collaboration on the medical workforce.

 Research funding is supported by several Faculty and University initiatives. At Faculty Level, the
 School benefits from the expertise of a Research Facilitation Officer who informs staff of relevant
 research funding opportunities, advises on bidding strategy and comments on applications. The

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University offers centralised support for drawing up research budgets and a dedicated bid
 development team for larger bids. Economics Staff have benefitted from Faculty pump-priming
 support (received by Bozbay, Gabriel and Corradi). Parey and Koppensteiner both received
 Faculty Research Fellowships in 2020 to provide support and teaching buy-out while they prepare
 sizeable bids.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Academic contributions

 As evidenced by their numerous publications in leading journals, members of the four groups have
 made important intellectual contributions that were well received by the profession (e.g., Blow’s
 paper received the 2017 Atkinson Award for best paper published in JPubE and Santos Silva’s
 Journal of Econometrics paper currently tops the list of most cited papers in that journal). Many of
 these contributions are the result of joint work with researchers in other national and international
 institutions, who are part of an expanding research network. The School’s contribution to the
 research base is also reflected in the participation in the international PhD programme mentioned
 before (ExSIDE) and by the formal collaborations of several academics with other research
 institutions: Blanden, Breinlich, McNally and Witt have strong affiliations with the Centre for
 Economic Performance, LSE; Blow is a Research Associate at IFS; Breinlich is a CEPR Research
 Fellow; Parey is a Research Fellow at the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) and at the Institute for
 the Study of Labor (IZA), a Research Associate at Zentrum für Europäische Wirtschaftsforschung
 (ZEW), and a Visiting Fellow at the Department of Economics at Essex.

 4.2 Contributions outside academia

 CIMS has run an annual Summer School in DSGE modelling since 2012. Since 2015 CIMS has
 held an Easter School, which since 2016 has specialised in DSGE models for emerging
 economies. In addition to the courses at Surrey, CIMS has been offering bespoke courses since
 2010, having delivered courses at the Scottish Doctoral programme and at institutions such as the
 Central Bank of Nigeria and the Bank of Portugal, as well as pre-conference courses before the
 Money Macro and Finance Society conference (in 2016 and 2019) and the Society for
 Computational Economics conference (CEF) in 2019. The courses provide training on the
 construction of DSGE models, systems estimation and their use for policy analysis, that takes
 participants to the frontiers of the subject. Close to 400 PhD students, academics and researchers
 from central banks and finance ministries have attended these courses. They include participants
 from 22 policy institutions including 16 national central banks, the European Central Bank and
 World Bank; the International Labour Organization, the Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy
 Analysis, the South East Asian Central Banks (SEACEN), and the Slovakian Council for budget
 responsibility.

 Links between CIMS and central banks have strengthened in several other ways over this REF
 period. Holden’s tools and algorithms for the simulation of macro models with the zero-lower bound
 are heavily used by central banks and are part of their everyday policy-making process; this
 contribution led to Holden joining the Bundesbank in 2018 while on fractional contract at Surrey.
 Similarly, Cantore joined the Bank of England in 2018 but has a fractional appointment at Surrey.
 Holden and Levine’s PhD student Swarbrick works at the Bank of Canada and continues to work
 with Surrey colleagues. CIMS is also collaborating with the Bank of Portugal, and this has been
 supported by pump-priming money from the Faculty. Nunes, with the support from the ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account, presented his work on reformulating objectives of central banks to
 key policy makers at the Boston Fed; this work was also mentioned in the parliamentary committee
 revising the objectives of the Swedish central bank (as highlighted in the Impact Case Study).

 The Applied Micro group has been highly effective in engaging with non-academic stakeholders
 and offering policy advice. Rickman has continued his work on the legal system, as a member of
 UCL’s Mayson Review of Regulation of Legal Services and as an Expert Advisor to the Master of
 the Rolls’ Review of Civil Court “Guideline Hourly Rates”. He has also received funding from the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dutch Government to help them understand the costs and benefits of the judiciary. McNally has
 had extremely broad-ranging influence on education policy makers, particularly through her work
 on Vocational Education, which was heavily referenced in the Augar Review (further details are
 contained in her Impact Case Study). Koppensteiner has influenced policy on Crime and Health,
 both in the UK and in Brazil. His work on domestic violence in Leicester continues to inform policing
 strategies there and elsewhere (e.g., Chester, Essex, and Sussex), and he advises the Brazilian
 Government on dengue fever prevention and the Minas Gerais State Secretariat on Public Safety
 on the prevention of crime. Chitnis has advised the National Environmental Agency of Singapore
 on rebound effects in energy demand. While at Surrey, Avitabile carried out important work
 evaluating a policy to support the education of the most disadvantaged in Mexico; this has had a
 huge impact on the opportunities available to the poorest children there. Blanden’s engagement
 with early years stakeholders has led to a rethink of some of the received wisdom in this sector
 (as highlighted in her Impact Case Study) and she has continued to promote her work on social
 mobility, which was highlighted in an Impact Case Study for the previous REF, engaging with the
 public, press and policy makers on this issue. Colleagues have also provided evidence (verbal
 and written) to several Parliamentary Select Committees. As mentioned before, Breinlich, Corradi
 and Santos Silva are working with researchers at the World Bank on the impact of free trade
 agreements.

 Members of the School have or had significant advisory roles. Nunes served on the Council of
 Economic Advisors for Chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, (McNally also presented to
 this group), Breinlich is a former member of the Department of International Trade’s Strategic
 Trade Advisory Group, Koppensteiner is a member of the UK Government’s What Works Trial
 Advice Panel, and Rickman has just been appointed to the Expert Panel of the Independent
 Review of Criminal Legal Aid.

 Finally, Santos Silva made over 1800 contributions to Statalist, mostly replying to questions on his
 highly-cited work on the estimation of gravity equations for trade and on his recent work on the
 estimation of quantile regressions with fixed effects.

 4.3 Positions of wider influence and contributions to the discipline

 Colleagues from the School are active in journal editing, conference organisation and membership
 of learned organisations. Corradi serves as associate editor for the Journal of Econometrics,
 Econometric Theory, Econometrics Journal, and the Journal of Banking and Finance. Gershkov
 has served as an editor of the Review of Economic Studies and is an Associate Editor of the
 International Journal of Game Theory; Carmona is on the editorial board for Economic Theory;
 McNally is associate editor of the Economics of Education Review; Blanden is an editor of the
 World of Labor series for policy makers. Rickman is an Associate editor of International Review of
 Law and Economics; Santos Silva is on the Advisory Board of the Portuguese Economic Journal;
 Parey edits Fiscal Studies while Breinlich is on the editorial board of International Economics.
 Blanden, Breinlich, Koppensteiner, McNally and Santos Silva are members of the ESRC Peer
 Review College.

 Storesletten serves on the executive committee of the European Economics Association and is its
 Past President, McNally sits on the executive committee of the European Association of Labor
 Economists, while Corradi represents Europe in the Econometric Society. Rickman served as a
 Member of the Royal Economic Society Executive Committee, 2006-2018. Blanden, Breinlich,
 Gabriel, Jaimovich and Santos Silva have been on the programme committee for the Royal
 Economic Society, Blanden has worked on the programme of the European Economic Association
 and Srisuma helped shape the 2020 World Congress of the Econometric Society.




                                                                                              Page 14
