Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Imperial College London

 Unit of Assessment: UoA1


 1. Unit Context and structure:

 1.1 Overview and context:
 The strategy of Clinical Medicine at Imperial College London is to recruit and retain the strongest
 academic staff, train the next generation of research leaders, invest in discovery research and
 achieve the most efficient translation of our discoveries into clinical benefit. We are returning
 488 researchers (439.51 FTE) in UoA1, (from 406 (334.18) in REF2014, an increase of
 24%FTE including 106 early career researchers (ECRs) and 10 former staff who have made
 significant contributions to our research environment.

   Since 2014, our researchers have spent £953m of competitive research funding, equating
 to £310k per FTE/year. Our sustainability is demonstrated by our staff age profiles, where
 50% are <50 in our return, with 78% of all researchers in the Faculty of Medicine (FoM) being
 <50 years and where 30-39-year-olds form our largest age group (comprising 46.2%)). Our
 vitality is reflected by our career development; 41 have been promoted to Professor since 2014,
 48 to Reader and 22 to Senior Lecturer; of these promotions, 40% were female. We have also
 awarded over 1400 PhDs.

    We strive to create a supportive research culture. Across FoM, we have a 53%/47%
 male/female split with 26.1% of staff identifying as black minority ethnic (BME). To ensure
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) is central to our mission, we have formed the FoM
 Culture Initiatives Management Group (CIMG, [Chair – Lloyd, 2019]), reporting directly to the
 Dean, CIMG will create an inclusive culture and environment, shape strategies, policies and
 processes, and generate resources and improved signposting for students and staff at all levels
 and career stages. Since REF2014 we have re-organised the Faculty of Medicine (FoM) to focus
 more strongly on our thematic research (Fig. 1). We have created eight smaller departments
 (from five in 2014), specifically fostering mentorship and career development, and for the first
 time achieving a gender balance among our 8 Heads of Department. This reorganisation has
 enabled us to be more agile, to better support our staff and students, and to respond
 dynamically to the changing research landscape, demonstrated most notably in our coordinated
 response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

   We have been investing in modern purpose-built research facilities and strategic physical
 co-location to promote interdisciplinary collaboration. Imperial College has invested
 approximately £2bn in the reorganisation of its estate since 2014, in order to focus its
 undergraduate campus at South Kensington and develop a new post-graduate campus at White
 City. Clinical medicine laboratories, which were still housed in 34 buildings over 5 clinical sites in
 2014 will now be concentrated in our new research buildings on our Hammersmith Hospital and
 adjacent White City campus, bringing bio-engineering, data science and physical sciences
 immediately alongside clinical medicine and public health.

   We recognise the importance of working across academic boundaries to facilitate
 interdisciplinarity across the FoM and whole College as key to our sustainability. This
 interdisciplinary drive has been recognised by a range of funders including: National Institute
 for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (£202m, 2012-2022) in
 partnership with Imperial College Healthcare Trust (ICHT); Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Major
 Centre in Convergent Science (£14m; Behrens, joint with Inst Cancer Research), Imperial
 Centre (£2.3m; Hanna) and Accelerator Award (£4.5m French [UoA9] and McNeish); The
 British Heart Foundation (BHF) (Imperial College Centre of Research Excellence, £4m
 Wilkins); The Wellcome Trust (£7.5m, multiuser equipment, biomedical resources and
 technology awards) and the EPSRC (£7.8m Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare doctoral training
 partnership). We were successful in our bid to lead five NIHR Health Protection Research

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Units (HPRUs) at Imperial (£20m; Chemical and Radiation Threats and Hazards, Environmental
 Exposures and Health, Healthcare Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance,
 Modelling and Health Economics, Respiratory Infections). In addition, we secured EPSRC
 Centre for Mathematics of Precision Healthcare (Barahona [UoA10]). To take maximum
 advantage of these interdisciplinary opportunities across FoM and the College, our clinical
 medicine research themes all share a core strategy of convergent science.

   We partner with UKRI in the MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences (LMS), embedded
 in our Hammersmith Hospital campus; we have co-invested with BEIS in building a new £105m
 LMS building, co-locating MRC and FoM scientists; 26 LMS scientists (24 of whom are returned
 in UoA1, two in UoA4) hold appointments in the FoM. Five investigators from Clinical Medicine
 have satellite laboratories in our partner Francis Crick Institute (Lloyd, Zhang, Barclay, Shenoy
 and Wilkinson) and seven Crick investigators hold part-time appointments in the FoM (O’Garra,
 Tybulewicz, Stoye, Reis y Sousa, Way, Cherepanov, Kassiotis). We have partnered
 internationally to build strong bilateral research and educational relationships to enhance our
 sustainability in a post-Brexit world; with Nanyang Technological University (NTU) in Singapore
 (establishing the joint Lee Kong Chian (LKC) Medical School, whose first 50 doctors
 graduated in July 2018), with Technological University Munich and with Massachusetts Institute
 of Technology.

   Since 2014 we have also addressed global challenges through establishing College Institutes,
 Centres and Networks with intramural core funding. Two Imperial Institutes, the Institute of
 Infection (Co-Directors, Bangham and Baum [UoA5]) and the Institute of Global Health and
 Innovation (IGHI [Darzi]) are led from Clinical Medicine. We lead a further nine Centres and ten
 Networks, including the Centre for Antimicrobial Optimisation, the Centre for Paediatrics and
 Child Health, the Centre for Cardiac Engineering and the Centre for Translational Nutrition and
 Food Research and we are active participants in a further 14 Centres and 14 Networks.

   Partnerships are key to sustaining our strategy for the longer term; our clinical translation is
 driven through our highly structured relationship with our NHS partners in West London via the
 Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC)-designated Imperial College Academic Health
 Science Centre (AHSC). Since 2014 we have expanded the AHSC to include the specialist
 postgraduate Royal Marsden and Royal Brompton (until Feb 2021) hospitals, Chelsea and
 Westminster Hospital and the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR). This enables us to align
 strategies and maximise our impact. Our closer strategic relationship with ICR has underpinned
 and enabled our successful joint CRUK Major Centre in convergent science in 2018 (Director,
 Behrens).

  Our research structure has allowed us to respond with agility and pace to new challenges, best
 reflected in our research response to the COVID-19 pandemic (see below). We developed a
 SARS-CoV-2 self-amplifying RNA vaccine programme into phase II studies (Shattock); led the
 UK human SARS-CoV-2 challenge programme (Chui, Openshaw); led a major international
 clinical trial in critical care which has altered therapy globally (hydrocortisone, anti-IL-6, REMAP-
 CAP trial, Gordon, see impact case studies), translated a novel point-of-care test into
 widespread uptake by the NHS (CovidNudge, Cooke, see impact case studies) and undertaken
 national population level anti-SARS-CoV-2 testing (REACT, Barclay, Cooke, Darzi with Elliott
 Riley and Ward [UoA2]).




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 1. Imperial College London Faculties, structure of the Faculty of Medicine and
 associated cross-cutting research themes




 Research in clinical medicine reflects Imperial College’s academic strategy to deliver
 transformative impact for societal benefit on a global scale. It draws on our ground-breaking
 discovery science to generate new knowledge on disease mechanisms and translate this
 knowledge into new treatments and preventive strategies to enable change for a healthy society.
 Sitting within the FoM at Imperial College, to fully deliver the College’s and the Unit’s strategy,
 Clinical Medicine is returned in six themes, each with a critical mass of researchers spread
 across all eight departments (Fig 1).

 -   Infection and immunity (98.4 FTE)
 -   Cardiovascular (73.5 FTE)
 -   Respiratory (63.8 FTE)
 -   Surgery, anaesthetics and critical care (66.0 FTE)
 -   Cancer (46.7 FTE)
 -   Metabolism and endocrinology (91.2 FTE)

 ECRs denoted by italicised text throughout.

 1.1.1 Infection and Immunity theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 17 outputs over 200 citations, 7 outputs over 300 citations, 5
 outputs over 500 citations, 4 outputs over 600 citations including 2 over 800 citations. Our reach
 is demonstrated by publishing in specialist journals (e.g. Lancet Infect Dis [11], Nature
 Immunology [7]) as well as general medical and scientific journals (e.g. NEJM [13], Nature [18],
 Science [14]).
 Key centres: Institute of Infection (Bangham), MRC Centre for Molecular Bacteriology and
 Infection (CMBI, [Holden to 2019; Penades]); NIHR HPRU in AMR and Healthcare Acquired
 Infection (Holmes); Centre for Infection Prevention and Management (Holmes); Centre of
 Excellence for Antimicrobial Optimisation (Holmes); IAVI Human Immunology Lab (Gilmour,
 Professor of Practice); DHSC/EPSRC Future Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub (Shattock);
 the London BioFoundry (Freemont); the UKAS-accredited Molecular Diagnostic Unit (Taylor);
 Research income (pro-rata): £213m
 FTE: 98.4
 Number of ECRs: 27 (Aylett, Bellos, Bidmos, Cucunuba Perez, Davies, Edgar, Gibani, Hill,
 Hogan, Lai, Li, McCarthy, Medjeral-Thomas, Nijman, Page, Pollock, Pons Salort, Prendecki,
 Riglar, Rodriguez Manzano, Sarkisyan, Short, Unwin, Vaubourgeix, Verity, Warnecke,
 Willicombe)

   Infection and Immunity research at Imperial aims to integrate fundamental pathogen biology
 with human immunity and clinical medicine to treat or prevent diseases of global importance. We
 aim to integrate understanding of infectious disease from microbe to human to populations as

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 well as immune processes such as autoimmunity and inflammation. Together with our infectious
 disease epidemiology theme (UoA2), we represent one of the largest groupings of infectious
 disease researchers globally. In parallel, our immunology and inflammation researchers focus on
 the discovery of the fundamental immunological mechanisms underpinning responses to organ
 damage, especially in the kidney and skin, and how to translate them to advance molecular
 medicine.

   In 2020 we launched a multidisciplinary, interfaculty Institute of Infection (IoI) at Imperial
 College. The IoI brings together the expertise and experience of clinician scientists and basic
 biologists with scientists in chemistry, physics, engineering and mathematics. In addition to
 integrating our clinical and basic research, a key purpose of the Institute is postgraduate training,
 with a focus on mentoring and multidisciplinary postgraduate courses to equip students from
 widely diverse backgrounds to be leading researchers on infection.

 Research achievements since REF2014:
 - Bacterial pathogenesis: Internalization of Salmonella by macrophages induces formation of
    non-replicating persisters (Science, 2014); EROS protein is essential for host defence (J Exp
    Med, 2017); role for the lymphatic system in the metastasis of invasive S pyogenes (Nat
    Commun, 2020); and structural insight into how a sigma factor blocks entry of DNA template
    into the RNA polymerase active site in transcription (Science, 2015).
 - Viral pathogenesis: Identification of ANP32A as an essential host partner to support
    influenza virus replication (Nature, 2016, 2020); viral targeting of the molecular circadian
    clockwork (PNAS, 2016); HIV drug resistance and the structural basis of second-generation
    HIV integrase inhibitor action and viral resistance (Science, 2016, 2020).
 - Paediatric infections: the DIAMONDS project (Diagnosis and Management of Febrile
    Illness using RNA Personalised Molecular Signature Diagnosis), has identified a novel two-
    gene transcription signature in children that can distinguish bacterial from viral infection
    (JAMA, 2016); host transcriptional patterns to diagnose paediatric tuberculosis (NEJM, 2014,
    and review NEJM, 2020).
 - Global Health: PopART trial demonstrates impact of HIV Universal Test and Treat to reduce
    HIV incidence (NEJM, 2019); RIVER trial of HIV eradication (Lancet, 2020). The Transfusion
    and Treatment of Severe Anaemia in African Children Trial established best practice (NEJM,
    2019); machine learning to refine efficacy estimates of dengue vaccine (Nature, 2018).
 - Viral oncogenesis: First method to detect pre-malignant clones of T-cell leukaemia in
    patients with chronic HTLV-1 infection years before disease onset, being developed as a
    target for early diagnosis and supporting interventional clinical trials (Blood, 2020).
 - Novel roles of the innate immune system in neoangiogenesis and mitochondrial
    metabolism (PNAS, 2014; Science, 2018); how the immune system regulates induction of
    tolerance to self-antigen by modulating intracellular processing of dying cells (Nat Commun,
    2014); type 2 immunity in skin inflammation (Nat Immunol, 2018; Cell, 2018; J Exp Med,
    2018) suggesting that anti-inflammatory targeting of the NF-κB signalling pathway in
    keratinocytes might be effective early treatment for skin inflammation.

 Progress against 2014 REF targets:
 - Vaccines: £10m EPSRC/DHSC Future Vaccine Manufacturing Hub launched in 2018
    (Shattock and Shah [UoA12]); partner in the £66m Innovate UK Vaccine Manufacturing and
    Innovation Centre (Chair, Shattock); first ever early clinical trial of a vaccine for genital
    chlamydia, phase IIb PrePVacc HIV Vaccine efficacy trial (Weber, European and Developing
    Countries Clinical Trials Partnership, Euro 15m) , and a £22m investment by UK Government
    to accelerate saRNA vaccine for COVID19 development (Nat Commun, 2020).
 - Enhance infection trials capacity from phase I-III: we have built capacity for human infection
    challenge, conducting studies of RSV and influenza virus, and we lead the first ever
    challenge study world-wide of SARS-CoV-2.
 - Extended our bacteriology centres with over £13m combined funding, including the NIHR
    HPRU in Health Care Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance (established 2015,
    renewed 2020); the Centre for Antibiotic Optimisation; the second phase of the CMBI with
    >£2.3m funding from the MRC and the appointment of a new director (Penades).

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research aims of the Infection & Immunity theme for the next 5 years:
 - Pandemic preparedness, building on our expertise in basic biology and host range
    determinants of emerging pathogens; with experience and facilities to work at containment
    level 3 in vitro and in vivo, and strengths in respiratory viruses with pandemic potential
    (influenza, coronaviruses), we are at the forefront diagnosing and responding to emerging
    pathogens; we shall expand our expertise to vector-borne viral infections.
 - Bacteriology and antimicrobial resistance: development and optimization
    of precision antimicrobial therapies – grow our expertise in the molecular basis of bacterial
    physiology, pathogenesis and innate immune responses to bacterial infections, including the
    molecular and structural science that underpins the understanding of bacteria and their
    interactions with host; apply this knowledge to understand bacterial antibiotic resistance and
    develop innovative therapeutic and diagnostic strategies.
 - Vaccinology and Human Challenge: capitalize upon our expertise in the application
    of RNA based technologies for the next generation vaccines through a Centre for
    RNA vaccinology – including expertise in related areas of RNA biology, cellular responses to
    RNA challenge, animal and human challenge models – to develop vaccines against a range
    of high profile infectious diseases and other vaccination targets.
 - Towards curative therapy of chronic viral infection (in particular HIV, HTLV-1 and HBV),
    based on our expertise in the clinical application of novel strategies for cure of
    chronic viruses.
 - Research to improve disease outcomes by understanding the mechanisms of immune-
    mediated organ injury – building multidisciplinary teams via our Centre for Inflammatory
    Disease, combining expertise in basic science in renal inflammation, skin immunology,
    complement and autoimmunity with translational research to achieve improved health
    impacts.
 1.1.2 Cardiovascular theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 20 outputs with over 200 citations, 12 outputs over 300
 citations, 8 outputs over 400 citations, and 3 outputs over 500 citations. This includes one output
 with more than 1800 citations and one with more than 5000 citations. We reach as broad an
 audience as possible through publishing in specialist journals (e.g. Circulation (23 papers),
 Journal of the American College of Cardiology (9) and the European Heart Journal (6)) as well
 as general medical and scientific journals (e.g. NEJM [11], The Lancet [9] and Nature [11]).
 Key Centres: BHF Centre for Research Excellence, BHF Centre for Regenerative Medicine.
 Research income (pro-rata): £159.2m
 FTE: 73.5
 Number of ECRs: 19 (Chowdhury, Foldes, Halliday, Keene, Khalique, Khamis, Lodge, Nielles-
 Vallespin, Noseda, Paschalaki, Petraco Da Cunha, Ramasamy, Sattler, Shun-Shin, Srivastava,
 Taghavi Azar Sharabiani, Tayal, Vikhorev, Whiffin).

   Imperial College conducts world-leading cardiovascular research, from discovery science to
 highly impactful clinical trials in a multidisciplinary environment, recognised through continued
 designation as a BHF Centre of Research Excellence and renewal of the BHF Regenerative
 Medicine Centre. This theme comprises one of the UK’s largest grouping of cardiovascular
 scientists and clinicians, an NIHR BRC theme, 8 BHF programme grants (£9.2m), and a newly
 awarded BHF doctoral training programme. Our cardiovascular research strategy embraces
 convergent science, drawing on scientific expertise in disciplines across the College through
 formal cross-College Networks and Centres (a Vascular Science Network [Director, Haskard], a
 Centre for Cardiac Engineering [Director, Peters], a Centre for Vasculitis [Director, Mason] and a
 Microbiome Network [Lead, Dumas]) and an EPSRC-funded Centre for doctoral training in
 artificial intelligence (AI4Health). Research is predominantly conducted in our National Heart and
 Lung Institute (NHLI) and our associated NHS Trusts but extends across College to maximise its
 impact on cardiovascular health. This combination of expertise is highly sought after by
 pharmaceutical and devices companies, including Amgen, Bayer, Gilead, Medtronic, Pfizer,
 Volcano and Philips for our PI’s unique skills and success in technology development.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key achievements of the Cardiovascular theme since REF2014:
 - Pivotal clinical trials to inform clinical management of cardiovascular disease: the
    SAMSON trial, TRED-HF treatment withdrawal in patients recovered from dilated
    cardiomyopathy, and long-term follow up of patients in the ASCOT trial (Lancet, 2018, 2019;
    NEJM, 2020).
 - New devices for diagnosis and management of cardiovascular disease: high precision non-
    invasive, algorithm-based and patented technology for identifying optimal pacemaker
    settings (CRT TrueMax pacemaker optimisation method), Instantaneous Wave-free Ratio
    (iFR) and Ripple Mapping, forming impact case studies.
 - Deep-phenotyping patient cohorts to reveal mechanisms of cardiovascular disease. e.g.
    identification of titin variants in health and disease (Nat Genetics, 2016); novel, rare and
    common variants in SOX17 and HLA-DPA1/DPB1 associated with pulmonary arterial
    hypertension (Nat Comms, 2018). As a result, genetic testing is now routine practice for all
    patients presenting with dilated cardiomyopathy and new genes have been added to the
    Pulmonary Artery Hypertension (PAH) panel.
 - Integrating cardiovascular imaging with genetic data to develop innovative analytical
    tools for identifying causal relationships (Nature, 2020); titin variants as genetic risk factors
    for heart failure (Nat Genetics, 2017) and prediction of survival in patients with pulmonary
    hypertension (patent number GB1816281.8, Wilkins; Nat Mach Intell, 2019)
 - Leading the Cardiovascular NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative and using routinely
    collected NHS data from five tertiary centres to identify novel risk factors that inform the
    management of patients with non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (Lancet, 2020).
 - Established the only currently active UK programme to characterise intact human donor
    hearts deemed unsuitable for transplantation. This, coupled with large-scale single-cell and
    single-nucleus transcriptomes, has enabled a major contribution to the human cardiac cell
    atlas (Nature, 2020).

 Progress against REF2014 aims:
 - Developed a College-wide Vascular Science Network of Excellence and Centre of
    Excellence for Cardiac Engineering, within new laboratory space in the recently opened
    Biomedical Engineering Research Hub at White City. These broad partnerships contributed
    to the renewal of our British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence.
 - Delivered high profile clinical trials including establishing the FOURIER trial, long-term follow-
    up of the ASCOT trial and ORBITA trial.
 - The Cardio-Oncology Research Initiative multi-centre programme was established to
    investigate the interaction between heart disease and cancer therapies and is now funded by
    the BHF, Leducq Foundation and CRUK.
 - BHF Regenerative Medicine Centre was established leading to the ground-breaking
    publication of the human cardiac cell atlas.

 Cardiovascular theme plans for the next 5 years:
 - Remain at the forefront of digital, personalised cardiovascular health care integrating
    strengths across the College in Remote Monitoring, Bioengineering, Environmental Health,
    AI4 Health and Big Data Science.
 - Work with our global networks and local communities to understand inequalities in the
    burden of cardiovascular disease. Global reach will be extended through partnership with
    The George Institute for Global Health UK, recently transferred from the University of Oxford
    and located to our White City campus, and locally, expand the LOLIPOP cohort of ~30,000
    South Asians in North West London as part of the Wellcome Trust-funded S Asia Biobank
    (Kooner, [honorary], £5m) to identify novel molecular biomarkers underlying high risk of
    cardiovascular disease and diabetes in this population.
 - Build on our multidisciplinary cardiovascular translational research hub in the new Sir
    Michael Uren Building on the White City campus, which brings together PIs from
    Bioengineering, Molecular Sciences, Data and Computational science and the School of
    Public Health (UoA2). It will incorporate our state-of-the art electrophysiology, remote
    monitoring and novel technologies programmes.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -   Train the next generation of cardiovascular basic and clinical scientists through our BHF-
     doctoral training programmes (DTP), expanding intercalated BSc and Masters (MSc and
     MRes) courses, while establishing a new PG Certificate in Heart Failure.
 -   Consolidate cardiovascular investigators currently located across 5 West London sites onto
     the Hammersmith and White City campus by 2025.

 1.1.3 Respiratory theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 13 outputs with over 200 citations, 4 outputs over 400
 citations, including 1 with over 1000 citations. We reach as broad an audience as possible
 through publishing in specialist journals (e.g. American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care
 Medicine (AJRCCM) (37), Lancet Respiratory Medicine (14) and Journal of Allergy and Clinical
 Immunology (JACI) (30) as well as general medical and scientific journals (e.g. NEJM [9], Lancet
 [4], Nature [2]).
 Key Centres include: MRC HIC-Vac Network in Vaccine Research & Development (Openshaw
 & Chiu); NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Respiratory Infections (Lalvani); Asthma-UK
 Centre in Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma (Johnston); National Centre for Mesothelioma
 Research and the Asmarley Centre for Genomic Medicine (Cookson); Margaret Turner Warwick
 Centre for Fibrosing Lung Disease; NHLI Foundation Centre for Early Airways Disease; Three
 cystic fibrosis (CF) Trust Strategic Research Centres: EpiNet (Bilton & Carr [both honorary,
 RBH]), Personalised approach to Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Pseudomonal infection in CF
 (Davies)
 Research Income (pro-rata): £138.3m
 FTE: 63.8
 Early Career Researchers: 14 out of 71 staff returned are ECRs (Allsopp, Bernardino de la
 Serna, Bloom, Byrne, Farne, Fontanella, Fuertes, Lam, Molyneaux, Mumby, Nolan, Patel, Santos
 Amaral, Thwaites).

   Our aim is to develop improved understanding and better treatments for both common
 conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and respiratory
 infections; and rarer diseases such as interstitial lung diseases, CF, paediatric lung diseases
 and occupational lung diseases. This is enabled by working across multiple clinical sites
 (Hammersmith, St Mary’s, Charing Cross, the Royal Brompton and Harefield Hospitals), and our
 strong ties with the pharmaceutical industry including a Strategic Alliance with Boehringer
 Ingelheim (Alton, Barnes, Donnelly, Griesenbach), GSK (Johnston, Asthma-UK Centre;
 Openshaw, Chilvers-EMINENT MRC consortium partnership), AstraZeneca (Belvisi) and the
 Early COPD Cohort with AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim (BI), Chiesi, GSK and Novartis
 (Donaldson, Wedzicha).

 Key achievements of the Respiratory theme since REF2014:
 - Lung-microbe Interactions: Mechanisms of viral exacerbations in COPD (AJRCCM, 2019)
    and asthma (JACI, 2019); viral respiratory immunology (Science, 2020); human viral
    challenge studies (Nature Med, 2017); understanding the respiratory microbiome and
    pulmonary disease (AJRCCM, 2015).
 - Early influences and disease trajectories across the life course: Lung function
    trajectories and early life exposures (Lancet Resp Med, 2018); trajectories of allergen
    sensitisation (JACI, 2018); European collaboration on airways disease trajectories
    (AJRCCM, 2016, 2017) and leadership of international cohorts e.g. European Community
    Respiratory Health Study, Ageing Lungs in European Cohorts and Burden of Obstructive
    Lung Disease (BOLD) study.
 - Mechanisms underlying lung diseases: Immunological mechanisms underlying lung
    diseases (J Exp Med, 2020; Science Immunol, 2018); biomarkers in idiopathic pulmonary
    fibrosis (IPF) (Lancet Resp Med, 2020) and the U-BIOPRED allergen sensitisation pattern
    and relation to severe asthma (JACI, 2020).
 - Adult & Paediatric therapy trials: Design of trials specific for outcomes in children – CF
    trials (NEJM, 2018); biologics in paediatric severe asthma (Lancet Resp Med, 2019);
    respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in infancy (AJRCCM, 2018); and in adults: COPD (NEJM,
    2016; JAMA, 2016); novel therapeutics and biomarkers in IPF (Lancet Resp Med, 2018).

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -   AI/Machine Learning/ Electronic Healthcare Records: UNICORN (Unified Cohorts
     Research Network, Custovic MRC £2.3m) - integrating birth and patient cohorts with clinical
     trials in paediatric asthma; AI-driven analysis of CT findings in IPF (Lancet Resp Med, 2016);
     Electronic Health Record (EHR) data analysis in BREATHE - the Health Data Research UK
     Hub for Respiratory Health (PI Quint, £1.5m).
 -   Environmental exposures & Occupational health: Role of outdoor and occupational
     environmental exposures on respiratory health (Lancet, 2018); pollutant exposures and
     exacerbation of COPD (AJRCCM, 2019).

Progress against 2014 REF targets:
- Infection: Established and renewed the NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in
   Respiratory Infections (Lalvani, Zambon) and three national Centres investigating cystic
   fibrosis (Davies).
- Mechanisms of disease: Establishment of the National Centre for Mesothelioma Research,
   the Asmarley Centre for Genomic Medicine (Cookson); and the NHLI Foundation Centre for
   Early Airways Disease.
- Therapeutics: Established new multi-million-pound strategic partnerships with AstraZeneca
   and BI. Set up and lead three new cross-Faculty Networks and Centres: The Imperial
   Network of Excellence in Aerosols and Health, the Imperial College Centre of Excellence in
   Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) and the Imperial College Network of
   Excellence in Microbiome research.

 Respiratory theme plans for the next 5 years:
 - Drivers, determinants, and early detection: Increase understanding of life course events
    to define susceptibility to, and onset of, respiratory disease through our strengths in digital
    health research, paediatric respiratory medicine, early viral and environmental exposures,
    lung immunology and cell biology. We aim to define the factors determining lung capacity
    and disease susceptibility, and those influencing respiratory disease onset and severity.
 - Exacerbation science: Predict, prevent and treat respiratory disease exacerbations through
    harnessing novel technologies. We will focus on exacerbations with precipitating factors
    (viruses, bacteria and environmental factors) to develop novel therapies. We aim to define,
    recognize and treat (at a very early point) periodic and often frequent and severe
    exacerbations of asthma, COPD, bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and IPF.
 - Advanced Therapies: Application of novel technologies and outcome measures for patients
    with severe respiratory disease, accelerating proof of principle trials. We will apply the
    engineering, immunology and physical science strengths at Imperial to improving the quality
    and length of life for patients living with advanced respiratory disease.
 - Lung remodelling and fibrosis: Establish the Margaret Turner Warwick Centre for
    Interstitial Lung Disease, funded by the Rayne and NHLI Foundations focussed on lung
    remodelling and fibrosis across the life course. Funds already secured for immunology, cell
    biology, imaging, and trials via Wellcome Trust Senior Fellowship (Snelgrove), NIHR and
    MRC Programme (Jenkins), Wellcome Trust Investigator (Lloyd).
 - Development of interdisciplinary work: We have advanced plans and funding in place to
    build a new Respiratory Science research facility on the Hammersmith Hospital Campus
    linked to our Cardiovascular sciences base and the MRC LMS, and adjacent to Imperial at
    White City.

 1.1.4 Surgery, Anaesthetics and Critical Care theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 11 outputs with over 200 citations, 5 outputs over 300 citations,
 including 1 over 1000 citations. We reach as broad an audience as possible through publishing
 in specialist journals (e.g. Ann Surg [15]) as well as general medical journals (e.g. NEJM [5],
 Lancet [6], Nat Med [2], JAMA [2]).
 Key Centres: Surgical Innovation Centre, the Hamlyn Centre for Surgical Robotics, the Helix
 Centre (jointly with Royal College of Art), the Institute of Global Health Innovation and Centre for
 Health Policy, the NIHR London In Vitro Diagnostics (IVD) Co-operative.
 Total research income (pro-rata): £143.1m
 FTE: 66

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Number of ECRs: 15 (Antcliffe, Boshier, Fiorentino, Jones, Judah, Kemp, Markar, Martin, Ni,
 Onida, Patel, Scott A, Scott G, Soni, Thompson)

   The Surgery, Anaesthetics and Critical Care theme has expanded significantly since 2014
 with the appointment of two new Chairs, five new Clinical Senior Lecturers and three Non-
 Clinical Senior Lecturers in addition to 15 ECRs, of whom five are women. The theme has played
 an internationally leading role in the COVID-19 pandemic, in particular, the assessment of
 steroids, immune sera and anti-IL-6 in critically ill patients (REMAP-CAP trial) and through the
 REACT programme. The theme hosts the largest academic Department of Surgery in the UK,
 generating practice-changing research on the management of peripheral vascular disease and
 venous ulceration. Theme researchers have played leading roles on the prevention and early
 diagnosis of both colorectal and gastrointestinal cancers, in partnership with the School of Public
 Health (UoA2), as well as the stratification of localised prostate cancer.

 Key achievements of the Surgery, Anaesthetics and Critical care theme since REF2014:
 - Led research that led to change in national post-polypectomy surveillance colonoscopy
    guidelines for those at risk of colorectal cancer, showing that a large proportion of post-
    polypectomy patients require less frequent colonoscopy surveillance than previously
    recommended. These findings will reduce colonoscopic surveillance workload by up to 80%.
    (Lancet, 2017; Lancet Oncol, 2017, see impact case study).
 - Implementation of surgical technology to improve patient outcomes: use of rapid
    evaporative ionisation mass spectrometry in breast and cervical cancer surgery (JAMA Surg,
    2017; PNAS, 2020); development of photonics with endoscopy for intra-operative imaging
    jointly with our Faculty of Engineering (Nat Comms, 2019); development of AI algorithms for
    improved detection of breast cancer (Nature, 2020) and sale of “HARK” clinical management
    tool to Google DeepMind.
 - Development of volatile organic compound (VOC) detection in exhaled breath as a
    method to detect oesophago-gastric cancer (OGC); phase II trials showed that VOC
    detection has high diagnostic accuracy in OGC, with AUC of 0.85, sensitivity 80% and
    specificity 81% (JAMA Oncol, 2018).
 - Led pivotal studies in vascular surgery, including demonstrating that early endovenous
    ablation of superficial venous reflux resulted in faster healing of venous leg ulcers than
    deferred ablation (NEJM, 2018) and that endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm
    has early survival benefit but inferior late survival, necessitating lifelong surveillance (Lancet,
    2016)
 - Improving sepsis treatments: assessed the effects of levosimendan and vasopressin in
    septic patients and identified gene expression signatures in peripheral blood leucocytes
    associated with good and poor outcome in sepsis (NEJM, 2016, JAMA, 2016); AI
    approaches to optimise treatment for sepsis (Nat Med, 2018).
 - Critical care research: UK lead for the international REMAP-CAP study, an adaptive
    platform trial in Covid-19 pneumonia,, including assessment of intravenous hydrocortisone
    (JAMA, 2020) and, separately, of two IL-6 receptor antagonists, tocilizumab and sarilumab,
    in severely ill COVID-19 patients.

 Progress against REF2014 targets:
 - Developed translation research platforms in surgery and led surgical clinical trials to
    translate these technology platforms into clinical practice, to reduce the trauma of access
    and transform endoscopic surgery from intra-cavity to endo- or trans-luminal surgery
 - Made critical contributions to assessing quality of surgery in GI cancer trials (Lancet Oncol,
    2015; Gut, 2015) as well as to quality of surgical training in laparoscopy (Ann Surg, 2015)
    and to monitoring surgeon stress in the operating theatre (Ann Surg, 2018), providing greater
    surgical consistency and higher surgical standards in prospective clinical trials and in both
    training and routine care.
 - Adoption of innovation into surgical practice: Established spin-out companies, Embody
    (Cobb), surgical planning software to visualise and interact with 3D bone models and
    developing the H1 implant, the first ceramic on ceramic resurfacing arthroplasty in the world;
    and Mina Therapeutics has taken small activating RNA (saRNA) from laboratory to clinical

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    trial as a new class of anti-cancer therapeutics (Clin Cancer Res, 2020); established the
    Centre for Performance Science taking an interdisciplinary approach to investigating
    performance in surgery, in partnership with the Royal College of Music.

 Research plans of the theme for the next 5 years:
 - A Centre for Critical Care Research that will combine basic and translational science in
    organ injury with clinical trials in sepsis, building on the success of REMAP-CAP before and
    during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 - Develop large scale studies of volatile organic compound (VOC) detection for at risk
    population to detect oesophago-gastric, colorectal and pancreatic cancers, aiming for
    regulatory approval and the introduction into routine clinical practice
 - Expand portfolio of clinical trials in surgery, with particular focus on RCTs of surgical
    devices and novel surgical technologies, working with the Imperial Clinical Trials Unit (ICTU).
 - Establish a new Centre for Interventional Science that will combine interventional
    radiology, surgery and bioengineering around a technology-focussed Clinical Research
    Facility in partnership with Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust as well as industry.
 - Establish a Pan-London diagnostics ‘test-bed’ with MedCity, in collaboration with the
    Greater London Authority and the other two Academic Health Sciences Centres in London,
    enabling rapid evaluation and implementation of novel diagnostic methodologies and
    technologies.

 1.1.5 Cancer theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 14 outputs with over 200 citations, 9 outputs over 300
 citations, 5 outputs over 400 citations including 1 output over 600 citations. Our reach is
 demonstrated through broad publication in specialist journals (e.g. Mol Cell [5], Lancet Oncol
 [6], Cancer Cell [4] as well as general medical and scientific journals (e.g. Lancet [5], Nature
 [11], Cell [5],).
 Key centres: CRUK Convergence Science Centre (Behrens, held jointly with ICR), CRUK
 Imperial Centre (Hanna), Imperial Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (Seckl, ECMC), the
 Ovarian Cancer Action Research Centre (McNeish), the Hugh and Josseline Langmuir
 Centre for Myeloma Research (Karadimitris), the MRC Comprehensive Cancer Imaging
 Centre (Aboagye).
 Research income (pro-rata): £101.2m
 FTE: 46.7
 No. of Early Career Researchers: 8 from 56 (Barozzi, Fletcher, Grech-Sollars, Iskander,
 Nijhuis, Salehi-Reyhani, Sarkies, Shenker)

    The Cancer theme incorporates laboratory and clinical research programmes with particular
 strengths in breast, ovarian, prostate, gastrointestinal and haematological cancers as well as
 clinical and pre-clinical cancer imaging. Cancer epitomises our convergent science approach at
 Imperial College, with research spanning all four Faculties. The theme also houses the world’s
 largest centre for gestational trophoblastic disease research. There are major streams in the
 following areas: cancer evolution and adaptation, including genetic, epigenetic and
 immunological evolution; improved cancer detection and diagnosis using molecular imaging
 and pathology; and nuclear receptor signalling. There is a large clinical trials programme, with
 over 40 Imperial-led clinical trials in cancer open at any one time in addition to >100 multi-
 centre academic and commercial trials. The MRC LMS has cancer research embedded
 throughout its themes of epigenetics, integrative biology and genes and metabolism. The
 Centre for Haematology co-ordinates the largest clinical practice in Chronic Myeloid
 Leukaemia (CML) in Europe, focussing on molecularly targeted therapies, and houses the
 new Hugh and Josseline Langmuir Centre for Myeloma Research.

 Key achievements of the Cancer theme since REF2014:
 - Discovery research, provided deep understanding of the epigenomic and genomic
    landscapes of breast (Nat Med, 2018 [2]) and ovarian cancers (Nature, 2015, Nat Genetics,
    2018), especially as they evolve in response to treatment.
 - Greater understanding of cancer-immune interactions including key requirement for NKT

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     cells in the initiation of anti-viral B cell immunity (Cell, 2018), the role of aberrant tumour
     metabolism in immune evasion (Cell, 2015) and the importance of NK cells in recruiting
     dendritic cells into tumours (Cell, 2018).
 -   Developed potent CAR19-iNKT cells with dual targeting of CD19 and CD1d that have greater
     pre-clinical activity in diffuse large B cell lymphoma than conventional CAR-T cells (Cancer Cell,
     2018)
 -   Progressed two new anti-cancer agents, developed at Imperial College, into phase I and II
     trials: the first-in-class GADD45/MKK7 inhibitor DTP3 targets aberrant NF-B signalling in
     myeloma and diffuse large B cell lymphoma (Cancer Cell, 2014) – the phase II trial, funded
     by MRC/DPFS will recruit in 2021; the first-in-class CDK7 inhibitor ICEC0942/CT007 (Mol
     Cancer Ther, 2018) entered phase I clinical trials in 2018 in collaboration with Carrick
     Therapeutics.
 -   Led pivotal clinical studies that have led to the licencing and regulatory approval of
     pembrolizumab for relapsed, chemotherapy-resistant gestational trophoblastic disease
     (Lancet, 2017), and rucaparib as treatment for patients with relapsed, BRCA1/2-mutated
     ovarian cancer who have had two or more prior lines of chemotherapy (Lancet Oncol, 2017)
 -   Demonstrated the accuracy of multi-parametric MRI (MP-MRI) in diagnosing clinically
     significant prostate cancer: when used as a triage test before first prostate biopsy in men
     with serum PSA 15 ng/ml, MP-MRI reduced unnecessary biopsies by 25% and reduced
     over-diagnosis of clinically insignificant prostate cancer with improved detection of clinically
     significant cancer (Lancet, 2017).

 Progress against 2014 REF targets:
 - Embedded convergence and multi-disciplinarity into all aspects of research, facilitating
    development of machine learning algorithms to improve radiological diagnosis of ovarian
    (Nat Commun, 2019) and breast (Nature, 2020) cancers, and aid early diagnosis of solid
    cancers using analysis of exhaled breath volatile organic compounds (Nat Biotech,
    2020); work with bioengineers revealed the critical role of mechanical tension in cancer
    morphogenesis (Nature, 2019).
 - Deepened basic understanding of breast cancer including the earliest events in mammary
    morphogenesis (Nature, 2018), the differential role of oestrogen receptor variants in lobular
    and ductal breast cancers (PNAS, 2014), the genomic events driving resistance to
    aromatase inhibitors (Nat Genetics, 2017) and the development of new HER2-targeting
    monoclonal antibodies (Lancet Oncol, 2017)
 - Demonstrated the utility of circulating biomarkers in cancer monitoring, showing that
    ctDNA can identify relapse and drug resistance in high-risk breast cancer up to two years
    before conventional clinical investigations (Clin Cancer Res, 2017)

 Research plans aims of the Cancer theme for the next 5 years:
 - Expand early phase trials activity in both solid tumours and haematological malignancies,
    including establishment of a new phase I unit on the Hammersmith campus; aim to take at
    least two Imperial-developed compounds from the lab into phase I trial, one of which will
    target epigenetic alterations in cancer.
 - Develop specific clinical trials in multiple myeloma via funding from the new Langmuir
    Centre for Myeloma Research with a specific aim to open clinical trials of CAR19-iNKT
    therapy in relapsed myeloma.
 - Develop other advanced therapy medicinal products from laboratory towards clinical trial,
    including RNA-based cancer vaccines and self-replicating RNA vectors.
 - Expand multidisciplinary convergence science research, especially in collaboration with
    ICR, to ensure that the best engineering, physical and data science is applied to cancer;
    move novel technologies developed at Imperial towards clinical evaluation and consolidate
    as a major centre for clinical trials of novel cancer technologies.
 - Embed early detection, early diagnosis and prevention research (with ICR and School of
    Public Health [UoA2]) into the cancer theme with particular focus on upper gastrointestinal
    and ovarian malignancies; develop a national phase III evaluation of volatile organic
    compounds in early detection and take an ovarian cancer early diagnosis method into clinical
    evaluation.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.1.6 Metabolism and Endocrinology theme:
 Number of highly cited outputs: 13 outputs over 200 citations, 7 outputs over 300 citations, 5
 outputs over 400 citations, 3 outputs over 500 citations, including 1 with over 975 citations. We
 reach a broad audience through publishing widely in specialist journals (e.g. Cell Metabolism [9],
 Gut [9]) as well as general medical and science journals (e.g. NEJM [3], Nature [14], Cell [5]).
 Key Centres: Centre for Translational Nutrition and Food Research (Frost), The National
 Phenome Centre (NPC, [Takats]), UK Consortium for Metabolic Phenotyping (Takats), Tommy’s
 National Miscarriage Research Centre (Bennett), March of Dimes European Prematurity Research
 Centre (Bennett).
 Research Income (pro-rata): £197.8m
 FTE: 91.2
 Early Career Researchers 23 of 97 staff returned in this theme are ECRs (Abbara, Alexander,
 Alexiadou, Atkinson, Childs, Clarke, dos Santos Cebola, Garcia Perez, Hall, Izzi-Engbeaya,
 Jones, Leitch, Li, Liu, Martinez Sanchez, Mullins, Mullish, Posma, Sandhu, Schiering, Scott W,
 Triantafyllou, Vergis).

   Metabolism and Endocrinology’s mission is to build a robust and supportive academic
 community across basic, clinical, translational and big data research to provide diagnostic tools,
 therapeutics and novel insight into mechanisms of disease. Metabolism and Endocrinology
 collaborates extensively within Imperial exploiting the world leading expertise in the faculties of
 Chemistry, Engineering, Mathematics, and Life Sciences. Furthermore, the theme has extensive
 international and national collaborations, and are active participants in multiple international
 consortium-based research projects. One quarter of our staff are ECRs and we are committed to
 support their career development at all stages through mentoring and mid‐career support
 structures.

 Key achievements of the Metabolism and Endocrinology theme since REF2014:
 - Novel molecular strategies for targeting GLP-1 receptor in type II diabetes and reducing
    side effects of GLP-1 analogs (Nat Commun, 2018).
 - Novel roles and potential therapeutic applications for kisspeptin in emotion, sexual
    behaviour and infertility (J Clin Invest, 2017, 2020) and neurokinin 3 receptor antagonism in
    the treatment of menopausal flushing (Lancet, 2017).
 - Integration of systems genetics and large-scale mouse phenotyping identified novel
    therapeutic targets in osteoporosis and osteoarthritis (Nat Genet, 2017, 2019; eLife, 2020).
 - Developed, validated and modelled the impact of strategies for the elimination of viral
    hepatitis in low and middle-income countries (Lancet Glob Health, 2016; Lancet Infect Dis,
    2016; Gut, 2016, 2017; Lancet, 2019; Lancet Gastro Hep, 2019).
 - Therapeutic options and biomarkers for alcohol related liver disease (NEJM, 2015;
    Gastroenterology, 2015, 2017, 2018; Gut, 2017; Nat Commun, 2019).
 - Reproductive tract microbiome signatures that are risk factors for miscarriage, pre-term
    birth and neonate health (Sci Transl Med, 2016) and role of maternal and foetal
    cardiovascular factors in pre-eclampsia and foetal growth restriction (Lancet, 2015);
    established European March of Dimes Prematurity Research Centre ($10M over 5 years)
    and Tommy’s National Miscarriage Research Centre (£2.5M over 5 years).

 Progress against 2014 REF targets:
 - Partnership with the European Bioinformatics Institute to create an analytical engine for the
    NPC (Takats) with in-house bioinformatics capability for metabolomics phenotyping widely
    available through the MRC-funded MAP/UK Partnership.
 - Phase I-II clinical trials of oxyntomodulin and PYY analogues and identification of new genetic
    causes of obesity and factors influencing response to bariatric surgery; developed a wearable
    pump delivery programme showing that it is both practical and efficacious and highly potent
    long-acting analogues for weekly or fortnightly subcutaneous injection (Nat Commun, 2018);
    phase I clinical trials of these novel analogues showed full efficacy and no safety issues
    (Diabetes Care, 2019: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01945840).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -   Discovery of new genetic associations controlling bone strength and structure (Nat Metab,
     2019; Nat Genet, 2017, 2019).

 Research aims of the theme for the next 5 years:
 - Expand interrogation of the microbiome to explore mechanisms of colonisation resistance
    for therapeutic use and to identify microbiome-derived metabolites which manipulate
    metabolism and inflammation.
 - Develop our cross-faculty, inter-disciplinary Centre of Translational and Food Research,
    to tackle major global challenges in non-communicable disease by evaluating diet, under-
    nutrition and food shortages in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and among those
    with socio-environmental constraints.
 - Establish kisspeptin as a novel therapy for reproductive disorders with translational
    partners Myovant Sciences and Crinetics Pharmaceuticals; employ aptamer technology to
    transform the diagnosis of endocrine disease and bring novel hormonal therapies to the clinic
    to treat obesity, diabetes and infertility.
 - Improve survival from alcohol-related liver disease through development of more
    effective biomarkers and treatments and inform government and WHO policy to help
    eliminate viral hepatitis in LMICs.
 - Build on our expertise in obstetrics and foetal medicine that leverages our Tommy’s Centre
    of Miscarriage and March of Dimes Prematurity Research Centre with solutions for the
    prediction and prevention of pregnancy loss and pre-term birth.

 1.2 The Imperial UoA1 Response to COVID-19:
    The clearest evidence we can present to demonstrate the impact of our research strategy and
 environment is our broad and agile response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Working across
 academic boundaries and building on core strengths through our thematic research groups, our
 researchers across UoAs 1, 2 and 4 have been central to national and international efforts to
 understand, control and treat COVID-19. In partnership with ICHT, we have contributed to 21
 clinical trials, including RECOVERY, REMAP-CAP trial and vaccine trials, and have recruited
 3728 patients at a rate of 428 patients per 1000 admissions.

    This collaboration goes beyond pure research. To deliver this level of impact took alignment of
 researchers, administration, finance, human resources, and health and safety within Imperial
 and also across our NHS partnerships. We immediately established our Imperial AHSC
 COVID-19 Research Committee in March 2020 to review all COVID-19 related research
 projects. This ensured they were deliverable within our partner NHS Trusts and not duplicative
 nor likely to overburden hard-pressed services; we also provided scientific peer-review and
 advice to investigators. With representation from researchers in virology (Barclay), immunology
 (Openshaw), respiratory (Chilvers), infectious disease (Cooke), intensive care (Gordon), data
 science (Aylin [UoA2]), nursing (Wells, ICHT) plus senior leadership in College (Vice Provost
 and Dean) and NHS Trusts (Research Directors), the committee to December 2020 reviewed
 176 projects from across the AHSC. In addition, through philanthropic donations, we created the
 Imperial COVID-19 Research Fund. £2.8m was invested in 45 short- and medium-term projects
 across College from 159 projects submitted and reviewed by this committee. We utilised the
 flexibility of our devolved funding schemes to provide no-cost and, where needed, costed
 extensions to ensure projects funded under these schemes can complete. Using our UKRI
 COVID-19 allocation (£7.8m) plus internal funding, we have also provided support for all funded
 PhD students to ensure they can complete their courses and we are currently allocating
 emergency funding to projects and programmes.

   Imperial researchers are central to guiding UK COVID-19 policy: three Imperial scientists
 served on the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE; Barclay, Bangham,
 Ferguson [UoA2]). Nine are members of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on
 Modelling (SPI-M) that has performed modelling pertinent to UK COVID-19 management. Their
 advice is based on infectious disease modelling and epidemiology (Barclay, Baguelin; Bhatt,
 Brett. Ferguson, Grassly, Lucas and Riley [all UoA 2]; Gandy [UoA8]). SAGE takes advice from
 the New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threats Advisory Group (NERVTAG) on the threat

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 posed by new and emerging respiratory viruses which has three Imperial members (Openshaw
 – Deputy Chair, Barclay and Ferguson [UoA2]). Barclay chairs the SAGE subgroup on
 Vaccine Science Coordination. Kellam as part of the vaccine Task Force chairs its Vaccine
 Update Expert Advisory Group which Barclay is also a member of. We also have members on
 other Government advisory bodies: the PHE Serology Working Group (Barclay, Kellam);
 COVID-19 Clinical Information Network (CO-CIN, Openshaw); Children’s Task and Finish
 Working Group to provide advice on the transmission of COVID-19 in children and within
 schools (Riley, [UoA2]); and the Hospital Onset COVID-19 Working Group (Holmes, Price).

 COVID-19 research contributions by UoA1 themes:
 Infection and Immunity theme: Our teams have been at the forefront of the national and
 international response. The Barclay group rapidly diverted its influenza programme to
 understand more about the biology and transmission potential of SARS-CoV-2. We are one of a
 handful of institutions in the UK to have BSL3 level facilities able to propagate SARS-CoV-2 in-
 vitro and in diverse animal models. We have provided validated virus samples of variants of
 concern to groups across the UK including to PHE, members of the Genotype to Phenotype
 Virology consortium (Barclay leads), Centre for Virus Research Glasgow, Kings College London,
 UCL, Cambridge and Bristol. We also validated seed stocks for generating the GMP viral
 isolates for the COVID-19 Human Challenge led by Imperial (BEIS, £1.7m). Shattock has
 developed and tested a self-amplifying RNA vaccine, taking a new technology from cell-based
 assays, through animal models, first in-human, onto larger phase II clinical trials in less than 12
 months; working through a social enterprise start up, this secured £22m from UK Government.
 We have also received MRC COVID1-9 and Wellcome Trust rapid response funding to develop
 therapeutic antibodies (Xu) and serological assays (Cherapanov, McClure and Tedder).

   We have accelerated the development of rapid SARS-CoV-2 diagnostics developed by
 Imperial engineers (DNA Nudge technology, Cooke, Toumazou [UoA12], see impact case
 study). Early in the pandemic, we established a facility for rapid PCR testing (Taylor, Freemont),
 which developed into a formal partnership with the DHSC Lighthouse Programme and £7.5m
 investment. We are leading the REal-time Assessment of Community Transmission (REACT)
 Study, a major DHSC programme of home testing for SARS-CoV-2 to track the progress of the
 infection across England. It is one of the largest, most significant pieces of research looking at
 how the virus is spreading across the country and the lasting effect on immunity within
 communities. The REACT team has produced a series of reports to highlight the prevalence of
 virus and of antibodies, used to inform government strategies and policies (Barclay, Cooke,
 Darzi; Elliott, Riley and Ward [UoA2]).

   We have published reports identifying a Paediatric Inflammatory Multisystem Syndrome
 temporally associated with SARS-CoV-2 - a rare syndrome in which COVID-19 leads to severe
 inflammation in young children. Similar to Kawasaki disease, our researchers identified the main
 symptoms and clinical markers to diagnose and evaluate treatments (JAMA, 2020).

   We have provided guidance for managing patients with thrombocytopenia associated with
 COVID-19 (Brit J Haematol, 2020) and the effect of COVID-19 on end-stage kidney disease
 (eLife, 2020). Finally, we are running the C19-RISP study to describe the clinical course and
 outcome of COVID-19 in renal and immuno-suppressed patients.

 Cardiovascular: The Preventing Cardiac Complications of COVID-19 Disease with Early Acute
 Coronary Syndrome Therapy (C19-ACS) trial was initiated at Imperial and is now recruiting
 internationally. Using single cell technologies and post-mortem tissues from affected patients we
 identified SARS-CoV-2 entry factors and their cellular distribution (Nat Med, 2020) and
 demonstrated the lack of ACE2 expression and replicative infection by SARS-CoV-2 in human
 endothelial cells (Circulation, 2020).

 Respiratory theme: The ISARIC consortium, originally set up in response to ‘flu pandemic in
 2009 to standardise consent and sampling protocols, has collected data and biosamples from as
 many acutely ill patients as possible nationally (from >150,000 consented patients). This has

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 proven invaluable and ISARIC-4C (MRC £5.9m Openshaw co-lead), is the largest prospective
 study of COVID-19 cases (BMJ, 2020, Lancet Infect Dis, 2020). Imperial College/ICHT is the
 second biggest recruitment site nationally for Post-Hospitalisation COVID-19 Study (PHOSP-
 COVID) (UKRI £8.4m Chilvers Co-I), which is investigating outcomes following hospitalisation for
 COVID-19.

 Surgery, Anaesthetics and Critical Care theme: Imperial is the UK-lead for REMAP-CAP an
 international (15 countries) adaptive platform trial originally designed for community acquired
 pneumonia but was specifically designed to be employed in a pandemic to evaluate multiple
 interventions simultaneously in critically ill patients. This has proved to be a highly successful
 trial platform, rapidly identifying anti-IL-6 as a new treatment for use in broad clinical practice,
 confirming the role of hydrocortisone in critical care patients and demonstrating no advantage for
 use of immune-sera (JAMA, 2020). We also created PanSurg - a global hub for surgeons and
 related professionals to share experiences, policy, data and research for the delivery of safe,
 effective surgery during the pandemic (Kinross).

 Cancer theme: ON-COVID, an Imperial-led study has revealed valuable insights into the
 impact and risk factors for cancer patients with COVID-19. The findings, from almost 900 cancer
 patients diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2 infection in the UK, Spain, Italy and Germany suggests
 that we should adapt our clinical services to minimise in-hospital transmission. Their research
 also suggests the use of anti-cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and immunotherapy
 does not seem to increase mortality from COVID-19 (Cancers, 2020).

 Metabolism and Endocrinology theme: To better understand how COVID-19 affects early
 pregnancy, foetal growth, prematurity and virus transmission to the baby, Imperial researchers
 have been funded by the MRC to construct a registry of women with suspected and confirmed
 COVID-19 from early pregnancy to after delivery of the baby (Mullins). Healthcare professionals
 from the UK and across many international centres will contribute data via a web portal (Lees,
 Mullins). We also identified association between high serum total cortisol concentrations and
 mortality from COVID-19 (Lancet Diabetes and Endocrinology, 2020).

 1.3 Our Research Strategy:
   Our research strategy, whose agility, depth and breadth is reflected above, is to make
 fundamental discoveries and translate these most efficiently into the clinic, to benefit local,
 national and international populations. As noted in Section 1, since the last REF, we have re-
 organised our Faculty into eight thematic departments (from five in 2014) and our research is
 delivered through six cross-cutting themes that are submitted here in UoA1 (Fig.1). The Faculty
 reorganisation has given greater visibility of our core disciplines to the other College Faculties,
 facilitating “first contacts” to promote interdisciplinary research. These smaller departments have
 allowed us to better address mentorship, research culture and career development, achieving
 gender balance among the departmental leadership. The departments deliver the College’s
 Academic Strategy by applying their core strengths to transdisciplinary partnerships with other
 Faculties and with external partners to promote a healthy society. We aim to achieve our
 research strategy through local, national and international partnerships, externally funded
 centres of excellence and PI-led funding. Our joint AHSC research infrastructure facilitates the
 translation of our research into the clinic, driven by BRC funding.

 1.3.1 Working in partnership:
   Our major investments have been targeted to increase the interaction between our
 fundamental scientists, clinical researchers, data scientists, engineers and natural scientists.
 We have invested over £2bn on physical infrastructure focussed mostly on our White City and
 adjacent Hammersmith Hospital Campus. This includes a £105m partnership with BEIS to build
 a new dedicated home for the MRC/Imperial College London Institute of Medical Sciences
 (LMS, formerly the MRC Clinical Sciences Centre). The Faculty is proud to continue our close
 working partnership with the MRC and the LMS (£82.6M, 2011-16; £89m 2016-2021). This new
 home will provide 12 000m2 for LMS and Imperial researchers, physically designed to facilitate
 collaboration. The key foci for LMS are epigenetics (Hajkova), quantitative biology

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Merkenschlager) and genes and metabolism (Miguel-Aliaga), providing high quality basic
 science expertise in cellular and molecular biology. LMS researchers cut across our research
 themes (Cardiovascular – Cook, O’Regan, Ramasamy, Simoes Monteiro de Marvao;
 Metabolism and Endocrinology – Brown, Schiering, Carling, Leitch, Withers, Lenhard, Martinez
 Perez, Miguel-Aliaga, Scott; Infection & Immunity - Warnecke, Sarkisyan; Cancer –
 Merkenschlager, Fisher, Barr, Aragon, Gomes Cabreiro, Hajkova, Sarkies, Speck); 26 LMS
 researchers have contracts with Imperial College who have secured a further £36m in peer-
 reviewed external funding since 2014, co-supervise graduate students and MSc projects. We
 celebrated the 10th anniversary of the Chain-Florey clinical training programme in 2019; run
 jointly by the LMS and the Imperial BRC, we place clinical PhDs into basic science labs under
 joint supervision, using a cohort approach with specific mentoring; since 2018 we have
 expanded the scheme to include Chain-Florey Foundation Year 2 fellows, Chain Florey Clinical
 Research Fellowships (usually ST 2-5), Chain-Florey Clinical Lectureships (ST 4-5) and in 2018
 a Chain-Florey Clinical Senior Lectureship. This scheme has now nurtured a growing cohort of
 clinical scientists: 25 Fellowships have been awarded and 17 clinical academics have graduated
 with the skills to tackle experimental medicine research questions.

    Imperial College London is a founding partner of the Francis Crick Institute opened in August
 2016 and has helped to shape the Crick's scientific vision. Since opening, we have established
 five satellite groups within the Crick (Barclay, Zhang, Lloyd, Shenoy, Wilkinson). Each satellite
 comprises a small group of university researchers embedded in a Crick research group or
 Scientific Technology Platform (STP), while the PI remains at Imperial. We are returning 7 Crick
 researchers in UoA 1 with 0.2 FTE contracts (O’Garra, Tybulewicz, Stoye, Reis y Sousa, Way,
 Cherepanov, Kassiotis). These working relationships date back to the National Institute for
 Medical Research and have been extremely scientifically productive. We have co-supervised 52
 PhD students (6 clinical), published over 50 papers and won >£10m joint research income; 61
 Imperial MSc students have undertaken research projects at the Crick. We have also hosted
 joint symposia, for example, the pan-London Infections and Immunity Symposium (Ley) and
 Malaria Symposium (Cunnington). Our clinical and translational partnerships are described in
 detail in sections 1.5 and 3.1.4.

 1.3.2 Externally Funded Centres of Excellence:
   We house 27 externally-funded centres of excellence all of which bring interdisciplinary
 research methodologies to a range of health challenges. This external investment of over £100m
 is matched through our own investments in staff and indirect costs. As stated in Section 1, since
 REF2014, we have renewed our three MRC Centres – the Centre for Molecular Bacteriology
 and Infection (CMBI, Director Holden FRS until 2019 then Penades; £2.3m; the CMBI continues
 to be the largest centre for molecular bacteriology nationally); the MRC Centre for Global
 Infectious Disease Analysis (GIDA, UoA2) and the MRC Centre for Environment and Health
 (UoA2 , UoA14) were both successfully renewed for a third 5-year term in 2018, two of only
 three MRC Centres nationally to achieve this. New in this REF cycle was the creation of four
 HPRUs in 2014, two of which sit in UoA1 – Respiratory Infections (Director, Lalvani) and
 Healthcare Associated Infections and Antimicrobial Resistance (Director, Holmes). These
 Centres were renewed in 2019 when we secured funding for all four renewals including Health
 Effects of Environmental Exposures which previously was held jointly with King’s College
 London, together with transfer to Imperial of one new Centre. We are the only UK Institution to
 house five HPRUs with a total £20m investment.

   We have extended our success in cancer research; in 2017, we renewed our CRUK Imperial
 Centre (Director, McNeish), a partnership between Imperial College London, Imperial College
 Healthcare NHS Trust, Cancer Research UK and Imperial Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre
 (ECMC) with a new mission to emphasise convergence science and facilitate collaborations
 between clinicians and biologists with the physical sciences, engineering and mathematics. The
 success of this Centre and development of a strategic partnership with the ICR then led to the
 award of the CRUK Convergence Science Centre, a £14m Major Centre (Director, Behrens) with
 a remit to work across the entirety of both the ICR and Imperial to support the clinical
 translation of novel cancer technologies and therapeutics.

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   In cardiovascular disease, the British Heart Foundation (BHF) Centre for Research Excellence
 at Imperial was established in 2008 (Director, Schneider) and renewed in 2019 (£4m; Director,
 Wilkins) with greater emphasis on interdisciplinarity, adopting and adapting machine learning
 and artificial intelligence techniques to interrogate large patient and population datasets to
 identify molecular drivers of disease, develop biomarkers for patient stratification and improve
 diagnostic and patient management pathways. Imperial College is also the only UK HEI to
 house two Dementia Research Institute (DRI) Centres (UoA4); the UK DRI at Imperial (£20m;
 Director, Matthews) and the UK DRI Care Research and Technology Centre (£20m; Director,
 Sharp).

 1.4 Developing and delivering interdisciplinary research:
   Interdisciplinary research is a long-term commitment across this UoA, the Faculty and the
 College. We have addressed this through large-scale physical co-location, such as the £105m
 Sir Michael Uren Building for medicine and bio-engineering at White City (2020); through
 College-wide virtual co-location in Institutes, Centres and Networks; through Faculty re-
 organisation; through pump-priming interdisciplinary translation and through a Faculty-wide
 strategy of convergent science.

   At the researcher level, each Centre of Excellence, where we bring together our convergent
 science approaches, includes provision for PhD training programmes, discipline hopping and
 sandpit events to bring researchers together and foster new ideas. This person-centred
 approach ensures vitality and sustainability as well as developing researchers and research
 leaders for the future. For example, since 2015 the MRC LMS and FoM have instigated 12
 innovation mixer events with contributions from 109 researchers, including 55 researchers from
 the LMS (50%), 24 from FoM (22%), 19 from the Faculty of Natural Sciences (17%), 5 from the
 Faculty of Engineering (5%) and 6 external collaborators (6%). Two thirds of the innovation
 mixer events led to collaborations, publications, grant applications, joint studentships and/or
 translational funding.

    Interdisciplinary research has also been enhanced and facilitated by the Imperial College
 Networks, Centres and Institutes. Our Global Challenge Institutes harness the talents of a wide
 variety of researchers to address some of the world’s most important issues. The Imperial
 Centres of Excellence aim to galvanise a critical mass of researchers, transcending Faculty
 boundaries to support a multidisciplinary theme. The Imperial Networks of Excellence aim to
 establish and grow connections around an important multidisciplinary area that is being explored
 at an earlier stage than the centres. UoA1 researchers are members of the Data Science
 Institute (Director, Kennedy [UoA17]); The Institute for Global Health Innovation (IGHI) and the
 Institute of Infection (launched 2020).

 1.4.1 Our Global Challenge Institute – the IGHI:
   The IGHI (Dir Darzi) works to transform health and care through evidence-based innovation.
 Focusing on health and care challenges with the greatest potential impact, they take innovation
 to patients through design, policy and safety. It is a collaborative grouping of Centres of
 Excellence – the Hamlyn Centre for robotic surgery, the Helix Centre bringing design and
 innovation together to develop clinically-evaluated digital solutions (Thompson); the Centre for
 Health Policy works on the development, uptake and distribution of innovative, evidence-based
 health policies around the world (Darzi); the Centre for African Research and Engagement, a
 virtual resource showcasing the work of Imperial College across the African continent, and a
 platform for cross-disciplinary exchange (Maitland) and the NIHR Patient Safety Translational
 Research Centre to address safety at patient level and systems level to make advances across
 the care continuum (£7m, Darzi). The IGHI has been central to the design and delivery of
 COVID-19REACT programme.

 1.4.2 Researchers from UoA1 are involved in the following interdisciplinary Centres and
 Networks:


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centres of Excellence: Abdul Latif Jameel Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (J-
 IDEA, UoA2), Advanced Therapy and Medicinal Products (ATMPs; Dir, Alton), Blast Injury
 Studies (Director, Bull [UoA12]; UoA 1 researchers: Dickinson, McGregor, Rankin, Rice, Sharp,
 Wilson); Cardiac Engineering (Co-Directors, Harding, Peters); Drug Discovery Science (Co-
 Director, McNeish); Integrative Systems Biology and Bioinformatics (Director, Sternberg [UoA5]);
 Mathematics of Precision Healthcare (Director, Barahona [UoA10]); Musculoskeletal Medical
 Engineering (Director, Bull [UoA12], Cobb); Neurotechnology (Co-Director, Matthews [UoA4]),
 Shultz [UoA12], Wisden [UoA5]); Performance Science (Director, Kneebone); Structural Biology
 (Director, Meier [UoA5]); Synthetic Biology (Freemont); Translational Nutrition and Food
 Research (Director, Frost); UK Dementia Research Institute (Directors, Matthews and Sharp
 [UoA4]); Vasculitis (Director, Mason).

 Networks: Air Quality (Fecht [UoA14]); Antimicrobial Research Collaborative (Director,
 Holmes); Artificial Intelligence (Director Faisal [UoA12]); Diabetes (Director, Rutter);
 Glycobiology (Director, Feizi); Human Behaviour and Experience in STEM (Director, Harding);
 Innovative Imaging Across Scales (Director, Fisher); Malaria (Co-Directors, Baum [UoA5],
 Cunnington); Microbiome (Director, Dumas); Organ-on-a-chip (Director, Overby, Lloyd);
 Robotics Forum Space Lab (Bello, Elson); Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine (Le Celso
 [UoA5], Foldes); Trauma Bioengineering (Director, Bull [UoA12], Sharp [UoA4], Wilson); Vaccine
 Research (Director, Chiu); Vascular Science (Director, Haskard); Wound Healing and
 Regeneration (Director, Stevens [UoA12]).

 1.5 Maximising our impacts:
    To ensure maximum impact from our research, translation remains critical to our strategy
 and we have developed mechanisms to support academics right across the translational
 pipeline. The framework for our translation activity is provided by our Imperial AHSC, created
 in partnership with ICHT in 2007 and formally renewed by DHSC 2020. Imperial College
 AHSC now includes the Royal Marsden Hospital, Royal Brompton Hospital (to Feb 2021),
 Chelsea and Westminster Hospital and the ICR. This represents the first time all the research-
 intensive organisations in West London have committed to a shared research, education and
 clinical care vision in their 170-year histories. With over 22,500 staff, our largest, co-located
 clinical academic sites are at South Kensington (Marsden, Brompton, ICR, Chelsea and
 Westminster); White City/Hammersmith Hospital (Imperial, ICHT); and Sutton (ICR, Marsden).

   Our human experimental medicine research engine continues to be our NIHR Imperial BRC
 (£202m, 2012-2022, Director, Thursz) with disease specific themes and technology platforms
 in genomics, stratified medicine, molecular phenotyping, informatics and biobanking, and
 imaging. These themes are congruent with the research groupings returned across UoA1, 2
 and 4. The BRC not only provides thematic funding streams but also supports the Institute of
 Translational Medicine and Therapeutics (ITMAT), a virtual centre built on a number of
 core technology platforms across Imperial College, the BRC and ICHT - genomics, imaging
 technologies and health informatics. Research projects are supported through an annual
 funding call with direct support for each of the technologies.

   Earlier phase, interdisciplinary translational research across our Faculties and AHSC is
 facilitated by the Imperial Translational Fund comprised of BRC funding and devolved funding
 streams - MRC Confidence in Concept (CiC) Scheme, EPSRC and Biotechnology and Biological
 Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) Impact Accelerators, the Wellcome Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund (ISSF) and the Higher Education Innovation Fund. It is also supported by the
 Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and the Rosetrees Trust plus industrial support through a
 strategic partnership with AstraZeneca, Wuhan Pharmaceuticals, Heptares and Boehringer
 Ingelheim. Our annual funding competition, Imperial Confidence in Concept (ICiC) has
 become an event in the Imperial calendar, kicked off at the annual “All You Can Innovate” event
 in our White City Campus. The last event attracted >150 researchers, 10 companies and 11
 funders. We provide an opportunity for researchers to pitch their projects at an industry focused
 panel, “speed dating” events and surgeries. From an average ICiC total pot of approx. £1.5m
 per year, we have seed-funded 162 projects since its inception in 2013, from experimental proof

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of concept to technology validated in the lab; these have gone on to leverage an additional £94m
 in follow-on-funding, including over £8.4m from Imperial College; more than 62 patent
 applications have been awarded/filed, and there have been in excess of 214 publications. We
 have also funded three translators in residence, Dr Mike Ramanos (2014-2016), Dr Richard
 Knowles (2016-2018) and Dr Richard Rutter (2018-present). All have a pharma/industry
 background and work with successful and unsuccessful applicants to help overcome challenges
 specific to each project. To date, they have advised >150 people on a range of activities such
 as developing spin outs, facilitating new connections, preparing applications for translational
 research and obtaining funding.

   Human trials are supported from first-in-man clinical trials, through large scale phase II/III
 studies through to implementation and evaluation in the community. In 2016, the Imperial
 Clinical Research Facility was renewed (£11m 2017-2022; Director, Wilkins) supporting
 experimental medicine studies in humans to identify the causes and mechanisms of disease
 and/or to test the validity and importance of new discoveries and treatments. ICHT was recently
 re-awarded the Local Clinical Research Network (LCRN), a £75m award to build clinical
 research and trials activity throughout NW London. The Imperial Clinical Trials Unit (ICTU;
 Co-Directors Poulter and Ray [UoA2]), established in 2009 with full UKCRC registration status in
 2012, is now a nationally recognised CTU. With investment from NIHR CTU support funding,
 the Imperial BRC and School of Public Health, the Unit provides trial expertise to investigators
 across the Imperial College AHSC. In July 2019, Imperial, in partnership with Chelsea and
 Westminster Hospital, was awarded an NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (£9m, Director,
 Majeed [UoA2]) to support applied health and care research that responds to, and meets, the
 needs of local populations and local health and care systems.

 1.5.1 Supporting commercialisation and translation:
   Our Industry Partnerships and Commercialisation (IPC) team link business with researchers
 (and vice-versa) and help academics develop impactful research partnerships. During this REF
 period, we have supported 309 new opportunities, 78 discussions with companies about a
 research collaboration or leverage funding opportunity; supported 58 successful industry
 partnership deals with 24 different industry partners, from the pharmaceutical, diagnostics,
 MedTech, BioTech and Food and Beverage Sectors. In total, we have secured £97.4 funding
 from industry partners.

   Examples of our commercial success include: The Nestle Nutrition Research Centre (Frost);
 AstraZeneca Innovation Fund and AZ Fellowships - £5m commitment over 5 years to support
 translational research projects and fellowships (15 projects/fellows funded in UoA1 to date). The
 AZ Respiratory Pharmacology Lab (Belvisi, Birrell, Tetley); Heptares, target discovery and
 validation focused on G protein-coupled receptors to develop new treatments for gastro-
 intestinal disease (Frost, £700k); Shionogi – Antimicrobial Resistance partnership (Edwards);
 the MRC/GSK- EMINENT collaboration (£1m, Chilvers, Openshaw); Bayer – Using AI to identify
 key drug targets in heart disease (in partnership with LMS, O’Regan, £500k).

  Technology commercialisation in this REF period:
 - >100 new invention disclosures annually
 - 94 new priority filings
 - 225 new patents granted
 - 83 licensing deals
 - 12 start-ups formed

   Licensing: for example, our Volcano-Philips licensing deal for instantaneous wave-free ratio
 (iFR, see impact case study); UK Cystic Fibrosis Gene Therapy Consortium (GTC; Imperial
 College, Universities of Oxford and Edinburgh): Boehringer Ingelheim and Oxford BioMedica to
 develop new viral vector-based gene therapies to take to clinical trials.




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Start-ups: Vac Equity - social enterprise start-up in response to the COVID-19 crisis
 established to accelerate access to COVID-19 vaccine developed at Imperial. Myricx Pharma,
 originally funded through the CiC scheme, secured £4.5m seed financing.

 1.5.2 From experiments to policy:
 As well as translating our research into new treatments, diagnostics and devices, we also guide
 policy through our research. Our five HPRUs are partnerships with Public Health England
 (PHE) to fund research that enhances the ability of PHE to use innovative techniques to protect
 the public’s health and minimise the health impact of emergencies.

   To maximise our impact at policy level, Imperial College has established The Imperial Global
 Science Policy Forum to connect Imperial academics with senior international science and
 technology advisers and diplomats, UK government policymakers, industry experts and other
 relevant stakeholders. We have established the Centre for Health Policy (Co-Directors Darzi
 and Mossialos) and the NIHR Patient Safety Translational Research Centre (Co-Directors Darzi
 and Redhead [ICHT]).

 1.6 Achieving impact:
   Our approaches to achieving impact are exemplified in our impact case studies. Working
 across our faculties, we have developed novel CDK7 inhibitors with Department of Chemistry
 (Coombes) and repurposed technology from Department of Electrical and Electronic
 Engineering to develop COVIDNudge (Cooke) – an accurate, quick and easy-to-use diagnostic
 test for COVID-19. In partnership with industry, researchers from the NHLI have successfully
 demonstrated the transformative effects of novel treatments for CF (Davies); we have globally
 implemented new ways to diagnose coronary stenosis (Mayet, ICHT) and improve cardiac
 ablation (Kanganatham, Royal Brompton). All of these studies were also in partnership with
 our AHSC, along with first in man studies through to clinical commissioning of lung volume
 reduction for emphysema (Hopkinson) and the demonstration that glucocorticoids improve
 COVID-19 survival (Gordon). Taking our research into policy, we have changed guidelines for
 the use of influenza vaccines in children with egg allergies (Turner), post-polypectomy
 surveillance (Cross), improved diagnosis for ovarian cancer (Bourne) and revised WHO burden
 estimates of TB (Seddon). Our work also has global reach, for example, setting the
 international standard for diagnosis of miscarriage (Bourne), preventing the progression of latent
 TB in patients with HIV (Wilkinson), controlling outbreaks of Ebola (Cori) and reducing the
 burden of hepatitis globally (Cooke).

 1.7 Open Research:
   Imperial College is committed to disseminating its research and scholarship as widely as
 possible. The College has implemented an open access mandate for all research publications,
 subject to publishers’ copyright policy, to be deposited in Spiral – our institutional repository.
 Outputs across the Faculty of Medicine (UoAs 1, 2 and 4) are 98.4% OA compliant with 95.8%
 compliance in this UoA. Researchers have access to the Imperial Open Access Fund to support
 publishing in open access journals. Our researchers also deposit their data on a range of open
 access platforms such as National Centre for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression
 Omnibus (GEO) Database - a public functional genomics data repository.

   Across this submission and indeed, FoM, data has been deposited on GitHub (some examples
 include Glen, Lenhard, Posma, Seddon, Whiffin, Ware as well as studies from the NPC [Takats]
 and Imperial BRC Genomics Facility [Ferrer]). Much of our epidemiological research, which
 underpins returns across UoA1, 2 and 4, draws on data from national and multinational cohort
 studies. The Airwave Health Monitoring Study Cohort Data (Tzoulaki) are available to
 researchers via the Dementias Platform UK data portal with the data shared with >30 research
 groups worldwide. The development and sharing of code through GitHub has also enabled
 independent validation of research methods and code to be undertaken. For example. two
 COVID-19 reports (Reports 9 and 13) have been certified as reproducible by CODECHECK
 (www.codecheck.org.uk), a collaborative project between the Universities of Cambridge and
 Munster, Germany, to increase the availability and reproducibility of code used for scientific

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. The research findings of these two high-profile reports have also been independently
 verified and re-published in the BMJ (led by University of Edinburgh researchers) and at
 www.turing.ml (by University of Cambridge researchers).

   Research reproducibility is also key to our impact and success. In a recent example, two
 pharmaceutical companies have reproduced our work showing neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R)
 antagonists reduce menopausal symptoms (Lancet, 2017) demonstrating the high efficacy for
 this class of compound in relieving menopausal flushing. NK3R antagonists are now being taken
 forward in phase III trials.

 1.8 Maintaining research integrity:
   The College is a signatory of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and is
 committed to “maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of
 research”. The College provides guidance and training to staff and students across a wide
 range of areas linked to research integrity, including mandatory plagiarism awareness training
 for doctoral students. Within Medicine we use plagiarism software for all PhD theses and
 Masters’ Dissertations.

   Researchers across the Faculty (UoA1, 2 and 4) and the broader AHSC are supported by
 teams in the Joint Research Office (JRO) and the Research Governance and Integrity Team
 (RGIT). The JRO staff facilitate the management of research grants, contracts and EU projects
 while the RGIT ensures our researchers meet their responsibilities in relation to research
 governance to fulfil the legal, ethical and scientific obligations of the healthcare research
 process. This includes general data protection regulations (GDPR) via the data protection team
 and human research ethics via Imperial College Research Ethics Committee (ICREC) which
 reviews health-related research involving human participants and/or their data that is undertaken
 by College staff or students, where this is not covered by the Health Research Authority
 Research Ethics Committees. We have also established the Science, Engineering and
 Technology Research Ethics Committee (SETREC) to review non-health related research
 involving human participants and/or their data and high-risk educational research that is
 undertaken by College staff or students.

 2. People

   Our very highest priority is our staff. To ensure vitality and sustainability across all UoAs, we
 strive to attract and retain world-leading and rising-star academics, develop our own researchers
 to become leaders in their fields and develop our professional support staff to fulfil their potential.
 We aim to foster an intellectually challenging and invigorating environment to stimulate
 collaborative science. Mentoring young investigators, continual training and professional
 development for staff and developing leaders in all spheres increases staff motivation and
 serves to enhance our research output.

   Since REF2014, in UoA1, we have recruited 25 professors, 8 readers, 36 senior lecturers
 and 47 lecturers. We have prioritised recruitment to our themes and, where strategically
 advantageous, we have made joint appointments with the Crick (8), MRC-LMS (26) and with
 PHE (4). To ensure recruitment aligns with our research strategy, all new posts (both new and
 replacement) from lecturer to professorial are reviewed by the Dean’s Management Group. A
 full scientific and business case needs to be prepared outlining how the new post will add to
 research, teaching and pastoral environment. To equip these more senior academic staff with
 the practical skills and awareness required for organisational leadership, the College runs a
 Senior Academic Leadership Programme based on the National Occupational Standards for
 management and leadership and accredited with the Chartered Management Institute. We
 measure through qualitative and quantitative evaluation data the enhanced effectiveness and
 progression and impact of succession plans put in place. The College also has in place clear
 guidance for sabbatical leave to pursue their research interests. During this time, there is no
 commitment to College activities required and continuous service is protected.


                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   We recognised in 2017 that the age profile of our Faculty was becoming imbalanced and so
 we focussed our strategy on developing and recruiting junior researchers. To boost our pool of
 future research leaders, the FoM ran a campaign for “new blood” lecturers successfully
 appointing 11 (Ahnstrom, Clarke, Denton, Judah, Low, Noseda, Santos Amaral, Salehi-Reyhani,
 Sancho-Shimizu; Robinson [UoA14], Turner). Imperial College and the Faculty have developed
 and refined the Imperial College Research Fellowships (formerly the Imperial Junior Research
 Fellowship) to support the brightest and best junior researchers from across the world. We have
 appointed 42 ICRFs (Aug 2013- Dec 2020), with 19 submitted in this UoA. These have gone on
 to secure awards and appointments both internally and externally; for example, Behmoaras now
 a Reader in Immunology & Inflammation, Brown is a senior lecturer in ICS, Dorigatti is Lecturer
 at Imperial College London, Helaine is now Assistant Professor of Microbiology at Harvard,
 Thurston has secured a BBSRC David Phillips Fellowship and Siciliano is Tenure Track and
 lead at Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia. In total, over this REF period, we have supported over 160
 junior researchers (clinical PhDs, clinical and non-clinical junior and intermediate fellows) from a
 broad range of funders including 12 Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale and 4 Sir Henry Wellcome
 fellows, 16 MRC intermediate fellowships (clinician scientist and career development awards),
 14 BHF training and 8 BHF intermediate fellowships, 11 NIHR junior and intermediate
 fellowships, 5 Future Leader Fellowships. We use our Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund (ISSF) to support researchers on the pathway to becoming an independent
 researcher, for example, to collect data in preparation for larger grant or fellowship applications
 through our springboard fellowships (45 awarded since 2014).

 2.1 Integration into the research culture:
 On appointment, staff have a formal induction, are provided with a Department and College
 “Welcome Pack” and directed to online material. This sets out key information such as events
 and minutes of committee meetings as well as how to access key resources (e.g. Postdoc and
 Fellows Development Centre [PFDC], mental health awareness). We provide regular email
 updates detailing funding, career development and training opportunities. We operate a “buddy”
 system for new recruits – all new staff are offered mentors and required to participate in a
 supportive, annual appraisal programme. All new staff are guided through “Imperial
 Expectations”- an online tool that sets out our seven expectations to shape the working lives of
 all, including an online game.

 2.2 Support for Junior Researchers:
 Support for our 160 junior researchers (141 REF-defined ECRs plus 19 junior researchers not
 included in REF definition) is provided by the PFDC. This award-winning Centre provides
 bespoke courses; pop-ups; funder showcases; one-to-one support; mock interviews and online
 resources. The College and FoM have invested and committed to the core funding of the PFDC
 since 2012. All ECRs at Imperial benefit from ten days training and development in their
 contracts. For this REF period, our junior researchers have had 603 one-to-ones (384 female,
 188 male, 31 unknown), received 186 mock interviews (96 female, 60 male, 10 unknown) and
 attended 1023 courses. The PFDC also has a bespoke programme of support for our
 independent research fellows and clinicians actively pursuing academic careers at Imperial
 delivered in partnership with our Clinical Academic Training Office (CATO).

   Within Departments, all junior researchers have a clear line of supervision and management,
 access to a mentorship programme and are given an identified “buddy” to ensure they are
 orientated within the research theme, and also to provide a safe space to be challenged and
 supported. Each year, every member of College staff is required to undertake a Personal
 Review and Development Plan, a two-way discussion between staff member and manager
 aimed at recognising achievement, providing constructive feedback, and assisting with career
 development. The College’s flexible working policy is applicable to all staff.

  The College has been committed to the HR Excellence in Research since 2012, originally
 mapping the HR Excellence in Research Award against the ‘UK Concordat to support the Career
 Development of Researchers’. Imperial’s focus on The European Charter for Researchers & the
 Code of Conduct via the HRS4R implementation and continued commitment as a UK institution

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the UK Concordat offers a dual focus strengthening the actions and aims of the College to
 continue being sector-leading in the researcher development landscape, enabling our
 researchers to excel. The revised Concordat was released in September 2019 and aims to set
 the gold standard in researcher development. Imperial has signed up to the new Concordat and
 has created an action plan to engage in initiatives aimed at successfully implementing the new
 concordat.

 2.3 Contribution of our postdocs:
 We have a thriving postdoc community including a Post Doc Network of over 70 reps from every
 Department and across all campuses. Currently 31 of these are from FoM. They have been
 instrumental in shaping policies around PhD supervision, HR excellence awards and inductions.
 Each department has a Postdoc Champion - an academic who ensures that postdocs and
 fellows' needs are being met by their department. Within Departments, we have postdoc reps on
 management committees such as People and Culture Committee and dedicated postdoc mailing
 lists. Our post-doc community also benefits from the support of the PFDC.

 2.4 Recognition and reward:
 As well as recruiting and developing junior researchers, we take retention of staff equally
 seriously and have implemented a suite of activities to recognise and reward our staff. We run
 annual promotions rounds at departmental level, using open expression of interests for those
 wanting to be considered, and reviewing all staff for promotion whether or not requested by the
 staff member. Clear promotion guidelines are made available to all eligible staff with reminders
 sent out on a regular basis. Promotions documentation explicitly considers administration,
 pastoral, outreach, mentoring and diversity activities, as well as caring responsibilities or
 parental leave. Quality of research is emphasised over quantity and teaching contribution is
 emphasised especially at lower grades, while research, mentoring and international reputation
 are emphasised at higher grades. Interview panel members have all undertaken unconscious
 bias training and include academic representation, an Athena Swan representative and a
 College Consul who serves to ensure fair process across all Faculties. Over the REF period, we
 have promoted 41 people to Professor, 48 to Reader and 22 to Senior Lecturer (60%
 male/40% female) in UoA1.

   We use the Total Remuneration Package as a more complete way of remunerating staff. We
 run annual pay relativity exercises to objectively review each member of staff’s salary in line with
 benchmark information or the relevant Pay Progression Framework in order to ensure parity
 between colleagues undertaking similar roles, as well as comparisons across other institutions in
 UK, EU and US. Annually we run the President's Awards for Excellence in Research to
 recognise staff members who have made outstanding contributions in a number of categories.
 Previous recipients from FoM include MacIntyre, Snelgrove, Giannarou (UoA12) plus the teams
 of Alton, Barrett, Coombes, Dhillo, Harding and Levin. The Julia Higgins Awards are made to
 those who have made a significant contribution to the support of academic women at the
 College; recipients include Salem, Lloyd, Mitchell, Randi, Rankin and Harding.

 2.5 Research Students:
   We have doctoral training accounts (DTAs) from the MRC (DTP and iCASE, 11.5 per year for
 5 years, 2015-2021), BBSRC (approx. 5 per year, 2015-2021) and EPSRC (approx. 8 per 2019-
 2020). In addition, the LMS receives 8 DTA studentships per year from the MRC as part of its
 quinquennial award. Imperial College also offers President’s PhD Scholarships for up to 50
 research students across the College; 48 scholarships have been awarded across the UoA1
 themes. We have been awarded a number of theme-specific PhD programmes: in infectious
 diseases the CMBI received a DTA allocation of 5 students (four plus one clinical) per year at its
 renewal in 2017 from the MRC; 4-Year PhD Programme in Epidemiology, Evolution and Control
 of Infectious Diseases (3 per annum). In cardiovascular, our BHF centre has 4 associated
 students; NHLI BHF 4-year MRes/PhD studentship programme, 3 students per annum. In
 cancer, our CRUK Imperial Centre has two to four studentships per year and CRUK
 Convergence Science Centre four studentships per year joint with ICR; the STRATiGrad multi-
 commercial partner supported PhD training programme appoints four PhD students per year.

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also hold the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in AI for Healthcare to train 100 PhD
 students (85 non-clinical, 15 clinical) over 5 years, and started in October 2019. During this REF
 period, we have awarded 1406 PhDs.

   Within the clinical arena, we have been awarded the prestigious Wellcome Trust Clinical PhD
 Programme, the WT/GSK Translational Medicine and Therapeutics Programme, the MRC/BRC
 Chain Florey Fellowships and the CRUK Clinical Academic Training Programme (four Clinical
 Research Fellows [CRFs] per year, joint with ICR, and four intercalated PhD students per year).
 In addition to the Chain Florey programme, NIHR Imperial BRC has fully or part-funded clinical
 PhDs and CRFs in the following themes: infection and immunity (32), cardiovascular medicine
 (12), respiratory medicine (4), surgery, anaesthetics and critical care (35), cancer (29),
 endocrinology and metabolism (14), and a cross-cutting genetics programmes (26).

   Internationally, building on our highly successful LKC School of Medicine, we award a joint
 MBBS degree with NTU in Singapore; we have also developed a PhD exchange programme
 and post-doctoral exchanges with NTU to attract the brightest graduates. Funded by Imperial
 College, Research England and NTU in 2019, we will further develop flagship international
 studentships, expand academic exchange, accelerate frontier research with seed funding, and
 launch bespoke doctoral programmes in the field of healthcare and technology. Sadly, COVID-
 19 has delayed implementation of this programme until 2021.

 2.5.1 Ensuring diverse PGR student recruitment:
 The FoM strives to recruit PhD students in an open and diverse manner, ensuring our
 opportunities have widespread visibility through conventional and on-line advertising, and
 targeted advertising through agencies such as “Black British in STEM”. We are also engaged
 with the British Medical Association racial harassment charter for medical schools. The FoM is
 also leading the way with the 2eMPower Project – Making STEM (Science, Technology,
 Engineering & Mathematics) accessible for students with specific learning difficulties. This is a
 joint project between Imperial (Rankin) and University of New South Wales, Australia aiming to
 inspire and enable more students who have neurodiverse learning needs, such as dyslexia,
 developmental conditions like autism, attention/behaviour difficulties like ADHD, or various other
 conditions to undertake STEM degrees. We have successfully raised £80k to support a range of
 workshops and outreach activities to support such students (Rankin).

    Our interviewing processes are overseen by Departments and require that panel members are
 trained in unconscious bias, and use processes modelled on HR procedures. Over this REF
 period, we have recruited 992 full and part-time PGR students, 42%male/58%female with
 slightly more female students undergoing part-time courses (49.4%male/50.6% female). We
 have seen small movements in our ethnicity profiles over this period (60% white, 40% BME)
 compared to (66% white, 34% BME). We recognise we have a way to go to increase our
 diversity and are trying new approaches. This year, we staged a PG recruitment webinar called
 “Think Imperial!”, to further improve widening participation rates and diversity. The event
 targeted UK institutions, and had ~440 students registered, representing 172 institutions, with
 65% from the UK being non-Russell group. Based on these figures, and student feedback, this
 has been judged to be a successful event, which, moving forward, will become an ongoing
 feature of the FoM PGR recruitment strategy.

 2.5.2 Supporting our PGR students:
 PGR students are registered in one of our eight Departments, where they are supported by
 departmental Directors of Postgraduate Studies (DPS) and their Postgraduate Administrators.
 Here they receive specific research training, and engage in local research, training and support
 networks, including journal clubs, colloquia, social events and wellbeing activities.

   Departmental PGR students are represented by Departmental Student Representatives, who
 meet on a monthly basis with the FoM Lead for Doctoral Degrees in a forum that ultimately
 informs Faculty PGR practice and policy. This input has been particularly valuable during the
 COVID-19 crisis in helping to develop Faculty and College-level student support structures,

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exemplified by the Imperial College costed extensions scheme, and the action plans in the HEI
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey.

   Further professional development training complementing academic studies is integrated into
 the Imperial College PhD timeline. In the first nine months following registration, PhD students
 are required to complete an Early Stage Assessment (ESA), which needs to be supported by
 completing two Graduate School development courses and a Late Stage Review (LSR), carried
 out between 18-24 months and the completion of a further two Graduate School credits. In
 addition to the criteria for the ESA, the LSR review is used to assess whether the student will
 complete within the registration period and provides verbal and written feedback. For the ESA
 and LSR assessments, all reviewer reports, student feedback and supervisor feedback are
 discussed and ratified by the FoM Post Graduate Education Committee (PGEC), headed by
 DPSs, before being returned to the College Academic Registry as completed. At 36 months,
 students are able to register for “Completing Research Status”, which allows the student a
 further 12 months continued access to the College, solely for the purposes of writing. While a
 mandatory minimum of courses is required to pass through the PGR milestones, attendance of
 additional Graduate School Courses, workshops and retreats is encouraged, and can be
 accessed at any time during PGR studies. For this REF period our average submission rate
 (within 4 years of initial enrolment) is 86%. The FoM also provides a series of regular PGR
 themed meetings and workshops under the heading of “PG Connections”. An example is the
 “How to be a strong applicant” workshop run with our PFDC.

   Most recently, the FoM, in collaboration with the Imperial College Careers Service and our
 PhD students, has been developing “Attributes and Aspirations” - a new on-line blended learning
 course that supports students in the process of deciding post-PhD destinations, by aiming to
 develop a core set of skills and qualities to match their aspirations. Core skills include training in
 the effective use of professional networking, including LinkedIn, and creating and maintaining
 personal web pages, together with approaches to career planning via the novel use of career
 avatars. Core skills augmented with training in Resilience, EDI, Active Bystander, Unconscious
 Bias, Mental Health First Aiding. Attributes and Aspirations are being trialled by PhD students,
 and we anticipate roll-out towards the end of 2021.

 2.5.3 PGT Training and supervision:
 The College’s award-winning Graduate School develops and delivers an innovative and
 engaging provision ensuring all postgraduate students are provided with excellent professional
 development training. This complements their academic studies and provides opportunity to
 develop skills for a range of careers. The Graduate School works with academics and students
 across College to help build an integrated, interdisciplinary environment and help postgraduates
 to move on to the next stage in their careers. It has four strategic areas: Supporting World Class
 Research; Community Belonging and Support; Engagement and Impact; and Developing
 Students Who Teach. Within this, the Professional Skills Development programme for students
 provides staged learning to ensure that all postgraduate students acquire basic research skills at
 the start of their doctoral studies. This includes courses on research integrity, research impact,
 communications and business skills.

 2.6 Clinical Academic Training:
 Imperial AHSC set up a Clinical Academic Training Office (CATO) in 2015, with a dedicated
 team under the leadership of Prof Jeremy Levy, reporting directly to the Dean and AHSC NHS
 Chief Executives. CATO takes responsibility for the entire academic training path for Health
 Education England and NIHR funded fellows (foundation doctors, ACFs, clinical lecturers) as
 well as managing clinical PhD programmes and supporting all clinicians undertaking PhDs.
 CATO runs a novel 2-year Post-Doctoral Fellowship to support doctors after PhDs before
 applying for intermediate fellowships. CATO also supports our growing non-medical clinical
 academic programme, leveraging NHS and BRC funding for Nursing and Allied Health
 Professional clinical academic leads embedded in CATO. Funded fellowship opportunities have
 been established for pre-doctoral and postdoctoral clinicians (one-year secondments) to develop
 their research interests and capabilities, and to apply for further funding. CATO provides a range

                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of support activities specifically for non-medics across career paths and shared across the
 Imperial AHSC to allow for shared learning and multidisciplinary collaboration. Some outputs
 and successes in this UoA include:
 • AHSC support for Nurses, Midwives, Allied Health Professions, Healthcare Scientists,
     Pharmacists, Psychologists – since 2015, five attendees from CATO-delivered AHSC
     research skills course have secured National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR)-funded
     Pre-Doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowships.
 • ACF/CL next post destinations – 91% of our ACFs have been registered for a higher degree
     within 2 years of completion of the ACF, of whom ~70% have been awarded a prestigious
     MRC, Wellcome Trust or NIHR Clinical Research Training Fellowship. In many specialties
     100% of ACFs have achieved PhDs e.g. cardiology, renal medicine, endocrinology,
     respiratory medicine (.
 • CL academic retention: Since 2015, 70% of our CLs have gone on to achieve an academic
     position such as Clinician Scientists, NIHR/Wellcome/BHF or other fellowships or University
     Senior Lecturers. For example, in cardiology of the last nine CLs, seven are university-
     appointed Senior Lecturers, one is a Professor, and one a senior academic clinical trialist (in
     an NHS post). In neurology our five previous CLs have gone on to obtain two MRC Clinician
     Scientist awards, one followed by an NIHR Professorship, one Wellcome Trust Intermediate
     Fellowship, and one NIHR Senior Lectureship. Four of our CLs in surgery have become
     academic Senior Lecturers. Three of four CLs in Endocrinology have won intermediate
     fellowships, and the remaining one is an NHS consultant with strong research outputs. In
     paediatrics, academic retention of NIHR CLs has been 100%, producing to date one
     Professor, one Reader, five Senior Lecturers and 3 Clinician Scientist fellowships. In
     gastroenterology 11 of 12 CLs have progressed to career clinical academic positions across
     the UK; three are now professors and 8 have won Clinicians Scientist or other intermediate
     fellowships.
 • Imperial Post-Doctoral Post-CCT Research Fellowships are managed by CATO as part of
     the Imperial Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) from Wellcome. We invest in medical trainees at
     the point they might take up Consultant posts and potentially be lost to research. Since
     inception, awardees have gone on to win NIHR Clinician Researcher award (Abbara),
     secured a Wellcome Clinical Research Career Development Fellowship (Scott) and
     University Clinical Senior Lecturer position (Pinato). Other recipients are planning
     applications in 2021.
 • Imperial / Wellcome Trust 4i programme – clinical PhD programme, 2017-2022, managed by
     CATO. This has proven to be very popular, with very high numbers of strong applicants
     each year. The first 2017 cohort are just finishing and already two of them have gone on to
     be awarded clinical lectureships – which is the key intended outcome for developing clinical
     academic leaders of the future.

   In addition, in 2018 Imperial established a new Healthcare Professionals Academic Group
 (HPAG) and supported a Nursing Professor, bringing together a critical mass of leaders
 and creating a “home” for Imperial non-medical clinical academics and patient-centred research.
 HPAG supports growth in research led by healthcare professionals across the AHSC by
 supporting and expanding inter-professional and multidisciplinary working, providing peer-to-
 peer and research services support, mentoring and networking opportunities.

 2.7 Supporting entrepreneurship:
   We have a number of mechanisms to develop, support and promote our most enterprising
 researchers to develop their ideas into business opportunities. This ranges from mentoring and
 project management support through to funding opportunities. Our Techcelerate programme,
 now on its fourth cohort, supports researchers to create impact through commercialising
 research and linking with venture funding (Kelwick, Rodriguez Manzano). To support at an
 earlier stage, we run “The Wings for Ideas” fund aimed to provide postdocs and fellows with up
 to £10,000 to work on research that might lead to a new venture, a product, or a prototype.
 Supported by the Advance Hackspace, the IPC teams and Techcelerate a total of eight projects
 have been funded.


                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.8 Equality and Diversity:
   Recognising, as a sector, there are issues to overcome in equality and diversity, over the past
 REF period, we have made substantial changes to support all our staff. We have formally
 implemented structures at College, Faculty and Departmental levels to ensure that individuals
 are empowered. At College level, we have established an executive Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) Strategy Group, headed by the Provost, appointed Imperial’s first Assistant
 Provost (EDI) and established an EDI Forum with a broad and representative membership.
 These new bodies will work closely together to promote the integration of the values of EDI
 within the whole organisation as envisaged in the strategy document.

   The FoM Culture Initiatives Management Group (CIMG) reports directly to the Dean and is
 Chaired by the Vice Dean Institutional Affairs. This Group aims to create an inclusive culture and
 environment and is involved in shaping strategies, policies and processes, as well as generating
 resources and improved signposting for students and staff at all levels and career stages. It was
 formed in 2019 to bring together the numerous activities underway and to develop new
 approaches. We have also convened a Black Lives Matter working group, reporting in to the
 CIMG, to specifically focus on issues of racial inequalities for students and staff. Recognising the
 importance of this work, in late 2019, we appointed our inaugural Project Director to the CIMG
 – Dr Sarah Essilfie-Quaye. We have gathered significant baseline data to enable us to measure
 impact and progress of initiatives to improve culture and/or diversity in our different cohorts –
 from undergraduate students to senior leadership. Within FoM as a whole, we have a 53%/47%
 male/female split with 26.1% of staff identifying as BME. Within this UoA we have a 67%/33%
 male/female split with 75% white, 16% BME and 14% not disclosed. Currently, 80% of UoA1
 staff are on open-ended contracts. Of those on fixed-term contracts, 39% are female and 16%
 BME. We have 17.5% on part-time contracts, of these, 35% are female and 5% BME.

   We are developing an action plan to tackle EDI and cultural issues. This incorporates our
 current baseline data and short, medium and long-term goals and deliverables. All departments
 are participating in the development of the action plan, which has strong support from the Dean
 and Heads of Departments. The FoM has also begun to explore new opportunities to better
 understand why our diversity declines as roles become more senior, and to develop and
 implement initiatives to improve our culture and access to medicinal sciences for under-
 represented groups at all levels. We are looking at various options for resourcing a wide-
 reaching and dedicated position to address these questions directly, through academic research
 and the development and implementation of new interventions.

   At Departmental level, all new departments have a People and Culture lead that sits on the
 departmental management board. Many also have established People and Culture Committees
 to implement and manage on the ground delivery of EDI policies. For example, they would take
 the lead on development of departmental Athena Swan proposals. All our Departments hold an
 Athena Swan award. Departments of Surgery and Cancer and the Institute of Clinical Sciences
 hold Athena Swan Silver. Brain Sciences, Immunology and Inflammation, Infectious Disease,
 Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction as new departments, hold interim Silver awards while
 National Heart and Lung Institute and the School of Public Health hold Bronze awards.

   Our commitment to EDI across a range of protected characteristics is demonstrated through
 the College’s accreditations (Athena Swan, Race Equality Charter, Time to Change, Disability
 Confident, AccessAble, Stonewall), and networks (Able@Imperial, Imperial 600, Imperial as
 One). We are also engaged with the British Medical Association racial harassment charter for
 medical schools. All three co-Chairs for “Imperial As One”, Imperial College London’s BME staff
 network sit within the FoM (Essilfie-Quaye, Samuel, Mitchell).

 2.8.1 Diversity in recruitment:
 As part of the Faculty restructuring, our new Dean (Weber, appointed 2018) adopted the use of
 the open expression of interest (EOI) recruitment model for the appointment of new Heads of
 Departments (HoDs) coupled with an open advert. This proved successful and we achieved full
 gender balance across the HoDs. Our recruitment process is highlighted in our recent campaign

                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to recruit new lecturers: in 2019 we embarked on a major recruitment campaign across all
 departments in FoM. The advert was run through software similar to Textio to help attract people
 from broad communities using language and relevant phrasing suggestions based on current
 best practice in EDI. The advert was run in science journals and we shared with communities
 and networks that had recognised strengths in EDI and early career researcher groups (e.g. the
 British Society of Immunology).

   We received 215 applications which were allocated to departments according to preference of
 applicant for shortlisting. All departments used the same shortlisting criteria and instructions and
 we gave clear direction on gender balance and EDI for the shortlisting panels. In total, 56
 candidates were shortlisted, with 55 accepting interview slots across all of our eight
 departments. A core interview panel (Vice Dean Research, Vice Dean Institutional Affairs and
 the Head of the PFDC) was present for all interviews to ensure consistency, the relevant
 departments were able to select up to three additional representatives with appropriate
 expertise. We actively managed diversity within and across panels by guiding and prompting
 changes with the departmental representatives. A consul was included according to Imperial
 guidelines. We ensured that panel members had undertaken unconscious bias training
 (56%male/44% female). Our core panel guided the questioning using an open questioning style
 to promote a discussion rather than a combative Q and A session. Our EDI data were:

                       Female Male    ND            %Female %Male total
  Applications            105    108              2     49     50     215
  Shortlisting             30      26                   55     45       56
  Interviews               30      25                   55     45       55
  Offers                    8       9                   47     53       17
  Acceptances               5       7                   42     58       12

 2.8.2 Enabling flexible working:
 Flexible working options such as part time working, and adaptable hours help recruit a more
 diverse staff. Within this return, 17.4% of staff are on part-time contracts (65% male/35%
 female) of which 50% are <50. This helps to support those with caring responsibilities as well as
 cross-institutional working and supporting transition to retirement.

   Lockdown has changed the way we all work, and we have had to adjust rapidly. The delivery
 and impact of our COVID-19 work has shone a light on how we embraced this change. We
 ensured employees had the necessary equipment needed to work, including attention to
 relevant health and safety needs. However, the Faculty and the College has always
 championed flexible and remote working with a commitment to providing a supportive work
 environment for all. Since 2016, we have run a shared parental leave scheme with 35
 members of faculty using this so far. We are proud to have been listed in this year’s Top Ten
 Employers for Working Families (workingfamilies.org.uk) and to have won The Cityparents
 Best for all stages of Fatherhood Award (2017).

 2.8.3 Supporting staff:
 The College provides a suite of measures to support staff with for example illness, disability and
 return from long term absence. This includes developing “Staying Healthy at Work” plans,
 access to 24hour confidential care line and mental health first aiders (51 within FoM across all
 campuses). Each department has a disability officer as the first point of contact for staff and
 students and there is financial support for adjustments to support those with a disability. Within
 FoM, for example, this has included provision of staff for an individual with a degenerative
 condition and support for an individual with sleep disorder.

   To facilitate return to work after maternity, adoption, surrogacy and/or shared parental leave,
 the College runs the Elsie Widdowson Fellowship Award to enables the Department, Division,
 School or Institute to relieve the academic of teaching or administrative duties in order to


                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 concentrate fully on research. Within FoM 21 have been awarded. FoM also runs the Daphne-
 Jackson Fellowship, for individuals returning to research part time (0.5 FTE) after a career
 break. Launched in 2016/17, one fellowship has been awarded (2018) and, after COVID
 disruption, one awarded outside of the REF period and we are expecting to make further awards
 in 2021.

 2.8.4 Developing career pathways:
 We have been working with colleagues in Manchester (Professor Lennon) and Oxford
 (Professor McShane) to develop a clear career path for all those undertaking research roles
 within a Team Science context, including technologists, coordinators and managers. This will
 encompass all staff, including fixed-term and part-time contracts. We aim to develop a
 framework for career progression within the FoM with implementation in 2021/2.

 2.8.5 Ensuring all staff can attend conferences:
 Imperial offers two routes for financial support for carers attending work-related events taking
 place outside of College, and for College-based events relevant to career development held
 outside of core hours or during half-term holidays. The grant can be used to fund
 additional/alternative care arrangements for a dependent to either stay at home while the staff
 member travels, or to fund travel and associated care costs allowing the dependant to travel with
 the staff member.

    As part of ongoing work to make Imperial more family-friendly and therefore more inclusive of
 staff with caring responsibilities, there has been a conscious effort to shift staff events (e.g.
 public lectures, seminars, workshops, meals with visiting seminar speakers) to more family-
 friendly dates and times of the day. This is not always practical, and on occasions where events
 are held late in the day or during school half-term holidays, we facilitate inclusion of employees
 with caring responsibilities by offering financial support to offset the additional cost of providing
 care (e.g. babysitting).

 2.8.6 EDI considerations in all we do:
 During the recent reorganisation of the FoM (Fig.1), the Dean signalled that he would ‘look to
 our Heads of Departments (HoDs) to champion and develop early and mid‐career academics,
 leading by example to create a supportive culture for all staff’. The process was heavily
 influenced by staff feedback from departmental, Faculty and College level and aimed to embed
 many principles from our Athena SWAN action plans into reality. This included: the development
 of smaller departments which will foster greater unity, cohesion, collaboration and identity;
 transparent job descriptions for the HoDs with a major emphasis on commitment to leadership
 responsibility, improved working culture and career development. Representation on our senior
 committees is: Dean’s Management Group (responsible for day-to-day running of the Faculty) –
 58% male/42% female/; Faculty Board (responsible for strategic direction of research and
 teaching) – 60% male/40% female/ & Faculty Culture Initiatives Management Group – 42%
 male/58% female/.

   Imperial has established the EDI Centre, a dedicated team to support staff and promote EDI.
 They offer guidance, training and support as part of the College’s HR services as well as striving
 to mainstream EDI. They run a programme of training including Active Bystander training,
 Disability in the Workplace, Harassment - confronting inappropriate behaviour, Harassment - the
 management perspective, a two-day Mental Health First Aid and Mental Health First Aid half-
 day. Imperial is a Disability Confident Leader - Disability Confident is a government scheme
 designed to encourage employers to recruit and retain disabled people and those with health
 conditions.

 2.8.7 Ensuring EDI in our submission:
 All academic staff are included in the REF submission. Independent research staff were
 identified as per the College’s REF code of practice and are all included in the submission. All
 these staff were asked to nominate 10 outputs which were scored by a gender-balanced panel


                                                                                               Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 composed of senior academic staff. A computer-based algorithm (agnostic to individual
 characteristics) was then used to select the outputs based on the assigned scores whilst
 ensuring each person returned at least one and no more than five outputs. The selected outputs
 were further reviewed to ensure that outputs with multiple Unit authors were assigned to the
 most appropriate author. The overall distribution of outputs matches the submission
 gender balance and ethnicity.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income:
   During the REF period, investigators in UoA1 have been awarded just under £953m in
 competitively won research funding, averaging £136m per year and equating to
 £310k/FTE/yr. This yearly average represents a 7.3% increase in comparison to the REF2014
 period. We employ a range of coordinated strategies to ensure income generation for research
 and infrastructure to sustain our programmes, as well as the research field

 3.1.1 Supporting Individuals through personal fellowships at all career stages. We provide
 mentorship through the departments and via the PFDC, internal peer review at departmental
 level, strong institutional support tailored to individual needs and reflected in meaningful letters
 of support, and mock interviews focussing both on science but also presentation skills. Our
 success has been demonstrated through (former staff not in submission underlined):
 • Six Wellcome Trust Senior Fellowships (Lloyd, Ahmed, Wilkinson, Williams, Pickering,
     Snelgrove)
 • Twenty-two Wellcome Trust Investigator Awards (Aragon Alcaide, Asquith, Bangham,
     Barclay, Bassett, Botto, Brueggemann, Dorner, Ferrer, Grundling, Holden, Lenhard,
     Maertens, Rutter, Speck, Strid, Thomas, Wigley [x2], Wigneshweraraj, Williams, Zhang)
 • Five UKRI Future Leader Fellows (Sancho-Shimizu, Shenker, Robinson [UoA14], Skene
     [UoA4])
 • 16 MRC fellowships (six Clinician Science Fellowships – Antoniades, Cunnington, Gale,
     Seddon, Singanayagam, Turner)
 • Five Career Development Awards (Bidmos, Denton, Helaine, Lai, MacIntyre)
 • Four New Investigator Research Grants (Martinez-Sanchez, Paras, Shenoy, Tomas)
 • MRC LMS Rutherford Fellowship (Guo)
 • MRC/UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Peters)
 • NIHR fellowships (three Research Professors – Cooke, Dhillo and Gordon; 22 senior
     investigators; five Clinician Scientists – Abbara, Battersby, Saglani, Thayyil, Walsh; two
     Postdoctoral fellows – Barnicot, Jayasena)
 • CRUK Advanced Clinician Scientist Fellowship (Auner); CRUK Career Development
     Fellowship (Magnani)
 • Nine BHF Fellowships (Kanagaratnam [NHS Honorary], Khamis, Kirkby, Randi, Rhodes,
     Rog-Zielinska, Santamaria, Whinnett)
 • BHF Professorship (Emanueli)
 • Versus Arthritis Career Development Fellowship (Pericleous)
 • Sixteen Marie Sklodowska Fellowships (Argunhan, Botella, Blakney, Cerny, Delahaye,
     Feldhahn, Fleiss, Gahlon, Marquez Rodriguez, Soo, Stefaniak, Scaini, Toussaint, Torraca,
     Vazquez Ortiz)
 • Three ERC Advanced Grant (Johnston, Miguel-Aliaga)
 • Two ERC Consolidator (Hajkova, Takats)
 • Six ERC Starter Grants (Brown, Dorner, Helaine, Li, Tolar, Vannier [LMS])
 • Four Sir Henry Wellcomes: (Lynskey, Pons Salort, Sposini, Zhang),
 • Twelve Sir Henry Dale Fellowships: (Aylett, Borodavka, Clarke, Dorigatti, Edgar, Gomes
     Cabreiro, Male, Owen, Pons Salort, Ramasamy, Riglar, Schiering)
 • BBSRC David Phillips Fellowship (Thurston)

 3.1.2 Supporting underpinning research: we support our investigators to pursue fundamental
 basic, clinical and translational research in their field through project and programme grants. In
 this REF period, we have secured 102 grants from MRC to the value of £76m, 86 grants from

                                                                                                Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the BHF to the value of £42m and 53 grants from CRUK totalling £25m. This includes four New
 Investigator Research Grants (see above). To improve our success rates, we undertake
 rigorous internal peer review and have established “shadow panels” for all project grant
 applications to the four standing research boards at the MRC. These comprise ex-MRC Board
 members who undertake an MRC-style Board review. We ran a pilot with the Infections and
 Immunity Board (IIB, where we have above average success rates) and the Populations and
 Systems Medicine Board (PSMB, where our success was much lower). These shadow panels
 have the remit to encourage younger academics to submit their proposals for iterative
 constructive criticism and improvement. Since their introduction in 2016/7, figures from the MRC
 show a marked increase in success rates for PSMB and maintaining our position with IIB. We
 have now extended this to other Boards at MRC from this year.

  Board                     2016/17               2017/18                  2018/19
  Infections and Immunity   35.7%                 46.7%                    33%
  Populations and           12.5%                 31.6%                    27%
  Systems Medicine

 3.1.3 Developing strategic opportunities: We have developed agile structures within the
 Faculties to identify and respond to new opportunities across our research themes. This is
 achieved through building partnerships within and across faculties, especially where our
 researchers can lead through close collaboration internally and externally. Our externally funded
 centres are highlighted in section 1.3.2. with thematic examples highlighted in sections 1.1.1 –
 1.1.6.

 3.1.4 Funding translational research: We support translational research through the Imperial
 BRC (BRC; £210m, 2012-2022, Director, Thursz). The BRC drives innovation in the prevention,
 diagnosis and treatment of ill-health by funding and supporting people- or patient-focused early
 translational research. Work is split into eight Research Themes, each of which represents a
 substantial portfolio of experimental medicine research, in areas of unmet clinical need. The
 current themes are: Gut Health (Frost, £8.0m), Brain Sciences (Matthews, £8.1m), Cancer
 (McNeish, £9.4m), Cardiovascular (Harding, £8.6m), Immunology (Botto, £11.0m), Infection
 (Openshaw, £12.2m), Metabolic Medicine (Bloom, £8.6m) and Surgery & Technology (Darzi,
 £11.7m). The BRC also invests in four cutting-edge technology platforms highlighted in section
 3.3. It has produced a wide range of outcomes from seeding pilot projects to support major
 international trials. Some examples include trialling novel treatment for menopausal hot flushes
 (Lancet 2017), new insights into obesity biology, Nature (2015) and novel point-of-care detection
 of HIV-1 viremia, Nature Scientific Reports (2016). In 2017/18 the BRC leveraged a total of
 £70.5M external funding to actively supports active projects within the themes. It supports our
 Patient Experience Research Centre (PERC, section 4.2), underpins our data infrastructure
 through support for the Imperial’s Clinical Analytics, Research and Evaluation (iCARE)
 project started in Autumn 2019 as a proof-of-concept high performance analytics environment,
 the Imperial College Knowledge Bank and in partnership with CRUK, set up the Circulating
 Biomarker Laboratory for ‘liquid biopsy’ in tailoring cancer treatments and monitoring disease
 progression. Finally, the BRC has been central to our COVID-19 response recruiting patients to
 the early clinical trials (REMAP-CAP, RECOVERY, C-19 ACS, IASRIC) aiming for every patient
 with COVID-19 disease admitted to one of our hospitals to be given the opportunity take part in
 clinical trials or studies (subject to eligibility and consent).

   We have established the Translational Research Fund built around our MRC Confidence in
 Concept (CiC) award to seed fund translational projects in preparation for larger awards from
 external funders. Since 2014, we have supported 150 projects from experimental proof of
 concept to technology validated in the lab; these projects have subsequently leveraged an
 additional £94m in follow-on-funding, including over £8.4m from Imperial College; more than 62
 patent applications have been awarded/filed, and there are in excess of 214 publications to date.
 Our translator-in-residence is on hand to support the development of these projects to secure
 larger external funding. During this REF period, we have won £15m from MRC Development


                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pathway Funding (12 awardees), £8m from Seeding drug discovery, Wellcome Trust (9
 awardees).

 3.1.5 Fundraising to support specific projects; working with Imperial alumni, external
 foundations and donors, our Advancement team raises funds for scholarships, academic
 positions, research centres and capital projects. This can take the form of unsolicited gifts
 through to larger donations built around fundraising campaigns. Over this last REF period, FoM
 has benefitted from 3639 gifts, 3,387 of which were <£10k, 144 were between £10k-£100k, 80
 between £100k-£1m, and 28 over £1m. In total, our generous supporters have raised over
 £152m for projects across the Faculty. This includes a £40m donation from Sir Michael Uren to
 develop the Biomedical Engineering Research Hub, £10m for The Hugh & Josseline Langmuir
 Centre for Myeloma Research, £2m to support research into the development of vaccines
 against COVID-19. In 2018/19 we ran a highly successful campaign to develop our School of
 Public Health which resulted in £25m investment to develop The Mohn Centre for Children's
 Health and Wellbeing and the Mohn Chair (UoA2).

   We have established new fellowship programmes thanks to the generous support of our
 donors. For example, the Jean Alero Thomas Scholarship Programme awarded four new
 scholarships to students in FoM in 2017/18. The programme was established thanks to a legacy
 gift from Dr Jean Alero Thomas (Medicine 1970). £4.6m from The Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic
 Foundation has established scholars and fellowship programmes within neurosciences (UoA4)
 and £5m from the Lees Charitable Foundation Ltd has established the Lee Family - Faculty of
 Medicine Scholarships.

 3.2 Infrastructure:
   Following on from our planned investments at our Hammersmith campus highlighted in
 REF2014, we continue to complete the ambitious FoM 'Space Vision'. Our focus remains to
 invest in realigning groups geographically to best exploit inter-Faculty and translational
 opportunities that now offer themselves both at South Kensington and at our
 Hammersmith/White City campus, and to foster the most effective clinical research and
 education environments possible.

   Since the last REF, we have transformed our estate with an investment of approximately £2bn
 in our White City Campus, situated 300m from the Hammersmith Hospital. This investment
 has created a thriving hub for our convergent science, developing state-of-the-art facilities to
 support and sustain multidisciplinary research. The Molecular Sciences Research Hub (£167m)
 opened its doors in 2018 as the new home for chemistry but with an emphasis on molecular
 studies. The Sir Michael Uren building (£120m) became operational in 2019 bringing together
 over 500 engineers, clinicians and scientists to become our main hub for technology
 development in healthcare. It will house researchers from the UoA1 Surgery, Cardiovascular
 and Respiratory themes as well as groups from our Department of Brain Sciences (UoA4) and
 School of Public Health (UoA2).

   To support innovation and entrepreneurship, we have created a network of innovation spaces
 for businesses of all sizes – major corporations, high-tech and high-growth companies, SMEs,
 start-ups and entrepreneurs – to work alongside Imperial at every stage of their development
 and growth. The Translation and Innovation Hub (iHUB) at White City provides space and
 facilities for companies of all sizes to work alongside our researchers to accelerate growth. We
 have also recently (2020) opened the Scale Space, 18,000m2 technology and innovation centre
 to support new high growth technology companies emerging from this UoA but also more
 broadly.

   In 2017 the MRC and Imperial College London announced a joint project to build a new home
 for the MRC LMS on the former Cyclotron site at the Hammersmith Hospital campus. This
 £105m new building will create approximately 12,000m2 of advanced research facilities in an
 environment which will provide a new home for the MRC LMS in July 2022 and promote further
 collaboration between LMS and FoM as well as other stakeholders.

                                                                                          Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   In addition to this macro-scale investment, we have also ensured our existing infrastructure
 remains at the cutting edge. Since 2014, Imperial College has committed £138m on building
 and estates projects in UoA1, with a spend to date of £57m. This includes refurbishment of
 lab space within the Commonwealth Building on the Hammersmith Hospital campus for
 cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolism and immunity research. We have invested £10m to
 purchase the lease for the adjacent Burlington Danes Building. We have also invested £9m
 refurbishing the Central Biomedical Services (CBS) on our South Kensington campus.

 3.3 Facilities:
   The Imperial BRC Genomics Facility provides a ‘one-stop-shop’ for next generation
 sequencing (NGS) of human genomes and microarray technology. The includes provision of key
 staff, access to supporting bioinformatics, data storage and sample preparation (£9.1m, lead
 Ferrer). In addition, we have invested £1.5m in new equipment and work in partnership with the
 LMS to maximise the MRC’s investment in genomics.

   Imaging: our researchers have access to state-of-the-art X-ray, ultrasound, Positron Emission
 Tomography (PET) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) through a range of partnerships.
 Our Clinical Imaging Facility and the Trust’s Imaging Department core-funded by the BRC
 (£9.8m, lead Aboagye) provide access to MRI (Siemens 3T Verio MRI scanner), PET (Siemens
 Biograph 6 PET/CT scanner), electroencephalography and Transcranial Electric Stimulation, all
 delivered in partnership with ICHT. We have also built our PET/MRI capability through our
 partnership with InVicro (formerly Imanova), with a £5.6m machine housed within InVicro on our
 Burlington Danes site. InVicro provide the staffing to run the machine as well as radiochemistry
 to develop new PET ligands. We provide additional MRI provision in partnership with MRC/LMS
 and ICHT. The scanners are chiefly used for cardiac projects, underpinning our
 genetic/functional insights and have recently contributed to the C-MORE COVID-19 study led by
 University of Oxford.

   We continue to invest in the National Phenome Centre (NPC), delivering an extensive range
 of molecular-phenotyping capabilities by providing insight into the molecular composition of
 samples. The NPC employs a multi-technology platform consisting of eight nuclear magnetic
 resonance spectroscopy instruments, twenty liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry
 instruments, and new hardware investments in additional mass spectrometry for proteomics and
 imaging, totalling more than £3m. We continue to partner with Waters plc and Bruker plc to keep
 us at the forefront of phenomics globally. We also lead the UK Consortium for Metabolic
 Phenotyping (£2.1m MRC) – a partnership of the UK’s research institutions to drive cooperation,
 collaborative development, and education to advance the UK’s biomedical research capabilities.

   We have established the London In Vitro Diagnostics Co-operative, one of only four NIHR
 centres that generate evidence to support diagnostic test development. The co-operative is
 working with both the Medicine and Healthcare Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and the National
 Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to expedite development and evaluation of
 diagnostic devices in the NHS (Director Hanna, theme leads Buckle, Ni, Poulter and Tan).

   Our biggest growth area for the FoM across all UoAs has been in data science with
 demonstrable success in research underpinned by the best facilities. Imperial led the UK
 MEDical BIOinformatics partnership (UK MED-BIO; Elliott [UoA2]) in partnership with the ICR,
 the European Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), the
 Universities of Oxford, Swansea and Nottingham, and the MRC LMS. Our Data Science
 Institute (DSI) provides access to high-performance computing and pioneered the pharma-
 adopted TranSMART platform to curate and analyse genomic, molecular and other ’omics
 datasets alongside clinical phenotypic data. We are a substantive site in Health Data Research
 UK London, a pioneer site for the NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative (NHIC) which links
 routinely collected NHS patient data via electronic health record systems including clinical
 information, diagnostic tests and imaging data across five NIHR BRCs. We lead the NHIC
 programme in acute coronary syndrome, linking data on >200,000 patients; analysis of routinely

                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collected health data on patients presenting with chest pain demonstrated the population
 significance of a single troponin measurement (BMJ, 2019), and, accounting for potential biases
 in observational data, we found that surgical was superior to medical treatment for non-ST
 elevation myocardial infarction in elderly people (Lancet, 2020).

   We lead Discover-NOW with Imperial College Health Partners as part of the Digital Innovation
 Hubs funded by HDR-UK and are partners in the BREATHE consortium – the Health Data
 Research UK Hub for Respiratory Health led by University of Edinburgh. In partnership with
 Imperial, ICHT won the 2019 BMJ Digital Innovation prize for its natural language processing
 (NPL) algorithm analysing the NHS feedback tool, the Friends and Family Test, and has
 developed NPL tools for smoking status and safety which have been adopted locally. Ongoing
 and planned evaluation of new tools developed by the AHSC include lung nodules (led by the
 Marsden) and sepsis – our BRC has already evaluated a digital sepsis tool on 21,000 patients.
 To deliver this level of activity, we have invested in large data handing and analysis facilities,
 underpinned by the cross-cutting Informatics & Biobanking theme in the Imperial BRC core
 platform (£16.7m, leads, Elliott [UoA2], Mayer, McNeish).

    Data sources: The FoM works with a multitude of data sources including administrative data,
 bespoke data collected from deployed digital interventions, clinical trials, cohort studies and
 multiple qualitative datasets. Administrative data include sources such as Hospital Episode
 Statistics (HES), Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) and Whole Systems Integrated
 Care (WSIC). We have ensured that the infrastructure for collecting, storing and processing
 these data is secure and works within a solid information governance framework. Specifically,
 Imperial College has a suite of secure storage and processing facilities with appropriate
 information security management systems (ISO27001) to accommodate a range of sensitive
 datasets (de-identified and identifiable data) including the IGHI Big Data & Analytical Unit
 (BDAU), Data Science Institute (DSI), The Imperial Secure Enclave and Research Computing
 Service (RCS) environment. The College has an established information governance structure to
 provide assurance to data providers, the College, research participants and patients, that data
 are held and used appropriately. The Imperial infrastructure is able to support the entire data
 lifecycle.

   Data Collections: Imperial has robust relationships with several large data controllers
 including NHS Digital (NHSD), MHRA, WSIC and ICHT. ISO 27001 certification and compliance
 with NHSD Data Security and Protection Toolkit allows Imperial to provide assurance to data
 suppliers that data are used with the utmost care for the benefit of health and social care
 systems. Imperial currently holds data covering all English patients including linked data at a
 person level for hospital encounters, mental health care, general practice consultations,
 deprivation and registry data for specific conditions e.g. cancer, diabetes. In addition, we have
 managed the acquisition and linkage of sensitive bespoke mental health datasets within WSIC.
 All mobile apps used for data collection need to be GDPR compliant with support from Imperial
 College’s Data Protection Officer and Compliance Manager, and meet criteria based on NHS
 Digital Assessment Questions.

    Data storage and processing: we have several ISO 27001:2013 certified research
 environments, including IGHI Big Data Analysis Unit (BDAU). This environment currently
 manages over 130 datasets for researchers across Imperial College and ICHT. Other facilities,
 like the ISO 27001 certified Imperial Secure Enclave, allows the storage of identifiers to facilitate
 data linkage and secure data analysis. The Imperial High Performance Computing facility
 provides several world-class supercomputing clusters for performing precision medicine analysis
 and provide a secure, flexible and scalable platform to support the analysis of our large-scale
 health datasets.

   Imperial’s Clinical Analytics, Research and Evaluation (iCARE) project started as a proof of
 concept, high-performance analytics environment, funded by our BRC. This is a cloud-based
 informatics platform allowing NHS Trust staff and College researchers to access de-identified
 data with enhanced tooling, compute power and security. This system provides the ability to

                                                                                              Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 manage access control to specific data resources with full audit of every action that staff take
 when using Trust data.

   Imperial holds a CPRD GOLD license, with access to over 35 million longitudinal linked
 patient records. Imperial is also pioneering the analysis of the WSIC dataset which holds data on
 2.2 million patients in North West London (NWL) with linked records across primary, secondary,
 mental health and social care records. The BDAU manages the use of HES and CPRD for
 Imperial College Healthcare Partners (ICHP), allowing ICHP to produce dashboards to provide
 insights across NWL NHS sites. The BDAU also holds a number of bespoke data collections,
 ranging from data collected as part of the Google Deepmind Streams trial in partnership with
 ICHT to surveys aimed at evaluating the impact of patient experience for the Care Information
 Exchange (CIE) across millions of NHS patient episodes in NWL.

   Data Protection: Imperial provides data de-identification and anonymisation both internally
 and externally. Research environment staff are trained in GDPR and Good Clinical Practice
 (GCP/GxP) to meet all legal and ethical obligations. NHS Digital audited the BDAU in 2018 and
 found that the environment had exceptional security with robust policies and procedures for data
 protection throughout. The BDAU serves as an exemplar at Imperial College for data
 governance and currently advises on information governance committees both inside and
 outside Imperial.

   Data Transformation: Imperial has robust and reproducible methods for data transformation
 ensuring that data integrity and availability are maintained throughout research programmes. An
 original immutable copy of each dataset is stored to ensure integrity of data and enable auditing
 of changes downstream. Utilising workflow-based tools such as KNIME, visually explorative
 tools like Tableau and established modules for common coding languages such as R and
 Python allows researchers and investigators to inspect the data transformation process and
 ensure that data quality is maintained. We utilise Github and SVN for version control of custom
 coding where applicable.

   Data Analytics: Imperial hosts a number of analysis tools such as KNIME, HADOOP and
 custom natural language processing (NLP) tools. The BDAU uses NLP for the analysis of mental
 health data. The DSI has leading facilities for data visualisation through its Global Data
 Observatory and the Research Computing Services group includes a single cluster with over
 25,000 cores and 20TB of memory (UK MED-BIO facilities). We built the eTRIKS platform as
 part of a EU Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) project to support the full life cycle data
 management for translational medicine studies. It has been successfully applied in cross-
 institutional collaborative medical research for big medical data integration and analytics. These
 include major EU/IMI projects such as U-BIOPRED (asthma), ABIRISK (multimorbidity),
 BioVacSafe (vaccine and biomarkers) and OncoTrack (cancer): together eTRIKS and U-
 BIOPRED were awarded the prestigious BioIT World Award for 2014.

   Imperial facilitates Data Sharing and Dissemination with the wider research community. We
 work to ensure that data are findable, accessible, interoperable and re-usable (FAIR) for
 example, the Airwave Health Monitoring Study data are accessible via the MRC-funded
 Dementias Research platform. The Imperial Academic Health Science Network (AHSN) works
 with other regional AHSNs to share and utilise data for healthcare research and improvement
 across the entire UK. For long-term archiving of data, we use our Archives and College
 Records Unit (ACRU) internally; data are also made available through the UK Data Archive and
 other data portals. Working with researchers we create de-identified datasets for use by the
 wider scientific community, for example, the iCARE initiative between Imperial College and ICHT
 that provides de-identified patient-level data to researchers.

 3.3.1 Facilities and Impact:
   Ensuring impact from our translational research has been enabled by co-location of
 researchers within clinical sites at Charing Cross, Chelsea and Westminster, Hammersmith, St
 Mary’s, Royal Brompton and Royal Marsden Hospitals. More broadly, how we use our facilities

                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and infrastructure to achieve impact is highlighted in section 1.6. In addition, our BRC has
 provided underpinning support across the FoM through these facilities (section 3.1.4), and we
 have received £16m benefit-in-kind through the BRC award. We also continue our fruitful
 partnership with Waters plc and Bruker plc to access new equipment and keep us at the
 forefront of phenomics globally.

   For the first time since Imperial College acquired Medicine in 1997, we are moving off the
 original sites to concentrate and co-locate clinical science and public health alongside
 engineering, physical sciences and the Business School at Hammersmith Hospital/White City
 campus. We are creating a new, vibrant Life Sciences campus in West London which has
 already attracted Novartis, 25 biotech spinouts and ScaleSpace – to accelerate the growth of
 new innovations.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations:
    We have highlighted our strong partnerships with ICHT through our BRC award, our AHSC
 (section 1.5), our co-locations on Hospital sites and our joint appointments (section 2.0),
 highlighted below. Our working relationship was the foundation of the Imperial College AHSC,
 now expanded to include the Marsden, the Brompton (to Feb 2021), Chelsea and Westminster
 Hospital and the ICR. Managed by a Joint Executive Group (JEG), comprised of the leaders of
 the partner organisations and chaired by the AHSC Director (Weber), JEG identifies new
 initiatives and monitors delivery of joint programmes around the tripartite mission – research,
 education and clinical care. This close working relationship has already improved and enhanced
 healthcare through joint research programmes. For example, research at Imperial’s Patient
 Safety Translational Research Centre (Director, Darzi) identified key factors in delivering safe
 and effective clinical care across teams. This led to development of a digital tool, Hark, that was
 subsequently trialled at ICHT where it improved clinical decision times and case management (J
 Med Internet Res, 2016). Hark was acquired by Google DeepMind in 2016, which further
 developed its functionality in partnership with Imperial and ICHT, evolving the application into
 Streams, a task management, decision support and alerting smartphone application now in
 clinical practice worldwide.

   We have developed one of UK’s leading real-world evidence (RWE) research platforms,
 Discover-NOW, led by our AHSN and based on WISC, which provides an integrated healthcare
 record linking primary, secondary, tertiary and social care data for 2.4m NW London residents.
 We are working through Health Data Research UK (HDR-UK) London – a national biomedical
 research initiative with all five of London’s major universities in biomedicine and health (Imperial
 College London, King’s College London, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Queen
 Mary University of London, University College London), to develop the London NHSE Local
 Health Record and Care Exemplar. We are using the NHS partners’ informatics platforms, our
 pipeline of digital and AI tools and the sector’s networked pathology and radiology services, to
 develop and implement integrated clinical diagnostics.

   Researchers from Imperial are central to eight MRC Precision Medicine Consortia – a £60m
 investment from MRC to support UK-wide consortia, each focused on a specific disease area, in
 order to develop a deeper understanding of the mechanisms underpinning disease stratification.
 We lead the £4.8m Minimising Mortality from Alcoholic Hepatitis consortium (Holmes, Thursz)
 and are partners in: the £4.1m (total award) Maximizing SLE Therapeutic Potential by
 Application of Novel and Stratified approaches (Botto, Lightstone, Pickering); the £5.1m Re-
 Imagine Consortium for prostate cancer diagnosis (Ahmed); £4.1m STOP-HCV (Cooke); £4m
 STRATA for schizophrenia (Howes); £4.8m UK Primary Biliary Cholangitis Consortium (Holmes,
 Marchesi); £4.8m Refractory Asthma Stratification Programme UK (Adcock, Chung, Johnston);
 £4m COPD-MAP (Adcock, Barnes, Chung, Donnelly, Kemp, Tetley). We are also members of
 the Bill and Melinda Gates (BMGF) Malaria Modelling Consortium (Hogan, Verity) and Neglected
 Tropical Disease Modelling Consortium (Cucunuba).



                                                                                              Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   We have built on the success of the NIHR/MRC National Phenome Centre (established 2012)
 by creating the £2.1m MRC-funded MAP/UK partnership in 2018 (Takats) – bringing together
 a critical mass of methodological, analytical, and computational platforms. Led by Imperial, the
 team includes eight specialised research centres (Imperial, Cardiff, Leicester, Liverpool, EMBL-
 EBI, Aberystwyth) and the UK’s two Phenome Centres (Imperial, Birmingham) and aims to apply
 common standards, methods, and best practices to build a national resource benefiting UK
 researchers. We have partnered with KCL on the London Medical Imaging and AI Centre for
 Value Based Healthcare, a £16m initiative from DHSC and the Asthma UK Centre for
 Allergic Mechanisms (formerly the MRC/Asthma UK Centre, Director, Johnston). Building on
 our Phenome Centre and mass spectrometry capability, we co-lead the £16m CRUK Grand
 Challenge – Rosetta (Bunch, Takats). This is a partnership with the National Physics
 Laboratory, ICR, Barts Cancer Institute, The Beatson Glasgow, AstraZeneca, The Francis Crick
 Institute and the CRUK Cambridge Research Institute and aims to develop a way to visualise
 metabolites in cancer cells, mapping their distribution in relation to individual cells’ genetics and
 the overarching tumour structure. We are also key partners in innovative public-private
 partnerships such as the Vaccine Manufacturing Innovation Centre consortium with Oxford,
 London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Johnson & Johnson, GE Healthcare and
 Merck and the GSK funded Experimental Medicine Initiative to Explore New Therapies
 (EMINENT) consortium. This brings together investigators from Imperial College, University
 College London (UCL), the University of Cambridge, the University of Glasgow, the University of
 Newcastle, and GSK, with unprecedented access to GSK's unlicensed clinic-ready asset
 portfolio.

   Internationally, our collaboration with NTU in Singapore to create a new medical school, the
 LKC School of Medicine, has flourished and our first students graduated in 2018, awarded a
 joint Imperial/NTU MBBS degree. We have also built our research partnerships, making key
 joint appointments and visiting positions between our institutions in strategically important areas
 for both organisations. LKC currently hosts eight senior faculty from Imperial as Visiting
 Professors (Chung, Paterson, Rutter, Wedzicha [UoA2], Elliott, Riboli [UoA2], Matthews,
 Reynolds [UoA4]). In a reciprocal move, eight members of LKC Medicine’s faculty have been
 appointed to Imperial – Prof James Best, Prof Naomi Low-Beer, Prof Michael Ferenczi, Prof
 Helen Smith, Prof Balazs Gulyas, Prof Bernhard Boehm, Prof Wang Yulan, Asst Prof Sanjay
 Chotirmall. Some examples of our joint research programmes include:
     • Health for Life in Singapore (HELIOS) a large population study of 100,000 Singaporeans
         to understand the role of diet/lifestyle/physical activity/and diseases led by Chambers,
         Elliott and Riboli (UoA2) and Assoc Prof Joanne Ngeow (LKC).
     • E-Health - using e-health tools and technology for health system innovations for quality
         improvement (e.g. integrated care), and investigation of management of long-term
         diseases. Led by Car (dual appointment LKC/Imperial) and Majeed (UoA2).
     • Cardiometabolic disease – identifying mechanisms underlying high rates of diabetes and
         cardiovascular disease amongst South and East Asians and developing new strategies
         for prediction and prevention – led by Chambers (dual appointment at LKC/Imperial,
         UoA2).
     • Cognitive Neuroimaging Centre – established in partnership with Matthews (UoA4).
     • Respiratory Health - The Academic Respiratory Initiative for Pulmonary Health is a
         unique research initiative established by LKC to improve the lung health of
         Singaporeans. Chung and Wedzicha both serve on the advisory board and have been
         investigating a novel Singaporean variant of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
     • Infectious diseases: a tripartite collaboration with LKC, Imperial (lead, Bangham) and the
         National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID Singapore) has pump-primed three joint
         research programmes in malaria, respiratory viruses and anti-microbial resistance
         (AMR).

   We are actively growing our international partnerships at Institutional level, with strategic
 partnerships between Technical University of Munich (TUM), and Centre National de la
 Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), France funded by the Research England International
 Investment Initiative. As part of this, we have launched the London-Munich AI & Healthcare

                                                                                              Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral Training Clusters with six projects selected. We are also growing our international
 research collaborations, for example, a new MRC-funded Korea-UK consortium Establishing
 Precision Medicine in Severe Asthma has been established (PRISM; £1.2m Chung);
 MRC/Japanese Agency for Medical Research and Development funded partnership with
 Kumamoto University (Bangham) and the EU funded DIAMONDS consortium (22.5m Euro,
 Levin) involving teams in Australia, Austria, France, Gambia, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia,
 Nepal, Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland, and Taiwan.

 4.2 Public engagement:
 Imperial works with a broad array of stakeholders and audiences. We consider our interactions
 with the public to be key to our continued success. Across FoM, researchers and students have
 partnered with the public through a range of initiatives and events.

   Public engagement (PE) activity                      Individuals           Participations1
   Staff
   Total staff active in public engagement              275                   447
   Staff participating in centrally organised PE events 157                   200
   or programmes (e.g. Lates, Festival)
   Staff participating in centrally organised PE        142                   247
   training, awards or seed funding 2
   Students
   Total students active in public engagement           78                    94
   Students participating in centrally organised PE     50                    54
   events or programmes (e.g. Lates, Festival)
   Students participating in centrally organised PE     31                    40
   training, awards or seed funding 2
 1
  Figures are provided for both individual members of staff, and instances of participation –
 recognising that some members may have participated in more than one programme or more
 than once.
 2
  Only those receiving awards or seed funding are counted here (as opposed to all nominated).

   Funded through our BRC, PERC is a multidisciplinary group of clinicians, public health
 specialists, social scientists and public involvement practitioners, with strengths in quantitative
 and qualitative research methods working together to champion Patient and public involvement
 and engagement (PPIE). Headed by clinical epidemiologist (Ward) and anthropologist (Day,
 Goldsmiths, University of London), PERC promotes participatory approaches to improving
 healthcare and biomedical research. It has established the NIHR Imperial BRC Public Advisory
 Panel to act as a “critical friend” to the Imperial BRC; the ‘Champion Pairs’ scheme where a
 PPIE Public Champion is paired with a Public and PIE Theme Champion for each of the Imperial
 BRC’s research themes to offer advice on PPIE; developed innovative ways to get the public
 interested and involved in research e.g. PPI Cafés, LOL Labs and Maintains a PPI Resource
 Hub for researchers to provide guidance and further resource. Since 2017, 641 researchers and
 students, and 91 members of the public, have participated in public involvement training through
 PERC. PERC have run four small grant schemes to support Imperial NIHR BRC researchers to
 undertake public involvement and engagement activities to enhance the translation of
 biomedical research. PERC also manage VOICE, an online platform for public and patient
 involvement and Engagement. From January 2019 to November 2020, PERC hosted 106
 opportunities on the VOICE online platform that collectively involved at least 628 public
 members.

   Infectious, Imperial Lates, November 2019: Over 80 infectious disease researchers and
 students worked with Imperial’s Public Engagement team to deliver an interactive evening
 comprising creative workshops, games, exhibits and talks all themed around the fight against
 infectious diseases. Over 800 members of the public attended throughout the three-hour
 evening event.


                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Body and Mind Zone, Great Exhibition Road Festival, July 2019: In our Body and Mind
 Zone, part of the first ever Great Exhibition Road Festival, over 100 medical researchers and
 students gave public visitors an opportunity to experience the ways science is uncovering the
 inner workings of our bodies.
   People’s Research Cafés: Designed by five Imperial research centres in partnership with
 patients and members of the public to give the public a flavour of public involvement by giving
 them the chance to contribute to real-life research projects. We have undertaken nine People’s
 Research Cafés with over 612 attendees.
   Pop-up shops: Heart and Lung Repair Shop (2014) and The Heart and Lung
 Convenience Store (2015) in Hammersmith’s Kings Mall, London. Over 30 NHLI scientists
 collaborated with designers and performers to develop the demonstrations for our shop and
 interactive exhibits. We received over 5000 visitors over two 2-week periods. Events were
 funded by the Wellcome Trust, supported by The Kings Mall, Hammersmith, Alivecor, and Digital
 Health Kitchen Fun Kids. The Heart and Lung Convenience Store featured in a Time Out article
 about the best pop-ups happening in London in October 2015 as well as other local press.

 4.2.1 COVID-19 and Public Engagement:
 We ran a “Let’s Talk About COVID-19” from June 2020, an online COVID-19 Q&A series,
 delivered in partnership between Imperial’s Public Engagement team, PERC and FoM
 researchers. 700 people participated live, and over 6,000 have watched the recordings. Since
 March 2020, PERC have involved 4,812 members of the public in a range of COVID-19
 community involvement activities in order to ensure their views, experiences and needs informed
 Imperial's research, engagement activity and outbreak response. Online, 420 people responded
 to a community involvement survey where they shared their views, experiences and unmet
 needs on COVID-19 to guide research. The report was published on 3 April 2020 and shared
 by Prevention Web, managed by the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR). We
 organised six Zoom calls with 253 members of the public to conduct online discussions to inform
 COVID 19 research including digital contact tracing, antibody testing, shielding guidance, how
 COVID-19 is influencing the health and wellbeing of adults living with HIV in the UK, and issues
 arising from our human challenge study with coronavirus in the UK.

 4.3 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline:
 Since 2014, several members of UoA1 have been rewarded for their services to research:

 Queens Honours Dame Commander of the British Empire (Fisher, Regan); Commander of the
 British Empire (Donnelly); Member of the British Empire (Levin); Regius Professor (Holden).
 Fellows of the Royal Society: Bangham, Bloom, Fisher, Reis e Sousa, Stoye)
 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences: Modi [Council member], Apperley, Barclay,
 Belvisi, Bennett, Chilvers, Custovic, Donaldson, Ferrer, Ghani, Hallett, Hill, Holmes, Howes,
 Johnston D, Johnston S, Kroll, Lloyd, Maitland, Merkenschlager, Miguel-Aliaga, Newman-Taylor,
 Pennell, Reis e Souza, Rosenthal, Seckl, Shattock, Wedzicha, Weber [Council member; chair
 SC6], Wilkins, Wilkinson, Williams G, Woodward
 EMBO Fellows: Freemont, Hajkova, Holden, Miguel-Aliaga, Penades, Scott, Wigley, Zhang
 NIHR Senior Investigators: Alton, Coombes, Davies, Frost, Holmes, Johnston, Sever, Thursz,
 Wedzicha.
 Wellcome Trust Investigators (Aragon Alcaide, Asquith, Bangham, Barclay, Bassett, Botto,
 Brueggemann, Dorner, Ferrer, Grundling, Holden, Lenhard, Maertens, Rutter, Speck, Strid,
 Thomas, Wigley (x2), Wigneshweraraj, Williams, Zhang)
 Fellow of the US Institute of Medicine (Darzi)
 EPSRC Council member (Darzi).
 Our highly cited researchers (Web of Science, top 1% by citations) include: Barnes (Cross
 field 2016, 2018, 2020), Johnston, S (2018), O’Garra (2015), Carling (Biology and Biochemistry
 2014), Froguel (Molecular Biology and Genetics 2014-2018), Holmes, E (Pharmacology and
 Toxicology 2014, 2018 and 2020) and Marchesi (Cross Field 2020).

 4.3.1 Participation and contribution to peer review process:


                                                                                         Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MRC: Boards (Brown, Freemont, Bangham, Custovic, Harding Haskard, Miguel-Aliaga, Rutter,
 Stoye, Withers); Training Panels (Carling, Dhillo, Marchesi, Thursz); Translational panels
 (Bloom, Delaney, Griesenbach, de Silva, McNeish, Weber); Regenerative Medicine Panels
 (Wilkins [Chair], Harding); Global Challenge Research Fund (Maitland); AMR: (Holmes,
 Wigneshweraraj).
 BHF: Council Member (Wilkins); Project Grant Committee (Carling, Cowie, Mason [Chair], Lyon,
 Whinnett); Fellowship Committee (Randi, Wilkins); Chairs & Programme Grants Committee
 (Harding);
 CRUK: Board Member (Fisher); Clinical Careers Committee (McNeish), Early Detection and
 Diagnosis Research Committee (Hanna), Prevention and Population Research Committee
 (Delaney); New Agents Committee (Brown [Vice-Chair]); Clinical Trials Awards and Advisory
 Committee (Gabra); Science Committee (Coombes)
 BBSRC Research Committee A (Gardiner, Langford); Research Committee E
 (Wigneshweraraj); General Pool (Knopfel); Grants Panels C and D (Braga).
 EPSRC Council member (Darzi)
 Wellcome Trust: Interview Committees: Clinical (Botto, Maitland), Sir Henry Dale Fellowship
 (Fisher, Strid), Basic Science (Barclay); Science Interview Panel (Lloyd); Seed Awards Grant
 Panel (Strid); Expert Review Groups: Belvisi, Ferrer, Grundling, Merkenschlager, Strid,
 Tybulewicz, Williams, Williams G); International Research Scholars Interview Committee:
 Asquith
 NIHR Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation (Alton [Deputy Chair], Lalvani, Thursz, Weber);
 Health Technology Assessment (HTA) Programme (Ahmed, Davies, Oliver); Research and
 Innovation for Global Health Transformation (Maitland); NIHR Infrastructure Training Forum
 (Dhillo [Chair]); NIHR Doctoral Research Training Fellowships Panel (Dhillo); Research for
 Patient Benefit London Review Panel (Gale, Jayasena, di Simplicio); NIHR Senior Investigator
 panel (Weber).
 ERC Consolidator Awards Grant Panel (Apperley [Chair], Botto, Frost, Reis e Sousa,
 Schneider); Advanced Grant Panel (Rutter); Starting Grant (Emanueli, Frost, Harding,
 Rosenthal).
 Medical Research Foundation Grant Panel (Botto [Chair]); Emerging Leaders Prize (Altmann
 [Chair]); MRC-MRF Meningitis Research Foundation (Levin [vice chair]); AMR Doctoral Training
 Programme (Altmann)
 Versus Arthritis (formerly Arthritis Research UK): Haskard, Kelleher, Murphy, Mason [Chair]

 Other: Academy of Medical Sciences, Newton International Fellowship committee (Botto);
 Action Medical Research (Johnson, Sriskandan); Bloodwise (Dyson, Farrell, Karadimitris),
 Crohn’s and Colitis UK (Marchesi); Deutsche Forschungsgemeinscht (DFG), Member of grant
 review panel (Grundling); Diabetes Research UK (Frost, Froguel, Rutter); Fondation pour la
 Recherche Médicale (FRM), Funding Committee (Pelicic); Genesis Research Trust (Bennett,
 [Chair]); Kidney Research UK (Lightstone [Trustee], Tam); National Institutes of Health (Imami
 McClure, Rueda, Rutter, Shattock); NC3Rs Grant Assessment Committee (Ebbels); Novo
 Nordisk Foundation Funding Committee on Non-Diabetic Endocrinology (Williams, G); Royal
 Society Selection Committee Member (Hajkova); Canada Foundation for Research (Adcock);
 Polish executive government agency of National Science Centre (Wojciak-Stothard).

 4.3.2 Contribution to external bodies (NHS, Government, Industry, learned societies, not
 exhaustive, listed alphabetically by organisation):
 Academy of Finland, Research Council for Health (Ojala); All Party Parliamentary Group on
 Malaria (Cunnington); American Association of Cancer Research (Auner, Pinato); American
 Society for Microbiology (McClure); American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons (Murphy J);
 American Society of Virology (White R); American Thoracic Society (Donnelly); American
 Venous Forum (Davies); Asthma UK (Fleming [Chair]); Biochemical Society (Li J, Maertens,
 Pardo); Bone Research Society (Bassett [Executive cttee]); British Association for Cancer
 Research (Ali, Bevan); British Association of Urological Surgeons (Mayer); British HIV
 Association co-Chair of research and education committee (Fidler); British HIV Association
 Expert Group on Hepatitis (Cooke [Chair]); British Lung Foundation (Chilvers [Chair]); British
 Nutrition Foundation (Frost [Governor]); British Orthopaedic Research Society (Abel); British

                                                                                          Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Paediatric Respiratory Society (Davies [Chair]); British Society for Haemostasis and Thrombosis
 (Crawley [President]); British Society Haematology (Cooper [Trustee]); British Society for
 Immunology (Culley [Chair – Finance Sub-committee, Trustee and Treasurer]); British Thoracic
 Society guidelines for investigation and management of patients with bronchiectasis (Kelleher);
 Cancer Treatment Research Trust (Pinato); City & Guilds of London Art School (Kneebone);
 Clinical Advisor to the Chief Medical Officer (Pregnancy and neonates, Mullins); Coalition for the
 Advancement of a Vaccine Against Group A Streptococcus. HRC New Zealand/ NHMRC
 Australia initiative (Sriskandan); Diabetes UK, Clinical Studies Group (Oliver); European
 Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (Shamji [Chair - Research and Outreach
 Committee]); European Association for the Study of Diabetes, Fellow (Andrew); European
 Association of Urology (Mayer); European Crystallography Association (Chayen [vice Chair]);
 European Medicines Agency, Guideline on the evaluation of medicinal products indicated for
 treatment of bacterial infections’ (Drobniewska [co-chair]); European Respiratory Society
 (Donnelly); European Society of Emergency Medicine (Nijman); European Society of Intensive
 Care Medicine (Patel B); European Space Agency (Chayen); Faculty of Clinical Informatics
 (Mayer); Fellow of the Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine (Antcliffe); Fellow of the Royal
 Biological Society (Pardo); Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (Rueda); Genetic
 Technologies Contact Group, Royal Society (Freemont); Genomics England Clinical
 Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP) for Respiratory Medicine (Shovlin [Chair]); Guideline
 Development Group for NICE Clinical Guidelines on Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (Mullish);
 HSE Biosafety Strategic Forum (Robertson); HSE Scientific Advisory Committee on Genetic
 Modification (Contained Use; Skinner [Chair]); HSE Workplace Expert Health Committee
 (Cullinan); International Retrovirology Association (Taylor G); International Society for Human
 and Animal Mycoses (Armstrong-James); International Society of Magnetic Resonance in
 Medicine (Nielles-Vallespin [Chair]); Invited as an Expert Member on rapid diagnostics - UK
 response to COVID-19 outbreak, UK Parliament (Rodriguez Manzano); Joint Committee on
 Vaccination and Immunisation (Kroll); Mothers and Babies: Reducing Risk through Audits and
 Confidential Enquiries across the UK, Confidential Enquiry (Sriskandan); Metabolomics Society
 (Ebbels, [Secretary]), NC3Rs (Langford, Tregoning); National Medical Research Council
 (NMRC) Singapore (Edwards M); National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Davies
 [external advisor]); Pre-exposure Prophylaxis Policy Group (Fidler); Prostate Cancer UK
 (Bevan); Royal College of Art (Kneebone); Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists
 (Regan [President]); Royal College of Pathologists Ethics Committee (Cook T [Chair]); Royal
 College of Pathologists Joint Committee on Genomics in Medicine (Herberg); Royal Society of
 Biology (Rankin); Royal Society of Chemistry Fellow (Dumas, Ebbels, Posma);
 Scientific Advisory Committee on Genetic Modification (Contained use), HSE (Langford);
 Scientific Steering Committee on Antimicrobial Resistance for Academy of Medical Sciences
 (Holmes); Society for Endocrinology (Bassett [co-Chair], Franks, Murphy Sam); Society for
 Gynaecological Investigation (Bennett); Society of Critical Care Medicine (Komorowski); The
 Acid Fast Club (mycobacteria; Robertson [Treasurer]); The Global Agenda Council on the Future
 of Computing, World Economic Forum (Veselkov); UK Government Health and Safety Executive
 (Buckle); United Kingdom and Ireland Liver Pathology Research Committee (Goldin); United
 Nations Convention on Biological Diversity advisor (Freemont); United Nations FAO / World
 Health Organisation Expert Consultation on Risk Assessment of Food Allergens (Turner); US
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Dorigatti, Walker); US President’s Malaria Initiative
 (Walker); WHO Committee on Selection and Use of Essential Medicines (Cooke [Chair]); WHO
 Core Components for Infection Prevention and Control Programmes: Guideline Development
 Group, (Holmes); WHO Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network (GOARN, Tudor-
 Williams); WHO Sepsis Alliance (Maitland); WHO Working Group on RSV Vaccine
 Standardization and Clinical Evaluation (Chiu); World Health Organisation, COVID-19 and
 Pregnancy Cohort Research Working Group (Mullins).

 4.3.3 Partnership with other Universities:
 Examples of our national and international collaborations are in section 4.1. In addition, some
 examples of visiting professorships include: Capital University, Beijing, China, (Bourne T);
 Kyoto University (Bangham); LSHTM, visiting fellow (Nijman); McGill University Canada
 (Cordeiro); National University of Singapore, (Freemont); Università degli Studi del Piemonte

                                                                                           Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Orientale Amedeo Avogadro (Pinato); University of Marseille (Cobb); University of Ioannina,
 Greece (Tzoulaki); Nanyang Technology University Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine,
 Singapore Visiting Professor (Chung, Rutter, Wedzicha), Taipei Medical University (Chung),
 Justus Liebig University, Giessen, Germany - Liebig (Wilkins), Visiting Researcher, Kings
 College London (Bernardino de la Serna).

 4.3.4 Examples of editorships and membership of major editorial boards, include:
 Acta Diabetologica (Dumas); American Journal of Respiratory & Critical Care Medicine (Belvisi,
 Custovic, Maher, Wedzicha); AIDS (Winston-O’Keefe); Blood (Randi); Blood Coagulation and
 Fibrinolysis (McKinnon, Editor-in -Chief); BMC Bioinformatics (Ebbels); BMC Developmental
 Biology (Dean); BMJ (Cooke, Holmes); British Journal of Pharmacology (Coen, MacLeod
 [Editor]); Cancers (Kypta); Cardiovascular Research (Terracciano); Cell Metabolism (Ferrer);
 Cellular Biochemistry (Allsopp); Clinical Endocrinology (Editor, [Dhillo], Jayasena); Clinical Mass
 Spectrometry (Want, Editor); Current Opinion in Cell Biology (Braga); Diabetes (Ferrer);
 European Journal of Immunlogy (Wilkinson); ESC Heart Failure (Foldes); Frontiers in Cell and
 Developmental Biology (Fisher, Field Chief Editor, Bernardino de la Serna); Frontiers in
 Endocrinology (dos Santos Cebola); Frontiers in Immunology, Molecular Innate Immunity
 (Botto); HIV Medicine (Cooke, Fidler); ISRN Genetics (Porter); Journal of Allergy and Clinical
 Immunology (Shamji); Journal of American College of Cardiologists (Cardiovascular Imaging,
 Pennell); Journal of Biological Chemistry (Rutter); Journal of General Virology (O’Hare); Journal
 of the American College of Nutrition (Posma); Kidney International (Cook T); Lancet Respiratory
 Medicine (Chung, Maher); The Lancet Child and Adolescent Health (Custovic); Methods (Li, J,
 Editor); Microbiology (Grundling); Molecular and Cellular Proteomics (Chai); Oncogene (Ali,
 Stebbings); PLoS One (Auner, Bernardino de la Serna, Tregoning, Winston-O’Keefe); PLoS
 Pathogens (Bangham, Cunnington, Johnston); Radiology (Rockall); Scientific Reports (Auner,
 Azuara, Coen, Dumas, Johansson, Kyrgiou Quinlan, Stebbings, Weber); Science Immunology
 (Lloyd); Thorax (Davies, Hopkinson, Jarvis, Quint); Vaccine (Altmann).

 4.3.5 Examples of fellowships, named lectures and awards received by our staff include
 (not exhaustive):
 American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine (AIUM), Honorary Fellowship (Bourne); American
 Thyroid Association Sidney H. Ingbar Distinguished Lectureship Award (Williams, G); British
 Cardiovascular Society James McKenzie Medal for services to British cardiology (Cowie); British
 Society Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology, Jordan/Singer Research Award (Kyrgiou); British
 Society of Gastroenterology, Young Gastroenterologist of the Year (Vergis); British Society of
 Gastroenterology, Young Gastroenterologist of the Year – Clinical & Translational Science
 (Mullish); European association for the study of diabetes, Albert Renold Prize (Ferrer); Helmholtz
 International Fellow Award (Fisher, Wedzicha); Hong Kong Society of Nephrology (Tam);
 Honorary fellowship, American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (Regan); Jedlik
 Anyos Award (Hungary, Takats); NIHR Academic Clinical Lectureship (Patel); Society for
 Endocrinology Medal (Dhillo); Society for Endocrinology, Early Career Basic Science Prize (dos
 Santos Cebola); Society for Endocrinology, Early Career Prize (Owen); Society for
 Neuroendocrinology, Michael Harbuz Prize For Young Investigators (Owen); Society of
 American Gastrointestinal & Endoscopic Surgeons (SAGES), Gerald Marks Rectal Cancer Prize
 (Alexander); Sylvia Lawler Award 2016, Royal Society of Medicine, 2016 (Pinato); US National
 Academy of Medicine (Regan); World Summer Davos Conference, 40 World Young Scientists
 (Li, J); European Federation of Immunological Societies Medal (Openshaw); European
 Respiratory Society Lifetime Achievement Award (Bush); European Respiratory Society Gold
 Medal for COPD (Adcock); European Respiratory Society Maurizio Vignola Gold Medal in
 Asthma (Custovic); Founding Fellow of European Respiratory Society (Alton); Tenovus Medal
 Lecture for outstanding biomedical science (Boyle); TEDx Talk (Dorigatti); Trudeau Medal,
 American Thoracic Society (Barnes); Fellowship of the American Thoracic Society (Barnes,
 Chilvers, Donaldson); NIHR Lead Investigator Award Commercial Trials (Davies J); British
 Society for Rheumatology, Heberden Oration and Medal 2018 (Mason); Phadia Allergy
 Research Forum (PhARF) Award (Turner); Fellow of American Association of Physicians
 (Barnes); Fellowship of the European Society of Cardiology (Ng, Khamis); Fellowship of the
 Academy of Sciences and Arts of Bosnia and Herzegovina (Custovic).

                                                                                             Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.4 Contribution of our clinical colleagues:
    Partnership with the NHS is critical to our mission. Since REF 2014, we have formalised
 clinical academic training through CATO and, in recognition of their importance to our research,
 Imperial introduced the title of Professor of Practice in 2016. The Clinical Professor of Practice
 title recognises outstanding contributions to the College in the field of research and education.
 We currently have 66 Professors of Practice based within our AHSC partners. In addition, we
 have 246 honorary staff within UoA1. These are able to apply for research funding through their
 host department and our NHS honorary staff have raised £48m research income. Some notable
 examples include Professor Jaspal Kooner who leads the LOLIPOP cohort and South Asia
 Biobank funded by the Wellcome Trust (£5.2m), Professor Jamil Mayet leads our NHIC
 cardiovascular programme and Professor Tricia Tan has been funded £2m to study obesity and
 metabolic medicine (NIHR, NovoNordisk). Our NHS partners also have a wide portfolio of
 collaborative commercial trials (£16m per year) led by senior clinicians and key opinion leaders
 and enabled by their patient populations, including nationwide referrals.

   As well as the direct contribution to research, their contribution to Faculty life cannot be
 overestimated. They have been involved in 9 of our impact case studies across the Faculty. Our
 highly successful CATO is run by Professor of Practice Jeremy Levy, Mary Wells is the Lead
 Nurse for Research at ICHT and a Professor of Practice in Cancer Nursing at Imperial College,
 leading the development of clinical academic careers and research in nursing and midwifery.




                                                                                            Page 43
