UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Institution: Queen Mary University of London

Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

Since the 2014 REF the research activity and culture of the School of Politics and International
Relations (SPIR) have been greatly enriched by the School’s impressive growth. In 2014 21.5
research active staff were returned; in 2020 it is 39.2. In 2014 our staff included 6 ECRs; in 2020
there are 14. At the last REF SPIR reported 9 PhDs awarded, in the current round there have
been just over 45. The number of post-doctoral researchers has more than doubled. Total
research income in 2008-14 amounted to £573,500; over this cycle it has been £3.6 million. We
have significantly strengthened previous areas of specialism (Middle East and Africa; migration
and citizenship; populism; political theory) and added expertise in new areas (South Asia;
environment; technology and security; politics and art) to produce a notable creativity in research.

SPIR’s Research Strategy is underpinned by the importance of a diverse, interactive research
culture and supportive infrastructure to nourish the production, dissemination and application of
new knowledge in Politics and International Relations (IR). Our success in creating and sustaining
these through a variety of subsidiary strategic aims (see below), has produced major
improvements since 2014 over the range of our research work. We have extended and deepened
our national and international research networks and collaborations. We have further developed
and diversified the range of the impacts of SPIR research on public understanding, debate and
policy. We have considerably enhanced our contribution to sustaining the discipline and the
profession.

SPIR’s main areas of research specialism are: Comparative Politics, including British and EU
governance, politics and policy, and regional expertise on Africa, Latin America, Asia, the Middle
East and North Africa (MENA); Political Theory, including international political theory, critical
political theory and history of political thought; and International Relations, including
international security, international political economy and international political sociology.
Research across all of these areas is facilitated by the work of four thriving Research Units:

Mile End Institute (MEI)

The MEI, successor to the Mile End Group and run in partnership with the School of History, is a
hub for research, public engagement and impact on British politics, governance and public policy.
It runs high profile, well-attended public events on British politics and policy. Speakers include the
MPs Rory Stewart, Chris Skidmore, Jo Swinson and Yvette Cooper; Lord Heseltine, Neil Kinnock
and Matthew d’Ancona. Research that it has hosted since 2014 includes the ESRC-funded
projects, English Votes for English Laws (EVEL) and Party Members in the UK (PMP). It is
also responsible for the highly influential London Polling in the Evening Standard (for further
details see REF3 and Sections 3 and 4 below).




                                                                                               Page 1
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Centre for European Research (CER)

CER, a Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence, is an interdisciplinary forum for the promotion of
research on Europe. It hosted the international UACES (University Association for Contemporary
European Studies) conference in 2016. Research in CER includes ESRC funded collaborative
research with colleagues at the Universities of Birmingham and Loughborough on Populism,
Norwegian Research Council funded collaborative research with the University of Bergen on
Gendered Electoral Financing in Comparative Perspective. The research of CER scholars
has impacted on policy practice (for example Wolff and the 2015 EU Migration Crisis). CER
research also engages with audiences beyond the academy in the Debating Europe Podcast
series (for details see Sections 3 and 4 below). In 2019 the CER received funds from the
European Commission to support the NEXTEUK project on UK-EU relations.

TheoryLab (TL)

TL provides a forum for critical thinking about politics and society by exploring links between
different strands of critical theory within and beyond the study of politics. TL scholars have with
national and international partners, including on The Analytical/ Continental Divide in Political
Theory (with University of New South Wales and Melbourne University) and the Leverhulme
funded project Women and the History of International Thought (with the University of
Sussex). They are also involved in activist scholarship and public engagement, for example
through work for the International Committee for Robot Arms Control (Schwarz), the London
Dialogue Society (Thomassen), and the collaboration of Shilliam (now at Johns Hopkins) with
Rastafari groups and the Brixton Black Cultural Archives. TL hosted a Visiting Leverhulme
Professor in 2014-15 (for details see Sections 3 and 4 below).

Global Politics Unbound (GPU)

GPU brings together scholars interested in current transformations in global politics. Research
themes include political violence, migration and mobility, citizenship and performative theories
and methodologies. A successful £1million+ bid for a 5-year Leverhulme Doctoral programme,
Mobile People was led by GPU scholars in 2017. Research based in GPU has generated 3 of
SPIR’s 4 REF impact case studies, including Harman’s prize-winning film project on The
Everyday Risks of Living with HIV/AIDS, Pili (see REF3). GPU leads the energetic Cross-
University of London research group in International Political Sociology, which supports a PhD
Seminar involving students from QMUL, King’s College London (KCL), the London School of
Economics (LSE) and the School of Oriental and African Studies(SOAS) (for details see Sections
3 and 4 below)

SPIR collaborates with colleagues from other disciplines in the Faculty of Humanities and
Social Sciences (HSS) through the above forums, other interdisciplinary centres within HSS, and
the Queen Mary Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences (IHSS; see REF5a, 2.5),
which facilitates cross-disciplinary collaboration focused on themes such as mobility, democracy
and work. IHSS is supporting three SPIR ECRs (Humphris, Plonski, Younis) to devote three years
primarily on research with a much reduced teaching load. SPIR staff are partners and participants
in the Centre for the Study of Political Thought (School of History) and Centre for Law,
Society and Democracy (School of Law).



                                                                                             Page 2
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
We are fully committed to inclusion, fairness and integrity in the conduct of research and the
development of research careers (see Section 2 below) and adhere to the requirements of the
Queen Mary Policy on Research Integrity (see REF 5a, 5iii) and the UK Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers. All staff have a research mentor, separate
from the University’s appraisal system (see Section 2, People).

Research Strategy 2014-2020

In REF2014 we identified five key objectives for our overarching research strategy. Their strategic
implementation and realisation are summarised below grouped under three headings, followed by
our plans looking forward beyond 2020.

  i.    Research Culture and Profile

Our Goal was to develop SPIR’s research culture, enhancing SPIR’s national and international
research profile through the activities of research units, establishing the MEI as a centre for
research and public engagement in UK politics, governance and policy.

Our Strategy for this was to appoint staff who strengthened and complemented SPIR’s core
research areas, to invest in recruitment of post-doctoral and doctoral researchers, and to increase
funding for research, from internal and external sources. We expanded administrative support for
the research units, with a new full-time Research Manager, and dedicated SPIR administrators for
publicity and events and the MEI, making a major investment in collaboration with the University,
colleagues in History and across the Faculty. The system of research mentorship was made more
consistent and centred on the discussion of colleagues’ annual personal research plans.

Realisation: Since 2014 there has been a net gain of some 18 permanent research staff
specialising in our key research areas. We have recruited 7 funded postdoctoral scholars as well
as having a much larger PGR cohort than in 2014 (see Section 2). All incoming scholars have
added to the depth, breadth and international reach of SPIR scholarship, manifested in an
exceptionally strong publication record as well as a diverse range of funded research projects and
impact cases. In addition to the British Academy; the ESRC; the Leverhulme Trust; and the
Commission of the European Community, funders have included The Research Council of
Norway; AXA SA; the McDougall Trust; and the Independent Social Research Foundation (ISRF).
The rise in active research staff in addition to the increase in internal and external funding (see
Section 3) has enabled a significant growth in research events and initiatives organized by SPIR
research units. Research units and the IHSS have hosted visiting scholars from Africa, the US,
Latin America and Europe, including a Leverhulme Visiting Professor in 2014-15. Investment in
staff and direct funding to the MEI has enabled it to expand its outreach and public engagement
activities, and the impact of its research on politicians, policy practitioners and the general public.
This is in addition to attracting ESRC funding of £2.6 million for 12 research projects, including
Bale’s Party Members in the UK project, which is the basis of a REF Impact Case Study (see
REF3 and Sections 3 and 4 below).

  ii.   Public Engagement, Impact and Open Access

Our Goals were to develop capacity for public engagement and impact, as well as accessibility,
of SPIR research, and to embed impact in SPIR’s research agenda.



                                                                                                Page 3
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Our Strategy was to put in place policy, training, funding and publicity mechanisms to support the
mainstreaming of impact-related activities into the SPIR research agenda for researchers at all
career levels. We planned to develop our Open Access (OA) policy and work with the University
to fulfil the aim of 100% of all SPIR journal articles, chapters and conference papers being OA
(green route) by 2020.

Realisation

Policy: Public engagement and impact dimensions of research are recognised as core academic
functions within mentoring, appraisal and promotion systems. The SPIR Impact Lead and
individual Research Mentors provide ongoing sources of advice and peer review for all staff on
public engagement and research impact. Line Managers highlight public engagement and impact
activities in support of promotion cases. The SPIR workload model enables flexibility in order for
staff to take advantage of public engagement and research impact opportunities, and to support
the generating and capturing of impact. Non-academic users are integrated into SPIR’s research
culture through the attachment of practitioner Visiting Fellows to Research Units, and through the
MEI’s participation in the CSaP Policy Fellowships Affiliate Network.

Training: Basic and advanced training on public engagement and research impact is available to
all staff and PGRs. This is delivered by SPIR directly through dedicated workshops and seminars
and the internal PGR training programme, through the HSS Early Career Network and centrally,
through the QMUL Centre for Academic and Professional Development (CAPD) and the Doctoral
College (see REF5a, Vii).

Funding: A portion of SPIR’s internal research budget is dedicated to supporting impact-related
work. Authors of Impact Case Studies have reduced teaching loads that have to be covered. In
addition, staff are able to apply for a range of additional funds from the Faculty and University,
such as the HSS Research Impact Awards, or HSS administered HEIF funds for collaboration
with external users. Information about University level and UK level funding for impact-related
activity is regularly circulated to staff.

Publicity: The SPIR Publicity Manager and Events Assistant and the dedicated administrator for
MEI and CER together ensure the widest possible publicity for research with potential impact
through our twitter and blog accounts as well as extensive mailing lists. Where practicable,
relevant events are web-casted, podcasted or videoed to maximise their audience. The QMUL
Centre for Public Engagement provides expert assistance for staff engaging with all forms of
media (See REF5a, 5ii).

Open Access: We have trained all research staff, with the assistance of the Research Manager
and in collaboration with the QMUL Library, in how to upload their publications onto Elements
(formerly Queen Mary Research Online). All staff are regularly reminded to make their research
available and to factor in ‘Gold Access’ costs for publications planned as outcomes of funded
research. Some funds are made centrally available to support Gold Access where an output is
considered to be likely to have particularly powerful academic or non-academic impact.

We can trace the success of the above measures in the impact achieved by Bale, Harman, Jones
and Phillips (discussed in REF3), and in the public engagement and research impact
achievements of other colleagues. Seed funding from SPIR, the Faculty and University, and relief
from other duties, have supported all of our impact case studies. For example, Faculty funds
supported Harman’s research impact in both development and delivery, including the funding of a


                                                                                             Page 4
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
screening of Pili at a STOP AIDS event. SPIR funding supported the production of Bale’s
Grassroots pamphlet for his Party Members in the UK project. SPIR funding enabled Phillips
(The International Relations of the Syrian Civil War) and Jones (Informing UK Policymaking
on Myanmar/ Burma and International Sanctions) to disseminate their research and make
contacts with non-academic users. All four colleagues received relief from other duties in order to
create time for their impact-related work. In addition, HSS Faculty funding supported the London
Polling initiative at the MEI. SPIR funding has supported research impact as varied as the policy
impact of the English Votes for English Laws ESRC funded MEI project, and the enhancement
of public knowledge and understanding achieved through Davis’s work curating an exhibition on
Activist Intellectuals (see Section 4 for details).

 iii.   Funding for Research and support for PGR programme

Our Goal was to increase and diversify research income; and enable a sustainable increase in
both PGR numbers and timely submissions.

Strategy: We set out to appoint a Research Manager with specific expertise in the process of
applying for grant funding. Specialist training in how to apply for research grants to all academics,
including ECRs, was set up, and a new, regular allocation of seed funding and time resource for
collaborative work on preparing grant proposals. An in-house peer review of funding applications
was established, and discussion of potential funding opportunities was integrated into the annual
research mentoring process. Together with Faculty support, we sought to increase advanced
awareness of funding opportunities, planning ahead of calls from Research Councils and other
bodies. The internal funding of SPIR PhD students was expanded through establishing Graduate
Teaching Assistant (GTA) studentships. Full advantage was taken of collaborative opportunities
for establishing and contributing to ESRC and AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and
other doctoral training programmes. We worked with PhD applicants to maximise the quality of
applications for the award of Queen Mary Principal Studentships, as well as ESRC, AHRC and
Leverhulme awards.

Realisation: In 2008-2013, SPIR average annual research income from external funders was
£115,000, this rose to £673,000 per annum in 2015-2020. For example, the global amount of
ESRC funding gained during this period rose from zero to £2.6 million. SPIR has funded 2 GTA
PhD scholarships annually since 2015. Members of SPIR were actively involved in the application
for the collaborative ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Programme
(LISS – with King’s College and Imperial College, established 2016) and the AHRC London Arts
and Humanities Doctoral Programme (LAHP, established in 2018). SPIR took the lead in the
successful QMUL application for a £1+ million Leverhulme Doctoral Programme, Mobile People,
which it now co-directs. HSS has also expanded Queen Mary Studentships, to which SPIR
students can apply to the value of £1million annually. The overall pattern is that PGR recruitment
has risen since 2014 (see figures in Section 2 below). SPIR has received 28 PGR studentships
since 2014.

Strategy Beyond REF2021

SPIR has been very successful in following through on its objectives from 2014. It is, however,
fully conscious of a changing UK and international research landscape and the need to adapt so
as to maximise its key research goals of producing world-leading publications, making significant
contributions to public understanding and the public good, sustaining an empowering research

                                                                                              Page 5
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
culture, and diversifying sources of income for its research and the impact of that research. With
this in mind, SPIR has identified two additional objectives to incorporate into its research strategy
over the next REF cycle. First, to improve its capacity for generating research income in the
context of national and international research funding being increasingly hypothecated to specific
policy priorities. Second, to build on its strong track record of inter- and cross-disciplinary work to
expand it capacity to participate in major collaborative, interdisciplinary research projects.

SPIR already incorporates awareness of national and international research priorities into its
appointments process. With this in mind, it has extended the range of methodological expertise in
its researchers over the last 3 years, and invested in research expertise likely to be of continuing
significance (for example, big data; security; mobility; populism). It has also, in collaboration with
HSS, improved its tracking of research funding calls, and its capacity to keep staff informed about
upcoming developments. Nevertheless, if it is to continue its recent trajectory in terms of gaining
research funding, it will need to improve its capacity to respond quickly to research calls for large-
scale collaborative projects.

The track record of SPIR researchers in interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary work is assisted
by support for interdisciplinary research at the Faculty and University levels and by the explicitly
interdisciplinary nature of our research units (REF5a, 2,5). In addition, SPIR has been addressing
interdisciplinarity at a more grass roots level through its involvement in the design and delivery of
London Interdisciplinary Social Science and Leverhulme Mobile People doctoral programmes.
Both of these programmes provide PhD students with an interdisciplinary training. Building on
these strengths, our aim over the next REF period is to further embed collaboration across
disciplines into our research strategy and infrastructure.

2. People

Staff Recruitment and Development

Staffing Profile
Since January 2014 SPIR followed a strategy of managed growth, which we now view as
consolidated. Staff recruitment is managed according to best practice in terms of Equality and
Diversity, and all SPIR posts are advertised as welcoming applications from women and BAME
candidates.

Appointments have been targeted at growing and consolidating areas of research strength in
Comparative Politics, International Relations and Political Theory. There have been 23
permanent appointments since January 2014 (5 at professorial level); 12 members of staff have
left, died, or retired over the same period. This follows the previous REF period (2008-2013) when
there was a growth of almost 50% in full time, permanent staff. SPIR currently has 12 Professors;
8 Readers; 13 Senior Lecturers; and 11 Lecturers amongst its research staff. We have appointed
staff to 7 fixed-term postdoctoral research fellowships, funded by ERC, Leverhulme, AHRC and
Newton fellowship schemes.

In addition to appointments of research staff, SPIR has also appointed a range of research
support staff since 2014. These staff support the work of the Research Director, Impact Lead and
Director of Graduate Studies. They include a full-time Research Manager, Publicity and Events
Officers and dedicated administrative support for the MEI and CER.


                                                                                                 Page 6
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Only three of SPIR’s current professoriate are within ten years of normal retirement, and there is
a generation of very strong researchers at reader, senior lecturer and lecturer level. SPIR has
been highly successful in recruiting at all levels over the REF period. It has attracted high profile,
leading researchers as well as exceptionally promising early career scholars.

Continuous support and development for staff
All staff benefit from a range of policies and procedures intended to provide optimal support for
research as an integral part of an academic career. These include annual probation (for new
staff) and (thereafter) appraisal reviews, which set goals for staff development in research,
research dissemination and impact as well as teaching, and aid in preparation for applications for
promotion. SPIR has introduced an equitable workload policy that limits teaching hours to a
maximum of six contact hours a week (fewer for staff undertaking major administrative and
leadership roles). Staff benefit from 2 days per week during the teaching semester that are free of
teaching so that research can be undertaken throughout the academic year. Teaching is
research-led, and staff are encouraged to teach within their areas of expertise, ensuring that
teaching is complementary to research and that both areas of work are mutually reinforcing. Staff
are also entitled to apply for 6 months of research leave for every 36 months served. This leave is
granted subject to approval by a Faculty panel of research and publication plans, and the
submission of a post-leave report on their implementation.

Additional staff development includes a well-evolved and highly effective research mentoring
scheme. All staff are allocated a research mentor with whom they meet on at least a termly basis
to discuss research plans. All mentors are senior staff and offer feedback on draft work, as well
as broader guidance about research priorities, long-term goals, choices of publication outlet and
overall research trajectory. This process is facilitated by the use of annual Personal Research
Plans. These plans are very helpful to individual staff members in encouraging them to think not
only about their current plans but also their medium and long term research strategies. Staff
receive feedback on their plans from their mentors and the plans are also read by the Director of
Research, who offers additional support and guidance where appropriate. Staff preparing grant
applications enjoy a peer review process which extends beyond their mentors to include senior
staff with experience of gaining research funding and/or sitting on research grant-awarding
bodies. SPIR also organises a variety of in-house staff development and training sessions that
include applying for research funding but also cover a number of other areas, such as career
progression (particularly for ECRs), public engagement, and maximising research impact. These
staff development sessions are complementary to Faculty and University training in these areas
(REF5a,5.II).

Nurturing early career staff
SPIR has invested in attracting funded postdoctoral researchers (through matched funding,
organisation of workshops for applicants, providing support to prospective mentors), and has
been awarded 7 funded postdoctoral scholarships since 2014, from Leverhulme, AHRC &
Partnership for Conflict, Crime and Security (PaCCs), Marie Curie, and Newton Advanced
Fellowships. SPIR is committed to supporting the career development of all ECRs in the School.
We recognise the contribution that all staff make to the School, as well as the responsibility of the
School to give all our staff the opportunity to develop and fulfil their potential. We offer research
mentoring and support to staff on Teaching and Scholarship contracts who are planning on a
research career, in the same way as we also do for ECR staff in research posts. This includes:
being allocated a research mentor; the production of an annual Personal Research Plan; being

                                                                                                Page 7
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
enabled to play a full part in SPIR research culture and the work of its research units; and being
able to gain peer review of draft publications and research proposals that may have been
developed outside their contractual role. SPIR has also supported staff on fixed term posts to
apply for research funding for projects that it could then host, and was successful in this respect
in the award of an ISRF to an ECR in 2018. SPIR has also delivered career development
sessions for ECRs on issues such as: publishing, applying for research funding, research impact
and ‘how to get a job’.

ECRs also benefit from career development opportunities offered by the Faculty and University
(REF5a, 3.I). They are able to participate in the Faculty ECR network which was established to
offer support to researchers at the beginning of their academic careers. As well as regular talks
and workshops there are opportunities to meet other ECRs from across the Faculty to share
experience and knowledge in getting careers started. ECRs also have access to a wide range of
professional and research development courses offered by Queen Mary Researcher
Development and CAPD according to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. ECRs on fixed term contracts based at SPIR have moved on to positions at
Birkbeck College, Liverpool University, Edinburgh University, King’s College London, City
University, Leeds Beckett University, Manchester Metropolitan University, LSE, UCL,
Westminster University and QMUL itself.

Equality and Diversity
SPIR is fully committed to principles of Equality and Diversity in research, and ensures that these
principles are applied and supported in all facets of the School’s activity. It has made active
efforts to improve recruitment of research staff from those underrepresented in the profession,
and has appointed 6 women (including one Professor) and two BAME candidates to permanent
research posts since 2014, as well as three women postdoctoral research fellows. It has actively
supported the promotion of women and BAME colleagues, including to chair level (2 women and
1 male BAME colleague internally promoted to professor since 2014). SPIR’s commitment to
equality is reflected in the successful application for an Athena Swan bronze award in 2014. Our
significant investments in this area include the adoption in 2014-15 of a policy of giving a
semester of research leave to colleagues returning from parental leave. This has been pivotal in
minimising the disruption to a research career caused by parental leave and ensuring that
returning scholars can hit the ground running. SPIR also provides flexible support to staff affected
by illness or personal circumstances so as to minimise the disruptive effects on research careers.
Part-time staff are entitled to the same support as full-time, including research leave pro rata, and
the same Personal Research Allowance and access to the General Research and Scholarship
fund as full time staff.

SPIR has also designed its approach to internal REF preparations with Equality and Diversity
considerations in mind. Equality and Diversity is a standing item on the Research Committee
agenda, and a member of this committee also sits on the SPIR Equality and Diversity committee.
We are also fortunate in having the Faculty Equality and Diversity Lead, Rainbow Murray, based
in SPIR. In keeping with the Queen Mary Code of Practice, SPIR has set up transparent and
accountable procedures for processes of reviewing and selecting outputs and impact case
studies for REF submission. All those involved in managing REF processes have been given
dedicated Equality and Diversity training and undergone training in unconscious bias. SPIR
operates an Equality and Diversity audit to check the results of REF selection processes against



                                                                                              Page 8
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
Equality and Diversity criteria. All research staff have the right to be informed of REF-related
decisions and to appeal in accordance with the requirements of the University Code of Practice.

Research students

SPIR is committed to the sustainable growth of its PhD Research Programme (which does not
include professional doctorates). Its annual intake has grown steadily to 15 in 2019, when the
total PhD community stood at 30. It has a 100% 4-year completion rate 2014-19, with 45 awards,
compared with 9.4 in the previous REF cycle. In line with QMUL PGR codes of practice, SPIR
takes Equality and Diversity principles seriously in recruiting and supporting its PhD students. Its
procedures for student recruitment and nomination for studentship are transparent. Account is
taken of where candidates may have had career breaks for family reasons, and students are
supported if they need to take parental leave during the course of their PhD, or if they are
required to interrupt their studies for other reasons.

Our community of PGRs plays a major part in the research culture of the School. In addition to
attending the School Research Seminar, they are all attached to at least one of the research
units. This means they are involved in reading groups, work in progress seminar series, seminars
and workshops linked to particular research themes. A number of workshops and research events
have been organised by the students themselves, for example the Global Politics Unbound
research café event on transversal international politics in 2017, and the TheoryLab workshop on
Deleuze and Method in 2016.

Since 2014, we have been working to maximise the number of PGRs with fully funded
studentships. We have various potential funding streams to support students wishing to study
with us. These include QMUL Principal Studentships, which are funded and allocated centrally
by HSS; ESRC studentships, which are allocated by LISS, of which we are a member; and SPIR
Graduate Teaching Assistant studentships, which we allocate ourselves. Competition for all
these forms of funding is fierce; however, the calibre of the students that we attract has
contributed to our success in obtaining 28 studentships since 2014. We played a key role in the
successful bid for the ESRC-funded LISS DTP, run with KCL and Imperial, which replaced our
previous ESRC doctoral training centre (with Goldsmiths) and has funded 153 students since
2017. In addition, we are a participant in the AHRC-funded LAHP established in 2018. We took
the lead on a QMUL Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences bid for a £1+ million
interdisciplinary doctoral training programme, funded by Leverhulme, on the theme of Mobile
People. This was successful and has been directed from SPIR since September 2018 (this funds
an intake of 5 interdisciplinary students on the theme per annum for 3 years, with QMUL match-
funding an additional 2 studentships per year).

The support for PGR students extends far beyond helping them secure funding for their studies.
We recognise that PGR students are the future of our discipline as well as our ambassadors
beyond academia, and we have taken great steps to ensure an optimal experience for our
students throughout their time at SPIR. These include supporting the cost of research; providing
training throughout the course of the PhD; ensuring the integration of PhD students into the
intellectual and social life of the School; and monitoring students’ progress carefully throughout
their studies.




                                                                                              Page 9
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
In terms of supporting the cost of research, we provide a personal research allowance to each
student, which was increased from £500 to £750 per annum in 2018, as well as providing access
to the SPIR General Research Fund (GRF) for specific purposes. Students can also apply for up
to £2,000 of centralised QMUL funds to support fieldwork and conference attendance. Specialist
training is provided to our PGRs throughout their studies. In their first year, they are offered
foundational training in qualitative and quantitative methods, tailored to the specific needs of
students of Politics and IR. Our students also have access to the full range of methods training
courses offered by LISS and the QMUL Doctoral College (to which SPIR staff members
contribute). Students attend a weekly PhD Graduate Seminar, which includes training sessions in
the first semester and presentation of their research in the second. They have the opportunity to
undertake teaching in the School as part of their career development, and are offered tailored
teacher training as part of the ADEPT scheme. We also provide ECR and professional
development events within the School that are open to PhD students.

Students’ integration into the School takes a number of forms. Students have their own dedicated
room in the heart of the School with PCs; this, alongside the weekly Graduate Seminar helps to
foster a friendly and supportive community. Students also share the School common room and
kitchen space with staff, offering an inclusive social space for different members of the School to
interact with each other. PGRs attend the weekly SPIR research seminars, which commence
with an informal lunch, providing a further opportunity for intellectual and social exchange.
Advanced PGRs also have the chance to present at this seminar and receive feedback on their
work. All students present their work to the whole School once a year via poster presentations,
enabling students to get feedback from a wide range of colleagues and ensuring that all staff
engage with the intellectual work of our PhD community.

PGR students get a range of feedback on their progress throughout their studies. All students
are allocated two supervisors, ensuring diversity of feedback and perspectives. Students and
supervisors write reports after each supervision meeting which are recorded on the online PhD
Log. More formal progress reports are submitted regularly to the Graduate Student Research
Committee, alongside an annual progress report completed by both student and supervisor. All
students undertake a formal progression review at two critical junctures in their studies: towards
the end of their first year, and towards the end of their third year. The review involves an informal
viva with the student and two members of staff, who then produce a written report. Progression
reviews identify students who require further support before it is too late and give them the
opportunity to address any problems with their work. This rigorous process ensures that students
receive feedback from a variety of sources and their progress is monitored carefully to make sure
that they stay on track and derive the full benefit of their studies. Very occasionally, the review
process leads to cessation of enrolment.

Finally, all the PGR progress reports have a section dedicated to reporting conference and
workshop attendance, networking, and the development of research and research-related skills,
in the final stages with a particular view to preparing for transition into post-PhD careers.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

SPIR has been successful in substantially increasing external research funding applied for and
awarded in the 2014-20 REF period. Across all categories of funding, £3.4 million has been
awarded since January 2015 compared with £573,500 in the 2008-14 REF cycle. More than £2.5

                                                                                             Page 10
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
million was awarded by the ESRC, including £538,000 for Bale’s study Party Members in the UK
and grants to Allen (Political Careers) and Kenny (English Votes for English Laws). Other
grant successes include Gabay’s AHRC award of £164,000 to study Rising Narratives in
Contemporary Africa; and Harman’s £193,000 research impact grant from AXA for the film
project The Everyday Risks of Living with HIV/AIDS. SPIR has also attracted new staff with
existing research funding, notably Ryan’s ESRC New Investigator Award for, The Art of
International Friendship and Northmore-Ball’s British Academy award for work on Political
Socialization in Post-Communist Eastern Europe.

Many SPIR staff have received research funding as co-investigators on larger projects, through
funded fellowships and small grant schemes, including Murray (Norwegian Research Council);
Drolet (Canadian Social Science Research Council; Danish Velux Foundation); Jones (Australian
Research Council); Hutchings (Leverhulme); Brett (British Academy). Leverhulme Research
Fellowships have been awarded to Murray, Wolff and Kenny, and a Marie Curie Individual
Fellowship to Thomassen. Harman received the prestigious £100K Philip Leverhulme Prize in
2018; Eastwood and Plonski an AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship (£250K) in 2019.

SPIR has attracted many talented postdoctoral scholars, helping them to secure a variety of
funded positions, including two Leverhulme ECR Fellowships (total value £141k); two Marie Curie
Individual Fellowships (One Global Pathway and one European Pathway) (£176k); an
AHRC+PaCCS Postdoctoral Scholarship (£79k); a Newton Advanced Fellowship (£74k) and an
ISRF (£59K). As noted above, SPIR has also been highly successful in maximising sources of
funding for PGRs.

Aside from maximising external funding, SPIR’s aim over the REF period has been to optimize
the development of internal support for research and impact. In addition to the 40% of time
covering the research element in Teaching and Research contracts, we have improved the
provision of seed-funding and staff time for developing research proposals, funding applications
and research dissemination and impact. Staff are informed of funding and other support available
at the University and Faculty level, and they are actively encouraged to make use of them.

SPIR has put in place a range of infrastructure to maximise the support for research and impact in
its three core areas: Comparative Politics; International Relations; and Political Theory. Questions
about potential funding for research projects and for the dissemination and impact of research are
integrated into the mentoring research process; there is a system of internal peer review of grant
applications, and a SPIR Impact Lead to advise on pathways to impact and maximising impact.
The SPIR Research Director is given a teaching reduction in order to carry out the role. The
Research Director chairs the Research Committee (RC), which is responsible for developing
SPIR research strategy and policy as well as administering the GRF. The Research Director
works closely with a dedicated Research and Postgraduate Research Student Manager who
interacts with staff and PGRs, making them aware of funding opportunities, advising on long-term
research funding strategy and supporting them through all stages of preparing an application. The
Research Manager also provides support with the management of grants. She assists staff with
the implementation of the SPIR Open Access policy, and administers the PhD programme
including doctoral training in transferrable skills and the School’s impact related activities. In
addition, she plays a crucial role in staff development through supporting the annual research
training programme, and also organises workshops for applicants to postdoctoral award
schemes. SPIR has also invested in staff to support the co-ordination, dissemination and impact

                                                                                            Page 11
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
of the work of the research units, including the MEI administrator, the Events Assistant and
Publicity Manager.

This support is complemented by significant infrastructure at the Faculty and University level. The
Faculty Research Manager co-ordinates the HSS ECR network and liaises with School Research
Managers and Research Directors to ensure communication of relevant research information and
to co-ordinate cross and inter-disciplinary research bids. HSS also ran a training programme for
researchers interested in developing large scale research bids for which several SPIR staff were
selected (including Jones, Murray, Wolff). The University’s Joint Management Research Office,
including a specialist EU Unit, provides expert support for grant application and management,
including budgeting. In 2017 and 2018, SPIR collaborated with the EU Unit to put on workshops
for potential Marie Curie IF and GR applicants and their PIs, all of the applicants in 2017 achieved
over 90 in the scoring for their submission. The Faculty and University frequently runs workshops
to explain funding initiatives and showcase good practice (see REF5a.iii).

Alongside the development of human resource, SPIR has made a major investment in financial
resources to support and sustain research. The SPIR library budget has increased considerably
in recent years, and staff also enjoy access to the libraries of all other Colleges and Schools of
the University of London. Each member of staff is entitled to a Personal Research Allowance of
£1000 per year, to support a wide variety of research costs, from books and equipment to travel
and conference attendance. There is also an additional budget for computing costs (such as
laptops and software). Most significantly, SPIR has an extra budget of up to £50k overseen by
the GRF to which all staff and PGRs can apply. The objective of this is to distribute resources in
the most efficient and equitable manner possible, given that some staff members will require
much more financial support for their research than others in any given year. The fund has been
used creatively to assist and encourage a wide range of research activities, and staff have been
encouraged to apply whenever the need arises. All applications are considered by the School’s
Research Committee to ensure a fair and transparent process, but applications are treated
sympathetically whenever possible. Recipients of this pool of funding have been able to hire
research assistants, host events with international speakers, undertake fieldwork, run pilot
studies, develop networks, host book launches, undertake research impact and engagement
activities, hold workshops and seminars, and attend large conferences.

The Faculty and University also provide funds for a variety of research and impact activities, for
example: the IHSS Large Grant Seed-corn Fund, designed to provide support to academic staff
at various stages of their career. Its primary purpose is to pump-prime research leading to the
submission of externally funded research bids. A maximum of £2,000 per project is available
(Thomassen, 2018, conference on movement parties; Cowley, Polling London 2017). The HSS
Support for Capturing Impact scheme enables Schools in HSS to enhance their capacity to
capture research impact activity (Harman, 2018, to support the screenings of ‘Pili’; all Impact
Case Studies). The fund supports a range of activities that aid the demonstration of impact from
research already carried out that may have the potential to be developed into a REF impact case
study. The HSS Strategic Impact Awards, which provides pump-priming investment for the
development of new research impact activities that demonstrate a clear pathway to research
impact and have the potential to lead to future applications for external funding (Wolff, YouGov-
CER 2019 poll on Brexit). The University’s Centre for Public Engagement (CPE) funds small
awards for projects which are in need of small amounts of money, up to £1,000, to try something
new or to support short visits or one-off programmes of events (Wolff 2018 fieldwork in Calais);

                                                                                            Page 12
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
and larger awards for projects which will have a large impact or leave legacy resources (see
REF5a.2[5])

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

SPIR research depends on strong national and international research networks and
collaborations with academic and non-academic research partners. These links greatly fortify
SPIR’s expanded research culture and the range of its impact. SPIR sustains such relationships
in a variety of ways with practitioners and NGOs as well as HEIs.

The visit of Joao Pontes Nogueira (Pontifical Catholic University, Rio de Janeiro), a long-term
collaborator with Huysmans, through the IHSS Distinguished Visiting Scholar scheme in 2017
enabled the production of co-authored work as well as the setting up of an exchange partnership
between SPIR and the Institute of International Relations at PUC-Rio. That of Anselme Asseghna
Somda (Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso) under the same scheme, also in 2017, helped to develop
Brett’s work with the African Judiciaries Research Network. In 2014, SPIR funds supported
visiting scholars from the Ghana Centre for Democratic Development, enabling fruitful exchange
between the visiting scholars and Gabay’s and Harman’s ongoing research on Africa. SPIR also
hosted visiting UK and EU scholars, for example Dr Matthew Sleat, Sheffield University, 2015-16,
working with Kenny (now at Cambridge) on political realism; and Dr Claudia Brunner, University
of Vienna 2016, working with Hutchings on political violence. Toby Greene’s 2019 research
fellowship, funded by the EU’s Horizon 2020 programme, fortified our work on the Middle East.
Drolet’s ongoing collaborative project with partners in Copenhagen and Ottawa World of the
Right has supported research exchanges, including several visits to SPIR from Professor Michael
Williams (University of Ottawa), resulting in co-authored work with Drolet. This project also
includes provision for PhD student exchanges between the Danish Institute for International
Studies and SPIR over the course of the funding. QMUL provision for Associate PGR students
has also enabled students from Malaysia and Moscow to work with Jones and Hutchings
respectively. SPIR backed a successful bid for a Leverhulme Visiting Professor (Yannis
Stavrakakis, Aristotle University, Thessaloniki) led by Thomassen in 2014-15, which enabled a
series of TL events and research workshops for the development of staff and PGR research in
continental political theory. TL collaborated with the BISA Working Group on Ethics and World
Politics to host Catherine Lu (McGill) and Michael Goodhart (Pittsburgh).

SPIR funds research trips linking conference attendance, research, research dissemination and
impact activities. For example Phillips’ 2017 trip to the US, combined attendance at the
International Studies Association (ISA) conference with book launch events for The Battle for
Syria (see REF 2 and 3) and policy fieldwork. GRF funds are frequently used to fund QMUL
hosted seminars, to which international speakers are invited, and which also provide the
opportunity for collaborative publication and research planning. Wolff’s joint CER/ University of
Malta seminar on Democracy Promotion in the Mediterranean, which was the basis of a
Special Issue of Mediterranean Studies; the 2015 workshop run by Drolet and Dunkerley, which
was the basis for the Manchester University Press book American Foreign Policy: studies in
intellectual history; and the 2015 conference that led to the volume on Conservative leadership
edited by Bale and Diamond. Because of its location, SPIR is also often able to invite
international scholars temporarily based in London to speak at its various seminar series. In
2016, we hosted the annual UACES Conference, at which over 400 papers were discussed,
enabling our staff to showcase their work as well as consolidate and extend their scholarly
networks.

                                                                                           Page 13
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
SPIR encourages staff to take up fellowships and deepen institutional links with other universities
and institutes to enable research collaboration and broaden possibilities for research
dissemination. For example, Wolff is an ongoing Associate Fellow of the Netherlands Institute for
International Relations, Diamond is an Associate Member of Nuffield College, Oxford. Bale is
Deputy Director of The UK in a Changing Europe, based at King’s College, London. Murray was a
Visiting Fellow at Sciences Po (2015), Copeland at the European Trade Union Institute (2015),
Hutchings at the University of Tokyo (2018), Jones was the Lee Kong Chian Distinguished Fellow
on South Asia at the National University of Singapore and Stanford University (2015), Huysmans
was Visiting Professor at the Universities of Lapland and Groningen (2019), Hoover was a
research fellow at the University of Duisberg-Essen, and Gabay at the University of California’s
Humanities Research Institute (2018). Ongoing research collaborations of SPIR academics
include with scholars from UCL (Sajuria), Birmingham and Loughborough (Van Kessel), Sciences
Po (Murray), Pompeu Fabra (Thomassen), Oslo University, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, and Diego
Portales University, Chile (Bale), Institute for European Studies, Malta (Wolff), Rio de Janeiro
University (Huysmans), Ottawa University (Drolet), KwaZuluNatal (Harman). The International
research networks of SPIR staff extend across the EU (Copeland, Humphris,Wolff, Van Kessel,
Northmore-Ball), Africa (Harman, Gabay, Brett), Asia (Chatterjee, Hutchings, Jones, Isin),
Australia (Jones, Isin), Latin America (Bale, Dunkerley, Webber, now at York University, Ontario,
Sajuria, Ryan), the Middle East and North Africa (Eastwood, Khalili, Phillips, Plonski, Wolff,
Younis), and North America (Drolet, Isin).

SPIR fully recognizes the strategic importance of relations with non-academic partners, and it
actively promotes such relations in order to facilitate research, public engagement, research
dissemination and impact. This support includes the enabling of attachment of practitioner fellows
to research units, in particular the MEI, which participates in the CSaP Policy Fellowships Affiliate
Network. The resources and reputation of the MEI enabled Diamond’s and Kenny’s ongoing
collaboration with the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) and Local Government
Information Unit (LGIU), which resulted in an ESRC Case Award PhD studentship for a project on
Local Government in 2015. In 2020 Diamond co-authored the LGUI’s report on Covid. A very
different example of support for relations with non-academic partners would be SPIR seed
funding and time support for the work of Shilliam (now at Johns Hopkins) with Rastafari groups
retrieving the history of Rastafari in the UK, which resulted in a major exhibition in Ethiopia as well
as Britain, and a community conference, promoting public understanding of that history, as well
as in a series of academic outputs. Other kinds of relations with non-academic partners are
supported through SPIR’s hosting of funded research projects with an impact dimension, such as
Murray’s working with Women2Win (Conservative Party) and the Labour Women’s Network as
part of her Norwegian Research Council funded project on the gendered costs of running for
office, which will result in the production of reports for both organisations, advising them on how
best to support prospective electoral candidates. Our external ties are wide-ranging: Diamond sits
on the FCO Diplomatic Excellence Panel and is on the board of the UK Campaign for Social
Science, whilst Davis sits on the board of the Raphael Samuel History Centre and the jury of the
Isaac Deutscher Memorial Prize.

SPIR staff have very active relations with think tanks, community groups, museums, national and
international governmental and non-governmental organizations which enable the development,
dissemination and application of their research and expertise; including Policy Network (Bale,
Diamond), Bright Blue, Democratic Audit (Bale), Centre for Governance and Public Policy, Trans
Tanz, WHO (Harman), FCO (Jones, Phillips), UK Parliament (Cowley), Migration Museum (Isin),

                                                                                              Page 14
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
PAX, International Committee for Robot Arms Control (Schwarz), Dialogue Society (Thomassen),
Imperial War Museum (Phillips), Amran, an NGO representing families affected by child
separation in Israel (Eastwood). SPIR staff are directly involved in briefing governments and other
political organisations, for example Jones’s briefings to UK and other governments as well as the
Royal College of Defence Studies on Myanmar and China; Harman’s consultancy work with the
WHO, UN Women, and the Cabinet Office on COVID; Wolff’s briefing of the Dutch Advisory
Committee on Migration Affairs. In addition to Phillips (see REF 3), the following colleagues
provided evidence to parliamentary committees: Kenny (Public Administration and Constitutional
Affairs, Scottish Affairs and Procedure committees), Diamond (Public Administration and
Constitutional Affairs Committee), Gover (Procedure Committee), Harman (Women’s Equality and
Equality Committee; House of Lords Defence and International Relations Committee, Jones
(Foreign Affairs Committee) and Strong (Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs
Committee). Bale, Cowley, Gover, Murray Phillips, Sajuria, Schwarz, Thomassen, Van Kessel,
and Wolff all do other media and briefing work. Murray acted as analyst for the Economist
Intelligence Unit on the French elections and Cowley was one of the expert commentators in the
live Radio 4 coverage for the EU Referendum in 2016 and the UK General Elections in 2017 and
2019.

The transformation of networks, relations and dissemination activities into research impact is
directly enabled through targeted support. Applications are encouraged from all staff doing public
engagement and impact work. Such support is used to enable pathways to impact at different
stages of research development, from preliminary networking meetings with potential research
partners to the dissemination of research that impacts directly on practitioners. SPIR’s support
derives from internal sources, and from using funds such as the HSS Support for Capturing
Impact scheme (see above). In addition, we have supported applications for project funding for
impact-related work, notably Harman’s successful applications to AXA and for HEIF monies to
fund the prize-winning project ‘Expired on the Shelf’ (see REF3).

The strength and diversity of the impact of SPIR research is showcased in our impact case
studies (see REF3), all of which were directly supported by SPIR. In the REF period we have
provided time to Phillips to enable him to curate two exhibitions at the Imperial War Museums,
given funding to Harman to assist in the screening of her film Pili in Tanzania, time to Bale for
disseminating his research, tracking and collecting evidence of the impact of his Party
Membership project, and time and funding for Jones to maximise the impact of his research on
UK policymaking in Myanmar/Burma (see REF3). In addition, beyond our impact case studies, we
can identify a range of ways in which research in SPIR has had an impact on policy, public
debate and the public good over the REF period. Wolff’s research on EU border management
and migration, supported through SPIR funding, has been influential through her advice to the
Dutch Advisory Committee on Migration Affairs, the training she delivered to EU and Arab
practitioners, and her briefing papers to bodies such as OSCE (2015). Drolet’s collaborative
research on the radical right in the USA was presented in policy workshops at the Danish Institute
for International Studies (2018) and Global Affairs Canada (2019). We have provided funding to
support Davis’s work, which drew on her expertise on English socialism in curating an exhibition
on Activist Intellectuals (2016), enlarging public understanding of the history of UK left activism.
SPIR financial and time support facilitated Shilliam’s highly impactful research agenda on
Rastafarianism on the UK. This included his input into a very well attended international exhibition
on the historical significance of the Rastafari movement, first shown in Addis Ababa and later
touring the UK in 2015. The exhibition and associated conferences and community events

                                                                                            Page 15
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
transformed public knowledge and understanding of this history. We have also provided
resources to maximise the impact of the MEI-based, ESRC-funded English Votes for English
Laws project. The findings of the project were influential in framing national political and policy
debates on the issue. The research was cited in reports by three parliamentary committees:
Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs (HC253, 2015-16), Constitution (HL61, 2016-17)
and Procedure (HC189, 2016-17).

SPIR researchers play a major role in the sustainability of the disciplines of Politics and
International Relations nationally and internationally. They do this through their intellectual
leadership in a variety of sub-fields, through their involvement in the infrastructures that support
the maintenance of disciplines, including in relation to teaching, and through their mentoring,
training and support for the future of the disciplines in the form of doctoral and post-doctoral early
career researchers (see Section 2 above).

Four particularly strong examples of SPIR scholars leading disciplinary developments are:
Dunkerley, a foundational scholar for Latin American studies in the UK; Isin, a pioneer of
Citizenship Studies; Huysmans, a formative thinker in International Political Sociology; and
Shilliam (now Johns Hopkins), a leading decolonial thinker within IR. In 2017, Dunkerley’s
Rebelión en las Venas. Lucha Política en Bolivia was published by the Vice Presidency of Bolivia
as one of 200 titles issued by the Biblioteca Boliviana del Bicentenario on the occasion of the
200th anniversary of the republic, with a copy being deposited in every secondary school in the
country. Bale, Fagan (now at King’s College, London), Hutchings, Kiely and Murray have been
major shapers of the sub-fields of British Politics, Eastern European Politics, International Political
Theory, Critical Political Economy and Gender and Politics respectively. SPIR scholars are also
engaged in innovative approaches to work in Politics and IR, including the use of advanced
experimental and quantitative methods (Northmore-Ball, Cowley, Sajuria), of performative and
aesthetic modes of research (Isin, Harman), and of deconstructive and pragmatist modes of
political theoretical inquiry (Hoover, Thomassen). The potential of SPIR early career researchers
to become innovative leaders in their field have been recognised by the award of ESRC Future
Leaders’ (later New Investigator) awards (Allen, now at Bath University, and Ryan) and an AHRC
Early Career Leader Fellowship award (Gabay). SPIR scholars have been at the forefront of
research into key issues in contemporary Politics and IR, notably migration, populism and race
(Isin, Humphris, Huysmans, Manchanda, Thomassen, Saull, Shilliam, Van Kessel, Wolff).

SPIR has made a wide range of contributions to the national and international infrastructure of
Politics and IR over the REF period. In addition to hosting the UACES Conference in 2016 and
co-funding a variety of workshops and seminars in association with BISA, EISA, PSA and
UACES, we have hosted several international disciplinary journals and supported staff in
undertaking editing work. SPIR currently hosts the journals Mediterranean Studies (Lead Editor,
Wolff) and the PSA journal Politics (Lead Editors, Manchanda, Sajuria, Strong). The award of the
editorship of the latter journal was gained on the basis of a bid in which the career development
of ECRs at SPIR was an explicit aim, and was supported by two senior scholars as associate
editors (Cowley and Hutchings). In addition, SPIR has housed editors of the BISA flagship journal
Review of International Studies (Hutchings, Lead Editor 2014-15; Harman Associate Editor 2016-
2020), the ISA journal International Political Sociology (Huysmans), Global Society (Harman),
Citizenship Studies (Isin) and Eastern European Politics (Fagan). Many SPIR scholars are
members of international journal editorial and advisory boards, including for: Anuario de Estudios
Americanos; European Journal of International Relations; International Studies Perspectives;

                                                                                               Page 16
UoA19 Environment Statement (REF5b)
International Theory; Security Dialogue amongst others. They also edit or are on the advisory
board for various book series including: Routledge’s “Studies in British Politics” (Bale and
Diamond); “Studies in International Sociology” (Huysmans); and “Advances in Democratic
Theory” (Thomassen); Palgrave Macmillan’s “Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy”
(Jones).

SPIR staff have also played active roles within a variety of professional associations, including
UACES (Copeland), BISA (Brett, Harman, Hutchings, Hoover, Schwarz) and the PSA
(Manchanda, Sajuria, Strong). This work ranges from editing association journals, to sitting on
Book and Article prize committees, to setting up new working groups within associations (for
example Hoover’s and Schwarz’s co-founding of the BISA ‘Ethics and International Politics’
working group, Manchanda’s leading role in the BISA Colonial/Postcolonial working group, and
the EISA’s ECR Group, established by Huysmans). Staff have undertaken a large amount of peer
reviewing of publications and research grant applications, including for grant-awarding bodies,
ESRC, Leverhulme, AHRC, and ERC. They have also been members of grant-awarding bodies
(eg. Kenny on Leverhulme; Hutchings on Danish International Research Council).

The international reputation of SPIR scholars is evident in the range of keynote addresses they
have given, including in Brisbane (Bale, Ryan), Cambridge UK (Dunkerley), Chicago (Younis),
Copenhagen (Huysmans), Leuven (Schwarz), Tokyo (Hutchings), Yogyakarta, Indonesia (Isin),
Hay Book Festival (Manchanda). They have been recipients of a variety of prizes and awards.
Hutchings received the Inaugural BISA Professional Contribution Award in 2015; the
Distinguished Scholar Award from the Theory section of the International Studies association in
2016; and the Distinguished Scholar Award from the International Ethics and Theory sections in
2020; she serves of the international Skyte prize committee. Isin received a Distinguished Alumni
Award from the University of Toronto in 2017. Kenny was awarded the PSA W. Mackenzie Book
Prize in 2015. Harman received the PSA Joni Lovenduski prize for research impact as well as the
Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2018; she received the Hitchcock Public Award for Pili at the Dinard
British Film Festival in 2017, and was nominated in 2019 for a BAFTA for the production of that
film.




                                                                                         Page 17
