Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 15 Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 The Archaeology Unit of Assessment (UoA) at the University of Lincoln lies in the School of
 History and Heritage, part of the College of Arts. At the time of REF 2014 Lincoln employed no
 staff specializing in Archaeology. Since that time the University of Lincoln has made a major
 investment in this field with the appointment of three staff in Archaeology to form a new
 specialism. That reflects inclusion of Heritage as one of the six University research themes (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). Archaeology does not form a separate
 degree course, but contributes to research and teaching within the School of History and
 Heritage. It is one of a range of disciplines, including Conservation and Art History,
 which operate in an interdisciplinary manner to inform the broader study of the past within the
 School. The particular focus of the Archaeology staff is the historic period broadly defined,
 covering the Roman period to present, with a focus on the Middle Ages in North-West
 Europe, one of the areas of strength of the broader School. There are 3 FTE academic staff in
 REF 2021: Lewis (Prof) was appointed in 2015, Wallace (SL) in 2016 and Gardiner (Assoc
 Prof) in 2017.

 Achievement of Research Strategy
 As noted above, the first member of staff in Archaeology was appointed in 2015 and there was
 no previous REF submission for Archaeology UoA; consequently, this section discusses the
 strategy established and followed since that time. The research strategy of Archaeology at
 Lincoln in this REF cycle was:
 1. To support the University’s ‘local to global’ research themes with their particular commitment
 to the local community of Lincolnshire, while identifying the global significance, and enhancing
 social and cultural life both within and beyond our immediate community. Archaeology has
 established close links with the Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology, and other local
 volunteer groups, and with Lincolnshire County Council, applying its specialist knowledge to
 understanding the historic landscape (Lincolnshire Wolds Landscape Network), buildings and
 supporting the county’s Extensive Urban Survey. Research has drawn from studies in the
 locality to explore wider issues, including medieval settlement dynamics (Lewis) and Roman
 urban-rural interaction (Wallace).
 2. To foster emerging research strengths in archaeology of the historic period, rural settlement,
 the archaeology of buildings, community archaeology, heritage and wellbeing, and to carry out
 world-class research in these areas. This was done by seeking external funding to support
 fieldwork and community work. Gardiner obtained AHRC funding for fieldwork in Shetland and
 Orkney. Lewis has obtained a series of grants (detailed below) to examine the perceived value
 of heritage and apply that knowledge to communities to help them develop greater cohesion.
 That work includes an assessment of the value of heritage in Lincolnshire and a commission
 from Historic England to assess wellbeing outcomes from Heritage at Risk projects. Internal
 University funding led to the purchase of laser scanners to aid recording building plans and
 elevations.
 3. To compliment the strength of the School in the historical study of the later Middle
 Ages, through the use of interdisciplinary approaches. Archaeology has worked collaboratively
 with colleagues in Conservation (applying laser scanning technology to objects and buildings)
 and History (combining the evidence from written sources and the historic environment). The
 School’s research strength in the Middle Ages led to the establishment of a Medieval Studies
 Research Group to which Archaeology has contributed seminar speakers.

 Achievement of Impact Strategy
 This section discusses the impact strategy developed with the appointment of Archaeology
 members of staff. Lewis was appointed to Archaeology as a Professor for the Public
 Understanding of Research with the specific brief to engage hard-to-reach groups,
 particularly using the medium of Archaeology. PEARL (Public Engagement for All in Research at

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lincoln) was established in 2017 led by Lewis. PEARL supports broad academic engagement
 with the public through small project grants (31), an annual conference, resources, guidance and
 training. It supports national initiatives such as Pint of Science, Being Human and
 Café Scientifique.
 Lewis has developed her work to examine the potential of heritage in community-building.
 Shortly after her appointment, Lewis assessed the value local people and visitors placed upon
 the Lincolnshire’s heritage with funding from Arts Council England. She extended the work of the
 Higher Education Field Academy to Lincolnshire and worked with the community of a council
 estate in Gainsborough funded by AHRC. Her lighter administrative and teaching load reflects
 the importance given to that outward-facing role. The result has been that value of heritage and
 activities related to it are now widely appreciated. Her work in this field has
 contributed the two impact case studies for this submission. The first arises from the work
 undertaken in a late 20th-century council estate showing the use of communal spaces for play.
 The other used archaeology to develop local identity and well-being.
 Gardiner has worked with the University company, Lincoln Conservation, applying
 archaeological approaches to the recording, interpretation and conservation of buildings on
 behalf of the Heanage Estate, the National Trust and Fenland District Council, leading to a new
 understanding of structures. The work of Lincoln Conservation forms the Impact Case Studies in
 another UoA. Wallace has supported Wings to the Past, a community archaeology project
 funded by the Armed Forces Covenant with geophysical survey of the site of the excavation run
 by Lewis.
 The work of developing impact in Archaeology is supported by two Impact Support
 Administrators within the College of Arts.

 Research and Impact Strategy for the next five years
 During the next REF cycle, we will strengthen Archaeology by stressing Community,
 Internationalization and Interdisciplinarity and through the acquisition of increased grant money
 from both UKRI and other sources (target £0.65m).
 1. Our commitment to Community will build upon the University’s ‘local to
 global’ vision which prioritizes research that is locality relevant and has global significance,
 drives economic development and enhances social and cultural life. We will continue to work
 with groups, both in Lincolnshire and elsewhere, to strengthen their ability to do practical work in
 their areas, understanding and appreciating the significance of their heritage, and conserving
 their remains. To do this, we will (i) collaborate with our local and regional communities to
 ensure they benefit from our research and we deliver on our commitments as a civic university.
 (ii) We will ensure our research connects with and benefits more disadvantaged communities, in
 the UK and beyond, and (iii) ensure our research delivers specific identifiable benefits to
 heritage, including to curators, policy-makers, owners and consumers of heritage. Specifically,
 we will help local groups to identify resources within their community and, where appropriate,
 use grants from public bodies and charities. We will continue to communicate the results of our
 research in local lectures and field days. We will assist bodies, such as the National Trust,
 English Heritage, the Landmark Trust and local authorities, to understand and look
 after properties in their care. We will measure our success through the recognition of the
 University as a regional leader in heritage.
 2. Our work has increasingly developed an International aspect with the application of methods
 of investigation developed in the UK to areas elsewhere. We have begun this process with
 the Community Archaeology in Rural Environments grant and network which applies the
 technique of test-pitting throughout Europe, using it as a means to connect communities to their
 heritage. We will further develop international work with continuing co-operation
 with Deutsches Schiffahrtsmuseum, and the University of Tübingen, in the new AHRC-funded
 project on international trade with the Northern Isles of Scotland. We will seek further contacts
 with other international bodies. We will evaluate our success over the next cycle by the quantity
 of international interaction we achieve.
 3. We will work with colleagues in the University on Interdisciplinary projects
 using archaeological methods to develop novel insights into artefacts, buildings and
 landscapes, and their change through time. We will seek opportunities to work closely with our
 colleagues in History to look at the complex relationship between documentary sources and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 material culture. We will use equipment available within the School to develop the application
 of digital scanning to the investigation and display of artefacts and of buildings, and surveying
 equipment from Geography to record landscapes. We will do this by working through University
 Research Themes groups to seek out colleagues in other disciplines to work on common
 problems. Our level of interdisciplinary activity will be evaluated by looking at the number of
 joint projects undertaken and the significance of the outcomes.
 4. To facilitate these aims, we will build on successes in attracting external research Income and
 seek further sources of grant money and commercial contracts to undertaken research and
 impact-related work in the broad areas of Archaeology and Heritage. We will use the School’s
 commercial arm, Lincoln Conservation with its 3 FTE staff, to bid for contracts and undertake
 commercial work, augmenting externally funded work with university-supported research. We
 will further develop the research opportunities which arise out of this commercial work. We aim
 to attract at least £0.7m in external research funding over the REF cycle.
 5. We will attract a body of PhD research students, either to work on Archaeology or on
 interdisciplinary topics with an archaeological component. We aim to have 3 FTE self-
 funded students by the end of the next cycle.
 Specifically, we will work to establish Archaeology at Lincoln as a recognized centre, both locally
 and internationally, for the study of the historic landscape.
 To achieve these aims we will seek to appoint a further member of staff in Archaeology during
 the next REF cycle to develop the study of archaeology since AD 1500. We will work with
 colleagues at Lincoln Conservation to expand its digital capability to support our research and
 impact.

 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 Based in the School of History and Heritage, Archaeology was developed as part of the
 University’s commitment to interdisciplinary working. It was created to strengthen the work of the
 School which included not only the study of written History, but also the areas of Art History,
 Ancient History and Conservation. The appointment of Gardiner was specifically associated with
 the integration of practical Conservation undertaken by the University-company, Lincoln
 Conservation, into the wider research work of the School. In practical terms, the interdisciplinary
 approach has meant that detailed recording of buildings using laser-scanning has augmented
 research in the history of architecture (Art History), the archaeological study of buildings has
 been given depth by the application of Architectural Paint Research (Conservation), and the
 distribution of seal matrices has aided an understanding of the use of seals on documents
 (History). For example, a scanned survey of a National Trust house at Gunby (Lincs.) allowed its
 archaeological study and subsequently the recognition of its origin as a cottage ornée. Outside
 the School, Archaeology has collaborated with Design to investigate post-war Council housing
 estates. As a small group, Archaeology has obtained grants to work with external groups with
 complementary strengths. Gardiner has obtained grants to work with the historians and
 specialist archaeologists at the Deutsches Schiffahrtsmuseum and the University of Highlands
 and Islands. Lewis has had grants to work with (i) University colleagues in Business/Tourism,
 Computer Science, Design, Geography, Health/Social Care and Psychology, and (ii) scholars in
 the Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic to introduce participative community
 archaeology and collaborated with psychologists to measure its social impact.

 Progress towards Open Research
 Archaeology participates in the University’s arrangements for Open Access for research outputs,
 and all outputs submitted were part of the University Repository in keeping with the OA
 policies. The University Repository ensures that research outputs are uploaded once embargo
 restrictions are lifted in compliance with UKRI requirements. Beyond this, during
 this REF cycle both Lewis and Gardiner have edited volumes which have been made
 available free to download in their entirety. We will continue to seek funding in bid proposals to
 provide Gold Access to our publications. We will seek to migrate the digital records of Access
 Cambridge Archaeology to a Lincoln server to allow it to be augmented with further community
 archaeology datasets and the data to be made publicly available.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for Research Integrity
 The UoA’s approach to research integrity is governed by the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity and the University’s Code of Practice for Research (see
 institutional Environment Statement). The University instituted a new ethical approval procedure
 in 2018. All research projects undertaken by staff or PGR students must receive
 acknowledgement of a Project Registration Form, or a favourable opinion from a University or
 external ethical review committee. Ethics and research integrity are a standing item on the
 School Research Group, which oversees research in the School of History and Heritage, the site
 of the Archaeology UoA. The School Director of Research and the Research Office ensure that
 all grant applications from members of the UoA are in line with the legal and ethical
 requirements of the award-making body, including proper governance and transparency.


 2. People
 Staffing
 Three staff in Archaeology have been appointed since 2015 to provide
 an interdisciplinary character to the wider study of the historic past within the School of History
 and Heritage. Two of the appointments have been of staff at mid- or late career stage, while the
 third was an ECR. The aim has been to provide a body of experience in this new UoA, while
 planning for the future. The appointments have led to a strong emphasis on rural settlement
 with Lewis and Gardiner specializing in the later Middle Ages, while Wallace works on the
 Roman period. All have a similar geographical emphasis on England, though Gardiner also
 works in Ireland and Scotland. This clear focus of research has allowed us to establish a
 particular expertise supported by a strong commitment to field survey. The obvious gap in
 coverage of the archaeology of the historic period is for the centuries after AD 1500. During the
 coming REF cycle we will appoint a further member of staff with expertise in that period not
 only to support research and teaching, but also strengthen community engagement. We will
 work with Lincoln Conservation to appoint a further member of staff with digital expertise.

 Staff Development and Strategy
 All staff are supported by local mentors throughout their careers and are encouraged in their
 career development through Individual Research Plans (IRPs) and appraisal, aiding staff in
 setting goals and identifying the resources they need. Excellence in research is rewarded
 through promotion. Regular workshops are held on the promotions process and staff are
 encouraged to take part in the University’s Pipeline Mentoring Programme (see
 institutional Environment Statement).
 The workload allocation of Early Career Researchers reflects their career position with a
 reduced teaching load, protection from major administrative roles, and one-to-one mentoring to
 ensure ECRs can integrate into the University’s research culture. ECRs are provided with early
 opportunities to deliver seminar papers in the School research seminar series, to join the
 supervision team of PGR students along with more experienced staff and to apply for research
 leave. In addition, all Teaching and Research (TR) staff have access to the competitive College-
 level Research Resources Allocation Fund, to which applications can be made three times a
 year (see ‘Infrastructure and Facilities’ below) to support research trips, conference attendance
 and impact activities, nationally and internationally. Grants (total £5.0k) were given to
 Archaeology staff for activities as diverse as fieldwork in Scotland (Gardiner) and conferences in
 Louisiana, Croatia and Ireland (Lewis, Wallace).
 All TR staff have one day every week set aside for research and impact activities. In
 addition, staff with particular research duties – for example, acting as Principal Investigator on a
 research grant – or who are developing a major impact project are given an allowance in their
 workloads.
 TR staff (including part-time staff) are eligible to apply for the College of Arts competitive
 research leave scheme, providing periods of leave, usually of one semester. There is no rota;
 each year, applications are judged at College level against a clearly-stated set of criteria, that
 are weighted towards the completion of research and impact projects. During the current REF
 period Wallace was granted one semester of leave in 2020 to speak and visit museums in


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Denmark, Belgium and France. Staff are supported by mentors to develop their careers and
 through an annual IRP can work towards agreed goals.

 Support for PGR Students
 No PGR students have been allocated to this UoA during the current cycle. Gardiner acts as a
 second supervisor to two PGR students studying historical subjects to encourage the
 development of interdisciplinary aspects of their research. All PGR students have the university
 required two supervisors, and more where additional specialists are required, who provide the
 university statutory meetings on a monthly basis. All supervisors receive the university’s
 mandatory training in supporting and guiding their doctoral students.
 During the next REF cycle, the UoA will work towards building a PGR community in conjunction
 with colleagues in History by encouraging masters students with an interest in material culture to
 continue their studies. We aim to have 3 FTE students by the end of the next cycle.
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The University adopts a pro-active approach to EDI (detailed in the
 Institutional Environment Statement) and demonstrated by the establishment of the Eleanor
 Glanville Centre, a central department for diversity and inclusion, which combines academic
 research with professional practice. The University EDI Forum includes representation from our
 staff support networks, established to meet the needs of groups with protected characteristics,
 and with particular life challenges. These include the Disabilities Staff Network; iCAN — Living
 with Cancer; the International Staff Network; LGBTQ+ Staff Network; People of Colour (POC);
 The Carers and Parents (CaP) Club; Women in Science, Engineering & Technology
 (WiseLincoln). Religion-based networks are currently being established (e.g. the Muslim Staff
 Network). An annual Lincoln Inclusion & Diversity Conference (LID) provides further opportunity
 for staff to openly discuss EDI issues with Senior Leadership Team and to share best-practice
 across the institution.
 The support for EDI is demonstrated in practical measures. Support for staff and PGRs returning
 from leave (sickness, parental) through the Pipeline Mentoring Scheme and the Academic
 Returners’ Research Fund (AR2F) is covered in the University environment document. All staff
 may request flexible working and line managers are encouraged to respond positively and to
 agree mutually accepted solutions. Staff are also introduced to the University’s Wellbeing
 services at induction and through mandatory training. This service is available through drop-
 in sessions, but may also be accessed remotely. The University is a Mindful Employer signatory
 and is committed to a positive and enabling attitude to mental health issues that staff may face.
 At School level all staff receive equality and diversity training. Equality and Diversity is a
 standing issue on the agendas of History and Heritage’s School Management Team meetings
 and for whole School termly meetings. The University has Athena Swan Bronze status and is an
 institutional member of the Race Equality Charter (see Institutional Environment Statement). The
 School is working towards Athena Swan Bronze status. At School level, a Race, Ethnicity, and
 Equality (REE) Working Group was formed in January 2019 and has been active in organizing
 events and raising awareness. The Group worked with first-year students to develop a Respect
 Charter. The School organizes annual events to mark LGBT+ History Month and co-operates
 with the Eleanor Glanville Centre to contribute to Black History Month.
 Of the three staff in the UoA, two identify as female and one as male. One of the three originates
 outside the UK. In future appointments the UoA will bear in mind the racial and ethnic
 representation to ensure that a wide range of experience is represented.
 The selection of staff outputs for inclusion in REF was based on a rigorous process that involved
 not only an internal panel with an independent Chair (from another College in the University), but
 also external assessment. The procedures for staff to declare individual circumstances are
 described in the University Environment Statement.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 UoA15 at Lincoln has attracted £198k in external grant funding over the period since
 2015. Grants from RCUK included 3 grants from AHRC for work on the Middlefield estate, the

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Community Archaeology in Rural Environments (Horizon 2020 JPI award) and the Looking in
 from the Edge projects, and 2 grants from ESPRC for Public Engagement for All in Research in
 Lincoln. Amongst other grants received were those from Arts Council England,
 the Deutsches Forschungsgemeinschaft via the Zentrum für Baltische und Skandinavische Arch
 äologie, the Roman Research Trust, Historic England and from Lincolnshire County
 Council. The greater part of the research income has been for projects investigating and
 supporting community involvement in heritage, which is reflected in the Impact Case
 Studies. Other funding has supported fieldwork for research. The diverse sources of external
 funding portfolio reflect our aims to develop public engagement with heritage and to build
 international networks, while emphasizes academic excellence.
 Grants applications are mentored by the School Director of Research or another appropriate
 senior colleague. A College-level system of reviewing proposed bids ensures that they all
 receive appropriate guidance. Staff must submit an intention to submit form which alerts their
 School Director of Research to their bidding proposal and allows assessment and guidance at
 the start of the bidding process. All bids are blind peer reviewed (by one reviewer for bids up to
 £50k and by two peer reviewers for bids over that amount). At College level, away days have
 also provided intensive workshops on writing bids with experienced mentors available to guide
 those making their first bidding attempt. The University’s Research Office provides one-to-one
 guidance on costings for bids and through its on-line research bidding scheme guides staff
 through the process of completing on-line bidding systems.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Archaeology benefits from a strong system of research management which operates at
 University and School level. At an institutional level, support is provided through the University
 Research Office which offers advice and peer review on external bids, identifies potential
 partners for collaborative research, maintains a centralized online awards management system
 (Worktribe) of bid activity, and costs research proposals to provide value for money. The College
 of Arts has a dedicated Research Officer to assist in applications. Grants are managed through
 a College Post-Award Officer. Research bids with a commercial dimension are supported by a
 Business Development Officer and managed through a University-owned company, Lincoln
 Conservation, which is located within the School. The College of Arts supports research
 financially through its Research Resources Allocation Fund (RRAF) three times yearly. All staff
 are encouraged to make research bids and are well-supported in doing so (see above). A two-
 stage procedure involves initial scrutiny at school level followed by consideration by the College
 awards committee; a parallel fund is available exclusively to PGRs.
 Archaeology draws upon the range of facilities available in the School of History and
 Heritage. Considerable investment has been made in digital recording equipment: a Faro
 Scene and a Leica BLK360 laser scanners used for site, object and building recording.
 A Matterport infrared scanner is also used for the interiors of buildings. Artec Leo, Spider and
 Eva handheld scanners, as well as a Faro Freestyle scanner are used for recording artefacts. A
 range of microscopes are available within the School for artefact study, including a Leica
 DM2700M digital microscope using visible and UV light and a Motic BA31Pol polarized light
 microscope. A range of software is available on dedicated computers, including Faro
 Scene, Agisoft for creating DEMs using photogrammetry, AutoCAD, ArcGIS and Illustrator.
 Outside the School, staff have utilized dGPS equipment housed in Geography and have access
 to a range of analytical equipment in the University’s Joseph Banks Laboratory for NMR, ICP-
 OES, FTIR, AAS, GC-MS, GC-FID, HPLC, AAS, Raman, FTIR, UV spectroscopy, Ion
 Chromatography, XRD, SEM.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our mission to promote interdisciplinarity and wider contacts has led to a series of collaborations
 in national and international research projects. Gardiner has worked with the Rundale Group at
 the University of Maynooth and the DFG’s Harbours of the North Atlantic (HaNoA)
 project, participating in fieldwork in Norway, Iceland, the Faroes and Greenland. He established
 a joint project with Shetland Amenity Trust to look at medieval settlement and with the University
 of Highlands and Islands and the University of Tübingen to consider trade in the Scottish

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northern Isles. Lewis established a European network for looking at the value to communities of
 local archaeology, working with Exeter to measure the results. Wallace has continued to work
 with former colleagues at Cambridge.

 Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
 Archaeology staff at Lincoln are committed to identifying and promoting the benefits of its
 research beyond HE, both in the wider community, but also in the scholarly world. Lewis has a
 prominent public profile and has appeared on BBC Radio Three in the ‘Free Thinking’ series and
 on Radio Four on the ‘Today’ programme and ‘Making History’ series. She has also featured on
 television on the BBC1 ‘Breakfast’ programme and BBC4 ‘Too much, Too young’ programme.
 She has contributed written articles to the AHRC Magazine, British Archaeology, Daily
 Telegraph and Lincolnshire Life. The results of research project, ‘(Re-)Creating Middlefield’s
 Utopia’, led to exhibitions at Gainsborough and Lincoln. Lewis also contributed displays in 2016
 and 2017 to the LiGHTS Expo public exhibition. She advised a deputation from Nigeria on
 community archaeology in Igboukwu, with the community at Clare (Suffolk) to develop a plan for
 the archaeological investigation of the castle and with the Great Chishill church project to write a
 new history of the parish. She worked with the Council for British Archaeology to develop the
 online learning tool, Dig School. Gardiner advised the Weald and Downland Museum on the
 reconstruction of a Saxon house and spoke at its opening.
 Staff have also been extensively involved in giving lectures to the general public and non-
 specialist audiences. Amongst these are papers by Lewis to the Doncaster Heritage Festival,
 Discovering Collections, Discovering Communities (organized by TNA), and Schools History
 Project and by Gardiner to the Manorial Documents Register (TNA) and Holleyman Lecture at
 the University of Sussex.

 Wider contributions to research base
 Members of the Archaeology are encouraged to make a major contribution to committees and
 advisory boards at a national and international level, and receive a work-loading allowance for
 doing so. Lewis and Gardiner have been members of the Peer Review College of the
 AHRC. Lewis has acted as Advisory Panel member for RCUK (Public Engagement) and a peer
 reviewer for Medical Research Council. Gardiner has acted as referee for the British
 Academy, Fulbright Commission, Irish Research Council, Rannís (Icelandic research fund),
 National Science Center Poland and the Royal Irish Academy. Staff have acted as PhD external
 examiners at the universities of De Montfort and Sheffield (Lewis), Bradford, Exeter, Leicester,
 Nottingham, NUI Galway, Oxford, Trinity College Dublin and University College Cork
 (Gardiner). They have served on the editorial boards of Journal of the North
 Atlantic and Vernacular Architecture (Gardiner) and British Archaeological Reports (Roman
 series) (Wallace). Finally, they have also acted as peer reviewers for publishers and academic
 journals, including Antiquity, Archaeopress, BAR Publishing, Cambridge Archaeological Journal,
 Journal of Field Archaeology, Public Archaeology, Routledge, and Quaternary
 International (Lewis); Archaeological Journal, Archaeopress, Historic England, Journal of Irish
 Archaeology, de Gruyter, Journal of Material Culture, Landscape History, Medieval Archaeology,
 National Museum of Denmark, Neue Studien zur Sachsenforschung, Oxford University Press,
 Post-Medieval Archaeology, Proceedings of the Royal Irish Academy C, Urban History, World
 Archaeology (Gardiner); and Bloomsbury (Wallace).
 Invited keynote lectures have been given to academic audiences at, amongst others, the
 universities of Hertford, Leeds Trinity, Leiden, Salento, Westminster, Worcester and York, at the
 Hungarian National Museum, (Lewis); Trinity College Dublin (Gardiner). Other notable invited
 lectures have been given at the Moscow Archaeological Institute (Lewis, Gardiner); Russian
 Academy of Sciences, Ghent, Harvard, Suzdal (Russia) and Washington (USA)
 (Lewis). Lewis assisted with the development of the East Midlands Regional Research
 Framework, the manifesto for medieval European archaeology developed by Medieval Europe
 Research Committee and acted as Scientific Advisor for a research programme by the
 University of Amsterdam. Gardiner advised Transport Infrastructure Ireland on the significance
 of archaeological discoveries from the NRA roads programme.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conferences were organized at Lincoln by Lewis for the Medieval Settlement Research Group,
 Society for Medieval Archaeology, Society for Landscape Studies and AHRC Connected
 Communities Heritage Network.
 Lewis is vice-chair of the trustees of the Council for British Archaeology a former president of
 the Society for Medieval Archaeology and President of the Medieval Settlement Research
 Group; Gardiner is vice-president of the Royal Archaeological Institute and Ruralia (Jean-
 Marie Pesez Conferences on Medieval Rural Archaeology) and a member of council of the
 Medieval Europe Research Committee.




                                                                                            Page 8
