Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Derby

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 The School of Arts at the University of Derby (UoD) includes researchers from across a range of
 academic subjects including art, design, media, music, performing arts, and therapeutic arts, plus
 a number of collaborators from the wider University. Our aim is to support and grow a leading,
 transdisciplinary research community which makes significant contributions to research, cultural
 policy, agenda and practice which builds a socially responsive and engaged creativity, locally,
 nationally and globally. Applied through our research focus, which aligns to UoD’s 2018-2030
 Strategic Framework (REF5a, 1.0) this includes: (i) social and cultural engagement; (ii) equality,
 diversity and inclusion; (iii) divergency and differentiated modes of communication; (iv) people,
 history and place; (v) meaningful representation; (vi) art, health and wellbeing.

 The School and DMARC sit within the wider College of Arts, Humanities and Education. The
 School is trans- and interdisciplinary as reflected in the Digital and Material Artistic Research
 Centre (DMARC), the home to UoA 32. Our ethos is underpinned by seven research groups within
 the DMARC, which reflect the six-point research focus and key aspects of staff interest. The
 diverse forms of research pursued by members of the DMARC for UoA 32 embrace many aspects
 of the history, practice and theory of Art and Design, and as might be expected for a progressive
 and creative research centre, are often at the edge of traditional disciplinary boundaries.

 The School occupies its own campus, centred on the purpose-built Markeaton Street and Chandos
 Pole Street buildings, and the re-purposed Britannia Mill, giving it a strong sense of its own
 institutional identity. It is an institutional member of Cumulus, the Society for Artistic Research
 (SAR), the Council for Higher Education in Art and Design (CHEAD), and the European
 League of Institutes of the Arts (ELIA). Its expanding research culture has been shaped by the
 growing number of research-engaged staff and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students.

 The DMARC was founded in 2010 by Professor John Goto and has been headed by Professor
 Dr Angela Bartram since 2018. Art and Design research within the DMARC is led by a committee
 of senior research-active staff, including Professors Dr Steve Baker (2019-) and Huw Davies
 (2007-), Associate Professors Dr Robert Burstow (1991-) and Dr Christine Parker (2009-), and
 Senior Lecturer Caroline Locke (2001-).

 The DMARC distributes research funds to staff and PGR students, supporting empirical research,
 conference attendance, teaching buy-out, and professional development, amongst others. It
 programmes research-focused, public lectures by artists, art historians and curators (e.g.,
 Professor Tim Etchells and Dr Michael Schwab in 2019-20), research seminars by School staff
 on their work, and exhibitions of artworks by national and international artists, staff and PGR
 students in a permanent, dedicated exhibition space on campus. More than half of the research
 generated by the DMARC is being submitted to UoA32, and the significance of its impact within
 the College is reflected in the senior roles that Art and Design staff perform: Bartram is Chair of
 the College Research Committee (CRC) and Burstow is Chair of the College Research Ethics
 Committee (CREC). Bartram and Burstow have led this UoA submission, supported by senior
 Art and Design staff, Research Impact Officer, Dr Victoria Barker (2018-20), and research
 administrator, Christine Selden. The DMARC and the UoA submission includes two Postdoctoral
 Researchers, Dr Paula McCloskey (2018-), and Early Career Researcher (ECR) Dr Rhiannon
 Jones (2018-).

 The School’s growing body of PGR students benefit from, and contribute importantly, to the
 research environment. Their recruitment and progress are led and monitored by the Postgraduate
 Research Lead for Arts, Burstow, who since appointment in 2018 has helped the PGR Arts
 community have a stronger presence in the College through lectures, seminars, external visits,

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exhibitions, talks, and other activities. During the REF period of assessment, the College has
 boosted postgraduate research in Art and Design by funding four Studentships and two
 Postgraduate Teaching Assistantships.

 In the University’s previous REF submission, this UoA returned 11 (8.2 FTE) Category A staff,
 whereas in this there are 20 (16.4 FTE), reflecting the significant growth of research activity in the
 School (in line with the University, REF5a, 1.0). The 2014 submission reported the award of three
 doctoral degrees during the period of assessment, whereas the current submission reports eight,
 attained through the traditional route or by publication. Although the 2014 submission reported no
 research income, the top 50% of the submission met the 2* standard for research environment,
 recognised as conducive to producing research of internationally recognised quality in terms of
 vitality and sustainability. The 2014 base enabled DMARC to focus on improving the research
 environment towards a stable, developmental and sustainable future during this assessment
 cycle. Enhancing and developing the environment further is key to the DMARC’s five-year
 strategy, which focuses on increasing levels of research activity, research active staff, PGR
 numbers, social, community and civic engagement, and income generation. Supporting and
 increasing the capacity for more collaborative and interdisciplinary research is also part of the
 strategy, as is assisting in the transition of staff from professional practice to research activity.

 The environment for Art and Design aims to sustain academically rigorous research of high impact
 that is built upon methodological excellence and innovation, underpinned by collaborations and
 strategic partnerships with key organisations. This submission comprises research from staff
 attached to the seven interdisciplinary research groups within DMARC, who draw their
 membership from the range of subjects across the School of Arts and include both highly
 experienced and ECR colleagues, and PGR students. The research groups provide a space for
 researcher development in addition to nurturing a wide range of research and scholarship activity,
 and some include members from the wider University (e.g., Animal and Civic Lab). They provide
 the DMARC staff with a research direction and a connected community environment. The research
 groups are:

    •   Animal (leads: Professors Bartram and Baker) draws together creative research within
        the interdisciplinary field of animal studies, to which Baker’s work has contributed since the
        early 1990s and Bartram’s since the mid-2000s;
    •   A/r/tography (lead: Dr Drew Bird) addresses the possibilities and crossovers within the
        multiple identities of artist/creator and researcher and teacher;
    •   Commercial Cultures (lead: Dr Mark Hall) aims to create meaningful outcomes by
        changing the ways that creative commercial work is understood;
    •   Lovability (lead: Associate Professor Parker) aims to explore and promote positive
        disability and inclusivity rights;
    •   Civic Lab (leads: Matt Hawthorne and Jones) investigates the social impact of
        participatory culture, creative dialogue and experiential design;
    •   Research Arts and Wellbeing (RAW) (leads: Associate Professor Dr Clive Holmwood
        and Professor Susan Hogan) supports individual and collaborative interdisciplinary
        research in health and wellbeing;
    •   Spaces/Places (lead: Dr Teresa Forde) considers the work of artists, photographers and
        filmmakers within historical and contemporary contexts, with a primary focus on the work
        of women.

 DMARC has played a key role in two major research projects within the University and School.
 The first centres on a component within an Impact Case Study for this submission (REF3, 32-1),
 the Derby-based FORMAT International Photography Festival, which is widely regarded as the
 most significant international Photography festival in the UK. The Festival includes a biennial,
 multi-venue exhibition and conference, and, in the intervening years, presents student and staff-
 focused projects led by the DMARC. Amongst decision-making and the staging of certain
 exhibitions and projects within the festival, the University takes responsibility for the conference.
 Steered by Davies in partnership with Derby’s QUAD Arts Centre, and supported by several
 School staff, notably Senior Lecturers, Dr Phil Harris and Gemma Marmalade, the Festival has

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 created significant economic and cultural impact for the University, its creative partners and the
 City of Derby since establishment in 2004 (e.g., £1.96M. net economic benefit to the City in 2019).
 Each festival has received substantial funding and backing from key non-academic cultural sector
 partners, including Fujifilm, Rolls Royce and the Royal Photographic Society, broadening the
 reach of, and engagement with the event and its underpinning research.

 The second project is the National Heritage Lottery Fund (NHLF) supported DerwentWISE
 partnership with Derbyshire Wildlife Trust. During 2014–20, this project focused on the
 preservation of landscape and heritage in the Lower Derwent Valley and encouraged artistic
 interpretations of the natural landscape. The DMARC received £93,272 of the University’s £2.5M.
 research award, enabling it to provide resources, such as studios, workshops and the Derby
 Theatre (a part of the University). These venues and funds supported projects created and
 delivered by our School staff, through Hall’s leadership, for secondary school age and other young
 people.

 Research and impact strategy
 The DMARC’s research and impact strategy is aligned with the strategic pillars of the University,
 as published in 2018, and the University’s Innovation and Research Strategic Priorities (2020-
 2026) (REF5a, 2.3). It aims to increase the proportion of world-leading and internationally excellent
 research by:
        • embedding research-engaged practice in teaching to create a high-quality learning
           environment, pioneer the use of modern learning methods, provide access to diverse
           and exciting opportunities, and offer an evolving suite of services and support;
        • developing professional and academic partnerships to provide solutions to social and
           industrial challenges by delivering academic expertise, knowledge and innovation;
        • supporting transformational high-quality research, inspiring and creating opportunities
           for staff and students, both locally and internationally.

 Our five-year research and impact strategic objectives are to:
         • expand our capability to create knowledge and deliver innovation through research;
         • enable innovation and create impact through civic and social collaboration;
         • create regional collaborative impact with local councils, museums, galleries, and
            partners to tackle social, environmental and economic challenges;
         • enable our students to engage in impact driven research and knowledge exchange;
         • create an ecosystem for the University and its partners to commercialise ideas;
         • improve performance, efficiency and effectiveness of our research.

 Head of Arts Research, Bartram, has overall responsibility for the enrichment of the research
 environment, supported by senior School colleagues and research group leads. This includes the
 promotion of research-informed teaching in the School, and the provision of strategic and
 operational support to Heads of Discipline. Undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate taught (PGT)
 students are encouraged to engage in external-facing projects. One ongoing successful venture
 is the appointment of two students from BA (Hons) Fine Art by the British Council as Research
 Fellows for the British Pavilion, at the Venice Biennale (2017 and 2019 to date).

 All staff, particularly those with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR), are encouraged to
 engage in development opportunities as set out in Section 2. Staff who are active in professional
 practice are encouraged to develop these activities in research-oriented directions through
 research group membership and funded support. Engagement in research and scholarship is
 supported and captured through performance review, workload planning and monitoring
 processes informed by the Head of Research and implemented by Heads of Discipline. UG and
 PGT Programme Leaders are responsible for sustaining the centrality and dissemination of
 research in teaching, learning and curriculum design across their programmes. Ethical dimensions
 of staff and postgraduate research must conform to the University’s Research Ethics Policy and
 Code of Practice and gain approval from the CREC. Regular meetings identify issues for referral
 to the CRC and/or CREC, with escalation if necessary. Researchers are supported by DMARC


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and University of Derby Online Repository Archive (UDORA) to enable their outputs to conform
 to the Open Access Policy, and to represent divergent production as fully as possible (e.g., for
 exhibitions, performances, and events). Between May and October 2020, DMARC collection of
 research items in UDORA averaged 106 visits per month and 3,834 downloads. The total number
 of DMARC items on UDORA was 479. There were 10,824 visits by the census date, and 22,958
 downloads.

 The outputs in this submission reflect the diverse research interests and ways of working of staff
 in DMARC. The outputs are inter- and transdisciplinary and include international collaboration and
 reach. They may be single or co-authored, and single or multi-component outputs. Including
 analysis of post-war sculpture, to research on gender and diversity and animal studies, they
 represent the range of Art and Design subjects, and this diversity informs this submission, and
 DMARC’s, distinctiveness. The submission includes seven proposed double-weighted outputs as
 Multi-Component Bodies of Work. Multi-Component Bodies of Work recognise the connection
 between individual items that constitute a research output around a particular enquiry. Staff are
 encouraged to develop extended reach and impact through various modes of dissemination (e.g.,
 articles, exhibitions, events) and connected research enquiry. As an example, Locke’s double-
 weighted Multi-Component output, Significant Trees (identifier: 771873-1), includes the
 Yorkshire Sculpture Park (YSP) sited artwork, The Frequency of Trees (2014-), which has a
 large visitor engagement (700,000 in 2015-16), a book, plus additional items. Bartram’s double-
 weighted Multi-Component output, Be Your Dog (identifier: 786075-1), includes two exhibitions
 and workshops to different groups to reach a range of participants, with associated international
 conference papers. The output’s item at Manchester International Festival, 2019, as part of
 Animals of Manchester, included participants from the local community and dogs from the Dogs
 4 Rescue centre. Official visitor figures for the event at Manchester International Festival were
 16,500 over its two-day duration. Within the Long Exposure Impact Case Study (REF3, 32-1), the
 item FORMAT19 festival (Davies) included multiple exhibitions and a conference staged by the
 University. FORMAT19 attracted 23,595 visitors (a 58% increase from 2013), with 49% from
 beyond the East Midlands and 5% from outside the UK. Social media for the festival captured
 14,500 followers on Instagram, 24,000 on Twitter and 22,500 on Facebook. A conference book,
 Mythologies, Identities and Territories of Photography: Forever//Now, published in 2020 to
 increase research dissemination, is co-edited by Harris and Marmalade (identifier: 782869-1).

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 The shaping of the research environment is led by Bartram, and a team of research-active senior
 staff (detailed in Section 1), all of whom have SRR status. Additionally, the DMARC’s wider
 research team includes two Postdoctoral Researchers, McCloskey (2018-) and Jones (ECR,
 2018-), and previously included Impact Officer Barker (2018-20). One of the strengths of the team
 is that it combines longstanding members of staff (who have contributed to previous RAE/REF
 submissions), new appointees with distinguished research records, and ECRs. The approach to
 include ECR through to senior staff ensures the continued development and sustainability of the
 environment.

 The School’s senior researchers possess a wide range of disciplinary specialisms, based in
 practical, historical and theoretical arts research. Professor of Contemporary Art, Bartram, is an
 artist and artistic researcher whose practice includes participatory, process-based, text-based and
 curatorial approaches. She is active in regional, national and international artistic networks, and
 is Chair of the Steering Committee of Contemporary Visual Arts Network East Midlands
 (CVAN EM) (2017-), is a member of the CHEAD Research Alliance Strategy Group (2020-) and
 serves on the international Executive Board of SAR (2018-). Professor of Research for Art and
 Media, Baker, is an Art Historian and Artist, and a leading international scholar and keynote
 speaker in the field of art and animal studies. He has published volumes that contribute
 significantly to this discourse (including Picturing the Beast: Animals, Identity, and
 Representation, 1993; The Postmodern Animal, 2000; Artist/Animal, 2013). Professor of Lens
 Media, Davies, is a filmmaker, photographer and curator, who, as a former Dean of the College

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2007-16), has contributed to the growth of arts research in the University. He is a board
 member/trustee of several arts and cultural organisations, including Artcore, QUAD, FORMAT,
 UK Young Artists and Berwick Film and Media Arts Festival. Associate Professor of History
 and Theory of Art, Burstow, is an Art Historian, who has published extensively on post-war British
 art and art theory, especially on its relation to the political context of the Cold War. Associate
 Professor of Film and Video, Parker, is a feature-film screen writer who specialises in short
 narratives. Senior Lecturer Locke creates artistic research around the translation of data drawn
 from the land, climate, body and environment, which includes socially engaged practice.
 Additionally, David McGravie, Head of School and Deputy Dean of CAHE, is board member of
 CHEAD and Chair for UK Young Artists.

 There are a further seven PhD-qualified Art and Design staff in the School. Four have completed
 doctoral research at the University in the current REF assessment period and another six are
 supported in ongoing doctoral research, four at UoD. Several more have SRR and are research
 active, while many others are engaged in a variety of forms of professional practice. All staff with
 SRR, ECRs, and others with a research trajectory are supported by their Individual Research Plan.
 These staff, together with others, are affiliated with one or more of the DMARC’s seven research
 groups (see Section 1). The academic leads of the research groups nurture high quality research
 among members by programming guest speakers, liaising with cultural institutions (e.g., QUAD
 and Derby Museum and Art Gallery), and developing international conferences (e.g., Life With or
 Without Animals from the Animal group).

 Since its foundation in 2010, the DMARC has appointed seventeen Visiting Scholars, including six
 Visiting Research Fellows, five Visiting Research Professors, and six Emeritus Professors.
 These artists, designers, curators and arts administrators (some are former staff) are drawn from
 the field of Art and Design to engage with our strategy to embed research-engaged practice into
 an enhanced and supportive learning environment, develop professional and academic
 partnerships for developing knowledge and innovation, and to support transformational high-
 quality research. The conferment’s benefit the School by feeding Art and Design research and UG
 and PGT pedagogy, the PGR experience, and in assisting to build a dynamic research
 environment, helping establish the DMARC as a centre of subject excellence.

 Visiting Research Fellows:
     • Dr Michael Schwab (Journal for Artistic Research): Artistic Research Enhanced
         Dissemination Formats (advisor)
     • Jenny White (British Council): International Art Projects (research development)
     • Miltos Frangopoulos: Art History (collaborative partner, Vakalo Art and Design College,
         Athens)
     • Camilla Brown: Photography (FORMAT advisor)
     • Paul Cummings: Ceramics
     • Jorge Crecis: Creative and expressive arts

 Visiting Research Professors:
     • Wang Yan: Fine Art (resident artist, 2019)
     • Sheyi Bankale: Photography
     • Brian Griffin: Photography
     • John Miles: Textiles
     • Pavel Banka: Photography

 Emeritus Professors:
   • Peter Simpson: Applied Arts
   • David Manley: Fine Art
   • John Blakemore: Photography
   • John Goto: Fine Art
   • Sebastian Blackie: Ceramics
   • John Angus: Fashion and Textiles

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development
 DMARC and the University are committed to equality and diversity. To realise its Athena SWAN
 and equality and diversity ambitions, the University has made significant investment in the
 research infrastructure, actively seeking to encourage and support those who are from under-
 represented groups and ECRs to aid participation in the Research Excellence Framework.

 The People Strategy aids the pathways by which all staff can excel, promoting talent and removing
 the obstacles that inhibit gender equality. The University has a mentoring scheme (REF5a, 3.4)
 to aid career progression for ECRs and those who wish to promote to Associate Professor or
 Professor. It aligns a mentee to a mentor beyond their College to ensure equality, parity and
 fairness within a process that is unbiased. Two women are the only promotions in the School
 (Bartram to Professor, and Parker to Associate Professor) since 2018.

 To develop researcher confidence and convert research activity into significant outputs, the School
 and DMARC work in accordance with the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy. The University
 is committed to developing a high performing and inclusive culture aligned with the ten core
 principles of Athena SWAN and upholding its Charter’s philosophy for the ‘advancement of gender
 equality: representation, progression and success for all’. The leadership team supports the
 University’s commitment to ensure that equality advances at every opportunity, and by creating a
 working environment that empowers all to thrive and achieve their full potential. This sees a without
 bias strategy for support, including financial, such as for Parker’s film work, which contributed to
 her promotion.

 The School’s staffing strategy conforms to equality and diversity agendas, is non-discriminatory,
 and hires on merit (research, pedagogic, professional practice, etc.). The School allows for flexible
 working, for example, which benefits those with home or carer commitments. Data captured for
 the census period sees 47% female and 53% males employed in Art and Design, with 69% of
 females and 31% males with SRR status submitted to UoA32. Of those submitted 85% are on
 permanent and 15% on fixed term contracts. The age range within Art and Design is very healthy
 for environmental sustainability, continued growth, and development, particularly in respect of
 those submitted to UoA32. The fairly equal spread of ages between 35 and 64 (Table 1) within the
 UoA ensures a sound and sustainable environment whereby the less experienced are encouraged
 and supported within research alongside their more experienced peers.

 Table 1: Age categories of Category A eligible researchers and submitted researchers in
 UoA 32
                   25-34        35-44           45-54         55-64       65 +
  All Category A   5%           25%             23%           42%         5%
  REF submitted    0%           34%             32%           32%         2%

 DMARC supports the development of academic staff by scheduling activities that will develop
 forms of individual and collaborative artistic research, in both practice and theory, for research
 environment sustainability and growth. These include ‘ground up’ developmental activities
 appropriate to the differentiated forms of dissemination common to DMARC researchers and the
 discipline of Art and Design more broadly, such as workshops on articulating research aims and
 strategic writing. Colleagues engage in collaborations across disciplines in, and beyond the
 University, of which the FORMAT festival and DerwentWISE are exemplary. DMARC encourages
 staff to undertake projects and PhD programmes through mentorship and financial support. The
 DMARC seeks to present positive role models and examples in respect of equality and diversity,
 and this is also reflected in the schedule of Visiting Fellows and Professors and speakers at its
 research-focused Arts Talks.

 All staff are encouraged to take up opportunities for research through the University’s
 Development Performance Review (DPR), regardless of whether they are already active
 researchers or engaged in professional practice. The Head of Research and PGR Arts Lead work
 closely with staff in the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (URKEO) to
 ensure a robust and enriched framework of support for research-active or research-interested staff

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and PGR students (REF5a, 3.4). URKEO includes officers for Impact, PGR and ECR. Its activities
 include a programme of researcher development, an ECR Forum, an annual staff research
 conference, an annual PGR student conference, monthly ‘research cafes’ for staff and PGR
 students, and support and guidance for external funding applications. The URKEO’s training
 programme includes writing workshops and retreats, introductions and advanced classes on
 research methods, masterclasses on impact, grant-finder and grant-writing workshops, and
 training sessions on the use of social media for research. The University supports ECR
 development through the ECR Forum with funding: £25,000 for 2018/19, with awards of £1,908 to
 Barker (2019) and £2,000 to Jones (2020) to support the development of research outputs.
 Additionally, University acquired Research England monies are available for developing research
 projects, from which Bartram, McCloskey and Parker received £8,000 for a project on animals
 and migration from the Global Challenges Research Fund.

 The SRR process has determined that 20 (16.4 FTE) of Art & Design staff are research active. At
 41% this is above the University’s strategic aim for 30% of staff to be active by 2020. The staff
 development packages available reflect the ambition to generate transformational high-quality
 research that leads to significant and meaningful artistic practice and writing. Dissemination and
 knowledge sharing are key to this strategic aim, and to this end staff have been supported to
 participate in local, regional, national and international conferences, exhibitions and events. This
 includes institutional funding awarded twice yearly to cover such activities as conference
 attendance and planning, research and development of projects, archiving and exhibition
 production. Module buy-out is awarded to allow staff to undertake research activity, as practice,
 archiving, fieldwork or writing, aside from teaching (Table 2). Ten staff have received this for at
 least one module per semester in the assessment period.

 Table 2: Support and development activity available to staff, ECRs and PGR students
                                                                    PGR   ECR     Staff
  Module buy out for fieldwork or writing                                 x       x
  Research seed funding                                             x     x       x
  Staff development activity                                              x       x
  Conference, project and professional event expenses               x     x       x
  In house events focused on research and networking                x     x       x
  Scoping and development of expected academic outputs              x     x       x
  Encouragement, development and support to update profiles               x       x
  Internal funding for research and dissemination through projects,
                                                                    x     x       x
  exhibitions, publications and conferences
  ECR Forum                                                               x       x

 The School offers twice yearly opportunities for staff to bid for research funding, which can be
 used to develop individual or collaborative projects. This funding has supported activities that have
 led to partnerships with external organisations, for example: Davies with the directorial board of
 QUAD for the FORMAT festivals (2005–present), and Locke with the YSP for The Frequency of
 Trees (2014-present). Regular research seminars are hosted by the School to encourage staff
 and students to engage with the work of colleagues and external speakers, and to offer an
 opportunity for presentations of work in progress and for peer review.

 During the REF period of assessment there have been a range of other opportunities to exhibit
 work created by projects such as Nature Connections Festival (2015, 2016) organised in
 collaboration with the Nature Connectedness Research Group in the College of Health, and Social
 Care at the University (H&SC), DerwentWISE (2014-2020) and FORMAT (2015, 2017, 2019).
 Several members of the cross-University animal research group and others in the DMARC had
 artwork in the Otherlings exhibition at Artcore in Derby (2019), curated by Bartram and
 McCloskey. This research group, led by Baker and Bartram, staged the international and
 interdisciplinary conference, Life With and Without Animals at the University with an
 accompanying exhibition, Antonym, at Artcore. The Conference, with keynotes Professors Dr
 Susan McHugh (University of New England in Maine), Dr Mark Wilson (University of Cumbria)


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Dr Bryndis Snaebjornsdottir (Iceland University of the Arts), and the exhibition programmed
 staff from the DMARC with other international contributors (2020). DMARC has offered specific
 artistic research-focused workshops and training delivered by external artist-researchers and the
 Head of Research, to ensure that appropriate public dissemination is an integral and achievable
 result of endeavours and initiatives. These events address specific developmental concerns, such
 as how to disseminate practical research in critical articles, arts practice and narrative writing, and
 creating coherent portfolio-based multi-component outputs and statements. A network of external
 critical friends and peer reviewers has developed through the research groups, and an internal
 review panel was created from across the School to assess staff outputs.

 The School and DMARC encourage staff to develop their research careers by offering mentoring,
 financial assistance and teaching relief to undertake doctoral research (fully funded if undertaken
 at UoD). Research-active staff with publications, artworks and events in the public domain are
 supported to undertake PhDs by Publication at UoD. Staff who are already suitably qualified and
 research-active are encouraged to undertake the University’s twice yearly training programme in
 PGR supervision and, when appropriate, join new supervisory teams. PGR supervision training,
 and additional training in the supervision of international students, is provided by the URKEO.
 Fifteen School staff currently supervise PGR students with seven serving as Directors of Studies,
 with the growing pace of completions is helping to increase this number. Four staff externally
 examine PhDs.

 Future partnerships will be encouraged by welcoming more internationally significant researchers,
 fellows and professors to the School, by widening School membership of professional and
 research bodies, by inviting discrete bids for research project funding, and through the
 presentation of the PVC/Dean’s Prize for Research at the annual PGR student conference
 (mirroring the Dean’s Awards for high performance within the UG and PGT student body). It is
 hoped that these, and other new initiatives, will further develop the research culture and
 environment within the School, College and University.

 The postgraduate research community
 Of the thirty candidates active in postgraduate research in Arts during the assessment period,
 twenty-two were engaged in Art and Design research and associated with UoA32. All but four of
 the Art and Design candidates have followed, or are following, the traditional PhD route, and all
 but two have been UK-based. Approximately half were part-time and approximately half funded,
 four through studentships, five as teaching staff and two as Postgraduate Teaching Assistants
 (PGTA). Eight Art and Design candidates completed during the assessment period through either
 the traditional PhD or PhD by Publication routes. Currently, twenty-three candidates are actively
 studying in the School, and eleven are engaged in Art and Design research with the majority (8)
 pursuing research defined as ‘practice-based’ (primarily in Fine Art) and the minority (3) theory-
 based (primarily in Art History and Theory). Recruitment has been on an upward trajectory during
 the last two-three years, with a growing number of applicants coming from the School’s thriving
 Masters programmes in Fine Art and Photography. It is hoped that studying PGT alongside
 candidates conducting PGR across the range of the School’s portfolio will encourage the
 emergence of more interdisciplinary study, which is already evident in crossovers between Fine
 Art, Performance and Therapeutic Arts.

 PGR supervision is conducted by research-qualified staff. Teams are often trans- and
 interdisciplinary to provide the support required for the study. Mentors are assigned to PGTAs to
 specifically advise on and monitor their teaching. Using PhD Manager (REF5a, 4.2), a dedicated
 online management system including Ethics Monitor, postgraduate supervision follows a clear
 recording process as set out in the PGR Framework. Supervisory procedures and routines were
 tightened across the University in 2020 by the implementation of the PGR Framework, specifying
 the frequency of supervisory meetings, the regular involvement of all team members, the
 introduction of twice-yearly reviews with senior researchers from beyond the supervision team,
 annual reviews, and other measures.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has a range of support mechanisms for the training and supervision of PGR students,
 overseen by our PGR Lead, Burstow. PGR training workshops are provided by URKEO and
 access is given to a series of Masterclasses on research methodology and research modules from
 across the University (Master of Research and PGT levels). PGR students have access to
 dedicated base-rooms on several University campuses equipped with desk-top computers, and
 specialist studios and workshops. There are regular opportunities to attend lectures and talks by
 visiting speakers, including those organised by the School and DMARC and, where possible, to
 join UG and PGT student study visits. They are invited to participate in research-sharing Arts
 seminars and, if appropriate, exhibitions, and in the University’s annual PGR conference and 3-
 minute thesis competition. The DMARC supports attendance and participation in external
 research-related events, such as conferences (e.g., Theorum PGR conference at Anglia Ruskin
 University) or research trips to archives, galleries and so on. These all provide valuable
 opportunities for networking, peer evaluation and research development. The annual online survey
 of PGR students, monitored by CRC, enables a reporting platform for their experiences and
 concerns. A School PGR student representative presents student feedback at CRC meetings.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 During the period 2014–20, the DMARC and UoA32 has received a total of £8,000 direct to
 University funding. Additionally, the equivalent of £433,083 in-direct, non-reportable, income
 (£93,272 direct, but to a different UoD UoA; £139,111 paid direct to researcher; £200,700 in-kind
 support attached to non-direct funding paid direct to researcher) has supported outputs in this
 submission. As is common in Art and Design research, successful funding is often achieved from
 Arts Council England (ACE) and other bespoke organisations which tend to deal with individuals
 or National Portfolio Organisations (NPO’s), making their support unrecorded on institutional
 returns. Such funding, which has enabled research in this submission, is hereby included as non-
 direct income, and an example is the Berwick Film & Media Arts Festival (BFMAF; Davis;
 2014/15; identifier: 780052-1), which received £72,000 from external organisations including ACE
 and the British Film Institute. Additionally, a great deal of research support that contributes to
 the success of projects is in-kind, which is also included. DMARC examples include BFMAF, which
 received £49,000 of in-kind support, Bartram’s commissioned work Human School (Be Your
 Dog!) for Manchester International Festival in 2019, which received £47,812 of in-kind support,
 and Locke’s Significant Trees project, which received £4,200 of in-kind support.

 Hall’s work with local partners secured £93,272 of the University’s £2.5M NHLF DerwentWISE
 programme. The work of Davies, Harris and Marmalade in partnership with QUAD on the
 FORMAT festival has helped to secure the partner’s economic viability. QUAD’s status as an NPO
 of ACE is assisted by FORMAT festival’s contribution to the local and regional economy and this
 partnership with the University (see Long Exposure – collaborative and publicly engaged
 interrogation of photographic practice through the biennial FORMAT Festival, REF3, 32-1).
 Locke’s research on landscape, data and climate received £23,400 of ACE and other external
 funding, as set out in the Catalysing Change: Artistic Encounters in a Time of Climate
 Emergency Impact Case Study (REF3, 32-2). Additionally, research projects led by Bartram
 have secured funding from external bodies: The Alternative Document (2016/18) brought £4,400
 from the University of Lincoln (and in the form of a fully-funded PGTA candidature to work with
 the Live Art Development Agency from UoD), while her animal behavioural studies work (2017)
 brought £1,000 from Santander for collaborative seed research.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School has a clear infrastructure for Art and Design research and impact, with a focal point in
 DMARC and its research groups and supported by the research administrator. Senior research
 staff in DMARC and the University’s dedicated team in URKEO offer advice on, and support for,
 internal and external funding applications in order to develop strategic and appropriate capacity
 building. A research funding group led by Bartram and supported by Davies, Burstow and Parker
 helps develop and support funding applications to external organisations, including funding
 councils, to nurture a healthy, diverse and durable income base. This group operates without bias,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and conforms to a positive equality and diversity strategy, whereby the individual is supported in
 their individual needs. This is supported by weekly drop-in sessions from the URKEO team at the
 School campus, and a College aligned funding development officer provided by URKEO. The
 combined DMARC and URKEO support oversees an application progress from idea to submission
 and implementation. In this respect, the DMARC is experiencing extreme growth of interest and
 activity, with colleagues becoming increasingly keen to generate income to support large-scale
 research projects. This nascent aspect of the environment is highly encouraging and should come
 to fruition in the next research exercise. As an example, there are currently several trans- and
 interdisciplinary external funding bids in assessment with other HEI’s and partners, including
 collaborative arts and computer science COVID-19 related initiatives, and for arts projects to
 increase community wellbeing.

 The DMARC provides research support by offering:
    • Twice yearly funding to the combined value of £30,000;
    • Bursaries for external PGR candidates (fees, stipend and postgraduate teaching
       assistantships to the combined value of £218,005 between 2014-2020);
    • Bursaries for staff PGR candidates (fees and expenses studentships);
    • Support for module buy-out/project activity to enable research from the period 2017-2020,
       total value £660,000 (£220,000 p.a.);
    • Mentoring and support for research and grant development;
    • Access to office, technical and workshop provision and specialist equipment and mentoring
       for externally funded projects.

 The School’s specialist facilities for Art and Design include workshops, studios and darkrooms,
 and technical support to test and complete work. They are housed in three buildings near to one
 another. There is a dedicated research exhibition space at the Markeaton Street building, and a
 specialist Art and Design library at the Britannia Mill building, with specialist subject staff. There
 are further resources available on other nearby University sites (the main campus is a 13-minute
 walk away). Staff are encouraged to request items for acquisition by the library to aid research
 development. The School allows all staff access to its full range of equipment and resources for
 the production of their research, including comprehensive professional audio-visual and IT
 facilities, specialist studios and maker workshops, traditional and digital print and specialist
 technical support staff.

 The School of Arts’ library and workshop resources and facilities are available to the local
 community through the public engagement and impact agenda. An example is the Artists’
 Access to Arts Schools scheme, in which UoD has participated for over a decade. Here, local
 artists apply to use the range of facilities available in Art and Design and the Library to develop
 their practice with using specialist equipment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The School and DMARC aim to develop professional and academic partnerships within and
 beyond the UoA. Collaborative partnerships with external organisations have enabled the
 development and dissemination of research in Photography (delivering the ACE-funded FORMAT
 Photography Festival with QUAD is an indicator of the success of this partnership, as it is an
 integral component of their NPO agreement), arts and nature (as a partner within the NHLF
 DerwentWISE programme, and working across disciplines with our contributions to the
 University’s Nature Connectedness and Creative Ageing research groups).

 DMARC engages with, and contributes to, international artistic research debate through
 institutional membership of the SAR and through Bartram’s service on their Executive Board (only
 UK member), through her work with the CHEAD Research Alliance Strategy Group, and through
 her work as Chair of CVAN EM. Davies represents the School and the University on Derby City
 Council’s Culture and Leisure Board and Strategic Culture Group, advising on priorities for
 arts and culture across the city and impacting on local policy. He is a QUAD Board Member, and
 on the Directorial Board of FORMAT. Baker is an Advisory Board member of the Culture and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Animals Foundation in the USA, which awards grants to artists and academics, and is a Senior
 Advisory Board Member of Antennae: The Journal of Nature in Visual Culture. He is on the
 book series boards of Penn State’s Animalibus and Sydney University Press’ Animal Publics.
 Jones Chairs a Working Group for Cumulus. Internationally, colleagues in the School regularly
 peer review and provide consultation for journals e.g., Journal of Artistic Research (Bartram
 and Hall), Emotion, Space and Society (Bartram), The Danish National School for
 Performing Arts (Bartram), Gender Studies (Hall), and Austrian Science Fund (Bartram).
 Bartram was organising committee member for the annual SAR conferences in 2019 (Zurich) and
 2020 (Bergen). Jones is a director of the board for New Art Exchange in Nottingham.

 In addition to the research collaborations, networks and partnerships outlined above, researchers
 in the School work across the University on interdisciplinary projects including arts and health
 (McCloskey and Hogan, whilst the latter was in the School of Allied Health and Social Care), and
 art and nature (Hall and Professor Miles Richardson, UoA4). The Animal research group (led
 by Bartram and Baker) is cross-institutional, and in addition to staff from the School it includes
 colleagues from biology, environmental science, animal behavioural studies, psychology and
 history. This inter-College collaborative research group staged the second (Un)common Worlds
 conference (the first at University of Turku, Finland, in 2018), an interdisciplinary and
 international animal studies conference at UoD. The UoD conference, Life With and Without
 Animals (2020), builds on Bartram’s success at the Manchester International Festival (2019),
 and both Baker and Bartram’s specific individual contributions to raising awareness of the vital
 contribution of the contemporary arts to the wider field of animal studies, both within the current
 REF period and in the preceding years.

 The School has delivery and validation arrangements with Vakalo College of Art and Design in
 Athens, with which DMARC has a further connection through the Visiting Research Fellow, Art
 Historian, Miltos Frangopoulos. Our Visiting Research Fellow (2017–present), Jenny White of
 the British Council, has provided valuable advice, insight and connections in order to develop
 our research collaborations, such as the rolling Research Fellowships for two BA (Hons) Fine Art
 students at the British Pavilion, Venice Biennale (2017–present). Extensive collaborative work by
 Davies and McGravie over many years includes the progressive development of Art and Design
 provision in China. Davies is Visiting Professor and Consultant for Hebei University in Baoding
 advising on the building of their new joint campus for Creative Industries (opened
 2019). McGravie holds an Honorary Professorship from Beihai University of Art and Design in
 recognition of developing provision and collaborative links within the international sector.

 Since the inception of FORMAT, Davies, with (since 2017) Harris and Marmalade, has
 contributed significantly to the field of Photography and the cultural research base of UoD and City
 of Derby. Scheduling a multi-partner exhibition across the city with an academic conference
 biennially, FORMAT brings research in Photography to the attention of an international academic,
 practitioner and public audience contributing to the understanding and advancement of this field.
 Art and Design’s contribution to the NHLF project DerwentWISE, sees art and the landscape
 discussed for sustainability and access to histories and legacy through the steerage of Hall. This
 project includes work with young people, a demographic who might not ordinarily have access to
 the resources and subjects available at the University and opens up possibilities for their cultural
 and community development and engagement.

 The Alternative Document (identifier: 786075-4) project, led by Bartram, contributes to the
 research economy through exhibitions, published text and symposium (identifier: 786075-4). It
 includes a funded PhD programme of study in collaboration with the Live Art Development
 Agency (2018-21) and two associated publications by Bartram, a guest-edited volume of the
 journal Studies in Theatre and Performance (vol. 38, no. 3) and a chapter (‘Unsatisfactory Devices:
 Legacy and the Undocumentable in Art’) in the 2018 Palgrave MacMillan book, Critical Distance
 in Documentary Media (eds G. Cammaer, B. Fitzpatrick and B. Lessard). Bartram is regularly
 invited to give external lectures to UK Fine Art departments (most recently: Nottingham Trent
 University 2019; Teesside University 2017; Manchester Metropolitan University 2017). Bartram
 conducts research with the Alzheimer’s Society for her project ‘Dogs and the Elderly’ that

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 analyses the significance to health and wellbeing of interspecies companionship at the end of life.
 This includes participants from the Nottingham and Lincolnshire branches of the organisation’s
 Memory Cafes. The research has been presented by invitation at the Live Art Development
 Agency (2018), at the ARC programme at The Hague (2018), as part of the Creative Ageing
 series at UoD (2019) and at the Animal Remains conference at the University of Sheffield (2019).

 Parker’s short film The Carer (identifier: 780887-1) won eight international awards, including a
 Humanitarian Award of Distinction from US based Best Shorts Competition and the Premio Labor
 2017 award from Festival Internazionale Immagine d’Autore. Shortlisted for The Iris Prize Best
 British Short Film, it won a special commendation, and was long listed for a BAFTA. The Carer
 has screened at festivals around the world from Oscar qualifying Edmonton ISFF to The
 Shropshire Rainbow Film Festival, where it won Best Film and the Audience Award.

 McCloskey’s project A Place of Their Own, co-founded with Sam Vardy, is an ongoing
 experimental art and spatial research collective that delivers research in many projects (e.g., the
 Eile Project; (identifier: 783292-1). It exploits the meeting of these fields to investigate
 contemporary conditions (such as borders, climate change, ‘family’) and create new spaces,
 imaginaries and subjectivities produced through performances, text, and film and includes
 collaboration with Marble Arch UNESCO Geopark. Research in the School makes an additional
 contribution to the research base of arts and maternal health through the work of McCloskey, who
 was Research Assistant on the AHRC Connected Communities project, The Birth Project
 (2013-15), at UoD with Hogan. McCloskey has further developed research and artistic practice
 in this area, and is an Advisory Panel Member for the M/other Voices Foundation
 (http://www.mothervoices.org/).

 Locke’s project Significant Trees (identifier: 771873-1) includes The Frequency of Trees, an
 ongoing collaboration with the site of the artwork at the YSP, which led to the production of an
 artwork in its gardens in 2014. The collaboration has continued with Locke’s book on the project
 (2019). Her Multi-Component project, Performing Data (identifier: 771873-2), includes
 collaborative research with University of Nottingham, The Scott Polar Research Institute and the
 Norwegian Polar Institute.

 Senior Lecturer Carl Robinson has led two symposia at QUAD on painting in the digital age,
 PaintingDigitalPhotography (2017) and PhotographyDigitalPainting (2019). The symposia
 have produced two edited books by Robinson: edited book, PaintingDigitalPhotography:
 Synthesis and Difference in the Age of Media Equivalence (Newcastle Upon Tyne: Cambridge
 Scholars, 2018), and PhotographyDigitalPainting: Expanding Medium Interconnectivity in
 Contemporary Visual Art Practices (Newcastle Upon Tyne: Cambridge Scholars, 2020)
 (identifier: 779022-1).

 S.H.E.D (Social Higher Education Depot) is DMARC’s mobile arts commissioning venue and
 public space and the University’s first Community Interest Group (CIC). As an arts venue, it is a
 conversation starter, a dialogue enhancer and a research facilitator. The project is dedicated to
 artistic research through public engagement and co-production and was designed by its director
 Jones. Transformed from an old garden shed, it is now a place for conversation and an alternative
 site for artistic practice. As a touring project, S.H.E.D visits hard-to-reach locations and areas
 where audiences would or could not normally travel to participate in research. The projects that
 take place within it are tailored to the specific problem or question raised by the community it visits,
 and the physical reconfigurations can reflect this. This DMARC project has many partners: Derby
 Theatre, theatre development programme In Good Company, Derby County Community
 Trust, the youth development organisation This Is Derby, Derby's Cultural Education
 Partnership’s Cultural Campus, Primary, Nottingham Contemporary, Expanded Studio
 Project, and CVAN EM. Jones also co-leads the biennial symposium InDialogue, which hosts
 interdisciplinary events, including presentations, discussions, communal meals, open-mic
 sessions, live music and performance/live art events in Nottingham at Primary and Nottingham
 Contemporary (2012, 2014, 2016). Its latest iteration, in 2019, was staged at venues in
 Nottingham, Lincoln and Derby.

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Baker was Artist in Residence for the Animal Remains conference, and his solo exhibition
 Fieldwork (curated by Maria Lux, USA) was presented as part of the conference. Considered as
 an expert in the file of animal studies and art, Baker is regularly invited to give external lectures,
 keynotes and plenary addresses. These include plenary conference lectures at the National
 Gallery Prague (The Contemporary Animal, identifier: 786835-4), Institute of Literary
 Research of the Polish Academy of Science (2014); lectures at EMPAC Theatre New York
 (2014) and Eastern Kentucky University (2017); and conference keynotes at University of
 Cumbria (2015), and London Metropolitan University (2020).




                                                                                               Page 13
