Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art & Design

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context
 The Centre for Global Futures in Art, Design and Media (hereafter ‘the Centre’) is recognised as
 an internationally focused, interdisciplinary and collaborative place of research. Embedded
 within the University of Southampton’s vibrant art school (Winchester School of Art, hereafter
 ‘the School’), the Centre is distinctive for its critical explorations of art, design and media
 (notable specialisms include media archeology, social art practice, and inclusive design). It
 brings together the work of 23 (19.1FTE) researchers and 58 postgraduate researchers,
 alongside 50 (40FTE) teaching fellows,10 technicians, and a diverse body of over 1000
 undergraduate and postgraduate students. There is a high degree of collaboration among
 colleagues, keen engagement with partners in public service, the creative industries and civil
 society. Collectively, we share a set of values concerned with the pressing issues of the
 environment, social justice, health, new technologies, and globalization.
 The Centre has achieved sustained development and enhancement:
  • Growth and community-building: The number of permanent research staff has increased
    60% (14 to 23) with a strong international mix. Practice research has grown in confidence
    and quality (increasing its representation from 29% of outputs for REF2014 to 45% for
    REF2021). The strategy remains one of growth and capability-building, creating
    opportunities at all career levels and with determined focus on diversity and inclusion (e.g. a
    significant increase of women, from 14% in REF2014 to 30% for REF2021; §1.3; §2).
  • Internationalisation: Research is disseminated through internationally recognised
    publications and exhibitions, and through collaborations with high-profile partners, including
    Tate Exchange (UK), Transmediale (Germany), Kochi Biennale (India), Oslo Biennale
    (Norway), Digital Suzhou (China). Staff are associated with 25 journals and book series,
    and curatorial projects have been staged with notable venues in San Diego, Helsinki,
    Toronto, Kochi, Oslo, Barcelona, and Dresden.
  • Impact: As part of the growth in practice research, Social Practice has emerged as a key
    strength, with projects relating to issues of heart transplantation, homelessness, migration,
    food waste, and ageing – the latter developed through ESRC-funded research for inclusive
    design.
  • Interdisciplinarity: the Centre is distinctive for its interdisciplinary approaches to art, media,
    design, fashion, textiles, gaming, and art/design management; and explicitly benefits from
    its place within a broad-based research-intensive university. There is a long-standing
    collaboration with the University’s John Hansard Gallery (JHG), with both contributing to the
    University’s Arts Strategy. There is dedicated support and encouragement for
    interdisciplinary work. Staff work synergistically across multiple areas, e.g. with
    collaborations in Archaeology (Dawson), Web Science (Ashton, Manghani, Giddings),
    Film Studies (Brebenel), Medical Imaging (Carnie), Centre for Democratic Futures (Cardo)
    the National Oceanography Centre, Remote Sensing Centre, Engineering (Bishop,
    Parikka), and Health and Ageing (Yin) (§4).
 1.2 Research Structure
 Established in 2011, the Centre has continued to expand and hone provision through five
 interlacing groups: (1) Archaeologies of Media and Technology (AMT), directed by Parikka,
 Bishop; (2) Critical Practices (CP), directed by Dawson, Cid, D’Souza; (3) Intersectionalities:

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Politics-Identities-Cultures (IPIC), directed by Cardo, Cole; (4) Transforming Creativity (TC),
 directed by Giddings, Ashton; (5) Winchester Luxury Research Group (WL), directed by
 Roberts, Armitage, Faiers, Sekhon Dhillon. The groups represent areas of leadership,
 expertise and high-quality research and impact.
 The Faculty of Art and Humanities Research and Enterprise Committee provides overall
 governance for the Centre, while the School’s Deputy Head of School, Director of Research and
 Enterprise (DHoS Research) oversees strategy, staff development, and research planning and
 support. In 2020, the Centre joined the Faculty’s new Southampton Institute for Arts and
 Humanities (SIAH). The Institute represents a major initiative for research development for the
 next five years, to provide enhanced strategic support and leadership, notably with more
 ambitious funding development and increased visibility of arts research within the University and
 externally.
 1.3 Research Strategy
 The Centre provides the overarching strategy and organisational framework for all research
 within the School. For REF2014. the Centre submitted high-quality outputs, with 14 eligible staff
 (12 FTE), including the appointment of five new professors and three associate professors who
 opened-up initiatives and partnerships with world-leading non-HEIs and high-profile journals.
 Expansion has continued so that, in meeting aims set out in REF2014, staffing for REF2021 has
 expanded to 19.1FTE (60% increase). Twelve new hires (five ECRs, five associate professors
 and two professors) have strengthened areas in fashion, art and media, visual culture, and
 cultural management and creativity. Partnerships and key projects have deepened and
 extended, with the continued close working relationship with Transmediale (Germany), but also
 with new sustained engagements with Kochi Biennale (India), Tate Exchange (Tate Modern),
 Digital Suzhou (China), and Oslo Biennale (§4).
 The Centre is underpinned by five strategic aims:
  1. To maintain an internationally-directed, experimental, interdisciplinary research base.
  2. To enhance and support imaginative and critical research at the highest levels.
  3. To build capacity and support research staff and students to raise the research profile.
  4. To promote and sustain a close, dialogic relationship between teaching and research.
  5. To articulate and deepen the value and impact of research at the societal level.
 Aims 1 & 2 have been supported through the new hires and subsequent expansion of scholarly
 networks, the consolidation of the five research groups, and a deepening commitment to
 creative and collaborative practice research methodologies (supported by new hires and
 development of new non-HEI partners (§4)). Support for interdisciplinary research is maintained
 through cross-faculty interest groups, cross-disciplinary seminars, and through the mandate and
 strategic funding of SIAH. With regards to building capacity and supporting staff and students
 (Aim 3), a key objective has been to increase research capabilities. This has been achieved
 through a deliberate strategy for cross-membership of the research groups to help facilitate an
 intersecting knowledge base and for project- rather than subject-based approaches. So, for
 example, research seminars or symposia are frequently designed to explore a theme from
 multiple perspectives and methodologies. Similarly, the School’s work with Tate Exchange (TEx)
 has generated multiple team-based opportunities for staff and students across the School and
 with external partners (§1.5; §4). The Centre’s collaborative and intersecting approach has also
 been important in bridging teaching and research (Aim 4), allowing new knowledge to be shared
 across a wide provision of subjects (e.g. through guest lectures and seminars). Equally, it has
 helped foster a shared discourse, informing the longer-term strategy for the renewal and
 revalidation of courses. Specific examples have been the School’s consideration and embedding
 of visual culture; globalization; sustainability; equality and diversity; and the decolonising of the
 curriculum. With regards to societal impact (Aim 5), the Centre is committed to ‘open research’

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (§1.4), and the overall approach is to work closely with external organizations and scholars,
 which includes initiative-building and acting as a broker for partners (§1.5). AMT and CP
 research groups demonstrate strong leadership, which, from a strategic point of view, has
 provided guidance and know-how for the other groups as they grow and strengthen (§4).
 In looking ahead to the next five years, our priority is to increase success in external research
 funds, which will mean continued commitment to working with external partners, notably with
 non-HEI organisations (§1.5; §4). In support of this objective, we are working towards a new
 ‘lab-based’ model to curate and better stimulate research initiatives. This approach frames our
 research around key methodologies, rather than being grouped thematically, and is the result of
 collaborative, critical reflection about our emergent strengths such as in social practice, inclusive
 design, and creative enquires into new technologies. The aim is to build on the success and
 expertise of the current research groups by putting in place an expanded leadership team – with
 ‘strategic theme leaders’ joining the DHoS Research, Director of International, PhD Director, and
 Impact, Enterprise, ECR and EDI Champions. The team reflects the needs of an already
 expanded staff base, and importantly will support further expansion. In the next five years, the
 aim is to increase researcher numbers by at least another 50%.
 In addition to new appointments, focus is on the long-term support for career pathway changes
 within the School. This will further strengthen our research-informed education and ensure
 critical mass of strategic research areas and activities, with continued emphasis on
 interdisciplinary perspectives. For example, we have appointed an associate professor in e-
 textiles (who previously worked in the University’s engineering department), with the specific aim
 to build this area of expertise, which in turn capitalizes on the School’s excellent technical base
 for textiles and smart technologies. The Centre will continue to focus on key national and
 international priorities for knowledge generation and exchange, global challenges, and emerging
 issues relating to new technologies (e.g., AI, wearable tech, and data culture), the environment
 and sustainability, and inclusive design, notably in areas of health, wellbeing and ageing (which
 builds on existing design innovations). In addition, at the invitation of the City Council, we have a
 formal role within Southampton’s UK City of Culture Bid 2025. This involves membership to the
 research (Ashton) and creative industries (Manghani) working groups, with the work also
 cascaded through the School and in close dialogue with the JHG (whose Director is a member
 of the visual arts working group).
 1.4 Research Integrity and Open Access
 All research is underpinned by a robust and informed culture of research integrity. We take our
 lead from the policies and standards set by the University (REF5a§2.8). All research is
 scrutinised via the University’s online approval system, ERGO II, which brings together a wide
 range of specialist input and detailed peer review. Staff receive access to regular training and
 advice, all of which is overseen by the Faculty Ethics Committee.
 The Centre is an advocate of open access (OA). Staff are directly engaged with several OA
 journals and repositories: E.g. Cardo is a Section Editor for MAI: Feminism and Visual Culture;
 Parikka is a committee member of Mediarxiv, an open archive for Media, Film, and
 Communication Studies; and Hon serves on the editorial board of the Media Commons journal
 [in]Transition: The Journal of Videographic and Moving Images Studies. In terms of widening
 access, Ludovico’s Temporary Libraries has enabled an international, collaborative approach to
 the donation of often hard to find specialist materials, leading to new public collections (with
 holdings in Berlin, Manizales, Lisbon and Trondheim); and Manghani initiated the development
 of a multi-partner project, Web of Arts, which, connecting with the Research England-funded
 Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG), the Open Data Institute and JISC, is working
 towards an OA sector-wide repository and aggregator of practice research (in the Arts and
 beyond). The project was supported with an £11K stimulus grant (Web Science Institute). Within
 the Centre’s REF submission all journal articles and four books (via Knowledge Unlatched and

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 JSTOR) are openly accessible, and additional research components, datasets and projects are
 geared towards free, public access. Over the next five years, the aim is to extend OA provision,
 and to do this in consort with a broader, School-wide initiative to make materials and curricula
 open to the public.
 1.5 Impact strategy
 Our strategy for impact is underpinned by two specific considerations. Firstly, attempts are made
 to work at local, national and international levels concurrently; to help understand societal issues
 from different perspectives and points of connections. Sekhon’s work on luxury consumption
 and identity, for example, has been conducted within the setting of primary school education,
 locally within Southampton, nationally in terms of the wider curriculum network for
 PSHE Education, and internationally with the involvement of schools in Turkey and Singapore.
 Secondly, the Centre is committed to a supportive role with key partners. As such, embedded
 engagement is characteristic of an approach to impact. Our Associate status with Tate
 Exchange (TEx), for example, has been an important and rewarding part of a strategic
 approach, bringing research to a network of over 60 third-sector organisations from around the
 UK. As part of which, Cid, Dawson and Manghani are members of Tate’s steering group,
 helping to shape TEx as a ‘research centre’ within Tate. Similar work is underway with the
 development of a sector-wide AI and Arts interest group at the Alan Turing Institute (Giddings);
 and is demonstrated with the long-term advisory and curatorial input to Transmediale (Bishop,
 Parikka), and support to the V&A with the embedding of a post-doc researcher (Leanne Werber,
 2014/2015).
 The role of Impact Champion (Giddings) was established early in 2015 to provide leadership,
 oversight and momentum; a role which is supported by the DHoS Research and Faculty REF
 Officer. Their work is undertaken in partnership with the University’s Research & Innovation
 Services (RIS, REF5a§1.5), which includes a dedicated Impact Framework Manager,
 overseeing policy, training and impact case development. University funds have helped in
 supporting staff research time specific to impact development (§3.2).
 We pay particular consideration to questions of economy, environment and society, with two
 major themes cutting across our work. The first relates to methodological thinking and
 implementation of social practices within art and design, while the second relates to cultural
 management and creativity (areas that have undergone significant expansion with four new
 hires). These two themes underscore the Centre’s approach to critical thinking and methods for
 societal, collaborative work. Social practices (and the aforementioned local-global and
 embedded engagements) are evidenced strongly with the two submitted impact studies (Cid’s
 work regarding chronic homelessness, and Yin’s research into design practices for an ageing
 society). Both deploy inclusive design practices, which not only impact upon society in
 ameliorative ways, but represent forms of social exchange, inclusion and the co-production of
 knowledge (§4.3a). With respect to cultural management (in addition to engagement with
 Southampton’s UK City of Culture bid), we are an active stakeholder in Southampton’s long-term
 development of a cultural quarter. This work is primarily led through the TC research group,
 which is also leading on the development of Creative Artificial Intelligence Lab at WSA
 (Giddings, in collaboration with IBM) and taking an active role in the Coastal Creatives
 Consortium (comprising: Southampton, Solent, Bournemouth, Bournemouth Arts, Portsmouth
 and Chichester Universities). The consortium is mapping the creative industries, networks and
 agencies in the coastal region to support economic growth, regeneration, innovation and
 resilience. In a similar vein, WLRG established Luxury South, a special interest group of Central
 South England’s business network, which has a membership of over 150 businesses and
 entrepreneurs. These various engagements provide excellent opportunities for the School and
 connect directly with the University’s strategy for public engagement, conducted through a



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated, central unit PERu (REF5a§2.9). The work can also be understood within the
 University’s explicit framing as civic institution.

 2. People
 The Centre’s progressive and transdisciplinary purview has made it an attractive place to work
 and study, drawing together a diverse, international group of staff and PGRs. For staff the
 UK/non-UK split is 69%/31%, representing a doubling of non-UK staff since REF2014
 (86%/14%). Staff joining from overseas represent a diverse mix and draw together a wide range
 of networks (connecting, for example, to Singapore, Romania, France, New Zealand, Spain,
 Italy, Finland, USA and China). PGR enrolment is highly international, with 33%/67% UK/non-UK
 over the REF period (19/39 headcount). Staff and students work in a collegial environment,
 evidenced by a high incidence of collaborative research outputs and initiatives, with support from
 dedicated administrative support, staff development and mentoring.
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 The increase in staffing demonstrates sustained investment in research and impact over the last
 decade (§1). Since REF2014 the underpinning strategy has been to ensure stability and to
 continue to build capacity and capability. Importantly, in taking a long view of research career
 development, all staff, at all levels are on permanent contracts. Over the census period the
 approach has been to appoint at a range of levels to increase capacities and support future
 development. New hires include five Early Career Researchers (ECRs) (Ashton, Begum,
 Brebenel, Cardo, Holcombe) and six Associate Professors (Cid, Cole, Giddings, Ludovico,
 Sekhon, Turney). Also, two Professorial Fellows (Burgin, Hall) were appointed to offer further
 depth and experience in the areas of art and curatorial practices, and art history and criticism.
 The criteria for senior appointments (Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor, Professor) have
 remained consistent, requiring proven international reputation, track record in income
 generation, evidence of strategic research networks, capacity for interdisciplinary work, quality of
 research outputs, and research leadership and mentoring.
 Careful attention has been given to balancing between core disciplinary strengths and
 enhancing interdisciplinary capacities, which has included increased expertise within fashion and
 global media culture, and has helped increase doctoral supervision capacity. Staff development
 has been central to capability building. This is approached through mentoring and dedicated
 training (§2.2). An ongoing objective has been to improve the School’s gender balance and to
 press further on a range of equality, diversity and inclusion matters (§2.3); issues that are very
 well represented and advanced in the research outputs of numerous staff, as well as
 championed by IPIC research group.
 2.2 Staff Support and Development
 Centre staff are allocated a minimum of 40% pro-rata research time (2 days/week). In line with
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a§3.5), all staff,
 whether full- or part-time, receive equal financial and material support (§3.2), mentoring,
 appraisal and training to ensure that pathways to individual career growth are identified, pursued
 and reviewed (REF5a§3.1). Research, impact and engagement are treated as constituent parts
 of a whole, so research time is afforded equally across these aspects (as befits the relevant
 phasing of an individual’s research undertaking and trajectory). An annual programme of support
 and training is delivered at Centre level (e.g. getting published, working with partners, building
 portfolios, securing funding). Input is supplemented with a range of provision at Faculty level and
 via the University’s National Centre for Research Methods, Centre for Higher Education Practice
 (CHEP), and RIS, which together provide a wide range of specialist training in data-handling,
 ethics, impact, public policy, and intellectual property (REF5a§1.5).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oversight of ECRs (who receive individual expense bursaries), as well as annual assessments
 and mentoring, is managed collectively by the Head of School, DHoS Research, Directors of
 Study and assigned mentors from across the research groups. There are ECR Champions at
 both Faculty and School level (Brebenel). The mentoring scheme ensures ECRs are paired with
 senior staff, but equally, mentoring is facilitated at all levels as it is recognized that new and
 different challenges arise throughout one’s career. This strong, collegial approach provides a
 supportive environment with good rotation of roles. Each research group is required to have co-
 directorship, which helps with individual staff workloads but also ensures staff gain research
 administration experience, which in turn helps succession planning and sustainability. All staff
 are evaluated annually by line managers in accordance with the University’s ‘Academic
 Promotions’ policies and ‘Reward and Recognition’ scheme (REF5a§3.1).
 Since 2014, the University promoted Parikka, Faiers, Manghani, and D’Souza to Level 7
 (Professor), and Ashton, Cardo and Yin to Level 6 (Associate Professor). Ashton and Cardo
 first joined the School as ECRs in 2015. The Centre offers regular staff seminars, which, in line
 with the strategy for capability building (§1.3), provide dedicated support to ECRs, PGRs and
 staff without a formal responsibility for research. Since 2014, investment has also been made in
 supporting PhD study for six staff members. The Centre holds a quarterly Research Forum,
 open to all, intended as a dialogic space to reflect on planning and community-building, ensuring
 School-level participation in devising and delivering a shared research strategy. The research
 groups provide regular forums of exchange for subject and project-based development (§4).
 2.3 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI)
 Enhancement of diversity training and mentoring accords explicitly with the internationalisation
 ethos underpinning the Centre and its research strategy, which addresses the daily experience
 and communal values of all its researchers. The University’s governance of EDI (REF5a§3.8)
 provides the underpinning context and support for actively pursuing gender and ethnic diversity
 and career development, and is supported by an EDI Champion (Cardo) at School level. The
 University is a founding signatory of the Athena Swan Charter (REF5a§3.1), in response to
 which, the School will submit its application for Bronze Award in early 2021 with an expectation
 to build quickly upon the groundwork and to make an application for Silver Award in 2022/23.
 The self-assessment team of 20 colleagues provide wide representation, including academics
 (at all levels), administrative staff, technicians, and PGRs.
 At Associate Professor level, following promotions of two women and a recent new appointment
 (beyond the census period), the ratio is balanced, 4:4 men/women. Regarding ECRs, new
 appointments of four women and one man were made. There is good opportunity to achieve
 much greater balance at all levels over the coming five years. The Centre has established a
 working group to develop strategies and actions regarding equity across all genders (beyond a
 male/female binary). Job adverts specifically encourage applications from historically
 underrepresented groups. Gender-balanced panels are mandated for the sifting and interviewing
 of candidates, and unconscious bias training is a requirement. It should also be noted that
 issues of diversity (including race, gender, sexuality etc.) are explicitly represented in the
 research of staff (Cole, Cardo, Brebenel, Turney, Holcombe, Sekhon, D’Souza), which
 provides notable expertise and supports the visibility, articulation and prioritization of these
 matters.
 The Centre provides the overarching, strategic means to uphold all statutory policies concerning
 staff health, safety and well-being and to ensure alignment with University policies regarding
 EDI. The more rounded notion of ‘wellbeing’ increasingly promoted at a national level is taken
 seriously at the Centre, and is in accordance with the University’s signatory to the Mindful
 Employer Charter (REF5a§3.4). While a whole-organization approach is led by the University’s
 EDI Team (REF5a§3, including Health, Safety and Risk Directorate), it is at School (and Centre)
 level that reasonable adjustments are overseen (e.g., relating to work schedules, job and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environment modifications, technological assistance, etc.). Due care is afforded to the planning
 of meetings and activities, while good communications and regular means of feedback and
 consultation help maintain a fully inclusive research community.
 Over the census period the School has actively supported cases for maternity, bereavements,
 carer responsibilities and ill-health, which have been managed in sensitively and generously,
 including making adjustments for those returning from periods of leave. Decisions regarding
 flexible or remote working can be made locally, with the support of HR Business Partners.
 Arrangements have been made to support career development and to accommodate aspects of
 work-life balance. E.g. Parikka shifted to a fractional contract (0.5 FTE) for a 5-year period to
 pursue a role overseas; Manghani moved to a fractional contract (0.6 FTE) for 9 months to
 enable caring responsibilities. QR funding has enabled significant amounts of teaching buy-out
 (§3.2). Careful consideration is given to teaching patterns across the year, with one semester
 often weighted more than another to allow for more concentrated research time and impact
 development. Staff are afforded flexibility in managing their own time; regularly able to work
 remotely for at least a portion of any typical week. It is worth noting the significant changes to
 work-life balance during the Covid crisis have renewed reflections upon (and new technical
 means towards) preferred, flexible work patterns. These changes will impact positively on future
 arrangements.
 2.3.1 EDI for REF Submission
 All staff involved in the construction of the REF submission attended to the University Code of
 Practice and bespoke training (REF5a§3.9), which included mandatory unconscious bias
 training and specialist input from inclusion and diversity expert, GB Paralympian Claire Harvey.
 A rotation of roles ensured a balance of gender in leadership (two men, one woman in the role of
 Director of Research; two women in the role of Associate Dean for Research). Gender balance
 and a variety of perspectives were maintained for all internal and external review processes.
 Data on the distribution of REF outputs has helped place further attention on the need to
 improve gender balance (as noted above, §2.3).
 2.4 Research students
 The Centre provides a supportive environment for all Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs),
 offering training and supervision across a wide range of projects and catering for a diverse
 community. The programme has steadily grown: for REF2014, enrollment almost doubled (23 to
 43) and over the current census period 58 students enrolled. There have been 32 completions
 (4.56/year; 8.1% compound annual growth), with average submission and completion rates
 meeting University averages. It is a highly international programme with two-thirds of entrants
 international (19/39 UK/Non-UK), including PGRs from India, Ghana, China, Taiwan, Spain,
 Germany, Kuwait, and Iran. There is an even gender balance (52:48 female:male), which is also
 seen in the completion rates (53:47 female:male). The University does not yet record non-binary
 gender statistics.
 Under the leadership of the PhD Director (Turney), staff are involved in all areas of PGR
 recruitment, induction, and supervision. Recruitment and candidatures are maintained according
 to the University’s overarching framework for EDI. PGR students are provided with a collective
 study space with computer access, free printing, and access to a wide range of facilities and
 technical support across the School (including dye labs, 3D printing, Mac suites, and print
 studios). Given the specific art school context, the provision of specialist training is considered
 highly valuable, with input from all staff. In addition to intensive training weeks and studio
 intensives that take place annually, Turney oversees a weekly programme of seminars and
 events, curated for varied and combined modes of research (spanning studio, archival, theory-
 based and socio-cultural research). Situated within a large research-driven institution, the
 Centre’s PGRs are encouraged to gain interdisciplinary input from across all faculties and
 departments (including, for example, engagement with the University’s Sound and Vibration Lab,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Robotics and Remote Sensing Labs, psychophysiology labs, and the National
 Oceanography Centre), and co-supervision across faculties is encouraged (e.g. cross
 supervision has taken place with staff in Psychology, Web Sciences, and the Centre for
 Research on Ageing).
 PGRs are supported through the University’s Doctoral College (REF5a§3.7), with administrative
 support and additional training provided at Faculty level. To chart progress, students access the
 University’s ‘PGR Tracker’, an online automated platform, which visualizes milestones and
 records training and supervision reports. PGRs undertake three formal progression reviews
 before completion, and have mandatory training in Health and Safety, Research Ethics, EDI, and
 Data Management. In accordance with the Researcher Development Framework (led by Vitae),
 the University’s Doctoral College and the Faculty co-ordinate a range of skills training and
 personal development opportunities, including use of software, personal promotion and career
 development, the publishing process, and career-related skills. PGRs have the opportunity to
 teach, supported through Doctoral College/CHEP training.
 Conference attendance and studio-related materials are supported at School-level. PGRs have
 access to annual research expenses to the value of £700/year for full-time study, £350 part-time
 study (with unspent funds rolling over). These allowances have been highly valuable for
 professionalization, enabling travel to internationally significant conferences, and allowing PGRs
 to programme their own events, including inviting notable academics to the Centre to participate
 in workshops and symposia. Other aspects of professionalisation are supported through the
 editorial and curatorial networks of Centre staff (§4), helping students to get published and to
 exhibit work in established contexts. Research students are represented on the Faculty’s
 Graduate School Committee and the Centre’s Research Forum. The student-led GradNet brings
 together students across the Faculty to stage an annual conference and journal issue. During
 their candidature PGRs frequently engage in exhibiting practice, curatorial projects and
 publishing. Students have exhibited work, for example, at Transmediale, Tate Exchange,
 Museum of London, ZKM Center for Art & Media, and Eikones. One PGR was embedded with
 the Kochi Biennale (India) and numerous students have published in quality journals (e.g.,
 Cultural Politics, Theory, Culture & Society; and Parallax). Candidates are also supported with
 publishing their thesis. Books include Williams’ Propaganda and Hogarth's Line of Beauty in the
 First World War (Palgrave, 2016); Birkin’s Archive, Photography and the Language of
 Administration (Amsterdam University Press, 2020); and Feng Jie’s Fashion Design in
 Altermodern China (Bloomsbury, forthcoming).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 In accordance with the research and impact strategies (§1.3;1.5), the Centre has taken
 advantage of its high-quality infrastructure and generous investment to increase staffing and
 expand activities and partnership. The submission for REF2021 represents a period of sustained
 investment, putting the Centre in a strong position for further development and expansion. Since
 REF2014, average research income has increased from £24k/year in REF 2014 to £57k/year,
 and this is expected to double over the next five years.
 3.1 Income
 The Centre received £293,130 across 9 awards, including:
 ESRC ‘Silver Shoppers’ (PI Yin) £212K
 AHRC ‘Internet of Cultural Things’ (Co-I Parikka) £12K
 AHRC ‘Archaeology of the Fashion Film’ (Co-I Parikka) £27K




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dawson, Carnie, Manghani, Sekhon, Giddings, Parikka and Ashton have also been attached
 as co-investigators to external, collaborative projects, which supports the strategic aim to build
 experience for future funding over the next five years.
 The Centre has attracted research income not reported through HESA to the value of £108K.
 This includes consultancy fees for research projects underpinning Digital Suzhou (£20K); the
 journal Cultural Politics (£16K); visiting researcher agreement (£13K), and philanthropic income
 (£21K). In addition, the University’s JHG is an important research context for the Centre,
 providing significant external funding (over £4M, including £3.7M ACE National Portfolio
 Organisation award; £150K ACE Catalyst; £100K Barker Mill Foundation; £33K Turner
 Contemporary). The Head of School and DHoS Research are members of the Gallery’s strategic
 board, and both Centre and JHG are Associates of Tate Exchange. The JHG is one of seven
 ACE National Portfolio Organisations within Southampton, and received a substantial increase
 to support its move to a purpose-built site in the city centre (in addition to City Council
 Investment, the site represents a £30M development). As part of an overall package, ACE
 funding for the city’s overall cultural offer increased by over 22% from 2018-2022, representing
 an investment of over £13M over four years. Staff are regularly involved in collaborative projects
 and public engagement with the JHG, and engage in a range of innovative curatorial
 investigations, including the ‘Barthes/Burgin’ exhibition (led by Burgin), supported by £23K from
 the JHG and £5K from Henry Moore Foundation.
 With regards to PGR provision, the Centre hosted an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award
 research grant for the period 2012-2018, with Tate Liverpool. The £217K award provided funds
 for four full-time doctoral students. In addition, AHRC doctoral training awards were secured for
 two projects, ‘Looking at Images: A Researcher’s Guide’ (2014, £4K); and ‘Rhythmanalysis’
 (2017, £4K) – the latter a partnership with the Consortium for the Humanities and Arts South
 East England. Following the creation of the new Faculty of Arts and Humanities (2018), the
 School joined the AHRC Southwest and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWWDTP), a
 consortium of 9 universities and arts organisations, offering 200 awards across five student
 cohorts with a proportion of the awards offered through Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs).
 The Centre is now supervising 2 SWWDTP candidates, in collaboration with Exeter and Bath
 Spa universities.
 3.2 Investment
 In addition to a significant number of new hires (§2.1), the Centre has sustained substantial
 investment in staff support and resource (£506K, primarily QR funding). This investment has
 substantially benefitted the quality of outputs, the depth and extent of research impact, and has
 helped strengthen and extend strategic partnerships. For example, internally allocated ‘stimulus
 funds’ supported time and travel to: expand on Carnie’s funded projects taking his work to
 numerous venues across Europe; enable travel to build the relationship with Kochi Biennale in
 India; devise high-level input for Transmediale’s public programme; initiate the regional Business
 South Luxury Group; enable engagement between the British Museum and the Blackfoot
 community in Canada; match external support for work with Tate Exchange; and enabled Yin to
 work with commercial prototyping, leading to registered designs and intellectual property
 development.
 Centre staff were provided annual research allowances of £1,500, affording a high degree of
 independence (supporting conference attendances, permissions, production costs, and
 international travel). Since 2018, strategic research funds have been allocated through a
 Faculty-wide process, which supports individual and collaborative projects (£40K, 2018-2020).
 The establishment of the new Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities (2020) has
 provided £80K (Higher Education Innovation Fund), which represents key investment for future
 development. There are also regular internal funding opportunities from across the University,
 supporting interdisciplinary engagement, including annual Impact Acceleration Awards (with

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £15K awarded to the Centre), public engagement funds, and other hypothecated schemes
 directed through University-level institutes.
 3.3 Infrastructure
 Investment in personnel and research development is mirrored by equipment acquisition and
 maintenance expenditure over the census period, which totalled £1.4M. The Centre provides
 offices and studio facilities for all staff and access to administrative support. Colleagues receive
 support from RIS and a dedicated Finance Research Hub, which oversees financial costing and
 research funding reporting; as well as training, skills and personal development (§2).
 The physical infrastructure offers a wide variety of common learning spaces, along with a full
 range of studio spaces, a flexible and well-equipped gallery, a long-established specialist art and
 design library, photography and media labs, a PhD research room, and access to a range of
 specialized technology (e.g. 3-D printing/scanning labs, a laser cutter, flat-bed digital printers for
 fabrics and wallpapers, and computerised knitting machines), with support of ten technicians in
 all areas including: digital media, fine art, digital knitting, textile printing, fashion, printmaking,
 photography, sculpture, and time-based media. A digital services centre provides specialist
 printing and laser cutting. Three of the research groups, AMT, CPRG and TC, collectively
 manage hardware and software resources for experimental media research.
 All staff and PGRs have access to prominent science departments and the full range of services
 from the University main library system, including access to Archives & Special Collections
 (REF5a§4.2). The School also maintains a specialist art, design and media library on site. It
 includes specialist collections in Artists’ Books, a Knitting Reference Library, and over 100
 discipline-specific journal titles, as well as over 5000 moving image titles, and graphic novels,
 zines and artists' films.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Sustainable and Collaborative Methodologies
 The Centre is committed to working in partnership with a range of organizations and
 stakeholders. Two research groups are representative of this work:
 a) Archaeologies of Media and Technology (AMT) has an ongoing collaboration with the
    Department of Visual Arts at UC San Diego regarding areas of environmental research and
    art. A specific project was the exhibition Earth/Sky (2019, curated by Bishop and Parikka) at
    the San Diego CalIt2 Gallery. This was the result of a sustained collaboration since 2013,
    with research on remote sensing, speculative design and environmental aesthetics. It
    showed works by three women artists (UK, Netherlands, Egypt). AMT also maintains working
    relationships with the University of Bologna, Film and Television School of the Academy of
    Performing Arts (Prague), Critical Media Lab (Academy of Art and Design, Basel), Stamps
    Faculty of Art (University of Michigan), Media Archaeology Lab (Bilkent University, Turkey)
    and the National University of Singapore. A commission from the Finnish Cultural Institute
    led to a site-specific exhibition, The Library’s Other Intelligences (2019), curated by Parikka
    with Shannon Mattern (NYU), part of the opening of the new Oodi Library, Helsinki. The
    project built upon an AHRC grant An Internet of Cultural Things (2015-16) co-led by Parikka
    and Mark Coté (Kings College) in partnership with the British Library. Of particular note is
    AMT’s long-standing relationship with Transmediale. It focuses upon the connections of art,
    culture, and technology and attracts large international audiences in the thousands each
    year. Since 2012, this work has produced specialist panels, brought internationally
    recognised scholars, artists and designers to the festival, and enabled 15 staff and 12 PGRs
    from the School to contribute to the festival. This included, for example, one PGR leading a
    two-day workshop in 2018 that featured ECR Brebenel, who also organized and chaired a
    plenary panel in 2019. A major outcome has been the transmediale reader (2016 Sternberg


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Press), edited by Bishop and Parikka, and Transmediale 2020 specifically highlighted the
    long-term partnership with WSA. The research partnership has also enabled cohorts of
    students to participate each year (from BA Fine Art, MA Contemporary Curation, MA
    Communication Design).
 b) Critical Practices (CP) has similarly developed a diverse and international set of
    collaborations, including non-HEI partnerships with Tate Exchange (TEx), Kochi-Muziris
    Biennale (India), Oslo Biennale, Arrels Foundation (Barcelona), Design Hub (Barcelona), and
    Toronto’s University Health Network. Nationally, the group has worked with PRAG, the Web
    Science Institute, Sainsbury’s, Age UK, the Open Data Institute. Regionally, we have a close
    working relationship with Trinity Winchester (a charity working with vulnerable people), the
    Hampshire Cultural Trust, and also ‘a space’ arts, an ACE national portfolio organisation
    based in Southampton, supporting emerging artists. The group hosted the AHRC PhD CDA
    with Tate Liverpool, Connected Communities, and through its Associate status with TEx
    staged a week-long event at Tate Modern, ‘Building an Art Biennale’ (2018), developed in
    collaboration with the Kochi Biennale (KB). It brought together over 150 students, the
    curators of the first four editions of KB, over 30 arts professionals, and included a live link-up
    with Anita Dube at the KB office in India. Taking its bearings from the published work of
    D’Souza and Manghani, and the work of a PhD student of the group, this event helped
    broker a forward-going relationship between KB and TEx. The programme reached an
    audience of over 2,000 people, working with the general public and invited audiences and
    communities, including members of Trinity Winchester, for whom, as highly vulnerable
    members of the community, it had been the first time to visit the museum (and for some
    participants the first time travelling outside of Winchester, and none had spoken publicly
    before). The second programme, ‘Itinerant Objects’ (2019), similarly reached a public
    audience of over 2,000 people. It provided opportunities for 40 PGR and PGT students
    (primarily in Fashion and Textiles), and offered public talks on sustainability and the global
    economy, working with the pressure group Fashion Revolution. The group’s third iteration,
    ‘Nothing to See Here’, could not proceed due to the Covid lockdown, but, via Tate Online,
    provided a ‘research feature’ interview with theorist and activist Nicholas Mirzoeff.
 4.2 Research Networks, Influence, and Contributions
 The Centre attracts a wide range of visiting scholars, speakers and collaborators, which make
 for a rich environment of leading scholars and practitioners, e.g. theorists Katherine Hayles
 (Duke/UCLA) and Alex Galloway (NYU); artists Bose Krishnamachri, Jake Chapman and Anita
 Dube; and arts director Chris Dercon. Talks are open to all students, staff and the general public.
 Many events have also been curated by staff off-site at high profile venues, such as the CalIT2
 Gallery at UC San Diego; Oslo Biennale, the Central Academy of Fine Arts Museum (Beijing),
 the Open Data Institute, and RIBA.
 Collectively, staff represent an extensive range of networks and contributions, especially through
 journal and book series editorships. Over half of the research team (12 staff members) are
 involved in 25 journal or book series titles; and with eight members taking primary or managing
 editor roles in ten of the titles. In the fields of critical theory and the arts, Armitage and Bishop
 are founding co-editors of the journal Cultural Politics and its associated book series (Duke UP).
 Manghani (Managing Editor) and Bishop serve on the editorial board of Theory Culture &
 Society (No.1 journal for Cultural Studies), while Armitage serves on editorial boards for Critical
 Discourse Studies and Journal of Visual Culture. D’Souza and Manghani are Co-Editors of the
 Journal of Visual Art Practice, and Manghani is associate editor of The Journal of Contemporary
 Painting. Bishop is the sole external editor of an arts/humanities book series, Theory Now
 (Polity Press). Parikka co-edits the University of Amsterdam Press book series Recursions and
 is a permanent member of MIT Press European Advisory Board. Parikka serves on the editorial
 board of the journals Fibreculture and Leonardo Digital Reviews, while Armitage, Bishop and


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Roberts edit the Technicities book series (Edinburgh UP). Ludovico is founding editor of the
 influential net-based art periodical Neural.
 Staff contribute toward critical debates in art and design histories, theories and practices. For
 example, Hall has given talks internationally on his major book on the history of self-portraiture
 in art (translated into 5 languages; winner of Travelling Scholarship Prize; shortlisted for Apollo
 Book of the Year; longlisted for Art Book Prize, 2014). Parikka’s A Geology of Media featured
 on Choice Magazine's list of ‘Outstanding Academic Titles of 2015’. In relation to medical
 imagining, Carnie’s ‘Hybrid Bodies’ project represents the work of an interdisciplinary team,
 consisting of four artists and five scientists (a cardiologist, a health sociologist, a transplant
 psychiatrist, a health scientist, a philosopher of medicine), and exhibited work internationally (in
 Canada, UK, and Germany); Parikka curated events at Design Biennale Istanbul Turkey (2016,
 2018), and with Caroline Evans (Central St. Martins) led an AHRC grant, Archaeology of
 Fashion Film, examining an area neglected by both film and fashion histories; Dawson was an
 investigator on a two-year research project, Making a Mark (2014-2016), led by the University’s
 Department of Archaeology, a project working with the British Museum and funded by the
 Leverhulme Trust. This work has led to Dawson’s inclusion on an AHRC grant, Rethinking
 Waste, in the context of Mumbai.
 With regard to Fashion and innovation, Faiers is founding co-editor of the journal, Luxury:
 History, Culture, Consumption. Turney is editor of Clothing Cultures and serves on the editorial
 board of Textile. Cole serves on the editorial board of Costume: The Journal of the Costume
 Society and Critical Studies in Men’s Fashion, and is Associate Editor of Fashion, Style and
 Popular Culture. Roberts is founding co-editor of the journal Critical Perspectives on
 International Business. She is also editor of Prometheus: Critical Studies in Innovation and
 serves on the editorial boards of Management International and Northern Economic Review.
 WLRG has notably introduced and advanced the field of critical luxury studies. It has brought in
 scholars from around the world, including Christopher Berry (Glasgow), Verena Andermatt
 Conley (Harvard), Pierre-Yves Donzé (Osaka University), Peter McNeill (University of
 Technology Sydney), Véronique Pouillard (University of Oslo), and Adam Sharr (Newcastle); it
 has also provided specific ECR opportunities. Holcombe, for example, has been able to frame
 her work in terms of luxury consumption and subsequently published in Luxury journal.
 The sustained editorial, curatorial and project-based work leads to international contributions
 and developments in support of various discipline areas. Staff are frequently invited for media
 contributions, talks and keynotes, including: Public Lecture at the Beijing Central Academy of
 Fine Art Museum (Bishop, 2019); Keynote at Massey University (New Zealand) ‘Millennial
 Masculinities: Queers, Pimp Daddies and Lumbersexuals Conference’ (Cole, 2019); Keynote for
 International Society for the Study of Narrative Annual Conference in New Orleans (Parikka,
 2020); an invited Critical Luxury Studies lecture, ‘Defining a Field?’ at Harvard University
 (Armitage and Roberts, 2017); Keynote at the Costume Society of America Midwestern
 Symposium, Toronto (Turney, 2020); and Keynotes at the University of Cologne Summer School
 of Interdisciplinary Anthropology, and the 4th International Conference on Finance and Economic
 Policy, Poznań University of Economics and Business, Poland (Giddings, 2019, 2020). Manghani
 is a co-opted Trustee of the Council for High Education in Art and Design, with a specific remit to
 develop the Council’s Research Alliance, which supports sector-wide strategy development,
 leadership forums, and policy advocacy.
 4.3 Contributions to Economy and Society
 We have sought to consolidate and deepen two emergent areas of strength:
 a) Social Practices: Specific projects have engaged publics in issues of health, well-being and
    social inclusion. IPIC directors, Cardo and Cole, have organized numerous events with the
    University and wider local communities to celebrate Black History and LGBTQ+ History


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    months. Carnie’s aforementioned ‘Hybrid Bodies’ has involved long-term, embedded
    collaboration with heart transplant surgeons and donor recipients. Responding to issues of
    migration and inclusivity, D’Souza was commissioned to make work for the first edition of the
    osloBIENNALEN, launched in May 2019 (set to run through until 2022). D'Souza’s work was
    selected as a case study for the biennial’s inaugural symposia, Art Production within a
    Locality. Working in the contexts of Colombia, Portugal, Norway and Germany, Ludovico’s
    Temporary Library is a sustainable project that improves access to specialised literatures with
    zero budget (all the books are donated), leading to a new public resource. Dawson’s work
    with imagining technologies has led to his inclusion on The New Frontiers funded research
    with the University of Lethbridge. This project uses 3D scanning as a means of bringing
    Blackfoot artefacts held in the UK back into circulation with First Nation Elders in Canada,
    and notably opening up the study of the emerging technologies from a Blackfoot
    perspective. The work of Yin and Cid, represent long-standing engagements in social design
    practice research. Collaborating with Sainsbury’s and Age UK, and a supermarket chain in
    China, Yin’s ESRC-funded ‘Silver Shoppers’, has impacted on design and implementation of
    inclusive design in the supermarket environment in both UK and China contexts. This work
    has led to her inclusion on a collaborative £200K UK-China Newton-funded project, working
    with Northumbria University, Tsinghua University, and Institute of Software, looking at
    sustainable urban and rural integration with AI and Big Data technologies as part of
    developing a smart service design platform. Similarly, as the impact case study ‘Zero Flat’
    exemplifies, Cid has a track-record in adopting social design practices when working with
    vulnerable communities and third sector organisations, including Hampshire Cultural Trust,
    National Citizen Service, the JHG, Hampshire’s Local Cultural Education Partnership, Trinity
    Winchester and Winchester Cathedral.
 b) Cultural Management and Creativity: A range of projects focus on the development of
    research links with business and cultural organisations. Ashton and Giddings’ ACE-funded
    Action Research Impact Project (2018) provides underpinning research for the development
    of Southampton’s ‘Cultural Quarter’ and UK City of Culture 2025 bid; in addition, Giddings
    has partnered with Hong Kong Polytechnic University on research and innovation relating to
    mahjong in the post-digital age; while Ashton (in collaboration with the University’s
    Department of Sociology and the Web Science Institute) has delivered a Digital Labour
    Seminar Series. The Luxury Research Group’s formation of the Business South Luxury
    Action Group, has brokered engagement between business and cultural organizations
    through events such as the Luxury South Roundtable (in association with Business South,
    Cunard, Queen Mary 2, and Southampton Docks). The group also collaborated with the V&A
    and the Crafts Council to produce the What is Luxury? (2015) exhibition, which addressed the
    creation of exceptional objects and how attitudes to luxury are shaped by cultural concerns,
    challenging preconceived notions of value. The exhibition received good press and had high
    attendance (269,867 visitors; top ten most visited V&A exhibition). A range of work is also
    undertaken with partners in China. Two joint symposia between the Centre and Nanjing
    University, one at each site, was led by Yin, Roberts and Armitage on Cultural Management
    and Creativity, and included participation by Ashton, furthering networks with creative
    industries in China and resulted in a jointly edited issue in Chinese of the journal Cultural
    Industry Research. Furthermore, a large-scale initiative is the Centre’s leadership in the
    development of Digital Suzhou and Innovation Hub (D’Souza). Initially developed as a
    festival to showcase the best in digital arts, the project has developed as a research and
    enterprise platform to support growth and development of Suzhou's burgeoning creative
    industries. Work is now underway to establish Digital Suzhou Creative Hub as a multi-million
    pound, internationally-focused incubation space, an integrated approach to research,
    enterprise, education and employability; and coordinating the School’s existing partnerships
    in China, including with AI and digital businesses based at the Suzhou Industry Park.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall, the sustained contributions and investments made over the census period highlight the
 range, diversity and depth of research activities carried out at the Centre, which, in turn,
 contributes to the fuller life of the School. Our activities and adherence to a clear strategy
 indicate consolidated achievements and investment in staff and partnerships, which have
 provided for an expanded and sustainable platform to both maintain and look to future
 commitments in international, interdisciplinary art, design and media research.




                                                                                         Page 14
