Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment:15: Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a) Overview and Context
 Reading has strengthened its long-standing reputation for world-leading research over the
 REF2021 cycle by retaining and nurturing an outstanding cohort of research leaders, transforming
 its internal research structures and investing in new strategic appointments. We have significantly
 expanded and diversified grant capture, enhanced our global profile, and effected a step-change
 in the quality and range of impact activities. Through collaborative interdisciplinary scholarship and
 ambitious programmes of field- and lab-based archaeology, our research agenda addresses
 fundamental questions of human existence and current global challenges.
    The University of Reading supports Archaeology’s distinctive identity as a bridge between the
 Humanities and the Sciences. The Unit is situated within the School of Archaeology, Geography
 and Environmental Science (SAGES), playing an active role in the University’s Heritage &
 Creativity (H&C) Research Theme, comprising nine Arts & Humanities subjects led by Gilchrist
 (Archaeology) as Research Dean. Archaeology also interacts with two other interdisciplinary
 Research Themes: Environment; and Agriculture, Food & Health. Research strategy and
 governance within the Unit is managed through a Research Committee, chaired by the Research
 Division Leader (RDL), and comprising the Head of Department, the Chairs of Research Clusters
 and the Director of Postgraduate Research (PGR). Strategic direction is monitored through annual
 Operational Plans, prepared in consultation with the H&C Research Dean with oversight from the
 University Committee for Research and Innovation.
 b) Research and Impact Strategy
 Strategy over the current assessment period has been guided by three objectives articulated in
 our REF2014 statement: i) to sustain large-scale, interdisciplinary investigation of issues of the
 human past that speak to contemporary social and environmental concerns; ii) to support
 innovative research within and beyond our research themes; and iii) to develop impact and
 outreach for all research. We have performed strongly in all three areas of activity, measured by:
 i) a significant increase in grant capture from a diversified range of sources (Section 3); ii) an
 increase in the range and scale of collaborations, unlocked through major funded research
 projects and noteworthy success with international mobility/network initiatives (Section 1b and 3);
 and iii) a step-change in the scope and depth of impact and public engagement (Section 1c and
 Section 4).
    Archaeology has pursued a dynamic and reflective period of development over this REF period
 fulfilling our stated ambition to ‘integrate social and scientific approaches to globally significant
 research issues’ (REF 2014). Through an inclusive and bottom-up process of group discussion,
 we have reconfigured our research into three new Research Clusters (RCs) that harness our
 strengths and distinctiveness within the discipline: Landscape, Climate and Lived Environment
 (LCLE); Diet, Health and Life Course (DHLC); and Objects, Materials and People (OMP). RCs
 link to discrete areas of research activity and include nested sub-themes that are outward-looking
 and strongly interdisciplinary. Membership of RCs is open, self-selecting and spans core staff,
 ECRs, PGRs and PGTs, generating an inclusive research culture.
 Landscape, Climate & Lived Environment
    Human-environment interactions: We have evolved this theme by investing in Latin America
 as a new geographic focus underpinned by sustained grant capture and multi-institutional
 international partnerships. The transfer of Mayle from Environmental Science to the Archaeology
 Research Division consolidates his research on human-climate-environment relationships in
 tropical ecosystems (Landscapes of Southern Brazil (LSB)/Human Environment Relationships in
 pre-Columbian Amazonia (HERCA)’ projects) with Branch’s research providing deep-time
 perspectives on climate resilience and food production in the Peruvian Andes (AHRC; GCRF).
 This has been accompanied by an increased emphasis on palaeoclimate techniques and
 perspectives across LCLE. We have enhanced and applied scientific methodologies (Fleitmann)
 and investigated with new levels of subtlety how prehistoric populations adapted to abrupt climate
 events in the British Isles (Mithen, Branch), and southwest Asia (Fleitmann, R Matthews and W

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Matthews). We chart human-climate-environment interactions over continental and
 transnational scales, exemplified by Pluskowski’s research on the ecological dynamics of
 conquest and colonisation in medieval Europe (ERC Baltic Crusades Project (BCP); AHRC
 ‘Landscapes of (Re-) Conquest Project (LRCP) and Hosfield’s research on patterns of hominin
 dispersal (AHRC Network).
     Neolithisation; transformations in human society: This focus has been strengthened and
 consolidated by sustained programmes of field research, analysis and publication at Wadi Faynan
 16, Jordan (Mithen), and four Epipalaeolithic-Neolithic sites in the Iraq/Iran border region
 investigated within the Central Zagros Archaeological Project (CZAP, R and W Matthews, AHRC,
 ERC AdG ‘Middle East Neolithic Transition Integrated Community Approaches - MENTICA’).
 These projects provide exceptional geographical coverage for the cradle of Neolithic civilisation
 and highly complementary results for understanding the human-animal-plant interactions
 involved in the emergence of the earliest sedentary communities. Our research on the Mesolithic-
 Neolithic transition of Britain has been similarly impactful by unlocking new sources of
 archaeological data from neglected and liminal landscapes. This includes key work on the Atlantic
 islands of western Britain (Garrow AHRC ‘Stepping Stones’), Islay and Mull (Mithen) which bring
 maritime connectivity to the fore of the research agenda, aligning with Bell’s investigations of
 Neolithic landscapes between Avebury and Stonehenge (AHRC ‘Vale of Pewsey Project’) and
 Garrow’s pioneering study of crannogs in Neolithic Scotland (AHRC ‘Neolithic Crannogs Project’).
     Landscapes and built environments of human engagement: This sub-theme is distinguished
 by innovations in data recovery, interpretation and synthesis. One of the most ambitious ‘grey
 literature’ projects undertaken in British archaeology, Fulford’s Rural Settlement of Roman
 Britain (RSRB, Leverhulme) has redefined understanding of regional diversity in Roman rural
 lifeways, agriculture and economy, complementing ongoing research at Silchester as a unique
 case study for the Iron Age-Roman urban transition (Creighton, Fulford). Working at the interface
 of scientific and social approaches, W. Matthews’ (CZAP, MENTICA) micromorphological analysis
 of Neolithic building sequences from the Fertile Crescent elucidates community structures,
 resilience and sustainability within the earliest sedentary societies. Reading’s strong cohort of
 medieval archaeologists enhances this sub-theme through complementary investigation of
 landscapes of religious transformation. Thomas’s major AHRC-funded excavations at
 Lyminge and Gilchrist’s re-evaluation of Glastonbury Abbey unlock rich diachronic datasets to
 reconstruct changing trajectories of cult and belief, while Pluskowski’s comparative study of
 medieval castle landscapes (EBC and LRC projects) illuminates religious hybridity and resilience
 at multi-cultural frontiers.
 Diet, Health and Life Course
    The lived experience of ageing: Our research has prioritised adolescence as an understudied
 dimension of life course studies. Building upon her expertise in child palaeopathology, Lewis has
 pioneered new osteological techniques for assessing pubertal development in skeletal remains,
 applying them within an interdisciplinary framework to transform understanding of the experiences
 of youth in the past. This is complemented by a focus on early infancy, including Hosfield’s
 research on infant dependency and parenting in early hominin communities and the ground-
 breaking osteological study of foetal and perinatal individuals by British Academy Fellow Hodson,
 who joined us after the census date.
    Mobility and migration: In bridging our three RCs, this sub-theme acts as a key focus for
 interdisciplinary collaboration. Bell has articulated a new agenda in the study of prehistoric mobility
 through application of novel scientific methods for recording and dating routeways situated within
 a cross-cultural comparative framework centred on the human experience of movement. Müldner
 applies state-of-the-art isotope chemistry to draw together insights on diet, mobility and cultural
 identity in relation to interdisciplinary research on migrant communities in Roman Britain and the
 dynamics of food supply networks (AHRC ‘Exeter: A Place in Time’ and HERCA projects).
    Practices of death and burial: A long-standing reputational strength, Reading continues to make
 a distinctive contribution to this domain. Harnessing large multi-scalar datasets, Garrow (AHRC
 Grave Goods) and Fulford (RLRB) have delivered a benchmark in understanding of regional and
 chronological complexity in burial practices in later Prehistoric and Roman Britain. By
 maximising high-resolution site-based datasets from Wadi Faynan 16, Jordan (Mithen),
 CZAP/MENTICA sites, Iraq-Iran (R. Matthews and W. Matthews), and East Anglian barrow

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cemeteries (Garrow), we have also advanced understanding of the agency of the dead in
 structuring commemorative and communal strategies.
 Objects, Materials and People
    Cultural diversity and social identity: Integrating large-scale datasets and theoretically informed
 frameworks, Reading has advanced its leadership in artefactual approaches to the Roman world,
 driven by Eckardt’s research on personal objects and identity in Roman Britain, and
 complemented by the artefactual characterisation of rural communities embedded in Fulford’s
 RSRB Project. We have progressed the material culture of literacy into a key sub-theme,
 encompassing Eckardt’s empire-wide investigation of the social contexts of Roman inkwells
 (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship) and R. Matthews and Richardson’s innovative pXRF
 analysis of Mesopotamian clay bureaucratic artefacts. The real-world relevance of our artefact
 research has been significantly enhanced by Cant’s work on the role of objects and aesthetics in
 the negotiation of indigenous identities in Mexico.
    Object lives and flows: Our capacity in this area has been transformed by Bray’s innovative
 work on prehistoric and Roman metal and glass recycling which brings a new materials science
 dimension to our artefactual research. We have also opened up new horizons on the nuances of
 depositionary practice, driven by Eckardt’s ‘Roman River Finds’ Project (Leverhulme) and fine-
 grained interpretations of object biography provided by Garrow’s ‘Grave Goods’ project.
    A defining feature of the REF period that transcends the activities of RCs is our strong
 commitment to Open Research, harmonising with Reading’s vision to ‘nourish a culture and
 practice of transparency and reproducibility in research’. Supported by the University’s Open
 Access fund, we have been early adopters in the move to publishing major monographs on an OA
 model (Gilchrist: Glastonbury Abbey; Sacred Heritage; Mithen: ’Wadi Faynan 16; R. and W.
 Matthews: CZAP). We have been proactive in exploiting ADS and other repositories to make
 research data openly available (Glastonbury Abbey Archive Project and Follow-on for Impact,
 Roman Inkwells, Stepping Stones to the Neolithic, Silchester Mapping Project; CZAP) and as a
 highly effective means of unlocking grey literature (RSRB Project). With some 43,867 downloads
 to date and over 250k page visits, the archive of the latter is consistently one of the top 5 accessed
 resources hosted by ADS. Additionally, several of our flagship research projects (Silchester,
 Glastonbury Abbey, Lyminge) use the Integrated Archaeological Data Base (IADB) as an open
 digital platform for managing excavation data.

 c. Impact Strategy
 Our impact is defined by deep, sustained and meaningful relationships with stakeholders in
 ways that profoundly change their practice. This depth of collaboration unites our case studies
 (Glastonbury and Iraq Heritage) with a rich portfolio of other impact work conducted across the
 Unit (Figure 2, Section 4). Much of our impact is situated within long-term schemes of research
 embedded within local communities and sustained partnerships with museums, commercial
 organisations and public institutions. For example, enduring stakeholder relationships underpin
 Bell’s 29-year programme of research into the prehistory of the Severn Estuary, the results of
 which have revitalised the prehistory gallery of Newport Museum and the Newport Wetlands
 National Nature Reserve Interpretation Centre, coordinated through his engagement with the HLF-
 funded Living Levels Project. We have developed innovative ways to co-produce research and
 impact through fieldwork. Excavations at Dunyvaig (Islay) operate within a wider research and
 public engagement initiative delivered through ‘Islay Heritage’, a charity set up by the island’s
 residents and Mithen. Since the conclusion of the AHRC-funded excavations at Lyminge (2012-
 15), Thomas has worked in close partnership with local stakeholders to maximise impact. This
 has culminated in an HLF-funded project with the Parochial Church Council ‘Pathways to the Past’
 (2019-20) that has reinvigorated a key part of the village’s early Christian heritage through the
 targeted re-excavation and redisplay of one of the earliest masonry churches in the UK. Strong
 engagement with the UK commercial archaeology sector forms a prominent strand of our
 impact work, both in relation to enhancing field techniques (Fulford RSRB project) and post-
 excavation analysis, including a CiFA training workshop led by Lewis that delivered the latest
 methods for age, sex and puberty assessment in child remains (2019).
     Impact has been a major strategic priority for Archaeology in this REF cycle supported by an
 Impact Champion (Eckardt) who acts as principal point of liaison with the University’s central

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact team. We have been proactive in gaining external funding to maximise impact (Branch,
 2018 GCRF ‘Food production and climate resilience in Peru’; R. Matthews, 2018 DCMS Cultural
 Protection Fund ‘Iraqi Museums SmartWater’ project; AHRC Follow-on-Funding: Gilchrist, 2015
 Glastonbury Abbey AHRC FLF; Mithen, 2018 WF16, 2020 Bedouin Women; Garrow, 2020
 Boundary Objects). Impact is nurtured through dedicated support from the University’s Building
 Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP) which has disbursed £30k to Archaeology over
 the assessment period. Through a structured programme of workshops we have empowered staff
 at all career stages to develop impact agendas, including our ECR community, exemplified by
 ECR Banerjea’s British Academy ‘All Along the Watchtowers Project’ which mobilises
 environmental archaeology to enhance the heritage management of medieval castles.


 d. Forward Strategy
 Our forward strategy focuses on: i) sustaining the strength and vitality of our RCs to advance
 global research agendas; ii) enhancing our archaeological science capability by embedding
 materials science in key areas of activity; iii) expanding the intellectual breadth and contemporary
 relevance of our research by harnessing anthropological approaches; iv) strengthening our ECR
 community with a greater number and range of independent fellowships; v) diversifying sources
 of PGR funding; and vi) sustaining highly impactful research by nurturing long-term relationships
 with stakeholders, both new and established.
  One of the key drivers for our 5-year strategy is the University of Reading/British Museum
 institutional partnership. This unique venture was established in 2018 to develop research
 collaborations in advance of the opening in 2023 of the British Museum’s Archaeological Research
 Collection, based at the University of Reading’s Thames Valley Science Park. A framework for
 collaborative research has been developed and facilitated by senior research leaders at both
 institutions (Gilchrist and JD Hill from the BM). Collaborative research opportunities are supported
 by a joint BM/Reading development fund and a 3-year Senior Research Fellowship in materials
 science (Bray), funded through a major award from Reading’s Research Endowment Trust Fund
 and mentored by the BM’s Director of Scientific Research, Carl Heron. Early successes include
 an AHRC-funded project to complement a major exhibition on Stonehenge (PI Wilkin, BM; Co-I
 Garrow, Reading). We will seek to maximise opportunities by: i) nurturing major collaborative
 funding proposals that link together expertise and infrastructure at both institutions and strengthen
 interactions between Archaeology and other disciplines at Reading; ii) placing innovative materials
 science at the heart of the partnership to enhance our archaeological science capability, by
 seeking ECR funding for Bray; iii) developing high quality CDA proposals to enhance PGR
 recruitment.
   We have rejuvenated research leadership over the REF period with a team of energetic role
 models — Thomas as RDL, Eckardt as Impact Champion, Lewis as science lead and Garrow and
 Bray as enablers for the BM partnership — who will drive forward our ambitious research and
 impact strategy over the next 5 years.
    Current major funded research projects (CZAP/MENTICA, HERCA, LRC, Neolithic Crannogs,
 Roman River Finds) will deliver a sustained flow of outputs and impact of outstanding quality over
 the next 2-3 years. We will also seek to catalyse new collaborative research and funding
 applications during this period harnessing the strengths and expertise of our RCs, supported by
 the University’s research themes.

 2. People
 a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our unit is committed to sustaining a highly collegiate, supportive and inclusive environment for
 researchers at all levels, from students to professoriate, an ethos that has helped SAGES to
 secure a Silver Athena SWAN Award in two successive assessments within the REF2021
 period (2015 and 2019).

 Staff developments and appointments: Staff retention over the REF period has been strong,
 demonstrating our success in recognising and nurturing talent via the SAGES Personal Titles
 Committee, which reviews all members of the School, irrespective of career stage, to encourage
 participation in the promotions process and to put appropriate mentorship in place. This is

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exemplified by Garrow’s rapid promotion from Lecturer to Professor (2013-19), with a further
 two staff being promoted from Lecturer to Associate Professor (Müldner and Pluskowski), and four
 from Associate Professor to Professor (Branch, Eckardt, Lewis, and Mayle). The REF period has
 seen the full retirement of Bradley (2014) and Astill (2016), who continue to make active
 contributions to the research environment of the Unit as Emeritus Professors. Fulford and Bell
 have moved on to part-time contracts as part of our commitment to flexible working; Fleitmann
 (2019) and Leary (2018) have moved to other universities.
    Our staffing strategy is driven by international research excellence and maximising the
 distinctive strengths of our research community. We have been proactive in responding to internal
 opportunities, securing the transfer of Mayle from Environmental Science to Archaeology
 (Research Division) as Chair in Tropical Palaeoecology (2017) to strengthen leadership in
 archaeological science. The appointment of ECRs Bray and Cant has significantly energised our
 OMP RC; together with four (female) independent research fellows (EU Marie Curie: Caval,
 Dempsey and Portillo; British Academy: Hodson), this has contributed to a more sustainable and
 balanced staff profile. ECR support funded centrally though the University has been vital in
 sustaining research activity of Archaeology staff in major leadership roles (Branch, Gilchrist and
 Mithen), while the continued expansion of independent fellows is a strategic priority for the future.

 Support for research and personal development: We implement the University’s annual Personal
 Research Planning (PRP) process to support the research aspirations of individual staff and to
 evolve bottom-up strategy. This operates in tandem with Performance Development Review
 (PDR), with a minimum allocation of 20% for staff to undertake research activities as a proportion
 of their overall workload. Additionally, Archaeology supports an internal Study Leave Scheme
 which aims to ensure that Category A staff have one term in nine, in addition to more ad hoc ‘light’
 teaching and admin terms. We have been proactive in obtaining periods of externally-funded leave
 to progress substantive pieces of research, both stand-alone (Creighton: Leverhulme Major
 Fellowship; Eckardt: British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship) and embedded within major funded
 projects (R. Matthews ERC/MENTICA; Garrow AHRC Grave Goods), augmented by the
 University’s Research 2020 Fellowship Scheme (Müldner, 2018). The BM/Reading development
 fund has made an important contribution, providing Garrow with a 3-month period of leave to co-
 author the catalogue for the forthcoming BM World of Stonehenge exhibition (2019: £10k) and
 catalysing collaborative research, including an international ‘Palaeofire’ workshop led by Hosfield
 and Ashton (2019: £2.4k). We support the research and research management skills of staff
 performing internal leadership roles by engaging fully in University initiatives such as the Academic
 Leadership Programme (2018: Thomas, RDL) and Resilience training (2016: Creighton, HoD).
     At the heart of our research culture is a vibrant and diverse community of ECRs. Over the
  current REF cycle this has comprised 18 PDRAs linked to major funded projects (8 AHRC, 7
  Leverhulme, 3 ERC) with a further 14 working on sustained programmes of research funded
  through charitable and other sources (e.g. Silchester Environs Project, Islay Field School). We
  provide equality of opportunity for ECRs by integrating them fully within Departmental, School
  and University mechanisms. All incoming staff receive formal induction and training in research
  protocols as part of the SAGES mentoring programme, including familiarisation with the Local
  Concordat for Research staff to embed them in the University Code of Good Practice. We have
  improved the process for mentoring ECRs by implementing a school-wide ‘buddy system’
  covering the first 6 months of employment and mentorship is now overseen by a single member
  of staff (Müldner) to ensure consistency of provision. Internal mentor and PRP meetings for ECRs
  (the latter compulsory for Grade 7 and opt-in for Grade 6) employ the Vitae Researcher
  Development framework as a tool for considering the wider dimensions of professional
  development.
     Our commitment to nurturing ECRs is exemplified by the Annual Integrated Microscopy
  Approaches in Archaeobotany Workshop led by ECRs Banerjea, Barnett, Portillo, Cardenas, and
  Young with significant PGR input. Subsidised through SAGES and bringing together a global
  cohort of academic specialists and commercial archaeologists, two of the workshops (2016-17)
  have been published as special issues of Environmental Archaeology with more volumes in the
  pipeline. Similarly, the 24th Annual Theoretical Roman Archaeology Conference (Reading 2014)
  was led and brought to swift publication in 2015 by ECRs Brindle, Allen, Durham and Smith.
  Overall, some 46 peer-reviewed publications were written collaboratively with ECRs over the
  REF period. Our success in accelerating the careers of ECRs is demonstrated by a host of key

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments: prestigious posts at leading Universities (Bendrey, Edinburgh Lectureship;
 Lodwick, All Souls, Oxford; Dempsey, Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellow, Galway), and
 senior posts within heritage organisations (Brown: Senior Environmental Archaeologist at
 Wessex Archaeology; Smith: Head of Post-Excavation at Headland Archaeology; Green: Head
 of Post-Excavation at Context One). Seven of our former ECRs continue to make formal active
 contributions to our research culture as Visiting Fellows.

 b. Support, Training and Supervision of PGR students
 We foster intellectual curiosity and rigorous research skills from the earliest stages, actively
 investing in future generations of outstanding scholars. This is demonstrated by our proactive
 engagement with Reading’s distinctive Undergraduate Research Opportunity Programme, which
 has led to 18 funded placements during the REF2021 period, contributing to a stream of talented
 young researchers who have subsequently embarked on higher degree programmes at Reading
 and other leading universities (e.g. Cambridge, Oxford) or careers in the heritage sector (e.g.
 Somerset Rural Life Museum).
     PGR students are critical to the vitality and sustainability of our research environment. During
 the census period 50.9 FPE PGR students were awarded PhDs in the Unit, up from 38.4 in
 REF2014 and 28.5 in RAE2008, a clear upward trajectory despite relatively stable staffing
 numbers. The Unit currently hosts 36 PGR students. Of the PhDs awarded, seven were attached
 to major funded projects (CZAP, Silchester, Lyminge),16 were funded by AHRC studentships,
 including three Collaborative Doctoral Awards, and nine were self-funded. We have been
 extremely successful in winning scholarships through the AHRC South West and Wales
 Doctoral Training Programme, with 14 full awards in the current cohort with leadership from
 W. Matthews as the University DTP co-ordinator 2015-18. Within this scheme and its successor,
 AHRC SWW DTP2, Reading Archaeology continues to develop shared research agendas across
 the Arts and Humanities, focused on collaborative PGR training with partners in nine other HEIs
 in the SWW region, and non-HEI partners including the British School at Rome, Cotswold
 Archaeology, Historic England and National Trust South West.
     PGRs do not just contribute to our research culture, but actively shape it. They are fully
 integrated into the activities of our RCs and we have created the position of PGR representative
 on our Research Committee. PGRs set research agendas by leading reading groups (e.g. a series
 devoted to medieval social archaeology), and organising themed seminar series (e.g. Autumn
 2017: Environmental Archaeologies) and international workshops (2018: Puberty Symposium led
 by DHLC PGRs McGovern and Valme which attracted 40 European participants from academic
 and commercial sectors; 2019 Society for Medieval Archaeology PGR Symposium led by Widell).
 PGRs make a vital contribution to funded research projects and have co-authored 18 peer-
 reviewed publications with our Cat A staff over the current REF period.
     A Departmental Director of PGR Studies (R. Matthews) and a School Director of PGR Studies
 (Müldner, Mithen) oversee induction and research training in consultation with supervisors and
 panel chairs supported by Reading’s highly acclaimed Graduate School. New students are
 assigned a ‘buddy’ from the 2nd-year PGR cohort with whom they can consult informally. EU and
 International PGR students are assigned a STaR International Mentor to assist with adjusting to
 life at Reading, including support to enhance academic language skills and writing. We monitor
 PGR progress through an Advisory Panel comprising a Chair and supervisors, with meetings
 every six months, in addition to regular supervisions, in line with the University Code of Practice
 on Research Students. Supervisory conduct is steered by the Good Practice Guide for Supervising
 PhDs and the Good Practice Guide for Monitoring and Assessing Progress of PGR Students. A
 confirmation of PhD status review is held in the second year (FT students), based on a substantial
 piece of written work and a formal presentation. We have a strong representation of part-time
 students for whom equivalent provisions are made, and additional support is provided for PGR
 students with families.
     PGR professional development and core training is supplied through the Reading Researcher
 Development Programme (RRDP), to develop intellectual abilities, personal effectiveness,
 research governance, and engagement and impact. We enhance this compulsory provision by
 running an annual ‘Life after a PhD’ Workshop and through proactive facilitation of high-quality
 professional placements, 11 of which have been secured for AHRC DTP students over the REF


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period, leading to jobs with the PAS (Da Lima and Fittock), the DCMS (Weetch) and commercial
 units (Humphries).

 c. Equality and Diversity
 Archaeology at Reading fosters an inclusive and supportive research environment by championing
 the values of mutual respect, ethical integrity and equality represented in the University’s Equal
 Opportunities policy, promoted locally through the SAGES Wellbeing, Diversity and Equality
 Committee and its ‘Working Sagely’ policy. We were at the heart of the School’s two successful
 Silver Athena SWAN (AS) Awards, providing sustained staff and ECR input (5 in each of the self-
 assessment teams) and as a source of best practice for diversity and inclusion. As Director of the
 Archaeology Field School, Clarke in collaboration with PGRs, has led an annual Social Inclusion
 in Fieldwork workshop which has recently tackled issues of gender, mental health, and disability
 as part of the wider SAGES ‘Creating Confidence: Enabled Fieldwork Project’. We have also been
 agile in realigning our practices on AS recommendations, for example by scheduling our seminar
 series at an earlier time to benefit those with caring responsibilities and on flexible working.
    Colleagues in all job categories display significant resilience and collegiality. 100% responded
 that they felt their manager ‘respected and valued them’ and that ‘the leadership team
 manages and leads the department well’ in the 2018 University Staff Survey. Gender balance for
 Category A staff within Archaeology (11/6 M/F) compares favourably with the rest of the School
 and there has been a significant increase in women amongst our professoriate, rising from 1 in
 2014 to 3 in 2020, all of whom hold significant leadership roles (HoD, Science Lead, Research
 Dean). Lewis, W. Matthews and Müldner have benefitted from personal coaching delivered
 through the Aurora and Springboard initiatives and the promotion of Eckardt and Lewis to Chairs
 was enabled by sustained mentorship from Gilchrist. Women are well represented in our ECR
 community with a gender representation of 69%/31% F/M over the REF period. Two senior
 members of Archaeology are self-declared LBGT+, and with a broader number of LBGT+ Allies
 represented at Cat A, ECR and PGR levels, we are fully engaged in the University’s LBGT+
 Network and related initiatives.
      We strive to achieve a diverse and inclusive representation of speakers in our termly
 research seminars; the nine speakers featured in our autumn 2019 programme sponsored by
 DHLC were all women in science spanning different levels of academic seniority. We are proud to
 host visiting researchers from Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Peru and China, including a female Leverhulme
 Visiting Professor, Guiyun Jin, Shandong (2018-19).
    We are proactive in advancing equality and diversity agendas within the wider discipline.
 In her role as editor of Britannia, Eckardt has spearheaded a move to broaden the journal’s profile
 informed by a review of the gender, professional status and nationality of past contributors.
 Gilchrist acts as a powerful advocate for gender equality in archaeology through keynote
 presentations (‘Is gender still relevant?’ conference sponsored by the British Academy in 2014)
 and through ECR mentorship, including working with Marie Curie Fellow Dempsey (2017-19) to
 re-energise feminist critiques in medieval archaeology.
         In accordance with the University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, all members of staff
 involved in the Archaeology submission (UoA Lead, RDL, HoD, Impact Champion) have
 completed the University D&I and unconscious bias training. Our output portfolio has been
 selected entirely based on quality, as determined by subject relevance, through a combination of
 self and peer review, underpinned by a centralised Outputs Support System (ROSS). All staff
 involved in peer review, either as anonymous reviewers and/or part of research committee
 processes, have had unconscious bias training delivered on a school-wide basis. The University’s
 interim Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021) identified no statistically
 significant differences for protected characteristics in our selection.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income and Strategy
 There has been a significant increase in the value of research awards won in REF 2021 compared
 to REF 2014, rising from £900K to £1.3M annually over the two periods. We have been able to


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grow research income within an increasingly competitive environment by diversifying funding
 sources as a key strategic objective (Figure 1).

                                                                A growth in EU funding has been
                                                                critical to this success, resulting in
                                                                a 34% increase in annualized
                                                                research income. This is headed
                                                                by our first ERC Advanced Grant
                                                                (MENTICA, €2.5m, R Matthews),
                                                                accompanied by three Marie
                                                                Curie         Fellowships      which
                                                                demonstrate the attraction of
                                                                Reading to emerging European
                                                                researchers. We have been
                                                                proactive in widening capture from
                                                                UK Charities with £1.87m - a third
                                                                of our income total (not including
                                                                the Leverhulme Trust) - deriving
                                                                from a mosaic of 12 organisations.
                                                                These sources are vital for
                                                                sustaining our flagship excavation
                                                                projects       (Silchester,    Islay),
                                                                providing continuity in staff
                                                                support and infrastructure to drive
                                                                forward analysis and publication.
                                                                Other significant income over the
                                                                REF period derives from the
                                                                operation       of   our    in-house
                                                                environmental           consultancy,
                                                                QUEST (over £500k), and
                                                                alignment of our research with
                                                                Historic England and Historic
                                                                Environment Scotland research
                                                                agendas (£73k).
 Figure 1. Comparison of annualised research income

         Concurrently, we have sustained very strong performance with the AHRC and the
 Leverhulme Trust, particularly their Standard Grant Schemes. We have achieved six awards from
 the AHRC (Vale of Pewsey, Landscapes of Southern Brazil, HERCA, Grave Goods, People and
 Birds in the Southern Levant, and Landscapes of (Re)Conquest), a further two involving significant
 CI involvement from Reading staff (Exeter: A Place in Time, Neolithic Crannogs), accompanied
 by three major awards from the Leverhulme Trust (Round Mounds, RSRB, and Roman River
 Finds). Grant income from our core funders has also grown in diversity during the current REF
 period, with multiple successes in international mobility/network schemes (British Academy:
 Branch, R. Matthews and Mithen; AHRC Networking scheme: Hosfield and Thomas) and three
 prestigious Fellowships (Bell, Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship; Creighton: Leverhulme Major
 Fellowship; Eckardt; BA Mid-Career Fellowship).
    Our strategy is to maximise external income by enhancing support mechanisms for all staff.
 Grant capture is well distributed within the Unit with 44% (7) Cat A staff holding grants of
 £250k+ and 69% (11) of £100k+. We have implemented more rigorous internal peer-review
 procedures over the REF period, enabled through the tighter structure of our RCs. Feedback on
 applications is now routinely provided at proof-of-concept stage as part of research cluster
 presentations, followed by rigorous feedback on proposal drafts supplied by the RDL and at least
 one senior member of the relevant RC. We hold mock interviews for applicants shortlisted for
 ERC, the Wellcome Trust and other schemes, with input from senior academics in other Units,
 and have also benefited from the launch in 2018 of an institutional Grant Development College for
 the H&C Theme. Smaller sums of seedcorn funding channelled through the SAGES Research

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fund and the H&C Theme have played an important role in the development of proof-of-concept
 work underpinning successful applications (e.g. HERCA, MENTICA), while also providing
 opportunities for ECRs to partake in our grant-winning culture. The exploitation of collaborative
 research facilities has been a significant feature of the current REF period. The value of stand-
 alone applications to NERC Facilities (Radiocarbon and Isotope Geosciences Laboratory (NIGL))
 and Diamond Light Source is well in excess of £250k, with further significant collaboration
 embedded within funded research projects (Exeter: A Place in Time).

 b. Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our archaeological research is underpinned by dedicated research laboratories, comprising 23
 preparation and analytical laboratories, overseen by academics and supported by 10.5 FTE
 Technical staff. Additionally, we utilise a wide range of analytical equipment in the School and the
 nearby Chemical Analysis Facility that provides free facilities for proof-of-concept projects (CAF:
 www.reading.ac.uk/caf/). Since 2014, we have invested £478,842 in new equipment, and
 upgraded our laboratories (bioarchaeology, microscopy, radiography, material science) to
 advance archaeological research. Our unique partnership with the British Museum gives us
 access to their world-leading facilities in archaeological science.
    Our Geochemistry and Isotope suite (lead: Müldner) includes instruments to analyse carbon
 and nitrogen in solid samples (a Sercon Elemental Analyser coupled to Europa 20-20 IRMS),
 carbonate carbon-oxygen analysis (ThermoFisher Scientific Delta Conflo IV with GasBench II),
 and hydrogen and oxygen in water (Picarro L2120-I Isotopic Water Analyser -WS-CRDS). Our
 mass spectrometry facilities have been significantly enhanced through continued investment from
 SAGES and the University. Two key acquisitions since the previous assessment period are
 maintained as part of a shared platform in CAF: a Thermo-Fisher GC-C- Delta V Plus IRMS (£91k,
 2014) for the analysis of compound specific isotopes; and a Thermo-Fisher Delta V Advantage
 Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer with capabilities for multi-isotope (CNSOH) analysis of solid,
 liquid and trace gas samples (£249k, 2018). Combined with the third Delta V Advantage, which is
 coupled to a Gas Bench II for CO isotope analysis of carbonates, the IRMS suite in CAF is a world-
 class facility. These facilities supported four major research projects: AHRC Exeter: A Place in
 Time; AHRC LRC; AHRC CZAP; and ERC MENTICA, in addition to providing pilot data for projects
 in development (Pluskowski, EBC; Lewis, AHRC).
     Our Tropical Palaeoecology laboratory (lead: Mayle) houses one of the most extensive South
 American pollen reference collections in the world – with over 2000 species from rainforest, dry
 forest, and savannah ecosystems. Here we are developing a South American phytolith reference
 slide collection, which currently has ca. 100 specimens. This is a vital resource for tropical
 palaeoecological research projects – by UG/PGR students, PDRAs, and academic staff – and is
 available to visiting academics in the UK and overseas (e.g. Brazil). Two major projects funded
 though AHRC-FAPESP: ‘LSB’ (Mayle) and HERCA (Mayle, Müldner) are supported by this
 laboratory.
    In our Sedimentology and Micromorphology suite (lead: W. Matthews) we undertake in-depth
 high-resolution soil micromorphology, particle size analysis, peat humification and organic matter
 determinations. We have an extensive range of microscopes, including an ESEM with EDX and
 WDS spectrometers, infrared and Raman microscopy and spectroscopy, photomicrography, and
 image analysis (using Leica photomicrography and image analysis software). We have a
 dedicated laboratory to drill calcite materials (stalagmites, mollusca, shells, teeth) and developed
 a preparation line and workflow (£10k) for extraction of stalagmite fluid inclusion water using a
 Picarro CRDS. Recent purchases include two precisions slicers: a Buehler Abrasimet 250 and
 Isomet 4000 (£14k) and cutting and abrasive saws (£34k). These facilities support research
 outputs and three major research projects: ERC MENTICA (R and W Matthews), AHRC LRC
 (Pluskowski) and British Academy ‘All Around the Watchtowers’ (Banerjea). Our facilities are
 complemented by dedicated archaeobotany and palaeoecology laboratories for the extraction
 and microscopic analysis of fossils from archaeological features (pits, ditches, hearths) and
 landscapes (bogs, lakes, caves), providing key information on past economy and diet, land-use
 histories, climate and environmental change. These capabilities support diverse research projects
 within LCLE RC. The advanced imaging facilities in CAF have also been integral to Bell’s analysis
 of molluscs on the ‘Cemeteries and Sedentism’ project (Leverhulme Trust), foraminifera research
 in the Severn Estuary, and our ECR-led ‘Integrated Microscopy in Archaeobotany’ initiative.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   A recent initiative is the development of a Materials Analysis facility (lead: Bray) housing new
 MP-AES and ICP-OES machines (£113k) and two new PXRFs (£80k). These facilities will support
 ‘big data’ humanities projects focussed on the life history of material culture (Bray FLF). Access
 to our world-class analytic facilities strengthens collaborations with the BM and the heritage sector
 allowing us to untap the potential of local and international archives.
    Quaternary Scientific (QUEST), established in 2008, is a self-financing enterprise comprising 5
 full-time staff, and a large network of specialists. Quest offers expert scientific services to
 developer-funded archaeological research projects on behalf of professional units, consultancies,
 charities and government organisations. It also underpins internal projects: Dunyvaig, Silchester,
 Lyminge, Vale of Pewsey, Roman River Finds, and the Somerset Levels and Kennet Valley. In
 addition to generating research income, QUEST produces research outputs and curatorial-related
 guidelines (e.g., ‘Curating the Palaeolithic’, ‘Deposit Modelling & Archaeology’). Finally, curatorial
 staff at the Museum of English Rural Life provide professional input to a wide range of our research
 projects and impact activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  a. Academic Collaborations
 Already well-developed in 2014, our global profile and contribution to international research
 agendas has grown significantly over the assessment period, exemplified by three British
 Academy International Partnerships. Research on Neolithisation in south-west Asia remains a
 strong focus of international engagement: R. Matthews’ British Academy International Partnership
 grant ‘Climate, environment and past societies of Iran’, works in collaboration with Tehran
 University, while his Erasmus+ award (€65k) for staff and PGR mobilities enabled productive
 exchanges between Reading and Universities in Iran and Iraq. Mithen’s AHRC ‘People and Birds
 in Southern Levant’ project collaborates with the American University of Madaba, Jordan, with Kiel
 as European partners. Latin America now acts as an important arena for international
 collaboration within the Unit, combining partnerships embedded in Mayle’s LSB/HERCA projects
 (Utah State University, Bern, Bonn, the University of Sao Paolo, and the Federal University of
 Rondonia) and Branch’s Peruvian initiative (University of San Marcos; Pontificia Universidad
 Católica del Perú, Universidad Nacional de San Cristóbal de Huamanga). Delivered through a
 consortium of eleven universities spread across four European countries (Estonia, Latvia,
 Lithuania, and Poland), and praised as ‘exemplary’ by the ERC evaluation committee,
 Pluskowski’s ERC EBC project provides a model for international interdisciplinary collaboration;
 this collaborative momentum is now being carried forward through his AHRC-funded ‘LRC’ project
 involving partnerships with the University of Granada and Sorbonne University. Support from a
 dedicated SAGES Internationalisation Fund has enabled us to harness internal expertise to
 respond to international research priorities, including a European network on the theme of
 Medieval Religious Transformations by Thomas, Pluskowski and Gilchrist, involving
 partnerships with Stockholm, Lund, Bologna, Granada, Tübingen, and Tartu, and resulting in a
 collaborative publication.
    Strong and sustained partnerships with other UK Universities underpin our funded research
 projects: Exeter: A Place in Time (Exeter); AHRC Grave Goods (Manchester); Neolithic Crannogs
 (Southampton); Glastonbury Follow-On (York). Our staff have also forged multi-institutional
 collaborations within the UK as a vehicle for advancing international research agendas,
 exemplified by Thomas’s AHRC Networking grant on early medieval rulers’ residences, conceived
 and delivered with colleagues in Aberdeen, Durham, Oxford, and UCL.

 b. Contribution to the Research Base
 Reading has four Fellows of the British Academy (Bell, Fulford, Gilchrist and Mithen), the
 largest concentration of in-post FBAs in any discipline in any university, reflecting our status as a
 centre of research excellence. Over the 2021 REF period, Gilchrist was elected Honorary Fellow
 of Jesus College, Cambridge (2018), Pluskowski was awarded an honorary doctorate from
 the University of Tartu, Estonia, three of our staff were voted Current Archaeology’s
 Archaeologist of the Year (Fulford, 2015; Gilchrist, 2016; Eckardt, 2018) and Garrow and Lewis
 received prizes for best journal article in Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society (2014) and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medieval Archaeology (2016). Our staff play key service roles within the academic sector, both in
 the UK and internationally: Gilchrist has served on 3 successive REF sub-panels and chairs the
 British Academy Projects Committee; Fulford served as Treasurer and Vice-President of the
 British Academy (2010-15), and President of the Roman Research Trust (2008-17); Pluskowski
 sits on MERC, Historical Archaeology in a European Framework. R. Matthews (2011-), Garrow
 (2012-); Hosfield (2014-17) and Thomas (2015-18) have served terms on the AHRC Peer Review
 College; our staff sit or have previously served terms on a total of 10 grant awarding committees
 (e.g. Leverhulme Research Leadership Competition; Leverhulme Prize; Wellcome Early Career
 Medical Humanities Panel; GCRF multi-academy network awards) and regularly undertake peer
 review, including for a total of 12 European research councils and funding schemes (e.g. Horizon
 2020 and ERC Advanced Scheme, UNESCO and the European Science Foundation, Austria,
 Iceland, Poland, Sweden, Norway etc).
    Reading staff have played leadership roles in a range of learned societies and subject
 associations; highlights include: Creighton, Director of the Society of Antiquaries of London and
 Chair of its Research Committee, (2014-16); Fulford, Vice-President of the Society for the
 Promotion of Roman Studies, (2014-18); Bell, President of Sussex Archaeological Society (2018);
 Bell and Thomas, Oxford Archaeology Research Committee.
    Three Reading staff act as Editor/Deputy Editor for prestigious journals (Britannia, Eckardt;
 Anatolian Studies, R. Matthews; Medieval Archaeology, Pluskowski); a further three serve or have
 served terms as Associate Editors on four leading international journals (Müldner, Environmental
 Archaeology; Mayle, The Holocene; Lewis, American Journal of Physical Anthropology and the
 International Journal of Palaeopathology), while Thomas co-edits the Society for Medieval
 Archaeology Monograph Series. Many more staff serve on the editorial boards of journals and
 publication series.
    Reading has hosted 6 international conferences and workshops over the census period,
 including the prestigious International Roman Archaeology Conference (2014, c. 400 delegates),
 a conference showcasing the latest research on Late Iron Age Oppida (2017, 125 delegates), and
 organised a further 11 in collaboration with other institutions, including two with the British Museum
 (2015, Landscapes in Mind: Settlement, Sociality and Cognition in Human Evolution; 2019,
 Objects and Death: On the trail of grave goods).
    Our staff have delivered 40 prestigious lectures over the assessment period, half of them
 keynotes at high-profile international conferences; highlights include: Gilchrist: 2017 Rhind
 Lectures; 2018 McDonald Lecture, University of Cambridge; 2016 Sune Lindqvist Lecture,
 University of Uppsala; 2016 Stanford Distinguished Lecture in Heritage, Stanford; 2016 Boyle
 Lecture in Medieval Studies, Toronto; Fulford: 2016 Joan Pye Lecture, Roman Society;
 Pluskowski: 2014 Inaugural lecture for the Stanford Europe Center, Stanford University; Lewis:
 2019 Lansdowne Lecture, University of Victoria, Canada.

 c. Engaged Research: impact through working with stakeholders and end-users
 Our research benefits wider society and end-users through two broad overlapping networks of
 engagement: i) museums and education; and ii) shaping heritage policy and enhancing the
 commercial practice of archaeology. Much of this impact is built on long-term relationships
 with stakeholders, in some cases sustained over a decade or more (Figure 2).

 i) Museums and education. Exemplified by the Glastonbury impact case study, we nurture deep,
 meaningful partnerships with museums, investing in programmes of co-design and co-delivery
 that transform institutional culture and revitalise educational and visitor experiences. This includes
 working alongside marginalised groups in politically challenging environments. Mithen has
 transformed Faynan Museum, Jordan, into a vibrant community hub offering education and
 training to local communities and boosting tourism away from the major site of Petra through a
 Heritage Walking Trail (AHRC Follow-On award, 2016; Newton-Khalidi fund, 2018). Supported by
 a prestigious Newton Prize, a new initiative (AHRC FoF, 2020) seeks to empower Bedouin
 women, who are usually excluded from the economic benefits of tourism, to develop a sustainable
 handicraft business, producing high quality and locally distinctive products for sale to tourists,
 inspired by the art from WF16. The redesign of the prehistoric gallery at Sulaimaniyah Museum
 (the only functioning museum in Iraqi Kurdistan), based on the research of R. and W. Matthews
 on the region’s Neolithic, received funding from the US State Department in recognition of its

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals. Mayle’s HERCA project promotes public
 awareness of indigenous Bolivian communities’ roles in protecting the Amazon rainforest,




      Figure 2. The breadth of our impact activities and partnerships

 collaborating with three ethno-archaeological museums at rural, provincial, and national levels to
 transform static and poorly understood displays.
    Museum engagement within the UK is exemplified by Garrow’s AHRC ‘Grave Goods’ project
 which spearheaded the redisplay of key sections of the European prehistory galleries in the British
 Museum, as well as introducing an innovative, multi-gallery ‘Grave Goods trail’ co-designed
 with multiple curators. The results of the long-term Silchester Insula IX excavations led by Fulford
 have been channelled into multiple museum collaborations, including the recent ‘Last supper in
 Pompeii’ exhibition at the Ashmolean, which used the site as a major case study to explore the
 absorption and adaptation of Roman ways of living in Britain (Visitor numbers in excess of 70,000).
    Reading has been at the forefront of promoting cultural inclusion and diversity through its
 education work. Research by Eckardt, Lewis & Müldner features in the educational website
 ‘RomansRevealed’ (2013) and the History Key Stage 3 textbook ‘Understanding History: Britain
 in the wider world’ (2019) and a new (2016) GCSE History module. This module won the
 ‘Research Champion’ category in the 2017 Community Integration Awards and the Guardian
 University Award 2019 for Research Impact. ‘The Ivory Bangle Lady’ is discussed in David
 Olusoga’s (2020, 16-18) ‘Black and British – a short essential history’ and Eckardt contributed a
 video to a social enterprise aiming to transform the curriculum (2021). Eckardt also worked with
 the Roman Society Education Committee to improve research-led teaching on migration in
 museums, resulting in the development of new materials at the Museums of London, Cirencester
 and Reading. An innovative collaboration between Garrow and the poet Michael Rosen
 featured in a ‘Prehistoric Burial’ information pack for schools, including commissioned poems
 and videos on Rosen’s YouTube channel. Launched online in October 2019, these educational
 resources have already had 23,000 views, engaging children and teachers with the unfamiliar
 and challenging theme of death and grave goods. A book for children on Mesolithic life in the
 Severn Estuary by Bell and Foster was distributed to all primary schools in southern Wales.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ii) Contributions to heritage management coalesce around shaping heritage policy, enhancing
 commercial practice, and unlocking sources of ‘Big’ data. These three domains are brought
 together in Fulford’s RSRB project, delivered in collaboration with the University of York, Cotswold
 Archaeology and multiple county-based HERs (Heritage Environment Records). The project
 adopted a reflective and user-driven approach, discussing preliminary results with heritage
 professionals and commercial practitioners at a series of regional seminars. The final results were
 made available through a database and web-based GIS interface hosted by the Archaeology Data
 Service, as well as the publication of three major monographs. The RSRB project led to changes
 in commercial practice, e.g. the industry standard being changed through the publication online
 of high-quality PDFs with capacity for internal searching, as well as significant enhancements to
 HER facilities through digitisation (cf. Fulford & Holbrook 2018). The outputs of the project are
 now used strategically to inform fieldwork and post-excavation strategies for major
 infrastructure projects, e.g. HS2 for HS2 Ltd and Headland Archaeology’s submission to
 Highways England for the A14 project.
     Garrow’s ‘Grave Goods’ project has collaborated with regional heritage managers across the
 UK to enhance the quality of HER data on later prehistoric burial sites. The FoF ‘Boundary
 Object’ project (2020) will take this collaboration to the next level by creating a new 'finds hub'
 resource, ensuring increased digital connectivity and enhanced information flow between different
 areas of the heritage sector, especially HERs (sites) and museums (artefacts). Collaboration
 with Historic England on period-based research priorities has been a feature of the
 assessment period, taken forward in Hosfield’s project on ‘Curating the Palaeolithic’ and research
 by Bell on Mesolithic landscapes in the Somerset Levels and the Middle Kennett Valley. We also
 actively shape UK Heritage Policy through prominent appointments with the National Trust
 (Gilchrist, Research Strategy Panel, 2018-21), and the Monuments Commission/Historic England
 (Fulford: Commissioner and Chair Advisory Committee, 2014-19).
         Reading has also been at the forefront of applying new technologies to heritage
 management. Garrow’s Neolithic Crannogs project (2020-2023), working in partnership with the
 Ordnance Survey and Historic Environment Scotland will produce a free smartphone App that
 enables users to visualise prehistoric sites across the Outer Hebrides in ‘augmented reality’. An
 innovative collaboration with the SmartWater Foundation by R. Matthews uses nanotechnology to
 encode isotopic signatures on artefacts to combat the trafficking of antiquities in Iraq.
         We are strongly committed to harnessing the real-word relevance of our research to make
 positive and enduring contributions, whether working with local communities to protect cultural
 heritage and promote sustainable development goals, or collaborating with heritage agencies,
 museums and schools to widen public access to archaeology in the promotion of inclusion and
 diversity. This ethos lies at the core of Reading Archaeology and will serve as a touchstone for
 shaping its future trajectory.




                                                                                             Page 13
