Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The UoA offers a distinctive and original contribution to the field of development studies,
 informed in particular by the lens of political economy. It does so with a strong interdisciplinary
 perspective, bringing together scholars from across social sciences—anthropology, economics,
 politics and sociology—and across a wide range of topics that are relevant to the most vibrant
 debates in the field.

 The UoA has developed and consolidated distinctive research competencies in five key
 areas of excellence. These are the result of many years of research development, critical
 intellectual engagement and involvement in development policy practice. These areas are:
     1. Agriculture and natural resources and political ecology, including cross-disciplinary work
          on three distinct workstreams: (a) food and nutrition (Shankar, Johnston, Stevano); (b)
          environment, energy and development (Mollinga, Tanner, Semieniuk); and (c) the
          political economy of agrarian change (Lerche, Oya);
     2. Labour and social movements, with distinctive comparative research on working
          conditions of formal and informal labour (Oya, Mezzadri, Miyamura), including migrant
          labour (Lerche, Hanieh) and rural labour markets (Cramer, Oya), as well as on collective
          action institutions (Pringle, Sinha, Rizzo);
     3. Governance, economic transformation and policy, including in the political economy of
          institutions, institutional change and corruption (Khan, Andreoni);
     4. Violence, conflict, displacement and development, in particular, work in war to peace
          transitions, borders, and conflict-related migration and diasporas (Goodhand, Hammond,
          Cramer, Lindley, Rivas);
     5. The political economy of money and finance, including work on financialisation,
          macroeconomics and sustainable finance, and implications for development across
          countries (Dafermos, Lapavitsas, Toporowski, Van Waeyenberge, Volz).
 These five areas encompass the most significant research contributions of the 2014-20 period
 and connect specialisms reported in REF2014 as separate clusters.

 The commitment to interdisciplinary studies and regional specialisation within the above
 research areas is reflected in a plurality of cross-cutting activities, collaborations and
 institutionalised networks within SOAS and with our partners. The ethos that connects the
 different areas of excellence is one of generating an intellectual space for empirically grounded
 alternatives and methodological pluralism to address the challenges that the field of
 development studies is grappling with.

 This is reflected in a particular strength in the field of gender and development running
 across most areas. SOAS gender scholars offer a wide range of critical perspectives on
 women’s empowerment (Cornwall, Rivas), social reproduction and work (Mezzadri, Stevano),
 gender, state-building and decolonisation (Okech), women, violence and displacement (Rivas),
 religion, caste and gender (Purewal), masculinities (Cornwall, Harris), nutrition and gendered
 time use (Johnston, Stevano), all central to the work developed on labour and social
 movements, foods and nutrition, governance, and war to peace transitions.

 SOAS development studies research has three important cross-cutting characteristics
 relating to the interdisciplinary nature of its research:
     • First, the UoA reflects a deep commitment to theoretical pluralism across the
        development studies field, while maintaining a critical mass of scholars and our
        reputation in heterodox political economy of development, which was flagged as a
        strength in the REF2014 cycle. This combines with a commitment to methodological
        pluralism, and in particular mixed methods research;

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Second, much of the research conducted in this UoA is fieldwork-intensive, and staff
        have contributed innovations in fieldwork in complex and adverse situations. This
        includes work on conflict areas and criminal activities, sector-specific research on
        corruption and anti-corruption evidence, on food and health and the food-water-energy
        nexus, and on labour standards and working conditions across different sectors in
        developing countries;
    • Third, an increasing share of the research is policy-oriented, as witnessed by the
        growing volume of commissioned work and research projects and centres funded by
        Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), Department for International Development
        (DFID, now Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, FCDO) and other funders.
        UoA researchers engage with key policy debates especially in the five areas mentioned
        above and are frequently drawn into advisory and/or commissioned work with
        international organisations and governments, trade unions and other global social
        movements. We strive to maximise this policy focus in order to enhance the impact of our
        research work.
 Since the REF2014, we have strengthened the UoA’s research profile and developed an
 enabling environment for staff and research students.

 Developing the above-mentioned five overarching research themes has helped us to reflect on
 our intellectual approach to the field of development studies; develop internal and external
 collaborations; and inform and strengthen our approach to funding, publication and impact
 (§1.6). The UoA has become more strategic about attracting research income in these key
 areas. It has strongly benefitted from significant improvements in the research infrastructure
 across the School, which has allowed colleagues to develop successful grant applications. This
 is reflected in a very positive development in the attraction of external research funding, which
 saw an increase in research income (money directly spent by SOAS) from a total of £1.7
 million during the RAE period (RA4 2008) and £4.5 million in the 2008-13 REF period
 (REF2014), to over £12 million in the 2014-20 period (REF2021), amounting to nearly £30
 million if we include partner costs as part of the full volume of awards (§3.1).

 While the UoA has been very successful in securing large research grants, it has also supported
 strategic applications for smaller grants in emerging key areas and attracted a significant
 number of post-doctoral researchers over the 2014-20 period. The UoA has also worked on
 strengthening its PhD programmes and developed support mechanisms for PhD students and
 staff to foster a culture of research excellence.

 1.2 Structure
 This unit of assessment combines the strengths of two departments, Economics (17 staff) and
 Development Studies (28 staff), with an overall FTE staff count of 45.7 on 31 July 2020, down
 from 50.5 at the census date of REF2014. The two departments host two interdisciplinary
 research centres, the Centre for Development, Environment and Policy (CeDEP) and the Centre
 for Sustainable Finance. The research directors/REF Co-ordinators of both departments co-
 ordinate closely.

 Each department has a Research Committee which develops and co-ordinates research policies
 and oversees the allocation of departmental research funds. The Department Research
 Committees use departmental research funds to support the activities of different research
 teams, such as workshops and bid preparation. Staff, research associates and PhD students are
 encouraged to join the groups, and some are members of more than one group, whilst the
 groupings have a mix of staff from different departments in order to enhance strategic
 collaboration especially in the preparation of research bids.

 UoA staff and research students contribute to the work of other SOAS-wide interdisciplinary
 centres such as the Food Studies Centre, the Centre for Gender Studies, the Centre for Water
 and Development, SOAS Political Ecology of Environment and Development (SEED), as well as
 the regional studies centres, notably the Centre for African Studies, the SOAS South Asia
 Institute, the Centre of South East Asian Studies, the SOAS China Institute, and the London

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Middle East Institute. This enables collaborative interdisciplinary research and draws on the
 unique concentration of regional expertise at SOAS.

 UoA staff have been instrumental in establishing and continue to actively contribute to the
 research of the Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research on Agriculture and Health
 (LCIRAH), an inter-sectoral and interdisciplinary platform for integrating research in agriculture,
 nutrition and health, with a focus on international development goals. The LCIRAH is an
 intercollegiate collaboration between SOAS, the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine
 (LSHTM), and the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) under the London International Development
 Centre.

 1.3 Research strategy: 2014-20 and looking ahead
 The strategic goals stated in our REF2014 environment statement included: (1) increase
 external income; (2) diversify funding sources, especially improving success in research council
 bids; (3) increase participation in larger collaborative bids; (4) encourage commissioned work;
 (5) develop inter-disciplinary links within SOAS; (6) use research leave more effectively; and (7)
 promote research-led training. The confidential feedback from the REF2014 suggested potential
 improvements in relation to overall output quality, research income, evidence of research impact,
 but also praised thematic strengths in key areas such as labour studies and heterodox political
 economy. Based on the concrete goals above and the REF2014 feedback, our research strategy
 for 2014-20 aimed at achieving three inter-related objectives:
     1. Consolidate the strength of existing areas of excellence, while nurturing
          interdependencies across them towards an integrated research approach;
     2. Expand into new and closely complementary areas of excellence, in response to
          emerging challenges in the development field;
     3. Maximise the distinctive impact and international profile of our work and explore new and
          effective pathways for policy engagement.
 Working towards these objectives, we managed to:
     • Increase the number of high-quality research outputs including monographs and articles
         in leading peer reviewed journals;
     • Secure and diversify funding for larger grants from research councils and other sources
         and use them to help establish national and international research networks and
         consortia;
     • Pursue strategic applications for smaller grants in emerging key areas that will lay the
         basis for larger grants in the future;
     • Develop new networks of collaborative research to lead on new avenues of research;
     • Connect separate streams of research excellence and disciplinary strengths to create
         collaborative structures that enable us to address broader, interdisciplinary questions;
     • Strategically broaden our external collaborations to include wider networks of
         collaborators.

 1.3.1 Implementing our strategy in the current REF cycle
 Following the confidential feedback from the REF2014 panel, particularly the need to increase
 the proportion of four-star publications and improve evidence of research impact, we embarked
 on an ambitious programme of developing and/or strengthening the key areas of research that
 we want to be known for, while continuing to recognise and support a broader palette of pluralist
 research with policy impact. We recognised the importance of a clear set of overarching
 research themes to clarify our intellectual approach to the field of development studies, develop
 internal and external collaborations, inform and strengthen our approach to funding, publication
 and impact. This led to us bringing together clusters into larger, more coherent and ambitious
 research themes. To strengthen the UoA’s research profile, we developed a joint research
 strategy and put in place mechanisms for collaboration and coordination across the two
 academic departments. In all our five areas of excellence, there are contributors from the two
 departments, often working together in joint projects and grant applications.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the assessment period, we made major changes in implementing our strategy by
 developing new ways of supporting, organising and promoting our research. New processes and
 structures included: appointment of departmental Research Co-ordinators; joint research
 planning exercises; the introduction of a more rigorous research mentoring process; elaboration
 of personal research plans with annual follow-up; production of a journal guidance list; new
 methods of internal and external peer reviewing of staff publications; closer collaboration with
 the School’s Research and Enterprise Directorate and the Impact Team; greater support for staff
 in research income bids, including new software (Worktribe) and enhanced internal review
 mechanisms to improve our success rate in bids.

 Within each of our five areas of research expertise we have operationalised the above strategy
 as follows:

 (1) Agriculture, natural resources and political ecology
 Within this stream, UoA staff have strengthened their work on food and nutrition with several
 funded projects, including ‘Leveraging Agriculture for Nutrition in South Asia’ (DfID Consortium);
 ‘Palm Oil: Sustainability, Health and Economics’ (Wellcome Trust-funded), ‘Sustainable and
 Healthy Food Systems’ (Wellcome Trust-funded) and ‘Market Interventions for Nutritional
 Improvement’ (Gates Foundation-funded). Recently, this work has expanded to include
 environmental considerations under the ‘Sustainable and Nutritious Diets’ umbrella. Our
 international partners in this work range from large academic institutions such as Stanford
 University, UCL and Chiang Mai University to small but highly influential NGOs such as Digital
 Green (India) and Collective for Social Science Research (Pakistan). Interdisciplinary
 collaborations within this area are strengthened by the SOAS Food Studies Centre, which is
 dedicated to the study of the political, economic, and cultural dimensions of food, historically and
 in the contemporary moment, from production, to exchange, to preparation, to consumption.
 Moreover, the LCIRAH brings together colleagues from Development Studies and Economics as
 well as various groups in LSHTM and RVC, and has developed into a world-leading research
 group working at the interface of agriculture, food, nutrition and health from an interdisciplinary
 perspective (§4.1).

 Distinctive work on feminist political economy of food and nutrition has also consolidated
 with a focus on African markets, and new developments at the interface between food, work and
 social reproduction have been explored (Johnston, Stevano). This was made possible by the
 development of a dedicated research cluster and several research grants (British Academy and
 Danish Council for Strategic Research). We have also built on previous research on the
 employment effects of Fairtrade (FTEPR, Cramer, Johnston, Oya) and expanded our research
 on agricultural certification with particular emphasis on vulnerable workers in global value
 chains through an externally funded systematic review which has had substantial impact (Oya).
 We have had a long-running involvement in the DFID-funded Future Agricultures Consortium
 (Poulton, Dorward). This work on agricultural policy and political economy has been
 leveraged into new funding in the form of the DFID-funded Agricultural Policy Research in Africa
 (APRA) consortium (Poulton).

 We have also been investing in expanding into related fields where SOAS could undertake
 world-leading research, such as political ecology, and environment and climate studies.
 New staff members were appointed with a track record of excellence in the field (Duffy, Mollinga,
 Tanner, Siciliano). UoA researchers combine their strengths in this area in several research
 centres, namely CeDEP, the Centre for Water and Development, and SEED.

 We have established a strong reputation in research linking energy, climate change and
 development, especially in climate change mitigation and adaptation, low carbon
 development and energy policy. We have won significant grant funding in this area, including
 hydropower in China (ESRC-funded), low carbon innovation in China (ESRC-funded), green
 transformation in the global south (Volkswagen Foundation-funded), inclusive national
 adaptation planning (GCRF-funded). In the water arena, a large project jointly funded by the
 UK’s DEFRA and China’s Ministry of Agriculture examined sustainable nutrient management

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and water resources protection in a comparative analysis of UK and Chinese agro-ecosystems.
 External collaboration in our energy and water research has encompassed a diverse set of
 partners, including the University of Ghana, Cambodia Development Resource Institute, the
 Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, and the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
 Sciences.

 UoA-based colleagues edit or have recently edited the Journal of Agrarian Change (Lerche,
 Oya, Johnston) and Food Policy (Shankar), two leading journals in this area of development
 studies (§4.2).

 (2) Labour and social movements
 Researchers working in this area investigate changing employment relations, class relations,
 labour migration and identities under globalisation, as well as social and political action
 undertaken by labour and for labour. Having been flagged as one of the key areas of strength in
 REF2014, the group has maintained a strong track record regarding publications and especially
 externally funded research projects, including two collaborative ESRC-funded research projects
 involving various members of the group (Lerche, Oya, Mezzadri, Pringle, Lo). These two projects
 promise to further advance the work that this UoA has created in the study of labour relations
 with a particular focus on the working poor in Africa and Asia and in construction and
 manufacturing sectors.

 This research group has continued its commitment to undertake labour-related research that
 combines labour with social movements, which had become separate fields of research in social
 science. This is a distinctive feature of our work that characterises research in different contexts
 in Africa and Asia, particularly in relation to labour unions in a context of informalised labour
 (Sinha, Pringle, Rizzo, Miyamura). Staff working on comparative work on employment conditions
 and collective action in different contexts of Asia and Africa have increasingly engaged with
 international organisations and social movements in the sphere of decent work. Oya has
 contributed to a joint initiative by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
 International Labour Organization (ILO) to adapt decent work statistical categories and methods
 to the agriculture-rural contexts in low- and middle-income countries in order to better account
 for wage employment particularly in agriculture in rural Africa.

 Mezzadri, through her work on informalised labour in global production networks of textiles
 and garments, has generated interest, and direct collaborations with the ILO-Enterprise
 Improvement Teams (EIT) roundtable on contracting and labour regimes, and advised the
 Labour Behind the Label initiative, the new Fashion Transparency Index, and the human rights
 organisation Anti-Slavery International. Similarly, Lerche’s recent ESRC-funded collaborative
 research with LSE scholar Shah has been used by Anti-Slavery International in their recent
 campaign report on modern slaves in the brick kilns in India, as the sole academic publication
 they use to explain how modern slavery and caste discrimination are linked.

 (3) Governance and economic transformation
 This area of excellence has experienced substantial growth and consolidation along two main
 research streams and a number of promising research activities. First, leveraging distinctive
 work on political settlement, institutional economics and corruption research developed at
 SOAS since the 1990s (Khan), a five-year research contract of £6 million with DFID (now FCDO)
 was secured. In 2016, SOAS became the lead institution of a Research Partnership Consortium
 on Anti-Corruption Evidence (ACE) involving more than 15 partners across three main
 countries—Bangladesh, Nigeria and Tanzania. As part of the Consortium, SOAS has also
 allocated £0.5 million of research grants for innovative research on anti-corruption across
 several other countries. The SOAS-led ACE research partnership consortium is responding to
 the serious challenges facing people and economies affected by corruption by generating
 evidence that makes anti-corruption initiatives feasible, and using those findings to help policy-
 makers, business and civil society adopt new, feasible, high impact strategies to tackle
 corruption. ACE has also collaborated with DFID/FCDO staff in country offices/British
 Embassies/High Commissions, the World Bank, the OECD, Global Integrity, and other private

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and public sector stakeholders in different sectors and as such the potential for impact of this
 research is very high.

 Second, in 2019 the cluster on political settlements and inclusive growth (Khan) attracted a
 five-year research grant on ‘Political Economy Research to Support Inclusive Growth in Nepal’ of
 approximately £2 million with funding from DFID/FCDO. The research partner—Yale
 University—received the same amount for developing with SOAS new frameworks and metrics
 in the areas of political economy, governance and institutions. Specifically, and in line with the
 UoA’s overall approach, the project seeks to identify practical, politically smart ways for
 development partners with relatively small budgets to support a more inclusive political and
 economic environment, especially in adverse and fast changing contexts. As part of this project,
 SOAS is also experimenting with new ways to embed DFID/FCDO staff into research work in
 view to maximise uptake and impact.

 Finally, several initiatives have been taken in expanding research on processes of structural
 transformation, industrialisation and industrial policy in Africa, South Asia and Latin
 America. For example, several SOAS scholars (Cramer, Khan, Di John, Oya) have led or
 contributed to the production of a prestigious series of Oxford University Press Handbooks in the
 areas of structural transformation and industrial policy, including the Oxford Handbook of the
 Ethiopian Economy (Cramer) that brought together a community of over 50 scholars on Ethiopia.

 Several scholars have also been frequent contributors to high-level training programmes within
 this area of expertise, directed to policy makers, academics and CSO representatives from
 developing countries, e.g., the annual African Programme on Rethinking Development
 Economics (Cramer, Khan, Oya, and Di John) (§4.1). The same scholars have also led the
 Governance for Development in Africa Initiative at SOAS, funded by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation
 (§1.5).

 (4) Violence, conflict, displacement and development
 Scholars in the UoA working on conflict, development and displacement have raised their profile
 in different ways. First, research on borders/borderlands has been advanced through a series
 of successful collaborative projects (Goodhand). Building on a project on ‘Borderlands, Brokers
 and Peacebuilding in Sri Lanka and Nepal’ funded by the ESRC (£392,000), funding was
 secured for a multi-country research centre grant of just over £7million from the GCRF, focusing
 on war and drugs (‘Drugs and (Dis)Order: Building Sustainable Peacetime Economies in the
 Aftermath of War’). Second, we have consolidated and developed our research on migration,
 mobility and development by taking a distinctive approach which deliberately aims to move
 beyond the boundaries of other approaches to the study of migration; specifically, it locates
 migration at the centre of development studies, and development at the centre of migration
 studies. Stemming from our research related to conflict, borders, refugees and forced
 migration, and peace-building, several members of staff have been involved in research
 grants and research-based consultancies that engage with societies in conflict, models of
 humanitarian and peace building assistance, and border studies in new and innovative ways
 (Rivas, Hammond, Goodhand).

 Colleagues working on migration have thus developed a key area of work in conflict-related
 displacement and diasporas with a special focus on the Horn of Africa (Hammond, Lindley).
 This work has been recognised through a series of recent research grants and collaborations
 outside academia. For example, Hammond’s ‘Migrants on the Margins’ project has been
 shortlisted for an award by Teach Secondary for the educational resources for curriculum
 impact. Hammond was also involved in the Migration Leadership Team’s film ‘Life on the Move’,
 made with Positive Negatives, which was short-listed for two Arts and Humanities Research
 Council (AHRC) Research in Film Awards, in the Social Media and Inspiration categories,
 winning the prize for the former. Moreover, in 2020 Hammond and Lindley were awarded an
 ESRC grant to investigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on migrant remittance flows and
 wellbeing, in collaboration with QMUL and IOE at UCL.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (5) The political economy of money and finance
 Work on the political economy of money and finance has developed along three main research
 streams—financialisation, international financial institutions, and sustainable finance. As
 part of the first two streams, Toporowski, Van Waeyenberge, McKinley, and Bargawi have
 conducted extensive research under the EU funded multi-party project ‘Financialisation,
 Economy, Society, Society and Sustainable Development’ (FESSUD, 2011-16). FESSUD lasted
 5 years and included 15 partners, with SOAS leading Work Package 6 on ‘Finance,
 Development and Global Governance’ for a funding allocation of €1 million. Research was
 conducted on the changing global financial and monetary system, including the rising influence
 of major emerging economies such as Brazil, China and India. Further works explored emerging
 themes in the political economy of money and finance, including financialisation in
 developed economies (Lapavitsas), shocks and transmission mechanisms in global financial
 markets (van Huellen, Volz) and the role of international financial institutions in promoting public-
 private partnerships in the global south (Van Waeyenberge). The latter research was supported
 in 2017-18 by a GCRF/ESRC Strategic Network grant for the project ‘Equalities in Public Private
 Partnerships’, and subsequently by the ESRC with funding for a project on ‘Trajectories of
 Infrastructure Financing and Macroeconomic Policies in Practice’ (2019-20).

 As part of the last stream of research in sustainable finance, the UoA has moved from an initial
 cluster to creation of the Centre for Sustainable Finance (CSF), an interdisciplinary research hub
 bundling expertise in sustainable and climate-related finance and its role in transitioning the
 world to a low-carbon, resilient and equitable future. Research grants in this area include
 ‘Developing Financial Systems to Support Sustainable Growth in China’ (Volz, 2017-20, ESRC),
 ‘Financial Risk and the Impact of Climate Change’ (Semieniuk, 2019-20, NERC/UKCRP),
 ‘Analysing the Options of Aligning European Central Banking with the Goal of Achieving Climate-
 Neutrality in the EU by 2050’ (Volz, 2020-21, European Climate Foundation), and several
 smaller research grants from the International Network for Sustainable Financial Policy Insights,
 Research, and Exchange (INSPIRE). Building on initial research by Volz on ‘Climate Change
 and the Cost of Capital in Developing Countries’ commissioned by UNEP in 2018 (funded by the
 Mava Foundation), further research was conducted on the impacts of climate vulnerability on
 public and corporate finance in developing countries, including through an INSPIRE grant
 for a project on ‘Climate Change and Sovereign Risk’. This body of research has already had
 substantial impact and led to research-based advisory work for the V20 Group of Climate
 Vulnerable Countries (Volz), the Brazilian central bank (Dafermos, Volz), the Network of Central
 Banks and Financial Supervisors for Greening the Financial System (Dafermos, Volz), the
 Global Commission on Adaptation (Tanner, Volz), and the Global Alliance for Financial Inclusion
 (Volz). The CSF is now an internationally recognised research hub and member of the Global
 Research Alliance for Sustainable Finance and Investment, and a knowledge partner of the Asia
 Sustainable Finance Initiative and the Green Growth Knowledge Partnership.

 1.3.2 Future strategic plans
 There are three priority strategic goals to inform our future strategic plans post REF2021.

 First, we want to build on the progress made since 2014 towards increasing research income
 and specifically large grants. Our departments generate substantial teaching income,
 especially thanks to substantial postgraduate student recruitment, but we aim to reverse the
 shares of teaching and research income in the long term. This means that we need to keep
 improving both the number of applications and the success rate, especially in relation to the
 awarded amounts. Accelerating research income growth will also require strategic building on
 and expanding the opportunities of leading or joining large collaborative grants from major
 research councils (ESRC, ERC, Leverhulme, FCDO, and other sources nationally and
 internationally).

 Second, we want to work towards making our research more visible outside academic
 circles and strengthen existing and develop new pathways to impact at different levels
 (national and global) and with a wider range of users. Although there is already public
 engagement with much of our research, and increasing media attention, we can further invest in

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an effective communications strategy to enhance media engagement and the use of social
 media for wider dissemination. In order to enhance our impact on society, we will also continue
 leveraging the actual and potential influence of our research on different policy actors, from
 national governments, to global organisations and civil society organisations, specifically labour
 unions and other workers movements, given our critical mass of scholars working on labour and
 social movements in Asia and Africa. The range of ICS this UoA has submitted already attests to
 the significance of recent experiences of impact with a diverse range of stakeholders (§1.6). Yet,
 it is still possible to further expand our impact capabilities and areas of influence.

 Third, we plan to consolidate the five areas of excellence and strengthen connections
 between workstreams within each of these areas and the big questions in contemporary
 global development, namely: (1) the dynamics and prospects of economic transformations in
 low-income countries, (2) global inequalities, and (3) social and environmental sustainability. Our
 recognised strengths in the critical political economy of neoliberalism and globalisation cut
 across the five areas of excellence and can potentially contribute towards a more ambitious
 research agenda around the ‘big questions’.

 To help achieve these aims we are implementing enabling measures that include:
    • Enhanced strategic co-ordination between the two units forming this UoA by two
        main channels: (1) a regular line of communication between the two Research Directors;
        (2) promotion of work in research clusters where members of both units actively
        participate, with particular focus on joint grant applications;
    • Strengthening mentoring systems for all our research staff and especially our early
        career researchers (ECR), drawing on School-wide initiatives for research mentoring and
        support to research staff (including research assistants, postdoctoral fellows, funded
        research staff (§2);
    • Strengthening support systems for grant applications, including a large grant-
        holders forum to share information on successful submission and management of large
        research projects in collaboration with the SOAS Research and Enterprise Directorate
        (§3; IES§4.2);
    • A revised and more generous research leave policy at department level to provide
        additional incentives for large and strategic grant applications through different measures
        of workload relief as well as a more effective distribution of research overheads for both
        collective and individual research purposes at department level, building on the School’s
        revised and enhanced post-REF2014 research leave policy (IES§2);
    • Improving external engagement through an improved research communications
        strategy and leveraging existing networks to increase our participation in commissioned
        research for governments, global organisations and CSOs (§4);
    • Improving the average citation record through the wider use of established platforms
        for research output sharing (Academia.edu, ResearchGate), social media, awareness of
        impact factors in journals, as well as short guides to boost citations, to enhance the
        academic impact of our research outputs;
    • Building on the technical changes and institutional learning in response to the Covid-19
        pandemic, we will promote the use of virtual platforms for conferences and
        seminars, in order to engage a much wider global audience and raise the profile of our
        seminar series and workshops.

 1.4 Open research and research integrity
 1.4.1 Open access
 UoA researchers are committed to using the institutional repository—SOAS Research Online—
 to share their research wherever possible. More than 50% of records of items for the UoA in
 SOAS Research Online for 2014 onwards have full-text attached, a statistic we intend to
 improve upon. SOAS researchers have published Gold Open Access, making use of the SOAS
 Publication Fund and UKRI Open Access funding (IES§2). School funding contributed to make
 key publications such as the African Economic Development monograph by Cramer et al.
 available open access.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition, we are planning to add our various working paper series, which are currently hosted
 on the SOAS website or associated websites, to SOAS Research Online. The benefit of doing
 this is that they are indexed in Google Scholar, a creative commons license can be applied, and
 we can track downloads.

 1.4.2 Research data management and sharing
 We have a number of research projects, including several multi-million-pound projects, which fall
 under the UKRI Policy for data management and sharing. Where research leads to the
 compilation of datasets, colleagues are encouraged and some required to make a deposit in the
 UK Data Archive which is set up for sharing of datasets in Social Sciences (Goodhand, Oya,
 Urban, Karshenas). For example, Oya deposited a large quantitative survey dataset of over
 1,500 African workers in construction and manufacturing with data collected in Ethiopia and
 Angola in 2017-18. DFID/FCDO also has requirements for sharing research data wherever
 possible such as the large DFID/FCDO-funded ACE project (Khan), ensuring that research data
 is made accessible through a data archive where possible.

 1.4.3 Engagement, training and awareness of open research
 SOAS has provided strong support through a dedicated Scholarly Communications Team who
 provide support on all aspects of open access and data sharing and management. REF Open
 Access requirements have been presented at Departmental Meetings, while PhD students
 received training on Open Access and Research Data Management, covering also copyright and
 creative commons, publishing agreements, and online profiles.

 1.4.4 Research integrity
 In line with SOAS policy, all staff completed the Epigeum Research Integrity online course
 (IES§4.1). All external funding applications are channelled through the institution’s Research
 Office, and internal ethical approval is mandatory, as it is also for PhD upgrade.
 Our strategy embodies a strong commitment to openness and integrity in research practice. This
 includes:
      • Involving stakeholder representatives in designing and carrying out research;
      • Crediting research partners and research assistants in publications;
      • Making research material available to communities of origin and other researchers;
      • Making research accessible through the institutional online repository SOAS Research
         Online as well as other platforms such as Academia.edu or ResearchGate.

 1.5 Interdisciplinarity
 A large number of colleagues are involved in interdisciplinary projects as highlighted in the
 projects detailed above (§1.3). School-wide regional centres and institutes provide a distinct
 institutional structure to facilitate interdisciplinary research. Interdisciplinary research between
 the Development Studies and Economics Departments includes projects on labour standards in
 agriculture, construction and manufacturing in Africa, involving Oya, Cramer, and Pringle from
 Development Studies and Johnston and Lo from Economics. Johnston’s work with Stevano
 combines feminist political economy and anthropology with health and nutrition science. Khan’s
 work on corruption integrates political economy with sector-specific research on business
 development, public sector delivery and politics.

 There are also examples of initiatives in which colleagues from different disciplines within the
 UoA and from other departments at SOAS collaborate. The Governance for Development in
 Africa Initiative, funded by the Mo Ibrahim Foundation, now running in its 10th year, brings
 together staff from the fields of economics, political economy, law, politics and international
 relations to (1) debate and teach on questions of governance and development in Africa for
 African participants and (2) supervise interdisciplinary PhDs focused on various aspects of the
 thematic area of governance for development. One of the key contributors to this initiative
 (Jennings, a historian) has recently been appointed to the AHRC Peer Review College, in
 recognition of his research, which straddles the humanities and social sciences.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research training for doctoral students is deliberately targeted at generating capacity for mixed
 methods research and for interdisciplinary work (cf. §2.2). This is done through weekly PhD
 research seminar series in Development Studies and Economics as well as through dedicated
 special events on research and fieldwork in contexts of conflict. The Doctoral School has also
 enhanced the in-house provision of training through bespoke courses for students working
 across disciplines, especially on qualitative methods and the use of software like Nvivo, as well
 as more general courses offered as MOOCs, such as ‘Understanding Research Methods,’ which
 was nominated for a Guardian University Award in 2015
 (https://www.soas.ac.uk/doctoralschool/researchtraining/).

 The Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research in Agriculture and Health (LCIRAH) has
 emerged as a major interdisciplinary collaboration not only within this UoA and SOAS, but also
 across Bloomsbury colleges of the University of London, such as LSHTM. LCIRAH has grown
 into a group that has generated over £25 million in grant funding. More than 100 high quality
 publications have resulted, including in journals such as the British Medical Journal, Climatic
 Change, and World Development.

 1.6 Impact and engagement
 1.6.1 Impact strategy
 Impact is a core part of our research agenda. We have taken the feedback of the REF2014
 panel on impact, namely that we ‘lacked a fully-integrated and elaborated strategy’, to heart. In
 response, the UoA, in co-ordination with the School’s Impact Officer, has developed new
 systems and mechanisms to work on impact plans and make sure colleagues develop research
 bids with careful consideration of impact pathways (IES§2). The School’s investment in assisting
 researchers in their impact plans and developing impact case studies through a dedicated
 Impact Officer has resulted in a much larger number of potential impact case studies being
 considered for the present REF cycle, and all bids and ongoing research developing their own
 impact plans.

 Our research is now increasingly policy-oriented. Most of the research conducted by UoA staff is
 applied and frequently involves advisory and/or commissioned work. Much of our externally-
 funded research has received support for the development of impact plans (e.g., ESRC-funded
 projects by Lerche, Oya, Goodhand, Hammond, Khan, and 3ie support to Oya). This support
 has been important in terms of helping staff understand different forms of impact, learning from
 experience in other institutions, and also developing clarity about what counts as evidence for
 impact.

 Our key audiences/user groups are governments, international organisations and private sector
 actors; however, we also influence other stakeholders such as trade unions, NGOs, activist
 groups and social movements (§1.3, 4.1).

 1.6.2 Implementation of impact strategy and 2021 case studies
 The impact strategy adopted after REF2014 has helped the design of research activities to take
 impact into account from the start. This allowed the UoA to choose from a broader pool of
 promising potential ICSs that materialised over the REF period by building different exhibits of
 evidence of impact on a range of users, from government and international agencies, to civil
 society organisations and business. Researchers with a potential ICS were systematically
 supported by a dedicated Impact Officer advising on principles, required evidence, improving
 pathways to impact, and the narrative linking research outputs, engagement and impact on
 users. The four ICSs that were chosen for the REF2021 submission showcase the range of
 impact that research in the UoA has:
     1. ICS1: Agricultural Certification Schemes in Developing Countries: How Fair and For
         Whom? by Cramer and Oya. It openly challenged public perceptions that Fairtrade and
         other certification schemes improve conditions for the poorest people in producing
         countries and influenced key certification schemes and their umbrella organisations in


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       improving impact assessment standards, as well as government policy on the coffee
       sector in Ethiopia;
    2. ICS2: Shaping the ‘UK Approach’ to Reducing Violence and Supporting Sustainable
       Post-war Transitions in Conflict-affected Countries by Goodhand. This research
       commissioned by the UK Government’s Stabilisation Unit played an instrumental role in
       re-shaping the UK Government approach to reduce violence and promote sustainable
       post-war transitions in conflict-affected countries and underpinned the ‘UK Government’s
       Approach to Stabilisation’;
    3. ICS3: Informing Migration Policy and Programming in the Horn of Africa by Hammond.
       This research influenced major policy and funding decisions of a range of actors,
       including the European Union, the Government of Somalia, and the Intergovernmental
       Authority on Development on conditions for migration and displacement in the Horn of
       Africa;
    4. ICS4: Climate Risk and the Cost of Capital in Climate-Vulnerable Countries by Volz and
       Murinde. This research on the relationship between climate vulnerability and the cost of
       capital in developing countries prompted the Ministers of Finance of the Vulnerable
       Twenty Group of climate vulnerable developing countries to develop new financial
       instruments in collaboration with international partners to address this problem.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The total number of FTE staff has slightly declined from 50.5 to 45.7, partly as a result of recent
 restructuring in 2020. While some important contributors to SOAS research retired or moved
 onto new jobs in recent times (Fine, Johnston, Shankar), our recruitment policy has been
 shaped by a twin commitment to excellence and equalities. We focused on recruiting both high
 calibre senior and ECR who can contribute to our five areas of research excellence and
 maintain and develop our regional expertise. We have had considerable success in this respect
 and as a result have moved away from being rather narrowly focused on heterodoxy to become
 a much more pluralistic UoA. A number of colleagues have also been successful over different
 promotion rounds, with six staff promoted to professors and more to readers during the current
 REF cycle.

 A principal aim of our staff development policy is to encourage and support colleagues in
 producing the very best research that they can. Particularly, we encourage colleagues to
 focus on quality above quantity, improve dissemination, and actively promote uptake in
 development policy and programming. The change in the SOAS Research Leave policy in
 October 2015 has facilitated greater investment in research (§1.6; IES§2, 3.3).

 The UoA has implemented the School’s Research Mentoring Policy alongside five-year rolling
 Personal Research Plans in addition to the annual Staff Development Review. Thus, indicative
 advice, especially to ECRs, is given on issues such as the number and quality of publications,
 conference attendance, knowledge transfer and ‘impact’ related activities, as well as research
 funding.

 ECRs are encouraged to apply for small grants such as those offered by the British Academy
 and special ECR calls to gain experience and build a track record in funded research. They are
 also encouraged to actively engage in one or more of the five areas of excellence and work as
 Co-Is on bids with more senior staff. During this REF cycle, six ECRs in the UoA have been
 successful in grant applications.

 Senior staff are encouraged to take on roles as PIs, where appropriate. All staff, but especially
 ECRs, are encouraged to participate in research training events and grant-writing seminars
 organised by the Research and Enterprise Directorate (§3.2). We also encourage and fund
 participation in external research training events.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF Co-ordinators are provided with a list of outputs for each colleague every two months,
 ensuring all colleagues are on track and updating the e-repository and the requirements for open
 access. To assist with the mentoring process, the UoA has compiled a guidance list of highly
 ranked, widely read and recommended journals to help colleagues make decisions on where to
 submit papers. The list has been compiled from a variety of sources, including the ABS list, Web
 of Science, SCR and lists of professional association journals in linked disciplines such as
 economics, anthropology, geography and politics. In terms of monographs, we encourage
 colleagues to aim for top ranked publishers, such as reputed university presses. Publications are
 also assessed through a combined internal and external (‘Critical Friends’) peer review system.

 2.2 Doctoral research
 During the current REF period, between 2014 and 2020, 164 PhD theses were completed, which
 is equivalent to 3.6 students per FTE staff member. Up until 2019-20 there were a total of 671
 students enrolled in the PhD programmes of the two departments that submit to this UoA. PhD
 recruitment has been remarkably consistent over the years, hovering around 95-100 students
 per year despite the fact that the number of potential supervisors has been reduced since 2017.
 Our PhD student body is highly diverse in terms of nationality, with around 35% of PhD students
 from the UK, 40-45% from overseas, and 20-25% from EU countries.

 We have a vibrant research student community within the UoA. In the REF 2014 panel
 feedback, it was noted that the large number of research degrees awarded was indicative of
 vitality. The increase in PhD completions since reflects the strengthened profile of the UoA as a
 desirable place to pursue PhD research. We envisage a slight further increase as early career
 supervisors and some newly hired colleagues become more able to take on students.

 We have successfully recruited students supported by studentships from a variety of funding
 bodies, including ESRC (3+1), Commonwealth Scholarships, Tallow Chandlers-M.W. Beer
 Scholarship, University of Zambia, Mo Ibrahim Scholarship, Hendrik Muller’s Vaderlandsch
 Fonds Scholarship, Vreedefonds Scholarship, and several other international research bodies.
 In addition, SOAS itself provides a number of scholarships and provides funding for fieldwork
 expenses and language acquisition courses for many of our PhD students. The leading role we
 play in LCIRAH has resulted in several PhD scholarships funded by the Centre.

 Despite the large number of students on scholarships there is still room for improvement in
 terms of securing funding for the strongest students who seek to study with us. To that end, we
 will work with the SOAS Development Office and the Doctoral School to raise scholarship
 funding. We also seek to secure further funding for PhD students through research projects
 (notably ESRC and AHRC which allow for studentships as part of larger applications) and from
 such sources as Leverhulme, and private foundations.

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The UoA has a strong ethos of EDI. Our focus on marginalised groups in society in much of our
 research (the working poor in low-income countries; victims of violent conflict; vulnerable
 migrants) contributes to an environment where there is strong commitment to the principles
 of EDI at all levels.

 Our PhD students come from very diverse backgrounds. The proportion of BAME students has
 increased from 46% in 2013-14 to over 50% in 2018-19 and 2019-20. So has the number of PhD
 students declaring disabilities, from less than 5 in the years prior to 2017 to 15 in the last two
 academic years.

 The proportion of BAME staff submitting to this UoA is on par with School wide statistics (34%)
 and is almost identical to the proportion of outputs by BAME staff which have been provisionally
 selected for inclusion in the Development Studies submission. We observe similar consistent
 patterns for age, gender, and declared disability, i.e. our UoA is in line with School statistics and
 the submission reflects them. In fact, for ECR, under the age of 35, and women, there is a
 slightly higher number of outputs per person included in final submission.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and diversity training is mandatory for all new staff, and unconscious bias training is
 mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment, probation and promotions processes. These
 training sessions help to equip staff with the knowledge and skills to embed inclusive practices in
 their work and spheres of influence. SOAS holds an Athena SWAN Bronze university award.
 Representatives of the UoA, including the Research Directors, REF Co-ordinators, and Directors
 of Doctoral Studies have also actively participated in activities designed to raise awareness of
 EDI principles and issues such as unconscious bias, e.g., through a series of REF-specific EDI
 workshops (IES§2).

 In line with School policy, for ECRs, we provide a 3-year probation period where staff are
 supported in the development of their career via a reduced teaching load and two terms of
 internally funded research leave on successfully completing probation.

 SOAS has ‘family friendly’ policies in place to ensure an inclusive working environment for all
 staff members who have significant caring responsibilities. This includes flexible working
 solutions such as flexi-time, term-time working, remote working, job sharing, compressed hours,
 and staggered hours. Staff can indicate choices for days to work from home, with a view of
 developing a culture of inclusive timing.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding
 SOAS has substantially strengthened its strategies to support grant applications. These have
 already met with considerable success, and as a result we have seen a significant increase in
 research income and the volume of research awards. During the 2014-20 period UoA staff were
 awarded a total of £30.2 million, including partner costs. In the first three years of the reporting
 period, the accumulated volume of awards was £4,498,417, which jumped to over £24 million
 accumulated over the following three years marking an accelerated growth in terms of
 successful awards and the overall amount awarded. This growth in awards translated into a
 substantial increase in research income (excluding partner costs), from £4.6 million in the
 REF2014 period to £12.1 million for the REF2021 period, i.e. almost doubling on an annual
 basis from £912,000 p.a. for REF2014 to £1.7 million p.a. in REF2021. This twofold increase
 was also manifested on an annual per capita basis.

 In contrast to the previous REF reporting period, UoA staff managed to secure some large
 grants, with three awards over £1 million and two of them (Khan, Goodhand) worth around £6
 million each. These awards are testament of the consolidation of areas of excellence as
 described in this narrative. This success also encouraged a growth in submissions, which was
 one of the key goals of our REF strategy. There was also success in terms of the number of
 grants between £100,000 and £1 million, with a total of 23 awards near or above £100,000. We
 were also successful in attracting much more funding from key established bodies that are
 highly relevant to our UoA, namely the ESRC and DFID/FCDO. Of the nearly £30 million
 awarded, 33% were awarded by the ESRC and over £7.5 million came from DFID. This reflects
 a very substantial improvement in both the number of submissions to these funding bodies and
 the success rate of these applications in terms of value of grants compared to the previous REF
 period. The number of awards has consistently hovered around 10 per year with an overall
 strong success rate of 25%. The consistency in the number of awards over this period has been
 remarkable and is also the result of an increasing number of staff applying for grants. The
 success rate of large grant applications has increased, resulting in an increase in the total
 amount awarded since 2014, as noted above. The increase in the number of applications,
 amount applied for, and number of awards happened despite a decline in FTE staff members
 from 50.5 to nearly 46 between 2013-14 and 2019-20. In 2013-14 there were less than 0.5
 applications per staff member compared to nearly one application in 2019-20 and £340,000 per
 FTE researcher were applied for in 2019-20 compared to £207,000 on average in 2016-17.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A significant number of publications have been linked to many of the awards obtained in this
 period but, because of the time required to complete projects and bring major outputs to
 publication, we expect a large volume of high-quality new outputs, especially those linked to
 large grants awarded in the period 2017-19, to be published in the post-REF2021 period.

 We have been working to develop our grant success further. Several large collaborative bids
 have recently been submitted or are being developed, bringing together colleagues from across
 this UoA. A useful tool to improve the number and quality of applications during the current REF
 cycle has been the timely deployment of seed funds at both School and department level, with
 explicit emphasis on support to grant applications for collaborative research. Over the current
 REF cycle, close to £100,000 of funding was granted internally to UoA staff, which partly
 contributed to successful large grant applications (e.g., Hammond, Khan).

 3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
 Institutional collaborations through interdisciplinary consortia such as the London International
 Development Centre—see collaborations in §4—have contributed to leveraging additional
 sources of funding, like the Bloomsbury Colleges PhD Studentships, and a grant from the
 International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) (Oya). LIDC provides a platform for organising
 cross-college funding bids, and this UoA in SOAS has played a strong role in LIDC co-ordination
 of recent bids to GCRF, and DFID’s Global Evaluation Framework Agreement. This UoA has in
 turn supported LIDC, including by providing personnel for its steering group (Oya, Shankar).

 In addition, we use mentoring systems described in §2.1 to (1) encourage junior colleagues to
 join research bids led by senior staff (e.g., Khan, Goodhand); and (2) encourage junior
 colleagues to bid for smaller grants as PIs in order to help develop their research expertise and
 credentials. One aim of existing mentoring mechanisms is to develop realistic funding bids with
 enough time for preparation. The quality of bids has been improved by the adoption of a more
 systematic School-wide peer review system for draft grant applications, including mock
 interviews where appropriate (e.g., for those shortlisted for ESRC, Leverhulme and EU grants
 which involve an interview).

 UoA staff were always active in consultancy work but during this REF cycle the School has
 actively encouraged staff to bring consultancy work in-house and developed a new, more
 rewarding External Professional Activities policy, which clarifies the range of benefits
 colleagues can receive from engaging in in-house research (PhD students and post-docs) and
 the reputational loss (both to them and the School) by doing work off-the-books (IES§2, 4.1).
 There are some notable successes, such as Hammond’s role as Team Leader for the Research
 and Evidence Facility (Horn of Africa Window) of the European Union Trust Fund for Africa.

 The above strategy has been complemented by the development of a comprehensive system of
 infrastructure to support colleagues in the grant application process. We now have a well-staffed
 Research and Enterprise Directorate (RED) with a dedicated staff member who works with UoA
 staff to develop proposals and helps promote interdisciplinary research at SOAS more generally
 (IES§4).

 An important part of SOAS’s research infrastructure is the SOAS Library, which particularly
 benefits the regional field orientation of much of our research in this UoA (IES§4.2).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our strategy for the current REF cycle built on strengthening existing and developing new forms
 of engagement with the discipline and across disciplines, other institutions and non-academic
 partners.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the current REF cycle, we concentrated on strengthening and deepening existing
 collaborations, partnerships and networks (nationally and internationally) and developing new
 ones. We work with the London International Development Centre (LIDC), pooling the strengths
 of the five Bloomsbury colleges that are part of the Bloomsbury Consortium (SOAS, Birkbeck,
 LSHTM, UCL’s Institute of Education and RVC) to support research and pedagogical initiatives
 in international development (§1.5, 3.2), and funding for PhD students through the
 interdisciplinary Bloomsbury PhD studentships.

 We support a broad range of international collaborations. These include the joint research
 initiative on ‘Political Economy Research to Support Inclusive Growth in Nepal’ between SOAS
 and Yale supported by DFID/FCDO (led by Khan) and the collaboration between SOAS and the
 University of Melbourne on the study of frontiers, states and conflict that led to the recent GCRF
 grant of over £7 million for the project ‘Drugs and (Dis)Order: Building Sustainable Peacetime
 Economies in the Aftermath of War’ (Goodhand). This also links in with our broader research on
 migration, mobility and development, particularly its intellectually distinctive work on borders and
 borderlands. In this respect, Hammond’s research has built on multiple collaborations with a
 wide range of institutions working on migration, mobility and peace, resulting in her lead role on
 the Research and Evidence Facility of the European Union Trust Fund for research on the
 dynamics of displacement and the implications of EU Trust Fund activities in the Horn of Africa.
 This project includes collaborations with several institutions such as the Global Development
 Institute, University of Manchester, UNHCR, and various organisations in Somalia, Kenya,
 Ethiopia and Somaliland.

 The Economics Department was part of a consortium of 15 partners in several countries,
 working on the €7.92 million five-year FESSUD research project which looked at the role of the
 EU in the international financial system, the impact of financial trends on developing and
 developed countries and the way in which the financial crisis since 2007 changed the role of
 finance in the economy and society as a whole. Two other key partnerships exist with the Royal
 Geographical Society which has selected a collaborative research project by colleagues from the
 Universities of Sussex and Durham together with SOAS (Hammond) and the LSE on a £3 million
 project to research inequality and poverty for Dalits and Adivasis in India, 2014-17 (Lerche).
 Khan heads a SOAS-led consortium including LSHTM and Palladium and multiple partners in
 the Global South for a £6 million five-year DFID RPC on Anti-Corruption Evidence, which draws
 on Khan’s internationally recognised work on governance and anti-corruption.

 Various UoA colleagues (Cramer, Oya, Di John, Khan) have contributed since 2007 to the
 African Programme on Rethinking Development Economics (APORDE), now hosted by the
 Department of Trade and Industry of the Government of South Africa and including some of the
 leading heterodox economists working on international development and Africa. Researchers at
 this UoA have been instrumental in launching and developing the International Initiative for
 Promoting Political Economy (IIPPE) which fosters collaboration with a large number of
 individuals and institutions across the world and enhances SOAS’s reputation as a leading force
 in heterodox political economy.

 The LCIRAH has developed into a major interdisciplinary collaboration that is expanding its
 core remit in food and health to areas such as environmental sustainability and energy, through
 numerous international collaborations, e.g., with the Consultative Group on International
 Agricultural Research’s Agriculture for Nutrition and Health research programme (§1.2).

 4.2 Contribution to the discipline and research base
 Staff in the UoA are engaged in a wide portfolio of scholarly activities. Individuals serve as
 editors or on editorial boards of peer reviewed journals, including Food Policy (Shankar); PLOS
 One (Shankar); Global Food Security (Shankar); Climate and Development (Tanner); Review of
 African Political Economy (Rizzo); Journal of Agrarian Change (Johnston, Oya, Lerche);
 Development Policy Review (Harrigan); Journal of Eastern African Studies (Jennings); Asia
 Europe Journal (Volz); Food Chain (Poole); Journal of Agribusiness in Developing and Emerging


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Economies (Poole); European Journal of Development Research (Oya), Journal of Southern
 African Studies (Cramer).

 Several colleagues are also actively involved in the Research Councils, as members of the
 ESRC Grants Advisory Panel (Hammond, Johnston), Grant Advisory Panel of the Economic
 Research Forum (Karshenas), ESRC Peer Review College (Duffy, Oya, Jennings, Urban, Smith,
 Cornwall), AHRC Peer Review College (Jennings), Global Development and International
 Relations Portfolio Board of the Norwegian Research Council (Cramer), on specific call panels
 (Mollinga) and for other research funding bodies (Leverhulme, Social Sciences Research
 Committee for the UK Food Standards Agency, European Research Council Executive Agency,
 Irish Research Council). UoA staff also served on advisory boards for large research consortia,
 e.g., iBuild (Fine) and Forum Euroméditerranéen des Instituts de Sciences Économiques
 (Karshenas), and as Chair of the International Advisory Board of the LSE-led GCRF hub on
 Women, Peace and Security (Cornwall). We have taken a lead in professional associations.
 Hammond was elected to the governing body of the Development Studies Association;
 Karshenas to the Board of Governors of the Economic Research Forum for Arab Countries, Iran
 and Turkey; and Volz was appointed a Director of the Global Research Alliance for Sustainable
 Finance and Investment.

 Our strategy is to develop a greater level of visibility for our research at key conferences in our
 sub-disciplines by organising panels that highlight development studies at SOAS. For instance,
 several panels have been organised at Annual Development Studies Association conferences.
 This has led to closer links with the Development Studies Association, where Hammond is now
 Honorary Secretary of Communications, NGOs, REF2020 at the Council of the Development
 Studies Association.

 4.3 Indicators of wider influence, contributions and recognition
 The high international profile of colleagues is evidenced by the number of invited keynote
 speeches at international conferences or special lectures. Examples include: EAT Asia-Pacific
 Food Forum 2017, Jakarta (Shankar); The Arab Revolutions: Five Years On at American
 University of Beirut (Achcar); Thirteenth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
 Development (UNCTAD XIII), Doha (Karshenas); 2017 African Economic Conference, Addis
 Ababa (Khan). In addition, Duffy, via SEED, was involved in organising a joint conference on
 Political Ecologies of Conflict, Capitalism and Contestation with Wageningen University. Visiting
 Professorships include: Johnston at Northampton Business School; Shankar at RVC; Volz at
 Central University of Finance and Economics in Beijing and University of Kobe; Oya at Graduate
 Institute of International and Development Studies, Universidad Complutense Madrid and China
 Agricultural University. Volz has also been awarded an Honorary Professorship at University of
 Leipzig and was Banque de France Chair at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales
 (EHESS) in Paris.

 UoA impact is enhanced by the large amount of work carried out for international organisations
 as well as positions held on international advisory boards. These include: UN Committee of
 Experts on Public Administration (Khan); Annual Elizabeth Colson Lecture 2020 at the University
 of Oxford (Hammond), and Advisory Committee Instituto de Estudos Sociais e Economicos
 (Mozambique) (Johnston, Oya, Cramer); Board of Directors of Centre for Tropical Agricultural
 Research and Education (Poole); Advisory Council of Asian Development Bank Institute (Volz);
 Advisory Board of International Sustainable Finance Centre (Volz).

 4.4 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 Given that much of our research has a strong applied and policy focus, we have developed
 close links with stakeholders outside of academia. Many UoA colleagues carry out advisory work
 for both national and international development agencies such as DFID/FCDO, the World Bank,
 GIZ, International Labour Office, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
 (UNCTAD), European Union, African Development Bank, Economic and Social Commission for
 Western Asia (ESCWA), Gates Foundation, Overseas Development Institute as well as many


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 others. Some serve as permanent advisors to such agencies (e.g. Volz—Asian Development
 Bank).

 Within the UK we have sought to strengthen links with DFID/FCDO, while maintaining previous
 connections with developing country governments and other donors, such as AFD, UNDP or
 JICA. In 2016, colleagues attended a tailored working group at DFID to discuss the synergies
 between our research portfolio and the needs of DFID in terms of research and policy advice.
 The aim was to explore ways in which our research could better meet the needs, not just of
 DFID, but the international development community more generally, and to look at how we can
 maximise dissemination to and impact on this community. This has produced several spin-offs,
 including the DFID-funded SOAS-led Anti-Corruption Evidence Research Partnership
 Consortium. In 2017, the SOAS ACE core team was invited to give keynotes at the DFID Annual
 Professional Development Conference in Nepal (Khan, Roy) and Tanzania (Khan). In addition,
 the ACE team has addressed the entire cadre of DFID specialists in Private Sector
 Development, Conflict and Governance. In 2019, Tanner was invited to present on enhancing
 climate resilience through UKAid investments to a workshop of DFID advisers.

 In the area of agriculture, food and nutrition, we have developed deep links with the major
 relevant international agencies and funding bodies. In 2014, Shankar and Johnston participated
 in a research needs mapping exercise commissioned by DFID, the output from which has
 underpinned most DFID funding in this area over the last few years. We have also been invited
 to and have participated in expert panel consultations on future funding in food and nutrition by
 the Wellcome Trust, the Gates Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation.

 Links have also been established with the private sector, NGOs and labour movements (cf.
 §4.1). For example, Oya has developed links with ISEAL, the leading umbrella organisation for
 voluntary social sustainability standards (e.g. Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance) in the context of his
 research on the impact of agricultural certification, and leading to frequent collaborations in joint
 workshops/webinars and blogs. Morimoto’s work on the Carbon Disclosure Project, which runs
 the global disclosure system that enables companies, cities, states and regions to measure their
 environmental impacts, has resulted in outreach beyond academia to a wider environment
 including the private sector. Poulton has served as a senior advisor to the Better Cotton
 Initiative, a standard-setting stakeholder platform for the cotton industry. Oya has contributed to
 FAO-ILO’s initiative to adapt decent work statistical categories and methods to the agriculture-
 rural contexts in LMICs, work that also attracted interest by GIZ. More recently, a collaboration
 agreement has been signed with the ILO to evaluate one of their flagship programmes (ONE ILO
 programme) to improve labour relations in the emerging garment sector in Ethiopia (Oya).
 Pringle has directly contributed to the work of one of the most important labour NGOs in China
 (China Labour Bulletin) by maintaining a close working relationship since 2013, including joint
 research, evaluation and strategy related input. Mezzadri’s work on informalised labour in global
 production networks of textiles and garments has generated interest and direct collaborations
 with the ILO-ETI, the Labour Behind the Label initiative, the new Fashion Transparency Index,
 and more recently Antislavery (§1.3).




                                                                                              Page 17
