Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of History at Kent is home to a wide range of approaches and areas of expertise which
 enable it to play a leading disciplinary and interdisciplinary role. It provides a distinctive, research
 intensive, inclusive and stimulating scholarly environment for its staff and vibrant postgraduate
 cohort. It engages with a broader academic and civic community, working dynamically with
 national and international networks as well as connecting with rich local heritage resources and
 groups. Research activities in the School encompass an impressive chronological spectrum, from
 Medieval and Early Modern studies to contemporary history; an expansive geographical range,
 from the history of Britain, Ireland and Continental Europe to the histories of North and Central
 America, Africa, and Asia; and diverse themes and methodologies, from ecclesiastical, political,
 military, social, economic, and cultural history to the histories of war, media and society, the history
 of medicine, health, ethics, and the environment.

 The UoA is part of the Division of Arts and Humanities and consists of 35 members of staff (34.8
 FTE, up from 31.4 in REF2014) all based at the Canterbury campus and actively contributing to
 the research objectives of our UoA. The structural and operational backbone of the School’s
 research, impact activities and public engagement are our four thriving research Centres: the
 Centre for the Study of War, Media and Society (WMS), researching media and society,
 propaganda and cultural memory, and military history; the new Centre for the Study of Global
 Cultures and Encounters (GCE), centring on the burgeoning area of global and cultural history;
 the reorganised Centre for the Study of Health, Science, and Environment (HSE), specialising in
 health, environment and history of science; and the cross-disciplinary Centre for Medieval and
 Early Modern Studies (MEMS), researching Medieval and Early Modern ecclesiastical history and
 historiography, material and visual cultures, manuscript studies and history of the book.

 Research and Impact Context and Structure

 Reflecting on the distinctive qualities of its research Centres, and the breadth of interests of staff,
 the School devised a strategy to ensure organic and sustainable growth through the appointment
 and support of ECRs and the career progression of mid-career colleagues. Following REF2014,
 the School engaged enthusiastically in an internal discussion to consider the future development
 of its research strategy. In 2015, led by the Director of Research, REF Co-ordinator, Director of
 Impact and Public Engagement and Centre Directors, extensive consultation took place within the
 School, and the conversation was broadened by the decision to engage with highly experienced
 external advisors. This allowed the School to refine the research strategy outlined in REF2014
 with the intention of fully capitalising on existing strengths and branching out into new areas as
 staff interests developed and new colleagues joined the School. Underpinning the entire approach
 was the simple, consistent, long-term principle of the School: the recruitment and development of
 emerging scholars. All are positively encouraged to carry the discipline forward, develop bold new
 approaches, and instigate new and diverse collaborations with creative, interlocking communities
 and external organisations through the supportive framework of our four research Centres.

 The Centres have always been a distinctive strength of History at Kent. As all in the School
 agreed, placing them at the heart of the School’s research strategy, and supporting them with
 significant financial resources, both recognised their historical importance and allowed us to
 repurpose their critical functions moving forward. The first strategic adjustment was a structural
 one. Reflecting the emerging interests of staff and the broader evolutions of historiographical and
 pedagogical debates, the School took the decision to reorientate the nature of two Centres:

 •   The Centre for the History of Colonialisms and the Faculty Centre for American Studies were
     incorporated into the Centre for the Study of Global Cultures and Encounters (GCE). Its

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     earlier American history research was extended to the study of race and the USA as a
     superpower, broadening its expertise to include the history of liberty and slavery, the American
     frontier period and its environmental challenges, gun culture, and gender roles and definitions,
     and the contemporary political history of the Vietnam War. Further investment was allocated
     to grow capacity in African political and economic history and Indian colonial history of society
     and technology.

 •   The Centre for the History of Medicine, Ethics and Medical Humanities became the Centre for
     the Study of Health, Science, and Environment (HSE) with three aims in mind: to contribute
     more effectively to the University’s vision for its new Medical School; to capture the breadth of
     work on health and environmental-related topics undertaken by staff in the unit; and to develop
     existing expertise in the areas of technology and science.

 The second strategic adjustment was the further development of the Centre for the Study of
 War, Media and Society (WMS) and the Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies
 (MEMS). These two Centres were embedded firmly in the newly formed University Divisional
 structure enabling them to maintain their strong interdisciplinary and cross-divisional
 collaborations and connect successfully with heritage stakeholders:

 •   WMS expertise was expanded to the history of femininities and masculinities during times of
     conflict, the cultural and social history of WW1, the political and comparative history of the
     Spanish Civil Wars, post-1945 exploitation of German science and technology, and the history
     of propaganda in revolutionary China.

 •   In MEMS we helped fund a post in Palaeography, Latin and Renaissance Studies, and
     invested in three posts in Early Medieval history and Early Modern material culture.

 These changes grouped staff and PG students more effectively, increased our resilience and
 sustainability, as well as encouraging interaction and a greater diversity of geographies and
 thematic enquiries. The four Centres’ critical functions are as follows:

 •   Actively contribute to historiographical debates, innovative methodologies and interdisciplinary
     collaboration, and provide opportunities for researchers to co-operate with national and
     international stakeholders through the organisation of conferences, workshops, lectures and
     master classes, and outreach activities.
 •   Operate collaboratively and interactively: the Centres benefit from cross-fertilisation, and a
     number of staff are involved in more than one Centre.
 •   Stimulate scholarly environments for our staff and PG community through inclusive cultures,
     the provision of successful interdisciplinary PG programmes and joint cross-disciplinary
     supervisions of PGT and PGR students.
 •   Support grant applications and host funded research projects.
 •   Connect public and academic worlds, link to rich local heritage resources and also play active
     roles in national and international research networks.

 For all these reasons, the role of the Centres is fundamental to Kent History, and it will recur
 extensively in the other sections of this statement as well.

 Research and Impact Strategic Objectives

 Reconfiguring and strengthening our four Centres has created a context of research excellence
 and a stimulating and intensive research environment for our staff and PG community that
 contributes to, and will secure in the future, the geographical, chronological and thematic range of
 research which characterises History at Kent. This context was designed to achieve and
 implement the following five strategic research objectives in this REF cycle, and sustain them over
 the next five years – that is to say, they are objectives both for the period up to 2020 and for 2021
 onwards:


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Objective 1) Significantly increase the number of research active staff and outputs and broaden
 the geographical, chronological and methodological range of our research activities.

 In REF2021 we are for the first time able to submit outputs for 100% of our ‘Category A eligible’
 staff (in 2014 it was 89.7%), evidencing an intensive research environment. Over the REF cycle
 our 35 FTEs have produced overall 195 outputs – notably 32 books, 4 text editions, 15 edited
 volumes, 87 articles in peer-reviewed journals, and 57 book chapters.

 Our publication portfolio consists of ground-breaking monographs, jointly authored books, critical
 text editions and collaborative research volumes (some 30 of the 78 submitted were selected for
 double-weighting). The breadth of this work spans from Bombi’s monograph on 14th-century
 Anglo-papal diplomatic relations and Marsh’s wide-ranging history of silk and the Atlantic world in
 the Early Modern period, to Jones K.’s study of hunting and the environment in the 19th-century
 American West, Pattinson’s interpretation of the First Aid Nursing Yeomanry, Schmidt’s work on
 the history of poison warfare and human experimentation during the 20th century, Macola’s
 reassessment of the history of firearms in central Africa, and Wills’s study of videogames in
 American culture. ECRs and mid-career scholars building a distinguished reputation for their
 published work include Roberts, James and Rundle (Medieval & Early Modern history),
 Lawrence (military history), Caiani and Basha (transnational political history), Mathisen
 (American history), Robinson (history of science), Jones C. (medical history), Mukhopadhyay
 and Good (Imperial history), and Cohen (African economic history).

 A highly important aspect of our scholarly activities involves critical text-editions of archival
 materials, in line with the School’s strategic investment in scholars that can deliver skills-based
 and archival research. The latter include Rundle’s comprehensive descriptive catalogues of Christ
 Church Oxford Medieval Western Manuscripts, Fincham’s critical text edition of the 17th-century
 correspondence of Archbishop William Laud, James’s edition of Laud’s household accounts, and
 Macola’s critical text edition of Clement Brasseur’s personal correspondence from Katanga.

 The culture of the Centres encouraged collaborative work, an area WMS has developed
 particularly effectively. For example, Connelly/Bowman/Beckett co-authored a major new history
 of the British Army during WW1, Connelly/Goebel examined the city of Ypres during the Great
 War, Pattinson/McIvor/Robb offered a new interpretation of British civilian masculinities in WW2,
 whilst Lawrence/Bowman/Draper examined the concept of ‘Small Wars and Insurgencies’.

 Significantly, the School is already on course to maintain its commitment to the production of high
 quality research and outputs in the next five years thanks to forthcoming research publications, 15
 of which are already under contract with major academic publishers (CUP, OUP, Yale UP, MUP,
 Routledge and Harvey Milley), and notably include exciting new projects led by ECRs and mid-
 career scholars (Gallagher, Guerry, Ivanic, Caiani, Cohen, Lawrence) alongside those of
 established scholars (Boobbyer, Fincham, Connelly, Jones K., Anderson).

 (Objective 2) Create a sustainable and vibrant research environment through the appointment of
 ECRs and support for mid-career scholars, broadening the range of our research activities.

 Over the REF cycle the School has wholeheartedly embraced the principle of sustainability, and
 responsibility to young scholars, through the appointment of 21 ECRs and mid-career researchers.
 The UoA has strategically created new positions and filled vacancies, consolidating established
 areas of research - such as the study of media and society, propaganda and cultural memory, and
 military history (Lawrence, Hanna, Draper, Farley, Hall), American studies (Marsh, Mathisen,
 Basha), and Medieval and Early Modern studies (Gallagher, Guerry, Roberts, Rundle,
 Blakeway, Ivanic, James). It also expanded its expertise in new fields, notably the history of
 empires (Good, Mukhopadhyay, Cohen), the history of medicine, medical humanities, science,
 and the environment (Jones C., Robinson, Nasim), and Palaeography, Latin and Renaissance
 Studies (Rundle) that are underrepresented in other UoAs of comparable size. In addition, the
 School has co-funded 6 Leverhulme Early Career Fellows in order to enhance significantly the
 research culture of their respective Centres. All our ECRs proved great additions to the School,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributing cutting-edge research, and will ensure the sustainability of the School’s thriving
 research and impact activities over the next five years.

 By 2026 the UoA plans to embed its four Centres’ activities firmly in the new University Divisional
 structure and Signature Research Themes (SRT), which further exciting avenues for
 interdisciplinary research and collaboration, especially in the fields of environmental history, global
 history, the heritage sector and medical humanities, working with the Kent’s newly established
 Medical School. This work is already under way thanks to Jones K.’s contribution to the SRT on
 ‘Food Systems, Natural Resources and the Environment’, Anderson’s funded-project ‘Living
 assessment: measurement, thresholds and the health of disabled and at-risk children in England,
 1989-present’, and Fincham’s collaboration with Religious Studies for the creation of a new
 interdisciplinary Centre for Anglican History and Theology, aiming to engage with the global
 Anglican communion (285 million people).

 (Objective 3) Expand our PG community and foster a new generation of promising researchers
 supported by our four research Centres and by internal and external funding.

 The School has grown its PG community and completion rates three-fold in 2014-2020,
 successfully securing externally- and internally-funded PhDs scholarships (56). We have seen 71
 completions over this cycle compared to 25.5 detailed in REF2014, representing an improvement
 in the average completion rate from 0.8 to 2 per FTE in REF2021.

 In the next five years we are confident that we will sustain this growth thanks to the number of
 students currently registered for our PG research programmes which already exceeds the 71 PhD
 completions recorded over the period 2014-2020 (see PGR cohort in 2019-2020: 43 PhDs and 7
 M-Res in History; 31 PhDs and 20 M-Res in MEMS).

 (Objective 4) Secure major external funding.

 Revitalising its approach to grant capture and funding as part of its post-REF2014 review, the
 School has been outstandingly successful in attracting external funding for ambitious research
 projects that, in turn, have supported the growth of our Centres and research culture. The total
 value of research grants secured in this REF-cycle has been £7.65m. Significantly, the School
 has also increased research and contract income ten-fold, from c. 20k per FTE in REF2014 to an
 average of £218k in REF2021. Two of these represent the largest ERC Humanities grants
 awarded for 2018 and 2019 respectively (Loop and Schmidt, c. €10M each). Leading scholars in
 the School’s Centres work collaboratively on highly visible research grants and projects. WMS has
 hosted collaborative projects with AHRC funding totalling £1,017,334 (Connelly, Bowman,
 Beckett, Johnson) and supported the interdisciplinary AHRC ‘Gateways to the First World War’
 project (Connelly et al.) that became a centre for public engagement throughout the WW1
 centenary. GCE has supported a Leverhulme funded project (2013-2018) focussed on
 ‘Corporations and cultural hybridisation’ (Pettigrew) alongside small and medium grants. HSE
 has likewise been successful in attracting grants from a variety of funders (Higgitt, Leverhulme;
 Jones C., AHRC), and two large-scale world-leading research projects by Anderson (£715k,
 Wellcome, ‘Living Assessment’) and Schmidt (€2.7m, ERC, ‘Taming the Leviathan: The Legacy
 of Post-War Medicine and the Common Good’). MEMS hosted fellowships (BA, Leverhulme) and
 collaborative grants (ERC, AHRC), including the ERC project ‘The European Qur’an: Islamic
 Scripture in European Culture and Religion’ (Loop, €2.7m) and its post-doc (Ben-Tov, 2019-
 2020).

 All the Centres are now at an exciting juncture of development and are operating at full capacity
 in terms of conducting funded cutting-edge research, also thanks to their ECRs’ projects (for
 instance, Ivanic and Gallagher’s research network recently funded respectively by AHRC and
 Flemish Research Foundation). This expertise alongside the new supportive and collaborative
 research environment at Divisional level will enable us to sustain and increase our grant capture
 over the next five years, which is especially important to implement our innovation and impact
 agendas.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (Objective 5) Support impact excellence.

 This has likewise been a central priority for the UoA, following extensive consultations with external
 assessors in 2017 and 2019 that helped us to shape our Centre-led impact and public engagement
 strategy. Building on the breadth and depth of research, the Centres were oriented to engage in
 a range of issues and topics of interest to regional, national and international audiences.
 Supported by substantial financial investment from the School and the University, staff have led,
 and participated in, outreach and impact activities such as exhibitions, workshops, meetings of
 stakeholders, and collaboration with government agencies, national and international non-
 governmental organisations, educational bodies, and non-HE stake-holders, especially in the
 heritage sector.

 The Centres then facilitated the development of the School’s ICSs addressing changes in policy,
 community awareness and enrichment, teaching resources and public engagement. One ICS was
 the outcome of decisions planned very much in advance. In REF2014 the School committed itself
 to playing a leading role in the national, and international, commemorations of the WW1 centenary.
 This was achieved via the AHRC-funded ’Gateways’ project, supported by WMS, and resulted in
 Connelly’s ICS ‘The First World War Centenary’, which has made a significant contribution to the
 School’s overall impact and outreach work, especially with regard to commemoration and conflict,
 reconciliation and national identity. The second ICS, ‘Chemical Warfare’ (Schmidt), received
 Wellcome funding and is supported by HSE via a significant School investment that enhanced the
 creation of strong links with the wider research base. Marsh’s ICS, ‘Age of Revolution’ has been
 substantially funded by RCUK/UKRI and supported by GCE. The project exemplified the School’s
 collaborative culture and interdisciplinary base by involving staff across three of its Centres
 (Bowman, Caiani, Draper, Lawrence, Higgitt, Jones C., Sleigh).

 Backed up by additional resources from the University, the School has invested heavily in a
 sustainable impact culture, supporting staff at all career levels, including ECRs. Four themes have
 been identified for post-REF2021 impact and outreach activities: conflict, reconciliation and
 national identity; heritage; health and the environment; impact in education. Each speaks to staff
 expertise and evolving activities and also presents critical areas in which historical perspectives
 can make meaningful interventions on salient contemporary issues. Alongside the ongoing funded
 projects, which have strong impact and outreach agendas (Anderson, ‘Living Assessment’,
 ongoing; Marsh, ‘Age of Revolutions’, ongoing), significant outreach work is under development
 from ‘The Wall Paintings of the Ste-Chapelle in Paris’ in collaboration with Centre des Monuments
 Nationaux (Guerry) to ‘The Irish Revolution and the Northern Ireland Peace Process’ (Bowman),
 and ‘The Religious Memory of Cristero/Agrarian Violence in Contemporary Mexican politics’
 (Lawrence). These internationally significant projects will generate educational materials such as
 pamphlets in multiple languages, signage, audio guide content, school activities and an AR
 powered smartphone app (Guerry).

 Open Access Policy

 A key benefit of the School’s research structure has been the effective implementation of a more
 open research environment responding to the UKRI Open Access Review, and supported through
 the creation of the University’s Office for Scholarly Communications (OSC). The Centres actively
 encouraged staff to share research findings via numerous methods of communication, including
 seminars, research papers and their specific research blogs. All colleagues’ publications are listed
 on the Kent Academic Repository (KAR), accessible via the School’s staff webpages, and are
 open-access compliant. The School has supported the provision of Gold open access status
 wherever possible, encouraging staff to apply for Gold open access University funds to cover its
 costs (among others, Caiani), and the ongoing publication of open access digital journals and
 databases, such as The Clergy of the Church of England Database (Fincham;
 https://theclergydatabase.org.uk/) and the resources of ‘Gateways of the First World War’ project
 (https://www.gatewaysfww.org.uk/). With the assistance of the Library, we monitor the status of


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School’s publications to ensure REF compliance and conformity with the guidance of the RHS
 open access policy (https://royalhistsoc.org/policy/publication-open-access/)

 Research Integrity

 In order to foster a culture of research integrity, transparency and professionalism, the School is
 fully aligned with the University guidelines and external professional bodies such as the RHS,
 especially       on     General       Data       Protection      Regulation        (GDPR)       policies
 (https://royalhistsoc.org/policy/research/), to ensure that the highest ethical, legal and professional
 standards are firmly embedded in all its activities. The School is committed to implementing the
 University’s Code of Practice and associated GDPR requirements, thus ensuring that it supports
 equality and diversity and protected characteristics.


 2. People
 Staffing and Recruitment Strategy

 Our staffing strategy is built on the long-standing commitment to sustainability, growth,
 interdisciplinarity, and research excellence in accordance with the criteria outlined by the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The School currently has 35 (34.8)
 FTEs - 14 female (an increase of 6% on REF2014), 21 male; 1 BAME; 6 EU, 1 US, 1 Indian and
 1 Australian national. Investment has been made in all Centres through strategic planning, the
 replacement of vacant positions, and the creation of 3 new posts in areas that record growing UG
 and PG student intake. Since 2013/14, the School has appointed a total of 21 staff members,
 including a deliberate commitment to the appointment, and nurturing of ECRs (11 appointed,
 spread across the Centres-infrastructure: WMS, 3; HSE, 1; GCE, 2; MEMS 5). 10 of the ECR
 appointments were on open-ended contracts. The appointment and guided career progression of
 ECRs, who work alongside established academics in complementary fields of study, has
 guaranteed sustainability and ensures leadership and research capacity well beyond REF2021.
 Interdisciplinarity has been central to the selection criteria for these appointees, who have
 broadened the thriving research cultures of our four Centres, while cross-fertilisation between
 Centres is highly encouraged, alongside collaboration across the University and research
 establishments beyond Kent.

 Staff Development

 The School has embedded a comprehensive and active staff development strategy for
 researchers at all stages of their career. Newly appointed ECRs are enrolled on a three-year
 standard probationary period and assigned a probation supervisor. While on probation, ECRs
 receive teaching relief (50% reduction in year one, 25% in year two, and 10% in year three) in
 order to develop their research and teaching profiles and are supported in completing the
 Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education (PGCHE). In addition, ECRs are supported through
 the School’s complementary three-year mentoring system which provides a more informal support
 and advisory framework. Funding for research and impact activities is available through an
 internally peer-reviewed research fund, while a cross-disciplinary ECR network has been
 organised under the lead of the Deputy Dean (Fincham). ECRs are actively encouraged to
 engage and showcase their work beyond Kent, in a constructive atmosphere, for instance at the
 IHR Seminar series ‘War, Society and Culture’ established by WMS, and through involvement in
 various learned societies including the Royal Historical Society.

 The School also supports the career progression of mid-career members of staff and the
 professoriate through individual annual appraisals (Reflect, Plan, Develop) and Individual
 Research Plans (IRPs). IRP meetings are held with all research-active staff. They offer a valuable
 opportunity for individuals to discuss research projects and review their research plans with the
 Director of Research, Director of Impact, and Research Support Officer. These reviews provide
 the School with information on staff outputs, research progression, funding applications and
 successes, and the status of public engagement and impact work. Individual and collaborative

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research development has been further ensured through the organisation of annual research fora
 and dedicated School away-days, while research-impact synergies have been supported by a
 series of workshops and drop-in sessions run by Marsh, Connelly and Hanna based on their own
 experiences in major outreach, impact and engagement projects. External partners have been
 invited to contribute to some of these sessions including participants from the museum, education,
 archives, and heritage sectors. The Graduate and Researcher College (GRC) regularly organises
 staff training for new and established PhD supervisors, while the School promotes good
 supervisory practices through its mentoring schemes and education fora.

 Research Leave, Promotion and Succession Planning

 All members of staff, both fixed and part-time and on Education-only contracts, are supported in
 developing their research and impact activity through the University’s research leave. Staff are
 eligible to apply after completing 72 teaching weeks subject to School approval of their research
 and impact plans. Staff plans are discussed collectively within the Centre infrastructure and then
 considered by the Management Group in order to facilitate equality of opportunity and to ensure
 structural sustainability, PhD support and teaching provision. Research leave typically lasts for
 one term; however, the School takes a flexible approach which enables staff to combine periods
 of research leave in order to undertake larger, ambitious projects, complete outputs, apply for
 large and complex grants or engage in impact and outreach activities as in the case of Guerry
 (Ste-Chapelle), Lawrence (Cristero/Agrarian Violence), and Schmidt (Leviathan). Staff also
 receive teaching relief, at the discretion of the REF Co-ordinator, DoR and HoS, in order to
 facilitate the completion of high-quality outputs, grant applications, and impact and public
 engagement projects, while impact activities are funded from a dedicated School fund.

 Our thriving research culture has facilitated the internal promotion of 14 members of staff from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 8 to Reader, and 10 to Professor. These promotions allow the School
 to benefit from a pool of colleagues able to perform senior leadership roles and represent our
 discipline in important institutional and external contexts. Internally, Pattinson and Jones K. were
 promoted to Professorships and have acted as HoS, while Bowman and Marsh became Readers
 and served as Deputy HoS. Senior colleagues further served in University leadership roles such
 as Deputy Dean (Fincham) and Faculty Directors (Loop, Anderson, Sleigh).

 With succession planning in mind, various members of the School (Bombi, Bowman, Jones K.,
 Marsh, Pattinson) have received additional training via the ‘Leaders in Significant Areas of
 Responsibility’ (LASR), ‘New Senior Leaders’ (NSL), and the ‘Aurora’ programmes, co-ordinated
 by HR to foster career development and gender balance in leadership roles. In addition, all staff
 are encouraged to familiarise themselves with the framework set out in the new University’s
 Academic Career Map (ACM), launched in 2019 to provide transparent and equitable criteria for
 promotion and to incentivise academic staff to undertake high-quality research, impact and
 outreach activities.

 Equality and Diversity

 The School’s EDI values are embedded throughout our research culture and contribution to
 professional bodies’ EDI initiatives (Fincham, RHS Gender Equality Reports, 2015/2018). This
 has resulted in EDI-balanced performances with regard to grant captures (see section 3) and
 outputs submission for REF (submitted outputs, 44% by female staff; outputs submitted for double
 weighting, 36% by female staff). In 2018 the School was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze
 Award, which makes it one of only 12 History departments in the UK to hold this award. A School
 EDI committee - which meets once a term - defines ethical and professional standards and
 implements mandatory EDI training for all staff. Following the University’s Code of Practice, its
 members meet different EDI profiles, work collaboratively with student representatives, who
 provide useful feedback and guidance, and liaise with both PG and UG student communities. All
 members of staff are required to undertake unconscious bias training in addition to attending
 sessions detailing the importance of EDI.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2018 the EDI committee has been working to implement the Athena SWAN Action Plan and
 submit an application for a Silver award. As a clear signal of the importance of this portfolio, a
 strategic decision was made to appoint a dedicated School EDI Director, who sits on the School
 Management Group. The School also updated its maternity leave policy, securing full cover,
 support and flexible working pattern on return to work, while proactively implementing awareness
 of the University’s parental leave policies among staff and PG students through relevant induction
 events and handbooks. An EDI School survey takes place bi-annually to assess incoming needs
 and to inform necessary improvements. In response to this feedback, the EDI committee has
 worked to ensure that staff work allocations are more transparent and representative. It has also
 revamped the research seminar programme to better reflect the School’s commitment to equality
 and diversity by rescheduling it to a more family-friendly timeslot. The result has been an increased
 and more gender balanced profile of speakers and audience. The School has further contributed
 to the implementation of the RHS Race, Ethnicity and Equality roadmap
 (https://royalhistsoc.org/policy/race/) through piloting an audit of its reading lists, introducing
 sessions on diversity in UG and PG modules, and organising events on BME History and for Black
 History month. Special attention has been paid to protected characteristics and intersectionality,
 for instance through a series of research events and blogs marking Disability, LGTBQ+ and
 Women’s History months, and the production of more inclusive advertising material for the School
 website and recruitment materials.

 As outlined above, the School has an active policy for research and impact leave for all staff, and
 provides additional support, including flexible, remote, and part-time working arrangements,
 whenever possible, that also extends to Associate Lecturers and colleagues on fixed-term
 contracts. Since 2018 staff with caring responsibilities have also been supported with the creation
 of the ‘Caring Responsibilities Network’, which addresses EDI issues and the impact of research
 policies on carers, while a voluntary ‘Partnership Programme’ is open to all members of staff and
 provides an informal mentoring support framework. Collectively, these measures have resulted in
 the creation of an inclusive and welcoming environment that has positively impacted on the
 School’s research culture and professional career development of staff members. Since 2014 the
 School has appointed and nurtured the career progression of a more diverse and gender-balanced
 staff profile. The School now includes 50% female Professors, 28% female Readers, 60% female
 Senior Lecturers, 33% female Lecturers.

 Research Students

 A central objective of our strategy was both to expand the number of PGR students and
 completions. This has been achieved (Objective 3). Our PG community has seen a three-fold
 growth with 71 research degrees awarded in this REF cycle (against 25.5 in 2014, from an average
 completion rate of 0.8 per FTE, REF2014, to 2 per FTE, REF2021). Our PGR female community
 has increased from 45% (2017) to 50% (2020). We are confident that we will sustain this growth
 beyond 2021, with the number of PGRs registered in 2019-20 already exceeding the figure
 detailed annually for 2014-2020. The School took active steps to strengthen the relationship
 between PG applicants and supervisors and to promote the excellent interdisciplinary research
 undertaken by School staff and research Centres. This has attracted an increasing number of UK
 and international students, especially from the EU and North America. Our PGR community and
 its expansion have been financially supported through a variety of funding schemes, from external
 bodies (AHRC-CHASE, Wellcome, Eastern ARC) to University’s Strategic Investment Funds (VC
 Scholarships, Rutherford Reid studentships) and Alumni endowments. In 2015-2016 the School
 also made a substantial investment of its QR budget in 10 fully-funded scholarships. These
 measures resulted in a total of 56 funded doctoral studentships over the REF cycle.

 History PGR students benefit from the support of two supervisors and the research networks of
 their affiliated Centre. Our outstanding PG supervisory training practice has been externally
 recognised through the first RHS’s Jinty Nelson Award for Inspirational Teaching and Supervision
 in History to Anderson (2018). The Centres provide a framework for collaborative supervisions
 within specialist fields, enabling students to improve their research skills, and thrive in an informal,
 supportive environment. In line with University policies and the Equality Act (2010), the School

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides Individual Learning Plans (ILPs) for PGR students who require additional support.
 Students undertake monthly, online-documented, research meetings with their primary supervisor
 and complete progress reviews in accordance with University GRC guidance. The School
 monitors both the progress and successful completion of PGR students via a Doctoral
 Completions database, enabling additional financial and/or supervisory support to be deployed
 whenever needed.

 Our four Centres also provide specialist PG training opportunities. MEMS has the most extensive
 programme thanks to the School investment in the new permanent post in Palaeography, Latin
 and Renaissance Studies (Rundle) that adds new and rare expertise and training for PGTs and
 PGRs in this under-represented field in UK HE institutions. MEMS also participates in the doctoral
 partnership training programme ‘Material Witness – The Interrogation of Physical Objects for
 Humanities Researchers’ (Guerry, Bovey) alongside staff from other Schools. MEMS staff have
 engaged with the CHASE-funded PGR development project ‘Future Pathways in Medieval and
 Early Modern Studies: Academia and Beyond’ (Gallagher et al.). Furthermore, WMS organises
 specialist study and training days in partnership with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission
 (CWGC) archives and takes PGRs on a specialist field trip to Belgium to engage with the local
 CWGC team, and specialist archivists at the In Flanders Fields Museum and Passchendaele
 Memorial Museum. Its students are also given inductions to relevant materials in the University
 Library’s Special Collections.

 In collaboration with the GRC’s transferable and employability skills and workshop programmes,
 the School and its PGR Director organise dissertation, writing-up, viva-voce, teacher training, and
 employability workshops. The School also arranges a ‘Teaching Forum’ and a ‘Training to Teach’
 programme in partnership with the Unit for Enhanced Learning and Teaching (UELT) so that PGR
 students can begin the process of obtaining their PGCHE. Good practice in this area, led by
 Fincham and Jones K., has fed into the RHS’s online Teaching Portal (2020) that supports the
 teaching and learning of History. PGRs are encouraged to publish both as individuals and in
 association with staff (among others, Bowman/Butler/Wheatley in WMS; Sleigh/Leggett in HSE;
 Macola/Hogan in GCE). In collaboration with Canterbury Cathedral Library and Archives, MEMS
 runs an employability programme for its PG students, organising major public exhibitions, such as
 ‘The Canterbury Journey’, and the online monthly digital exhibition ‘Picture This’, that also helps
 to disseminate PG research to wider audiences. Similarly, HSE has collaborated with PGRs who
 shared their research findings with local communities via the ‘This Poisoned Isle’ national travelling
 exhibition (as part of Schmidt’s ICS). School PhD Graduates have high chances of publishing
 their work and attaining employment in HEIs (for instance, UCL, Queen Mary, Cambridge,
 Leicester and Kent), with the British government (among others, CWGC and DBIS), and the
 heritage sectors (notably TNA, Imperial War Museum and British Museum).

 While fertilisation across research communities is encouraged through the School monthly PGR
 seminar, collectively the Centres are major leaders of activities designed to foster a sense of PG
 collegiality. Centre events provide critical feedback in an open and friendly manner, through
 reading groups and seminar series, which offer PG students with valuable networking
 opportunities, enhance the individual profiles of staff and PGRs through the delivery of research
 papers, and enable interaction with prestigious external UK and international guest speakers at
 the Centres’ dedicated annual lectures. WMS focuses its activities around the two IHR series led
 by its members, together with its collaborative blog. Students have been particularly appreciative
 of the opportunity to lead on book reviewing for the blog as it develops different writing and
 communication skills. WMS has a proven track record as an attractive place for PG study thanks
 to its local resources (for instance, the British Cartoon Archive), its research grants (notably
 ‘Gateways’), its connections with heritage and archival stakeholders in the UK and Flanders, its
 success in attracting externally funded Visiting Scholars to come to Kent to engage with our
 scholarly community, and its connections with government departments. HSE students profit from
 the knowledge exchange and vibrant contributions at the Centre’s fortnightly reading group
 ‘Wunderkammer’ and blogs, and benefit from HSE staff’s international and interdisciplinary
 research collaborations and their connections with the Royal Society for the History of Science
 (Sleigh) and their major funded collaborative research projects (Schmidt, Anderson, Jones C.).

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GCE PG students also profit from the Centre’s seminar series, international workshops,
 roundtables and book-launches and the vibrant research environment created by post-doctoral
 researchers attached to externally funded-projects (notably Pettigrew’s), and funded as
 Leverhulme Early Career postdoctoral fellows (Whyte, Alanamu). In addition, MEMS organises a
 well-attended weekly research seminar with contributions from national and international
 established scholars presenting their research alongside PG students. It also hosts a ‘Coffee
 House’ reading group, and master classes for its PG community in association with the Canterbury
 Cathedral Library and Archives team. Social events, such as the MEMS on-line pub quiz on
 Medieval and Early Modern themes, are regularly organised to foster a sense of community for
 the Centre’s PG students and wider audiences.

 The School’s dynamic and collaborative research infrastructure has enabled it to support a diverse
 range of PGR student projects throughout this REF cycle. WMS has supported 20 PhD students,
 including a co-tutelle with Antwerp, working on a variety of topics, such as the interaction of Belgian
 and French civilians with colonial forces on the Western Front during WW1 (Dendooven), the
 occupation of the Channel Islands (Guille), and the Holocaust Associations (Spicer). Building on
 the long tradition of American Studies at Kent and its staff’s international collaborations in North
 America, the African continent and the Middle East, GCE attracted 11 funded PhD students
 working on a variety of topics, such as British responses to the idea of European integration
 (Rolewicz), British diplomacy and the Zionist question (Caldwell), the Rwandan genocide
 (Kegel), slave trade in Ivory Coast (Nichols) and American environmental history (Blower,
 Barker). The growing interest in the study of health, science and the environment –- which
 predated the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic – has resulted in significant growth of the HSE
 PGR community, especially in the field of medical humanities, medical ethics and war,
 environmental history, and the history of science. HSE has supported 17 funded PhD students
 over this cycle (including one CDA with the National Maritime Museum and one prestigious
 Wellcome PhD Award), working on the history of disability (among others, Trainor, Purce),
 medical ethics and war (for instance, Moul, Browne), the history of astronomy and science
 humanities (Belteki), and medical humanities (Kearney). MEMS has also been extremely
 successful in attracting a noteworthy cohort of 23 UK and international PhD candidates, securing
 funding for 21 of those, and contributing to the supervision of a number of highly interdisciplinary
 projects funded through the Erasmus-Mundus programme ‘TEEME’, hosted by MEMS. The
 Centre’s doctoral students have explored a wide range of topics within the field of Medieval and
 Early Modern studies, ranging from Late Medieval ecclesiastical history (Vandeburie, Holland,
 Mesiano) and Medieval iconography (Kelly), to Late Medieval and Early Modern British urban
 and religious history (Gonzalez, Leach, Muylaert) and the history of diplomacy (Caldari).

 Following the growth of our PG intake, PG space has increased from 3 to 5 rooms with the further
 addition of 1 room for Associate Lecturers. This space is also utilised to arrange conferences, hold
 workshops and provide training weeks for PG students. A yearly PG budget is allocated for PG
 Library resources (£70k) and PGR events are organised in collaboration with the University Library
 Special Collections. All PGRs receive a research allowance (£500 a year), while extra funding is
 available from affiliated Centres and the CHASE consortium.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income

 The total value of research and contract income secured in this REF cycle has been £7,659,222.
 The School has achieved a ten-fold increase in its research and contract income: from an average
 of c. £20k per FTE in REF2014 to over £218k per FTE in REF2021 (Objective 4). Our research
 income has grown from a total of £607,090 in REF2014 to £942,372 in 2016/17 alone. Since 2013,
 the overall value of applications submitted has also increased significantly: £13,2m (2013/17);
 £15,1m (2017/20). This has resulted in an impressive return with research and contract income
 as follows: £2,1m (2013/17); £5,3m (2017/20).



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School as a whole has been successful in securing external sources of revenue, awards and
 fellowships (2014-2020: 117 applications; 51, successful, 43% success rate). Across our four
 Centres, 45% of all staff have secured research and contract income from a range of major funding
 bodies during this REF cycle: Connelly (£303k; £210k; £106k, AHRC); Higgitt (£368k,
 Leverhulme Trust); Marsh (£172k, UKRI); Johnson (£114k, AHRC); Bombi (£107k, BA); Cohen
 (£94k, BA). Landmark successes include Loop’s ERC Synergy Grant (€2.5m), Anderson’s
 Wellcome grant (£715k), and Schmidt’s ERC Synergy Grant (€2.7m). Loop and Schmidt’s
 grants represent two of the largest ERC Humanities grants awarded for 2018 and 2019
 respectively (c. €10m each). Thanks to the supportive research cultures provided by the Centres,
 52.5% were gained by female staff members, while 47.5% by male staff members. In addition, we
 have secured an innovation award on the ‘Waterloo 200 Legacy’ of £172,560 from UKRI.

 The School’s awards evidence high-profile research over a broad chronological span (1300-2020)
 and involve a number of different types of collaboration from PI (Bombi, Marsh) and Centre-based
 projects (Connelly, Anderson, Higgitt) to partnerships with other universities (Loop with the
 Universities of Madrid, Naples, and Nantes; Schmidt with Charité, Berlin, Academy of Sciences,
 Sofia, Central European University, Budapest/Vienna; Anderson with Cambridge). In addition to
 these high-value awards, members of the School at all levels, including ECRs, have been equally
 successful in securing smaller and medium-sized Humanities awards (totalling £576k): Anderson
 (£82k, Wellcome); Guerry (£34k, BA; £25k, AHRC); Jones C. (£50k, Academy of Medical
 Sciences); Schmidt (£48k, Wellcome); Jones K. (£30k, Wellcome); Mills (£40k, Leverhulme);
 Hornsby (£10k, Leverhulme); Alanamu (£62k, Leverhulme); Whyte (£82k, Leverhulme); Sleigh
 (£40k, AHRC); Beckett (£12k, AHRC); Roberts (£28k, Leverhulme); Gallagher (£33k,
 Leverhulme).

 These successes are the result of an integrated system of support, where colleagues are assisted
 through research reviews, internal peer reviews, monitoring, data collection, and tailored advice.
 All applications benefit from the RSO’s input and a cross-disciplinary peer review process. Large
 applications (above £300k) are peer-reviewed by a dedicated team of 6 experienced researchers
 on the School’s internal review panel. A dedicated Support Officer in the University Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS) further supports the School’s review processes, also making available
 extra incentivisation funds for major grant applications (up to £3k) and assisting with costing, IT
 and submission to funding bodies.

 Infrastructure

 The academic School Research Team includes the REF Co-ordinator, DoR, and DoI. The team
 are supported by a dedicated Professional Services’ team, including the RSO and two PG
 administrators managing the School PG community. These professionals assist academic staff
 and PGRs with the management of research activities, from Individual Research Plans (IRPs) to
 the organisation of research seminars and lectures, workshops, conferences and pastoral care.
 We have introduced new procedures to record digitally and analyse outputs, impact and
 environment data, and we are using secure online databases, protected by GDPR-compliant
 robust data collection. We are open access compliant thanks to the support of the Library OSC,
 managing the Kent Academic Repository (KAR) and University’s funding for Gold open access.
 The School provides increased individual research allowances (£750-£2k per FTE, for a total
 investment of £80k per year) for all staff members, while an extra £60k was made available for
 varied research and REF management/planning activities. Flexibility on the allocation of fully-
 economic costed research grants’ overheads is also encouraged, enabling successful researchers
 to reinvest the funds in agreement with HoS and DoR. This use of funds has led to significant
 improvements in quality of outputs, grant writing and capture, public engagement and measurable
 impact.

 The School Research Team and HoS liaise with Centre Directors, co-ordinating research and
 impact activities. Centre Directors are appointed every three years through a selective process,
 and colleagues at different career-stages (especially SL and Readers) are encouraged to come
 forward for these roles. Centres’ activities are reviewed by the Faculty (now Divisional) research

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committee. The School allocates each Centre between £2k and 4k a year from its own budget,
 while bids for extra-School and University RIS funding are welcomed to promote research and
 impact events.

 The School’s commitment to outreach and impact was expressed in generous support for its ICS
 leads, as well as other impact projects, investing £120k, supplemented by central University funds.
 ICS leads have been supported by the DoI, RSO and University REF team, which has made
 available extra funding to finance impact activities. These funds were particularly useful for
 Schmidt’s ICS, Guerry, Lawrence and Pettigrew, helping with the provision of logistical facilities
 and IT support. The investment also funded the employment of an Impact Assistant to support the
 RSO with the process of populating the University’s Impact collection software (Vertigo Ventures),
 and act as liaison with RIS and the University REF Team.

 Both the library and archival resources at Canterbury Cathedral, and the resources of the
 Templeman Library, and in particular its Special Collections section, are of great assistance to the
 School (notably the internationally recognised British Cartoon Archive, the Queens’ Own Buffs
 Regimental Association, the John Crow Collections of Renaissance literature, the Cathedral’s
 capitular records and collection on the anti-slavery movement). Staff and students alike also profit
 from the 2014 ‘Memorandum of Understanding’ between the University and the Cathedral, which
 facilitates the use of Cathedral resources for staff, PG and UG students, and collaboration on
 outreach activities, implemented, for instance, as part of the ‘Gateways’ project. Connected to the
 Special Collections reading room is the Library’s dedicated exhibition space. This facility has
 enabled staff and PGRs to transform research into outreach and engagement activities which, in
 return, enhance the profile of the Library as a resource for the wider community. The University’s
 Office for Scholarly Communication supports staff wishing to engage with organisations and
 communities beyond the academic world, while its web-team, graphic design and print unit provide
 advice and services, enabling the dissemination of research in different formats.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our strategic objective over the last six years has been to increase external academic
 collaborations, impact and public engagement, contribute to debates on current affairs and put our
 research at the service of both academic beneficiaries and civil society (Objective 5). The School
 through its Centres has positioned itself effectively to engage in national and international research
 networks and projects, while broadening its collaboration with external partners and communities.
 As part of this strategy, the School revamped its website, and combined it with a greater social
 media profile, with the intention of presenting research in new ways to inspire broader engagement
 and create the potential for new relationships and initiatives. Blogs have also proved an effective
 tool of communication enabling staff to present research in a format easily accessible to a broad
 audience and have encouraged interaction with a range of readers.

 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through their service for external national and
 international professional organisations, such as the Royal Historical Society (67% staff are
 Fellows), the Royal African Society, the Women’s History Network, the Society for the Social
 History of Medicine, the Southern Historical Association, the American Association for the History
 of Medicine, the African Studies Association, the Irish Research Council, the Swiss Research
 Council, and act as panel members for the Scouloudi Historical Awards at the IHR. 50% of staff
 are Fellows of the HEA. In particular, staff have been selected for significant leadership roles in
 the RHS (Fincham, VP; Bombi, council), the Royal Society for the History of Science (Sleigh,
 Chair), the Wellcome Trust’s expert review panel (Anderson) and the Medical Humanities
 Funding Committee (Schmidt), the Centre for the History of Arabic Studies in Europe at the
 Warburg Institute (Loop, Co-Director), the Canterbury and York Society and the Internationale
 Historische Kommission zur Erforschung des Deutschen Ordens, Wien (Bombi, council), and the
 Oxford Bibliographical Society (Rundle, council).


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over 54% of staff are members of editorial boards for journals and book series. The broad range
 of chronological, geographical and methodological approaches in these publications reflects our
 disciplinary breadth. WMS staff contribute to journal editorships, notably the British Journal for
 Military History (Caiani, Connelly, Goebel, Bowman), Women’s History Review (Pattinson),
 Journal of War and Culture Studies (Pattinson), Contemporary British History (Connelly,
 Johnson), Small Wars and Insurgencies (Lawrence), Diplomacy and Statecraft, Journal of
 Strategic Studies and International History Review (Johnson), and series editorial boards (Army
 Historical Records Society, History Press, Bowman). GCE members serve as journal editors,
 including the European Journal of American Culture (Wills), and Mobility in History
 (Mukhopadhyay) and series editorial boards (Fontes Historiae Africanae series, OUP/BA,
 Macola). HSE staff serve on journal editorial boards, including Environment and History (Jones
 K.), the Journal for Military Medical Ethics (Schmidt), and the British Journal for the History of
 Science (Sleigh), and advise on series, such as Bloomsbury Literature and Science Series
 (Sleigh) and History of Disability Series, MUP (Anderson). MEMS members contribute to journal
 boards (English Historical Review, Fincham; Journal of the British Archaeological Association,
 Guerry) and series boards (Canterbury and York Society, Boydell, General Editor, and Ordines,
 Studi su Istituzioni e Società nel Medioevo Europeo, Vita e Pensiero, Milan, Bombi; Studies in
 Modern Religious History, Boydell, Fincham).


 Staff publications have received external recognition for excellence such as the 2017 CHOICE
 ‘Outstanding Academic Title’ (Lawrence), the Natalie Rothstein Prize (Marsh) and the Whedon
 Studies Association prize for best book (Wills).

 Academic Collaborations and Networks

 Partnerships have been set up with a number of EU universities, most notably in Belgium, Italy,
 Germany, France, Denmark and Spain. Colleagues have also formed strong global networks,
 particularly in the US, Mexico, Abu Dhabi, Central and South Africa. These include international
 research collaborations with Texas Tech University (Basha), Yale (Mathisen), the University of
 the Basque Country and the University of Ghent (Gallagher, Roberts), and the Warburg Institute
 (Rundle). They also comprise funded collaborative projects: Pettigrew’s partnership with Duke
 University, Delhi University and Toronto Business School (Leverhulme); Cohen/Pilossof,
 University of Free State (BA); Jones K. with specialists based in Delhi and Tongji University,
 Shanghai (Wellcome); Johnson/Keiger, ‘Networks and Actors: British and French Foreign
 Ministry Responses to European Integration 1919 – 1973’ (AHRC); Bombi with the German DFG
 and the French CNRS. Other funded collaborations include: Loop’s HERA collaborative project
 with the Warburg Institute, ‘Encounters with the Orient in Early Modern European Scholarship’
 (2013-2016), which has produced a collaborative publication (Loop/Burnett/Hamilton), and the
 AHRC-funded Cultural Engagement Grant on Gothic colour at Canterbury Cathedral (Guerry).

 The School has welcomed 9 international visiting Professors and Scholars, including 3 funded
 visitors: Professor George van Cleve from Seattle University School of Law, attached to GCE;
 Professor Sophie de Schaepdrijver from Penn State College of Liberal Arts, who collaborated with
 WMS and was Leverhulme-funded (£80k); and Professor Rachel Koopmans from York University
 (Toronto), hosted by MEMS and funded by the BA (£33k). School staff have also been awarded
 visiting fellowships at the University of Cambridge (Anderson), the Brocher Foundation
 (Schmidt), the South African National Research Foundation (Cohen), the University of Free
 State, South Africa, and Cagliari, Italy (Macola).

 Centres have supported research collaborations through the organisation of national and
 international conferences and edited collections. WMS supported joint publications on the history
 of propaganda and conflict (Connelly/Fox/Goebel/Schmidt) and the management of peace in
 Ancien Regime Europe (Caiani/Broers), and conferences on British Humour in WW2 (Pattinson),
 and 19th-century Insurgencies/Counter-Insurgencies (Lawrence). Ethical research and the
 Declaration of Helsinki (Schmidt/Frewer/Sprumont), navigational enterprises in Europe and its
 empires (Higgitt/Dunn), scientific governance in Britain, 1914-79 (Sleigh/Leggett), developmental

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 child welfare (Anderson et al.) and war and peace in British science fiction fandom (Sleigh/White)
 have been the focus of research carried out in HSE. GCE, in collaboration with the University of
 the Free State, South Africa, supported an international conference on the formal economies of
 Central and Southern Africa (Cohen). MEMS co-organised interdisciplinary workshops and
 conferences with Oxford (Guerry, Gallagher), the BAA (Guerry), Leeds (Roberts), Notre Dame,
 American Academy and John Cabot University in Rome (Bombi), and sessions at the IMC in
 Leeds and Kalamazoo, where staff and PGRs regularly present their research. MEMS joint
 publications with external academic partners also focused on Early Modern religious materialities
 (Ivanic/Laven/Morrall), the iconography of relics (Guerry/Binski), and manuscripts studies
 (Rundle/Hanna). Staff at all career stages further contribute to invited seminars and public
 lectures nationally (for instance, UCL, Mathisen; LSE, Mukhopadhyay; Manchester, Gallagher;
 Oxford, Guerry, Rundle; IHR, Ivanic) and internationally (HSE-Moscow, Boobbyer; Deutsches
 Studienzentrum Venedig, Bombi; Fordham University, Guerry; Vienna, Roberts; Copenhagen,
 Caiani).

 Thanks to our location, 25% of staff are able to convene seminar series in London at the IHR and
 the LIES (International History; War, Society and Culture; Early Middle Ages; Tudor and Stuart
 History; Religious History of Britain 1500-1800; Medieval Manuscripts Seminar). Since 2014 the
 Centres have also sponsored and delivered 24 annual lectures alongside a total of four research
 seminar series annually. In addition, the School has run an annual History Festival and a separate
 MEMS Festival to support new ideas and projects.

 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Interaction and engagement have taken many forms and been expressed through various
 mechanisms and pathways to impact and outreach: collaborative projects, the provision of expert
 advice, policy-shaping, media engagement, and responses to community needs and interests
 resulting in significant and enduring legacies. Audiences have gained in understanding and skills,
 and ways of thinking and acting have been influenced. Staff interact with key research audiences
 and develop impact and outreach activities through the creation of strong connections with
 international organisations and NGOs, government departments, the heritage and archival sector
 (both nationally and internationally) and local communities. Thanks to the AHRC-funded
 ‘Gateways’ project, WMS has strengthened existing links with government departments, including
 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and the inter-governmental Commonwealth War Graves
 Commission, and has closely collaborated with the In Flanders Fields Museum, Ypres, through
 the exchange of research staff and PhD students (Connelly, Bowman, Goebel). Numerous
 research links were created with external organisations, such as TNA’s advisory group on the
 digitisation of the Permanent Under-Secretary Committees’ papers (Johnson) and the National
 Library of Ireland (Bowman). These links have resulted in opportunities for WMS scholars to bring
 their research to wider public attention through the delivery of lectures, seminars, battlefield tours
 and workshops (Connelly, Bowman, Draper). GCE assisted the development of outreach
 activities linked to the project ‘Age of Revolutions’ (Marsh) with a number of external partners (The
 National Army Museum, Culture 24 and Waterloo 200). In 2019 Wills was chosen by the BA’s
 ‘Summer Showcase’ to present his work as one of fifteen exhibits housed at Carlton House to an
 audience of over 1,700 attendees, one noting that 'the impact of social problems in peoples' lives
 was brought to the centre of the exhibition'. GCE international collaborations range from NGOs in
 Zimbabwe (Cohen) and the National Archives of Zambia (Macola) to local political parties and
 museums in the state of Zacatecas, Mexico (Lawrence). HSE outreach partners include the
 National Maritime Museum, the Science Museum and Royal Observatory (Higgitt), the Wellcome
 Collection (Jones C.), and Turner Contemporary, The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons and
 Natural History Museum (Sleigh). HSE members have also collaborated closely and set up
 interdisciplinary networks with: the British Dental Association and the International Centre for Oral
 Health Inequalities Research and Policy, organising a public exhibition that attracted 2,500 visitors
 and educational school events (Jones C.); the National Children Bureau and the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group for Children and the British Association of Social Workers as partners of the
 ‘Living Assessment’ project (Anderson); practicing artists and scientists as part of the Innovation
 AHRC-funded ‘Metamorphoses’ project, which reached out to schools and science-

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 communicational audiences (Sleigh); the Lindbury Foundation and Science Museum through the
 organisation of the permanent exhibition ‘Science City, 1550-1800’ (Higgitt); and Canterbury City
 Council, advocacy groups and the Canterbury Connected Business Improvement District for the
 project ‘Growing Canterbury’s Green Heritage’ (Jones K.). New international partnerships include
 the World Health Organisation and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons at
 the Hague, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), as well as NGOs such
 as Green Cross International and a large number of non-academic stakeholders (Schmidt).
 MEMS has formed new networks, while also enhancing long-standing collaborations with national
 and international heritage and archival sectors, such as: the Centre des Monuments Nationaux,
 the Ste-Chapelle, Paris, and the Paris School of Art and Culture (Guerry); TNA and Bodleian
 Library (Rundle); the British Museum and Canterbury Cathedral - for instance, contributing to the
 AHRC-funded project ‘Questions of Space – A Festival of Ideas,’ (2016), and to the BA-funded
 ‘Becket 2020’ exhibition and conference (Guerry/Bombi/Wilkinson). Following the outbreak of
 Covid-19 in March 2020, MEMS PG students also created the open-access virtual MEMS
 Lockdown Library for Medieval and Early Modern Studies that has been awarded the prize in the
 Physical Lockdown/Digital Freedom Competition 2020 (https://www.memslib.co.uk/).

 Enhanced understandings of the past were also achieved through the development of a ‘Massive
 Open Online Course’ (MOOC) entitled ‘The British Experience of War from Waterloo to the Rhine’,
 created by Draper in collaboration with WMS, that has attracted 4,640 participants from 240
 countries and disseminated our cutting-edge research in this area to wider audiences. Feedback
 included: ‘I cannot rate this highly enough!’ and ‘The lecturers were just amazing and filled with
 passion as they discussed various topics…I was enlightened on so many subjects with the erudite
 speakers.’ Links with local schools have been further enhanced by the creation of ‘The People's
 History of Kent initiative’ (Marsh/Mattingly) in collaboration with Simon Langton Boys Grammar,
 Canterbury, and ‘Black History in Kent’, a HLF funded project in association with the Medway
 African and Caribbean Association and Chatham Dockyard Trust. An attendee said of the event,
 ‘I felt recognition and acceptance as a person of colour in a way that I have rarely felt it before. It
 was like coming home.’ In addition, Bowman’s collaboration with the Public Records Office of
 Northern Ireland (PRONI) has resulted in teacher training and school activities, engaging with the
 reconstruction of debated historical legacies in Northern Irish communities.

 An important pathway to dissemination of research and impact to wider audiences has been
 through the engagement with media organisations (Radio, TV, Online). WMS members have
 disseminated their research through talks to local history societies, as advisors of TV productions
 for ITV/Amazon (Caiani), BBC1 Northern Ireland (Bowman), and through radio broadcasts on the
 BBC’s World Service (Pattinson), RTVE (Spain) and Huffington Post (Lawrence), and the BBC’s
 ‘First World War at Home’ project (Connelly). GCE members provided expertise on Disney history
 (BBC History Extra, Wills) and the BBC radio programme ‘In Our Time’ (Mathisen). HSE staff
 publicly disseminated their research through radio and TV contributions for BBC, BBC News, BBC
 Radio Scotland, ITV Meridian, The Guardian, The Independent, Radio 4, KMTV and Deutsche
 Presse Agentur - following the assassination of Kim Jong-nam and Salisbury poisoning in 2018
 (Schmidt). They also advised as experts on ‘Who do you think you are?’ (Anderson, Jones C.),
 BBC Radio 4’s ‘In our Time’ (Sleigh), BBC Radio 4 ten-part series on the history of disability
 (Anderson), the BBC World Service’s Business Daily (Higgitt) and BBC4 programme ‘Planet Ant’
 (Sleigh). MEMS staff offered their expertise to media organisations, including the BBC’s ‘Who Do
 You Think You Are?’ with Danny Dyer (Guerry), the Swiss channel SRF (Loop), and for an ARTE
 documentary on Notre-Dame (Guerry).




                                                                                                Page 15
