Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 17, Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

We launched the Institute of Management Studies (IMS) in 2012, at which time it was a small,
startup department with four members of academic staff and four postgraduate taught (PGT)
programmes. Today, the IMS is a large, multifaceted centre of study and research in management
with 28 permanent, full-time members of academic staff, seven undergraduate (UG) and five PGT
programmes.

Three academics from the Department of Psychology were amongst our founding members. Using
this subject expertise, we created a firm foundation in applied psychology, and then focussed on
establishing and building excellence in the three select, complementary areas of management,
marketing, and economics. Our initial expertise informed the shape of the degrees we started in
these new areas, in which we infused each of the primary disciplines with perspectives from
psychology and other social sciences. Our vision was to create an interdisciplinary and
theoretically focussed department with applied impact. We considered such an approach essential
if we were to generate novel and effective solutions to major real-world challenges.

To staff our growing department, we appointed early career researchers (ECRs) within our areas of
strategic growth. With cutting-edge knowledge of their disciplines and a strong motivation to lead
novel projects, initiate collaborations and build networks, ECRs have been the backbone of the
formation and development of the IMS. Whilst during the assessment period we have been
primarily focussed on growing our teaching provision, we have pursued our research ambitions in
tandem. With our degrees now established, we plan to further evolve our research identity and
culture.

Unit structure

Our four subject areas represent our major research concentrations and allow us to focus on
addressing challenges facing people, organisations, markets, and economies today. However,
because our research is interdisciplinary, these areas often overlap and in many cases our
researchers work across subject boundaries.

Applied psychology. Bond, Guenole and Lloyd work at the intersection of occupational and
clinical psychology to understand and improve people’s health and behavioural effectiveness in
different contexts (e.g., workplace, clinical, community etc.) They research the application of
cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) theories in applied settings, psychometric measurement of
non-cognitive psychological concepts, work design, advances in applied statistics, and equality,
diversity, and inclusion (EDI). Projects include examining the impact of CBT-informed workplace
psychological skills interventions on employee wellbeing and performance; investigating work
design factors that underpin beneficial business outcomes; determining the latent structure and
adverse impact of maladaptive personality traits in the workplace; and understanding the
psychological processes linking gender-related discrimination and distress in transgender
individuals.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Management. Brauer, Doern, Lauwo, Pelletier, Yu, and Zupic undertake interdisciplinary research
that investigates important problems facing people, organisations, and society. They combine
interests from strategy, work organisation, accounting, entrepreneurship, small and medium
enterprise (SME) management and innovation. They seek to understand the experience of
entrepreneurs, dynamics of organisational practices, and the real-life impacts of organisations on
employees and the wider community in which they exist. Utilising a range of theories and rigorous
methodological approaches, their work explores sustainability issues, social boundary and identity
in workplaces, mobile banking, entrepreneurship, as well as challenges to societal and business
justice such as gender inequality at work, corruption, tax avoidance and evasion, and
unsustainable business practices.

Marketing. Campana, Dowling, Eichert, Gruen, Loermans, Molner, Seregina, Van den Bossche,
and Velloso carry out research in the areas of Consumer Culture Theory (CCT), strategic
marketing and consumer psychology. Using an interdisciplinary lens, extant research focuses on a
variety of contemporary and emerging topics including alternative currencies, collaborative
consumption, consumer fantasy, stigmatized consumer groups, public health, online filter bubbles,
technology-driven market creation and consumers’ time representations. In conducting their
research, the group employs novel research methods including analyses of textual data,
netnographic research, digital methodologies, and arts-based research.

Economics. Agunsoye, Cardinale, Desmarais‐Tremblay, Foresti, Fotopoulou, Galanis, Lazzarini,
Repapis, Rotta, Venkatachalam, and Wirkierman carry out interdisciplinary and pluralist research
at the interface between economics and other social sciences. They also investigate the evolution
of economic thought and the differences between approaches within economics, in a way that
helps understand the importance of context for the study of economic phenomena. Recent projects
include the ethnographic study UK households’ asset-accumulation strategies; developing a theory
of action within institutions that overcomes key limitations of theories of perfect and bounded
rationality; and investigating the origins of the relationship between economics and experimental
psychology.

Research and impact objectives

During the assessment period. With only six staff members in 2014, the IMS was unable to enter
the REF as an independent unit of assessment. However, between 2014 and 2020, we have
pursued several research and impact objectives, which we detail below with key indicators of
success (we will expanded upon these in later sections).

  i.    Establish the IMS as a centre for interdisciplinary, theoretically focussed research.
           o We are now an established and financially sustainable unit firmly embedded within
                Goldsmiths and within the general ecology of UK Business and Management
                schools.
           o Colleagues work on applied, theory driven research projects which combine their
                core discipline with other disciplines including psychology, sociology, anthropology,
                philosophy, environmental science, cultural studies, gender studies, queer and
                feminist studies, social and organisational theory, law, political science, finance,
                mathematics, and data science.

  ii.   Disseminate research findings.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           o   We have published in world-leading academic outlets including Academy of
               Management Review, Journal of Marketing, Journal of Management, and Journal of
               Occupational Health Psychology.
           o   We have increased our total number of REF2021-eligible journal articles by 395%.
           o   We have published in widely read popular press outlets including Futures of Work,
               Discover Society, International Viewpoint, The New Statesman, and Sunday Times.

 iii.   Apply for and obtain research grant funding.
           o We have received grants from sources including the British Academy (BA), Innovate
               UK, the Independent Social Research Foundation (ISRF), the EY Foundation and
               the Academy of Marketing (AM).
           o We have increased our total number of grants obtained by 1,200% and total grant
               income (GBP) by 266%.

 iv.    Develop impact from our research.
           o We have developed three impact case studies, two from our applied psychology
              group and one from our economics group.
           o We have facilitated impact generation through providing colleagues time [e.g.,
              dedicated research time (DRT)], resources (e.g., specialist training), funds (e.g.,
              annual research allowance) and flexible working.

  v.    Build collaborations within and outside of Goldsmiths.
            o IMS colleagues frequently collaborate, with ongoing projects related to queer
               entrepreneurship, mumpreneurs, economic factors in the Covid crisis, trust in the
               sharing economy and fatherhood identities in social media.
            o We have also established collaborations with other Goldsmiths departments,
               including Art, Politics and International Relations, Visual Cultures, Anthropology,
               Psychology, Media, Communications and Cultural Studies (MCCS), and Social,
               Therapeutic and Community Studies (STaCS).
            o We have links to over 100 universities worldwide and to an array of public and
               private organisations, including investment banks, healthcare providers, NGOs,
               social enterprises, and technology organisations.

Over the next five years. We will build on our successes to date by pursuing five key objectives.

   i.   Further support and scaffold research development.
  ii.   Enhance our MPhil/PhD programme.
 iii.   Increase our grant applications and awards.
 iv.    Strengthen the societal impact of our research.
  v.    Stimulate further knowledge exchange.

Activity to promote these objectives will focus on building awareness and understanding (e.g., of
knowledge exchange, funding sources); refining department structures and processes to further
support desired outcomes (e.g., publishing, grant applications, PhD supervision); further using
department funds to incentivise specific activities (e.g., impact generation, network building); and
enhancing avenues for advice, mentoring, coaching and training.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We will also ensure that these activities are inclusive. For example, we will broaden our
understanding of impact and support its generation across all of our subject areas. To date, the
majority (i.e., two out of three) of our case studies have derived from our longest standing area,
applied psychology. Whilst this is unsurprising due to the time it takes to develop impact, we would
want to see broader representation of our subject areas in our future case studies. This work has
already begun, as evidenced by our third case study deriving from our economics group, and we
will build on this further moving forward. This might include enhancing impact generation from our
historical and literary research, which is a growing focus within the IMS.

Interdisciplinarity

Consistent with our vision, interdisciplinarity is foundational to our entire research process. Our
recruitment materials target researchers that identify as interdisciplinary, pluralistic, and/or as
synthesising distinct knowledge domains. We encourage interdisciplinary working, for example in
our 2019 Research Away day, Reuniting the Tribes, we focussed on creating new interdisciplinary
research streams. We support colleagues to focus on the most appropriate outlets for their
research, rather than on journal rankings or specific lists [e.g., Association of Business Schools’
(ABS) Academic Journal Guide]. As a result, we routinely produce interdisciplinary grant awards
(e.g., the BA funded project by Doern & Lloyd on queer entrepreneurship, combining queer and
feminist theory with research in entrepreneurship and the social sciences); network building
initiatives (e.g., Repapis & Cardinale organised the interdisciplinary workshops Economics and
Anthropology and Economics and the Plastic Arts with funding from the ISRF); and knowledge
exchange activities [e.g., Gruen coordinates the London branch of the interdisciplinary Research
Group on Collaborative Spaces (RGCS) involving academics and coworking professionals].

Open science

We engage in practices to maximise the dissemination of knowledge and promote transparency.
We were able to deposit all but one of our REF-eligible journal articles into our institutional open
access repository, Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO), and IMS colleagues work to publish in
open access journals (e.g., Guenole has published three articles in the open access journal
Frontiers in Psychology, two of which we will return for this REF exercise). Guenole is also the IMS
open science lead. As standard, colleagues make research reports available to participating
individuals and/or organisations, and often go further by running specific feedback events (e.g.,
presentations, workshops etc). Colleagues have given public access to other research outputs
(e.g., databases of historical undergarments, websites with behavioral modelling tools, websites
hosting interviews with famous economists), and routinely make statistical code/programs and
analysis steps available (either through the publisher or open access platforms). In a particularly
significant example, Bond has created and made freely available numerous psychometric
instruments and psychological skills training protocols. As described in one of our impact case
studies, this approach to knowledge sharing has contributed to the development of a world
community of specialist trainers.

Research integrity

We have a rigorous in-house ethical approval process for assessing all student and staff projects
involving living participants. We have developed our approach over time from one that was very
psychology-focussed, to one that is now more relevant to broader management methods. The

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
approval process varies depending on the nature of the project (i.e., Head/Deputy Head of Ethics
signoff, a review committee or a cross-department referral). We review all project proposals in
accordance with appropriate codes of ethics [e.g., the British Psychological Society (BPS),
Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)] and either approve these or return them with a
request for changes. We regularly review our ethical procedures to ensure that they remain
consistent with the most recent ethical standards and legal developments (e.g., GDPR).

 2. People

Staffing strategy

Each subject area has a strategic lead, who works with the Head of Department (HoD) to ensure
that new appointments complement the IMS vision and objectives. As such, we have hired
interdisciplinary and theory focussed researchers who publish, seek funding, generate impact, and
collaborate, with a particular focus on ECRs.

Applied psychology. In 2017, we hired Dowling as a postdoctoral researcher to support the
research and impact of the then-HoD (Bond), bringing expertise in behavioural science theories
and their applications in leadership, resilience, and performance enhancement.

Management. Doern (2014) led our expansion into management, with a strong foundation in
entrepreneurship, particularly viewed through an interdisciplinary lens rooted in psychology and
micro-sociology. This focus on entrepreneurship was later strengthened by Zupic (2019), who
researches entrepreneurial finance, the business start-up process, and the drivers of business
growth and entrepreneurial ecosystems. To expand our management expertise, we brought in
specialists in organisational behaviour (Yu; 2015), organisational strategy (Pelletier; 2016), and
accounting (Lauwo; 2018), who had a distinct emphasis on emerging, interdisciplinary, and
feminist perspectives.

Marketing. Campana (2015) led our expansion into marketing, with a particular focus on consumer
research. We strengthened this core focus with consumer research experts who specialised in
collaborative consumption (Gruen; 2016), the touchpoints between consumer research and other
disciplines (Seregina; 2017), diversity and inclusion (Eichert; 2018), media systems dynamics
(Velloso; 2018), and historical marketing (Van den Bossche; 2018). We complemented this core
focus with expertise in the areas of strategic marketing and innovation (Molner; 2016), consumer
psychology (Loermans; 2019), and psychology (Dowling; 2019).

Economics. Repapis (2014) led our expansion into economics, with a focus on developing a
pluralistic, heterodox, interdisciplinary research community. Repapis works on methodology,
historiography of economics and economic narratives. Cardinale (2015) works on classical political
economy and explores the links between economics and management. Wirkierman (2017) and
Lazzarini (2019) extended our expertise in the classical and structural traditions in economics.
Furthermore, we brought in specialists in heterodox economic modelling (Galanis; 2016),
computational and behavioural economics (Venkatachalam; 2016), public economics (Desmarais-
Tremblay; 2017), financialisation (Agunsoye; 2018), Post-Keynesian empirical analysis
(Fotopoulou; 2018), institutional economics (Foresti; 2019) and Marxist economics (Rotta; 2019).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We now have 28 permanent, full-time members of academic staff, 26 on Teaching and Research
(T&R) contracts and two on Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts. This includes 19 lecturers
(68%), eight senior lecturers (28%), and one professor (4%). Between 2017-2019, we had one
fixed-term, full-time postdoctoral researcher, who progressed onto a one-year, full-time T&R
contract between 2019-2020. We also had two fixed-term, 0.8FTE lecturers on T&S contracts
between 2019-2020. Our staffing strategy has proven to be effective as we have successfully
appointed the positions required to resource our growing department and meet our research and
impact objectives. We have not relied extensively on fixed-term contracts, safeguarding our longer-
term research stability.

Staff development strategy

To support colleagues at the various stages of their careers, our strategy has been to build and
embed a system of tailored development structures and processes:

  i.    ECRs. These colleagues are: (i) hired into a subject grouping with a strategic lead, and
        embedded in a research sub-unit best placed to support their development; (ii) given an
        administrative workload significantly below the departmental average in their first year; (iii)
        given less demanding admin roles until they begin to move towards applying for senior
        lecturer; and (iv) linked up with an IMS mentor for research. Due to the IMS profile, mentors
        themselves may sometimes still be at an early stage of research maturity. Therefore,
        colleagues are also supported by the HoD to acquire external mentorship if desired. The
        effectiveness of our approach is highlighted in our ECRs successes in areas such as
        collaborations (e.g., in 2020, Campana & Van den Bossche worked with Waivemaker to
        produce an innovative article published in the Journal of Macromarketing on father
        influencers who use Instagram to document their family lives), and awards (e.g., in 2019,
        Eichert won the AM Early Career Research Grant).

  ii.   Mid-career researchers. We support these colleagues to undertake: (i) significant
        leadership roles (e.g., Director of Research, Senior Tutor); (ii) impact generating activity;
        (iii) mentorship of ECRs; and (iv) national and international committee positions [e.g.,
        Galanis is an Associate Fellow at the Centre for Applied Macroeconomic Analysis (CAMA),
        Australian National University] in preparation for application to Reader and Professor. Mid-
        career researchers have received recognition for their research contributions in various
        forms including prestigious invitations [e.g., between 2016-2018, Guenole was an invited
        judge for the Joyce and Robert Hogan Personality and Performance award for the Society
        of Industrial Organizational Psychology (SIOP)], and high-profile collaborations (e.g.,
        Cardinale worked with the Scientific Director of the Vienna Institute of International
        Economic Studies, Professor Michael Landesmann, leading to two outputs in leading
        economics journals in 2017 and 2020).

 iii.   Senior researchers. Bond has focussed on significant internal and external leadership roles
        and high-level research and impact activity. He was the Founding HoD of the IMS (2012-
        2019) and on completion of his tenure College senior management awarded him two years
        of dedicated research time (DRT) to undertake impact generating activities. He was also a
        Trustee to the European Academy of Occupational Health Psychology (EAOHP), the
        elected President of the Association of Contextual Behavioural Science (ACBS), delivered
        numerous keynote addresses, obtained funding from several sources [e.g., English Institute

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       of Sport (EIS), European Space Agency (ESA), and 29k] and delivered work that has
       underpinned two of our impact case studies.

Supporting research and impact. We also have a general system of development structures and
processes. These include collaborative objective setting during probation, annual performance
development reviews (PDRs), an annual research allowance (£1,000), DRT, PhD teaching
bursaries, an annual Research Away day, invited speakers’ series across our four subject
groupings, funding for specific research initiatives (e.g., conference organisation), Erasmus
exchange, industry fellows, and research fellows. We initiated a new internal seminar series, IMS
Brown Bag, in 2020 to provide colleagues with constructive feedback on working papers.
Consistent with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, Goldsmiths
provides further support for staff at all stages of their careers, which we encourage IMS colleagues
to make use of. Fixed-term staff, postdoctoral researchers and visiting research fellows are also
actively engaged in the activities discussed, allowing them to fully integrate into the IMS research
culture. Moving forward, we will build on the above structures and processes in order further
support and scaffold colleagues’ research development (see research objective i).

Dedicated research time. The IMS developed a formal DRT policy in 2019 which allows T&R staff
to apply for one term of leave for every three years worked. In a two-stage process, staff apply to
the IMS Research Committee (who assess originality, rigour, significance, and feasibility) with final
signoff from Goldsmiths’ Research and Enterprise Committee. A priority in the next assessment
period will be to evaluate this DRT approach to ensure that it results in high-quality research
outputs and measurable impact. However, anecdotal evidence from DRT taken at an earlier point
indicates that this is a good investment of IMS resource (e.g., the DRT taken by Lloyd in 2017 led
to the development of a publication in a leading psychology outlet, the Journal of Counseling
Psychology).

Facilitating exchange. We have awarded honorary visiting fellowships to industry leaders, with
whom we foster collaborative working and knowledge exchange (e.g., through joint projects,
workshops, mentorship etc.) We have seven industry fellows from organisations including Apple,
Deutsche Bank and CBRE Group. Furthermore, colleagues have enjoyed opportunities for
Erasmus exchanges (we had three partners). Five colleagues (Cardinale, Galanis, Repapis,
Venkatachalam and Yu) have been visiting research fellows and we have hosted 13 visiting
research fellows (including Lilit Popoyan from the University of Naples, Italy; Corrado Di Guilmi
from University Technology Sydney, Australia; and Fay Giaver from the Norwegian University of
Science and Technology, Norway). These exchanges have been productive, for example, the visit
by Repapis led to a publication in the European Journal of the History of Economic Thought.

Promotions. We have seen a good level of promotion success in the IMS over the last six years.
Three colleagues were promoted to Lecturer B, and four colleagues were promoted to Senior
Lecturer.

Research students

Whilst our MPhil/PhD programme is in its infancy, we plan to enhance this moving forward (see
research objective ii). We have had four PhDs awarded in the assessment period (Ahmetoglu,
Aloyan, Gascoyne, & Skews) who have derived from our longest standing subject area, applied
psychology. We now have six enrolled PhD students (Ahern, Brady, Foster, Ghassan Al Azmeh,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Jyawali, & Schlosser) spread across our applied psychology, management, and marketing areas.
We allocate students to an area based on their own and their primary supervisor’s research focus,
but in keeping with our interdisciplinary approach, two have secondary supervisors from other IMS
areas, and two from other Goldsmiths’ departments. Two of these students are funded and four are
self-funding. Two are international and four are home/EU.

Recruiting and funding doctoral students. We support PhD students to enter the IMS and to
obtain funding. Recruitment is overseen by the Head of MPhil/PhD, Galanis, who screens
applications (for academic merit and fit), leads in the formation of supervision teams (who support
with the application and research proposal) and organises interviews. We have supported students
to undertake PhDs through the provision of competitive IMS teaching bursaries, assistance in
applications for scholarships, and through offering Associate Lecturer (AL) teaching. Two of our
recent graduates (Gascoyne & Skews) and a candidate awaiting viva (Jyawali) were recipients of
the IMS teaching bursary. We assisted one of our current students to secure a scholarship with the
Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA).

Monitoring and supporting doctoral students. We have comprehensive systems of training and
monitoring to support PhD student development. Each PhD student has a primary and secondary
supervisor. Primary supervisors must undergo training, and supervisor teams must include one
person who has previously supervised to completion. All new PhD students attend training in
induction week, and make use of courses provided by the Goldsmiths’ Graduate School (e.g.,
research skills, academic writing etc.) They are also required to undertake IMS modules where
they have skill gaps (e.g., our MSc Research Design and Applied Statistics module). Monitoring
touchpoints include annual supervisor reports, an upgrade viva at the beginning of their second
year and a mock viva in their third year, as well as ongoing monitoring from their supervisors. PhD
students are also supported by Galanis, and by other colleagues (e.g., Guenole assists all PhDs
with research methods and statistics). We embed PhD students in the IMS research culture, for
example by inviting them to attend (and present at) the annual Research Away day, represent the
IMS in College initiatives (e.g., Aloyan presented at the Goldsmiths’ 2016-17 Athena SWAN event
series), and participate in the IMS invited speakers’ series. They are provided with an annual fund
to support research (e.g., participant payment).

Career development of doctoral students. We support PhD students’ career development.
Students make use of employability courses provided by the Graduate School and College-level
initiatives, such as the Postgraduate Certificate in the Management of Teaching and Learning. IMS
supervisors support employability through introducing students to their networks, guiding their
teaching activities, providing teaching observations, coaching on job applications and interviews,
aiding with conference submissions, and assisting with publications. All our PhD graduates have
gone on to have successful careers in academia and beyond. Ahmetoglu is now a Lecturer of
Business Psychology at University College London (UCL) and the co-founder of Meta Profiling Ltd.
Aloyan is now a Lecturer in Management at Northumbria University. Gascoyne is now an
independent business psychology consultant in London. Skews spent two years as a Lecturer in
Occupational Psychology within the IMS and is now a Health Coach Manager at Headspace Inc.

Equality and diversity

We are committed to promoting EDI across all departmental activities. Indeed, EDI topics feature
heavily in our research profile, with ongoing projects relating to gender income inequality

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Fotopoulou), marginalisation and emancipatory changes in accounting (Lauwo), and stigmatised
organisations (e.g., RuPaul’s Drag Race; Campana). This work has sensitised us to issues
including the role of bias in selection techniques (e.g., interview and psychometric tests), the
impact of identity on promotion opportunities and the consequences of prejudicial interactions on
workplace wellbeing and productivity. This, in turn, has influenced the development of positive
structures and processes, which, as a new department, we have had the opportunity to build from
scratch.

Recruitment of staff and PhD students. We have implemented best practice staff talent
attraction strategies which sees us advertise positions internationally and strive to achieve gender-
balanced shortlists. We also focus on gender balance within our interview panels and on including
colleagues at all stages of their research careers. We focus on selecting interdisciplinary
researchers, inclusive of those working in more emerging, as well as established, fields. Our
demographic profile shows that we have equal numbers of permanent, full-time T&R staff
identifying as male (50%) and female (50%) and a proportion of staff from Black and Minority
Ethnic (BME; 15%) backgrounds higher than the general UK population. At present, we do not
have any fixed-term T&R staff. For PhD student recruitment, we have engaged in long-standing
work with student recruitment efforts in order to attract students from different parts of the world.
IMS colleagues frequently visit North America, Europe, Asia, and East Asia to give academic talks
and to promote the IMS and Goldsmiths. As with staff recruitment, we also focus on diversity
balance within our interview panels. Of our four PhD graduates, three (75%) identified as female,
and one (25%) was international. Of our current six PhD students, two (33%) identify as female,
two (33%) are from BME backgrounds and two (33%) are international.

Support for staff and PhD students. We work hard to ensure that all staff have equal
opportunities for progression and development in research. Everyone has the same research
allowance (£1,000) and all T&R staff can apply for DRT. Teaching and administrative duties are
equitably distributed to protect contracted research time. All staff can apply to be subject
representatives for the Research Committee (a two-year post) and therefore have input into the
IMS’ research strategy. At present, of the four members, two (50%) identify as female, and one
(25%) is from a BME background. Of the seven promotions within the assessment period, three
(42%) were from staff identifying as female. Within our most senior staff group (i.e., eight senior
lecturers, and one professor), four (44%) identify as female, and two (22%) are from BME
backgrounds. Within our Departmental Management Team (DMT), three (75%) identify as female
and one (25%) is from a BME background.

For staff and PhD students on leave of absence (parental, sickness or compassionate) we follow
College policy by maintaining regular contact and arranging ‘return to work’ meetings. We review
work duties and consider the needs of those returning to ensure that they can continue to research
effectively. The HoD works with HR to support staff and PhD students with additional needs and to
work towards reasonable adjustments in workload, working arrangements and/or extra mentoring
to support research. Flexible and/or remote working is supported for all academic staff. The HoD
communicates regularly about psychological wellbeing and disseminates College opportunities for
support and advice, which many colleagues have made use of (e.g., counselling, mental health
first aid training etc.)

All current IMS staff on T&R contracts are permanent and full-time. As noted, we have had few
exceptions to this. If fixed-term or fractional contracts were to become an increased focus for us

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
moving forward, we would need to consider specific forms of research support. Like permanent
staff, we engage fixed-term staff in the probation review process, PDRs and they have access to
the annual research fund (£1,000) to help facilitate their research development.

Output selection. Our outputs selection was considered in light of department EDI data and we
are satisfied that our submission indicates accurate representation in terms of gender, age,
ethnicity, and declared disability. An apparent discrepancy between the number of colleagues
identifying as female (50%) and the number of outputs selected (40%) can be understood by the
fact that 75% of colleagues declaring current ECR status, and therefore expected to have fewer
outputs to contribute, also identify as female.

Wider initiatives. Venkatachalam is the IMS Head of EDI and Chair of the EDI working group. The
long-term ambition of this group is to understand the experiences of minority staff and students and
initiate interventions to address problem areas. Current projects include the development of an
anti-discrimination policy and a decolonising curriculum review. Diversity and inclusion are regular
discussion topics at departmental meetings with the BME attainment gap featuring as a central
theme at our 2019 bi-annual Learning and Teaching Reflection day. All staff partake in mandatory
Sexual Violence and Race Awareness training.

Although we are pleased with our progress, we recognise that we can do more for people with
protected characteristics. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic has galvanised our focus on those
with caring responsibilities. We will continue to consider how the research environment can better
support people in areas such as conference attendance, travel for research, funding applications,
training, and promotion.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding and strategies for generating research income

Our strategies for generating research income are still developing and we have future plans for
enhancing these (see research objective iii). However, consistent with our research objectives and
staffing strategy, colleagues across our four research concentrations have seen a good level of
early success in small- and medium-sized awards. As we have received many of our grants within
the last couple of years, we are still developing outputs and impact.

  i.   Charities, foundations, and trusts.
          o Bond received awards from the EIS for the project The impact of leadership training
               on coach effectiveness for elite athletes (£10,000); and 29k for the project Testing
               the impact of a psychological intervention on performance (£8,000). This work
               underpinned two of our impact case studies.
          o Cardinale received a prestigious ISRF fellowship award for the project
               Understanding Unimagined Events (£44,514).
          o Doern received an EY Foundation award for the project Connecting young people
               with SMEs in Lewisham (£17,000).
          o Doern and Lloyd received a BA award for the project Queer entrepreneurship: An
               interdisciplinary investigation of a hidden and diverse group of entrepreneurs
               (£10,000).


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           o   Eichert received an AM award for the project Alternative marketplaces of HIV pre-
               exposure prophylaxis (PrEP): An exploration of consumer-activist cultures in the UK
               (£5,000).
           o   Gruen received an AM award for the project The strategic role of consumption in
               new ways of working: The case of coworking (£3,200).
           o   Pelletier received a BA award for the project An analysis of the impact of Fintech on
               the financial services industry: A comparison of three FinTech hubs (£9,503).
           o   Repapis and Cardinale received two ISRF awards for organising a series of
               interdisciplinary economics workshops (£15,000 in total) that led to two cross-
               department, Goldsmiths workshops (to date).
           o   Repapis, Cardinale, and Venkatachalam received ISRF awards for developing an
               online interview platform on new directions in economic teaching and research
               (£11,000 in total) that led to the interview series Economics: Past, Present, and
               Future and an associated website.

  ii.   Government and public body funding.
           o Bond received an ESA award for the project Leadership training and organisational
              development at the European Space Agency Astronaut Training Centre (£10,000).
              This work underpinned one of our impact case studies.
           o Campana received a prestigious Innovate UK award for the project Developing an
              integrated payment and marketing platform based on Bluetooth Low Energy
              (£118,000).
           o Pelletier received Oxford International Growth Centre (IGC) award for the project
              Mobile banking in developing countries (£92,383) that led to a publication in
              Industrial and Corporate Change.

 iii.   University funding.
           o Cardinale received University of Bologna award for the interdisciplinary I-CORE
               project on complex systems, vulnerability, and resilience (€20,000) that led to a
               publication in Networks and Spatial Economics.
           o Repapis received University of Cambridge award for the project F.A. Hayek vs. J.M.
               Keynes in Shackle’s marginal gloss (£5,000) that led to a publication in Journal of
               the History of Economic Thought.

The College Research and Enterprise Office provides ongoing support in terms of scoping, costing,
and advising on grant applications, and providing post-award support. They also present to the
department (e.g., at our Research Away days) on funding opportunities and email particularly
relevant awards. External research funding opportunities are also sent to colleagues via
personalised Research Professional system notifications.

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

We have made use of institutional funding and existing research structures, and are beginning to
see the emergence of new research clusters.

  i.    Institutional funding. We made match-funding available for the Goldsmiths Research
        Interns Programme (GRIP) in which second-year UG students partake in a supervised
        summer research project. In 2019, Eichert supervised a project exploring the marketisation

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of HIV PrEP in the UK. In 2020, Van den Bossche supervised the project Money and minds
        in children's picturebooks. Since 2018, Lloyd has been part of one of Goldsmiths
        interdisciplinary research streams, Wellbeing in Context, involving colleagues from IMS,
        Psychology and Social, Theraputic and Community Studies (STaCS). Two successful
        funding applications to the Goldsmiths’ Research Themes fund for the projects The
        multifaceted nature of wellbeing: A case from the London borough of Lewisham (£5,000);
        and Wellbeing in urban communities: A multilevel analysis of local London boroughs’
        policies and wellbeing (£3,000) led to a publication in the Journal of Positive School
        Psychology.

  ii.   Existing structures. Consistent with our vision and staffing strategy, colleagues have
        integrated with interdisciplinary research groupings across Goldsmiths, for example the
        Political Economy Research Centre (PERC). We are also seeing a coalescing of
        interdisciplinary research interest and activity on EDI and social justice. Colleagues in
        applied psychology (e.g., experiences of gender and sexual minority prejudice, Lloyd),
        management (e.g., minority entrepreneurs, Doern), marketing (e.g., stigmatised consumer
        groups, Eichert), and economics (e.g., caste discrimination in India, Venkatachalam)
        research in these areas. We will extend this research by pursuing collaborative links with
        Goldsmiths interdisciplinary research groupings such as the Centre for Feminist Research
        and the Unit for Global Justice.

 iii.   Emerging clusters. Further consistent with our vision and staffing strategy, interdisciplinary
        research clusters are emerging within and between our major research concentrations. In
        marketing, Campana, Gruen, and Velloso collaborate on projects on the sharing economy
        in emerging markets which has led to a joint conference presentation (Association for
        Consumer Research Conference, Paris, France) and a working paper. Across marketing
        and economics, Gruen, Lazzarini, Van den Bossche, Velloso, and Wirkierman established
        the interdisciplinary research group Everyday Economic Fictions. IMS research clusters are
        in their infancy, but by drawing upon support and expertise within the IMS and from the
        wider College we anticipate that they will eventually lead to the delivery of high-quality
        research outputs or impacts, and potentially form the basis of new research units.

Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact

We have made a significant investment in operational and scholarly infrastructure to support
research and impact.

  i.    Collections. Goldsmiths’ Library holds several management-related academic collections.
        Furthermore, since 2014 it has invested in The Economist, Harvard Business Review, New
        York Times, and Financial Times. We also have a dedicated IMS librarian and access to a
        number of important journals, research databases, e-books, and hard copies via the
        University of London Senate House Library.

  ii.   Research resources. We have invested in hardware (e.g., laptops), data collection
        platforms (e.g., Qualtrics, CINT), market research platforms (e.g., Mintel), research
        assistants, participant renumeration, books and art supplies, data analysis packages (e.g.,
        Mplus, STATA, MATLAB, ATLAS), statistical training (e.g., Mplus, R), qualitative research
        management software (e.g., NVIVO, LIWC), and transcription services. This has facilitated

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research activity, such as the Consumer Contributions to Brand Legitimacy Dynamics
        project (Velloso). This project used NVIVO to organise unstructured datasets and generate
        analysis codes. It also allowed researchers across the UK and Canada to work
        simultaneously, co-create a set of codes, and share notes.

 iii.   Publication and dissemination resources. We have invested in reference management
        software (e.g., Endnote), article processing and submission fees, proofreading services,
        book launch events, research meetings, workshops, invited speakers’ series, and
        conferences. This has facilitated publication and dissemination activity, such as two ISRF
        Workshops (2017/18 and 2018/19), the Conference in History of Economic Thought
        (2018/19), and the Post-Keynesian Economics Society (PKES) Annual Workshop
        (2018/19), which were all part-funded by IMS.

Much IMS research is either carried out in the field (i.e., using survey-based and/or interview
methodologies), accomplished using secondary data, or is of a theoretical nature. As such, most of
our research activities do not require specialist estates and facilities. However, there are certain
areas that would benefit from dedicated space (e.g., labs), that we are currently negotiating access
to. Furthermore, we plan to make research admin and department funds (e.g., for impact-focussed
grants) available moving forward.

Using infrastructure for impact

Investment in data collection, management, analysis, and publication, has allowed colleagues to
produce research of the highest technical quality, facilitating attractive collaborations with industry
practitioners and organisations. Specialist training and software has aided colleagues in
developing resources and tools for distribution. Support for dissemination activities, usage of
existing research structures and the creation of new clusters, provides colleagues with the avenues
to make knowledge available beyond academia and engage with influential individuals and groups.
Moving forward we plan to strengthen the societal impact of our research (see research objective
iv) and infrastructure investment will be key to this.

Equality and diversity Issues

Organisational, operational, and scholarly infrastructure are equally available to all colleagues. We
also ensure that research concentrations have access to the specific resources they need, which
may be different amongst them. If colleagues have specific requirements in how they access these
resources (e.g., locations, timings) we coordinate this on a case-by-case basis via the HoD with
HR support. As noted, work is underway to support research activity in colleagues with protected
characteristics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations, interactions, and diverse communities

We have established productive collaborations, networks, and partnerships in priority areas. We
have also interacted with diverse communities and publics, and research users, beneficiaries, and
audiences in these areas, whom in turn, have enriched our research environment. Whilst these


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
arrangements have been fruitful for knowledge exchange, we have plans to further stimulate this
moving forward (see research objective v).

Interdisciplinarity. Consistent with our vision, activity has focussed on our interdisciplinary,
pluralistic, and non-mainstream subject perspectives.

  i.    Networks. Agunsoye and Fotopoulou are on the management committee of the Association
        for Heterodox Economics (AHE), a global organisation for the promotion on non-
        mainstream economics. Fotopoulou and Rotta are members of the PKES which rejects the
        methodological individualism underlying much mainstream economics. Desmarais‐
        Tremblay organises the Goldsmiths IMS Economics Research seminars, inviting guests
        from Europe and acting as a London hub for research in the history of economic thought
        and other heterodox economics approaches. Velloso is a founding member of the Global
        Consumer Culture Theory (CCT) PhD Students and Early Career Scholars Network which
        connects and fosters research collaborations among scholars interested in this non-
        mainstream research area. Campana is a founding member of The Scrutinizers Network, a
        peer learning group focussed on analysing CCT research published in prominent,
        mainstream journals.

  ii.   Diverse communities and publics. Repapis, Cardinale and Venkatachalam created the
        Economics: Past, Present and Future initiative, an online platform containing video
        interviews and transcripts of distinguished economists that reflects on nonmainstream
        teaching, practice, and research in economics. It addresses the general public as well as
        economists. It has had highly significant numbers of visitors and well-known journalists as
        well as the Journal of Economic Perspectives have commended it. Bond uses his diverse
        networks (i.e., business, clinical, government) and high-profile partnerships to promote the
        interdisciplinary approach to occupational health that he first detailed in an article from 2004
        Getting the balance right: the need for a comprehensive approach to occupational health.

EDI. Consistent with our shared departmental research interests, activity has focussed on EDI
topics.

  i.    Collaborations and networks. Agunsoye collaborated with the University of Manchester, UK
        on working papers related to gender and finance (e.g., gendered retirement planning, asset
        accumulation, risk in pension planning etc.) Agunsoye is also a member of D-Econ, a
        network to promote inclusiveness in economics, and has published a chapter on how to
        diversify, decolonise and democratise economics that has informed our department project
        on curriculum decolonisation. Fotopoulou collaborated with the University of Greenwich,
        UK, on the project The Effects of Gender Inequality, Wages, Wealth concentration and
        Fiscal Policy on Macroeocnomic Performance in the UK, leading to a published policy
        report for Rebuilding Macroeconomics. Fotopoulou is also a member of the International
        Association for Feminist Economics to further gender-aware and inclusive economic inquiry
        and policy analysis. Eichert collaborated with The Business School (formerly Cass), City,
        University of London, UK, on a project entitled Almost Equal but Not Quite Yet: How
        Historically Stigmatized Social Groups consume under Conditions of Stigma
        Fragmentation. Eichert is also working with the National AIDS Trust and 56 Dean Street,
        the UK’s leading sexual health clinic for his research on PrEP. Zupic collaborated with
        Amity University, India, on working papers on Barriers to Women’s Entrepreneurship in

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        India. Lloyd is a member of the Gender and Sexual Diversity Special Interest Group (SIG),
        ACBS, and the Psychology of Sexualities Section, BPS. Lloyd has collaborated across
        Goldsmiths departments and external organisations to produce multiple publications on EDI
        topics.

 ii.    Diverse communities and publics. Based on research on caste discrimination,
        Venkatachalam published an article for Ideas for India, a vibrant evidence-based policy
        forum on India that aims to take academic research to a domain of public discussion, so
        that it feeds into policy making. Many leading intellectuals around the world, ranging from
        Harvard to World Bank, working on India and development related issues are selectively
        invited to contribute. Based on research around gender and finance, Agunsoye wrote the
        LSE blog Is career mentoring a panacea for gender inequality? Eichert has served as an
        expert commentator on sexist advertising for the BBC, and on the commercialisation of
        LGBTQ pride parades for the Economist.

 iii.   Research users. Lloyd shares research insights with practitioners in occupational, clinical,
        and counselling psychology through membership events. A presentation at an ACBS event
        (Perspectives on Promoting Inclusivity in Challenging Times), led to Lloyd partnering with
        Northampton Gender Clinic, who are providing large repositories of organisational data for
        a project examining treatment pathways of transgender individuals. Doern and Lloyd
        presented the preliminary findings of their queer entrepreneurship project to the Gendered
        Intelligence transgender youth group, whose insights shaped the working paper.

Emerging topics in management. Consistent with our expertise, activity has focussed on
emerging management topics such as the proliferation of technology, and new ways of working
and organising.

  i.    Collaborations and partnerships. Pelletier collaborated with London School of Economics
        (LSE) on an evaluation of mobile payment services in developing countries. This led to the
        publication of an article in the journal Industrial and Corporate Change and of a policy brief.
        Campana partnered with professional partners [incl. TEDIPAY (UK) Ltd, WorldPay, SSP
        Group plc, Visa and Mastercard] to develop an integrated payment and marketing platform
        based on Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE). This project informed the development of a new
        payment technology, which was launched, and beta tested. Molner has a long-term
        collaboration with Radboud University and Delft University of Technology, the Netherlands,
        to study market creation processes employed by technology transfer organisations. Gruen
        has collaborated with The Business School, City, University of London, UK, on projects
        related to collaborative workplaces and coworking spaces. Yu has collaborated with LSE on
        projects related to alternative forms of organising.

 ii.    Research users. Through the group RGCS, Gruen, engaged managers of coworking
        spaces in organised discussions to share recent research outputs. These discussions fed
        back into the research process, refining the focus of future studies. Molner was a mentor of
        start-up companies at the Innovation Forum, a technology accelerator. This mentoring
        activity was informed by his research on early-stage technology marketing. Knowledge
        stemming from that mentoring has since informed research papers and a Goldsmiths short
        course (Creating New Market Space), a forum for further dissemination of research
        findings.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 iii.   Beneficiaries and audiences. Pelletier co-organised the 2017 International Growth Centre
        (IGC) Mobile Money Conference. Co-hosted by the IGC and the LSE’s Department of
        Management, this was an impact event building on a three-year research initiative around
        mobile banking. The conference included academics from around the world, including
        Georgetown University, the University of Sydney, and Imperial College, London; and
        participants from government and policy communities including the central banks of Ghana
        and Sierra Leone, DFID, EBRD, ODI, Oxford Policy Management, and from the private
        sector including EcoBank, Fundacion Capital, Microsave and WorldRemit. The objective
        was to assess the impact of mobile money on financial inclusion and economic
        development.

Contributions to the economy, society, and sustainability of the discipline

Through responding to national and international priorities and initiatives, we have impacted the
economy and society, and contributed to the sustainability of the discipline.

COVID-19. Our timely research, workshops, and webinars have supported the international effort
to respond to the pandemic.

  i.    Doern published the paper Knocked down but not out and fighting to go the distance: Small
        business responses to an unfolding crisis in the initial impact period. This examined small
        business entrepreneurs during the first eight weeks of England’s March 2020 coronavirus
        lockdown and suggests that adopting the defence and attack strategy of a boxer could help
        adjustment in the early weeks of a crisis and prepare them to ‘go the distance’. Doern co-
        hosted the webinar series The Professor and the CEO: Roadmap to the New (Ab)normal
        for industry professionals and the general public which discussed issues pertinent to CEOs,
        managers and entrepreneurs during the pandemic, bringing together research and practice
        to help businesses navigate this difficult period. A Director at John Lewis who subscribed
        said that he found the episodes "super useful"; and a director of an accelerator programme
        said the "insights were sobering and hopeful in turn. Great series." Doern delivered a
        workshop to owner-managers of SMEs as part of the DEK Growth Programme (run via
        Goldsmiths Research and Enterprise office) called Crisis Management Planning and
        Resilience for SMEs During COVID-19 Pandemic. Participants of this webinar stated: “I got
        a lot of information and knowledge about how to be resilient at the moment…how to plan
        and to be resilient for the periods of COVID19 pandemic”; and “Sound advice and
        guidance, practical tips were useful.”

  ii.   Galanis collaborated with the University of Oxford, UK, and University of Technology
        Sydney, Australia, on the paper Social distancing and contagion in a discrete choice model
        of COVID-19. This presented a new mathematical model which focuses on the important
        role of individuals’ decision-making in the success of social distancing. Galanis has several
        additional working papers on COVID-19 with collaborators at national and international
        institutions.

 iii.   Lauwo has delivered two workshops as part of the DEK Growth Programme on accounting
        and budgeting for SMEs during times of crisis which approximately 50 leaders of London-
        based SMEs attended.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 iv.    Yu has published two papers in academic journals on the COVID crisis, Accountability as
        mourning: Accounting for death in the time of COVID-19 and Digital surveillance in Post-
        coronavirus China: a feminist view on the price we pay; and two papers in Discover
        Society, an online Sociological popular press outlet, Fang-Fang’s diaries: an ethics of death
        in the time of COVID-19 and Making sense of COVID-19: beyond triumph and disaster
        discourses.

Brexit, environmental sustainability, social housing, and wellbeing. Our collaborations,
working projects, and industry reports have contributed to a range of other national and
international priorities.

  i.    Brauer and Fotopoulou collaborated to produce a Microsoft report Creating a blueprint for
        UK competitiveness which presents a new model comprising the interrelated dimensions of
        talent, technology, future readiness and the ecosystem to aid UK organisations to rally from
        the impact of COVID-19 and Brexit. Several technology organisations, including Synergy
        Technology, FinTech Alliance and SIS Global, cite and recommend this report to website
        visitors.

  ii.   Galanis collaborated with the New Economics Foundation for the project Modelling the
        interactions between the ecosystem, the financial system and the Macroeconomy which led
        to two publications in Ecological Economics and two policy reports. It also led to
        presentations to the European Parliament with live streaming open to the public. This work
        underpinned one of our impact case studies. Doern is collaborating with the Norwegian
        University of Science and Technology, Trondheim on a funded project relating to
        ecopreneurs that deals with sensemaking and the emotional coping strategies of those who
        start values-led businesses with the intentions of reducing environmental degradation.

 iii.   Lauwo is collaborating with the accounting group at Aston Business School, UK on a social
        housing project funded by the Chartered Institute of Taxation (CIOT).

 iv.    Economists at the University of East Anglia in collaboration with the What Works Wellbeing
        Centre used research data provided by Lloyd to create the Workplace Wellbeing Cost
        Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) Calculator. This was designed to measure the cost
        effectiveness of wellbeing initiatives and programmes delivered in the workplace, where the
        goal is to improve staff wellbeing across an organisation or industry.

Wider influence, contribution, and recognition

The vitality and sustainability of our research expertise is recognised through our multiple
indicators of wider influence, contribution, and recognition.

Editorships. Across applied psychology, management, and marketing, colleagues have been
editors, associate editors, and editors of special issues for eight journals, including Advances in
Environmental Accounting and Management (Lauwo), Journal of Macromarketing (Campana), and
Human Resource Management Journal (Guenole). Economics colleagues have been editors,
associate editors, and editors of special issues for 11 journals. From, Economic Thought



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Repapis), to the Interdisciplinary Journal of Economics and Business Law (Venkatachalam), these
have covered the major topics examined in department research.

Refereeing academic publications. In applied psychology, colleagues have refereed for 28
journals, across occupational, clinical, social, educational, and cross-cultural psychology,
management, and advanced statistics. Highlights include world leading journals such as
Psychological Bulletin (Bond) and important social issues journals such as Social Indicators
Research (Guenole). In management, colleagues have refereed for 26 journals, across
entrepreneurship, economics, finance, accounting, organisational behaviour, management, ethics,
and policy. Highlights include world leading journals such as Critical Perspective on Accounting
(Yu), and diversity focussed journals such as Frontiers: A Journal of Women’s Studies (Doern). In
marketing, colleagues have refereed for 23 journals, across marketing, consumer research,
management, business, children’s literature, policy, culture, and art. Highlights include world
leading journals such as Journal of Management (Campana), and interdisciplinary journals such as
Arts and the Market (Seregina). In economics, colleagues have refereed for 43 journals, across
economics, political economy, industrial relations, management, organisational studies, and
mathematics. Highlights include world leading outlets such as Academy of Management Review
(Cardinale), and diversity focussed journals such as Feminist Economics (Fotopoulou).

Grant committees and reviews. Repapis has been on the ISRF panel for grants on several
occasions for awards such as the Political Economy Scholarship. Colleagues have also reviewed
grants for the ISRF (Cardinale), ESRC (Galanis), FWO (Research Foundation, Flanders)
(Guenole), BA/Department for International Development (Lauwo), Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council (Pelletier), and Council for British Research in the Levant (CBRL)
Research Committee (Seregina).

Prizes. Campana received the Best Reviewer Award Journal of Macromarketing; Desmarais‐
Tremblay received the Young Scholar Award of the European Society for the History of Economic
Thought, an Aguirre-Basualdo award for PhD work in economics given by the Chancellerie des
Universités de Paris, and a faculty award for PhD excellence given by HEC Lausanne; Molner
received the Shelby D.Hunt/Harold H. Maynard Award of the American Marketing Association for
having made the most significant contribution to marketing theory and thought. Venkatachalam
received the Nord-Sud Fondazione Pescarabruzzo Prize for the Social Sciences, Fondazione
Pescarabbruzzo, Pescara, Italy.

Fellowships. Colleagues are members of several academy/learned societies and have received
fellowship awards for periods of study. These include: Fellow of the Association of Contextual
Behavioural Science, and Fellow and Trustee of the European Association of Occupational Health
Psychology (Bond). Life Membership of Clare Hall, Cambridge, Fellow and Member of the
Scientific Board of the Italian Inter-University Centre for Applied Economics, and ISRF Political
Economy Research Fellowship (Cardinale); Fellow of the Baffi Carefin, Centre for Applied
Research on International Markets (Foresti); Associate Fellow at the Centre for Applied
Macroeconomic Analysis, Associate Fellow at the Centre for Economic Theory and its
Applications, and The Royal Society for Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (Galanis); Associate
Fellow of British Psychological Society (Guenole); Shackle Fellowship, University of Cambridge
(Repapis).




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Invited/keynote addresses. In applied psychology, Bond is a pioneer in workplace psychological
skills training interventions and has delivered numerous keynote addresses including Contextual
behavioural science and large-scale behaviour change, and ALIVE for greater understanding,
meaning, and skills. In management, addresses included Rethinking Innovation: Role of
Management & Technology in Modern Business Practices (Zupic), and How to be more resilient as
a creative professional in a precarious environment (Doern). In marketing, addresses include The
Future of Larp as a Commodity (Seregina). In economics, addresses include Critical Finance and
Income Inequality (Fotopoulou), and Agent-based modelling as a foundation for big data
(Venkatachalam).

Conclusion. Over the assessment period, we have transformed our small startup department into
a thriving centre of interdisciplinary, theoretically focussed, practice-oriented study and research in
management. This vision is manifest in all aspects of our research approach including our staffing
strategy, research focus and processes, and collaborations, networks, and interactions. In turn, it is
also reflected in our publications, grants, and impacts. But with our primary emphasis to date on
establishing and growing our teaching provision, our research and impact journey has only just
begun. Moving forward, we plan to further elevate our research identity and culture and to shape
and represent the future vitality of our disciplines, individually and uniquely blended together.




                                                                                              Page 19
