Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 CONTEXT: The researchers in this UoA are based in the School of Life Sciences and the
 Psychology unit at our Central London campus on New Cavendish Street, Fitzrovia. They combine
 knowledge of living organisms and biological, psychological, lived experience, and data-led
 approaches to human health and performance. The researchers undertake interdisciplinary
 studies to address problems affecting the body and mind. Our overarching theme is healthy living
 and disease processes. The research spans in silico modelling, in vitro and in vivo models of
 health and disease through to the study of diverse, and frequently under-represented, populations.

 RESEARCH STRATEGY AND RESEARCH GROUPS: Over the current REF period, we have
 introduced a research strategy that responds to, and moves beyond, the strategy articulated in
 our REF2014 submission. Our strategy is defined by an ethos of collaboration and, by establishing
 structures of collective and central support, we seek to support staff in their research endeavours
 at all levels. We have coordinated our activities within key themes focussing research on Lifelong
 Health and Wellbeing. We have developed and sustained research centres and groups and
 expanded our interdisciplinary research capabilities. Over the course of this REF cycle, this focus
 on themes in areas of existing strength has been accompanied by an increase in laboratory and
 expansion of our whole-person research. The targeted appointment of a balance of early career
 researchers and senior researchers (professors) along with a programme of support and career
 development has enabled us to realise our aims.

 Table 1: Research Centres and Groups – UoA3 University of Westminster.
  Research Centre      Develops and implements methodology to define, maintain and promote
  for Optimal Health   optimal health in adult life. Uses big data, coupled to machine learning,
                       non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging methodology and development
                       of mitochondrial function-based methods.
  Health Innovation       Pursues interdisciplinary innovation in health research, integrating life,
  Ecosystem (HIE)         social and health sciences with new areas of advanced analytics, data
                          science, machine learning, imaging technology and artificial intelligence.
                          The HIE sits across multiple academic structures of the University,
                          including Computer Science and Engineering, Life Sciences and
                          Psychology.
  Centre for              Develops and researches bespoke physical and mental health-related
  Resilience              assessments and provides services to external organisations to reduce
                          worker burnout, with a focus on primary care, NHS secondary care and
                          companies. Defined, developed and promoted an approach to social
                          prescribing. Studies food labelling, food safety and functional foods.
  Translational           Bridging the whole-person research with laboratory-studies, the research
  Physiology Group        group focusses on environmental stimuli and how these modulate
                          physiology.
  Cancer Research         Studies the development and progression of solid and blood-borne
  Group                   cancers. Breast cancer survival and dietary consumptions, genome wide
                          association studies, role of DNA damage, post-transcriptional regulation
                          genome instability, identity of new driver genes, cell signalling, micro-
                          RNAs and biomarker discovery.
  Tissue Architecture     Identification of cellular pathways contributing to tissue remodelling, and
  and Regeneration        regeneration, in the central nervous system damage, epilepsy, the blood
  Group                   brain barrier, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, liver disease and arthritis.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In REF2014 the former Faculty of Science and Technology incorporated the Departments of
 Biomedical Sciences and Life Sciences, Psychology, Computer Science and Engineering. This
 structure enabled significant increase in interdisciplinary work and established procedures for
 research support. In 2018, the University was reconfigured into three Colleges. Researchers in
 this UoA are now all based in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (CLAS) enabling us to
 consolidate our existing research activities and to further expand our interdisciplinarity. This has
 led to the establishment of the Health Innovation Ecosystem, the Centre for Optimal Health and
 expansion of the Centre for Resilience.

 Focussing our research into Lifelong Health and Wellbeing, we have appointed staff researching
 diverse topics including antioxidants and bioavailability (Zariwala) and coping with longer-term
 health-related conditions (e.g. suicide prevention, HIV, ageing) (Rosenfeld, Mackenzie). Our
 interdisciplinary research expanded following the appointment of Professor Bell and Thomas from
 the MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences at Imperial College, who established the Centre for
 Optimal Health. Other appointments built our expertise in digital communication for healthcare
 delivery (Nadarzynski), while our impact-related activities have strongly benefited from the
 appointment of our Professor for Public Engagement (Dartnell). We recruited colleagues and
 expanded our staff base in cancer research (Chen, Montano-Hernandez, Presneau, Uysal
 Onganer), tissue architecture and regeneration (Coleman, Drndarski, Haworth, Lange, Liu,
 Raheem), translational physiology (Deb), applied biotechnology (Basnett), microbiology
 (Anyogu, Hayes, Mohammed) and data-modelling (Gerbault, H. Patel).

 We developed new tools and technologies and used these in applications that contribute to our
 understanding of health and disease. Large data sets such as the U.K. Biobank MRI data (Bell
 and Thomas) enabled us to develop liver health indices; state-of-the-art phylogenetic analyses
 allowed human population movement mapping (Gerbault) and the global spread of viruses to be
 modelled (Dalby). Bioinformatic analyses have enabled virulence factors, for example in SARS-
 CoV-2 (Lange/Uysal Onganer) and salmonella (Mohammed), to be proposed and computer
 simulations have been used for drug discovery applications (H. Patel). New technologies
 developed include neutralisation assays with pseudotyped viruses (Wright, McCormick), drug-
 affinity interactions at the cancer surface (Dwek), genome instability analysis (Volpi), new
 materials for drug delivery/tissue engineering (Roy, Basnett, Zariwala), 3-D tumour models under
 flow (Dwek) and microbial fuel cells for clean water (Kyazze). CRISPR-Cas-9 gene editing is
 amongst the new technologies incorporated into our work (Surendranath, Murphy).

 WHOLE-PERSON RESEARCH:
 The Research Centre for Optimal Health (ReCOH) (led by Bell) aims to develop and implement
 methodology to define, maintain and promote Optimal Health in adult life. At the core of is program
 is the use of Big Data, coupled to machine learning (ML), non-invasive magnetic resonance
 imaging (MRI) methodology and development of mitochondrial function-based methods. Since its
 inception in 2014, the ReCOH has worked closely with academic and industrial collaborators in
 the UK and the international community. The multidisciplinary team at the ReCOH comprises 8-
 10 senior scientists and doctoral researchers, includes experts in MRI, ML, mitochondrial function,
 molecular biology and internationally-recognised experts in human interventional studies. The
 strategy has been to diversify the funding for the centre beyond the traditional funding bodies
 (MRC, British Heart Foundation, Innovate UK, The Guy Foundation), and now the centre is also
 supported by large Industry and SMEs. To date over £5.5M has been directly raised in this
 manner. In addition, the significant resources (£9.6M) allocated to the UK Biobank (UKBB) allows
 our team to continue to play a key role in this unique scientific endeavour. The team has actively
 participated in pan-European consortia (NutriTech, DIRECT), as well as the largest biobank in the
 world (UKBB), where we lead the Abdominal Imaging section of the Imaging Working Group. In
 parallel, the ReCOH has worked closely with SMEs (Perspectum, AMRA, Select Research,
 AInostics, Klarismo, The Health Concierge) advancing novel scientific strategies which have had
 significant impact both commercially as well as in the scientific arena. Its work with Industrial
 Partners (Calico, GW Pharma, Herbalife, Pukka, SunTan) is currently developing unique


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methodologies to manage Big-Data likely to significantly impact and contribute to the e-health
 sector, health insurance market and the NHS.

 Bell and Thomas have been pivotal in establishing MRI as the gold-standard for assessment of
 body composition in health and disease, as well as contributing to the scientific platform that led
 to the in-depth phenotyping of 100,000 volunteers in the UKBB, an achievement without
 precedence in the acquisition and analysis of Big Data at the population level. This program has
 spawned a rethink of what human biobanks can and should be able to achieve, as well as
 stimulating both commercial (Perspectum; AMRA) enterprises and large-scale scientific
 endeavour. Our activity with the UKBB will expand rapidly as it activates the £4M investment
 recently awarded in an immediately initiated COVID-relevant repeat imaging study, together with
 an additional £30M for repeat scan of the whole cohort starting end of 2021.

 With its industrial partners the ReCOH has been developing mobile applications (apps) for e-
 health, as well as novel mitochondrial-based systems to assess optimal health at cellular and
 organ level in human subjects. It has played a central role in the multinational consortium (UK,
 EU, USA and Brazil) which is moving the field of Quantum Biology beyond its current physics-
 entrenched base, to a more biological setting, helping propel the field forward, while raising over
 £800K in funding for this undertaking. Though some are at their pilot stage, these endeavours are
 already attracting interest from academia and the private sector, especially those associated with
 the well-being and medical sector, medicinal plants and bioactive compounds (Booker) and will
 become the new gold-standards in their fields, similarly to those that we have previously
 established for the use of MRI.

 The Health Innovation Ecosystem (HIE) was established (late 2018) with funding from the
 university-associated Quintin Hogg Trust (£427K), the Higher Education Innovation Fund and the
 University itself (£850K). Founded by Professors Chaussalet (School of Computer Science and
 Engineering), Bell (School of Life Sciences) and Ridge (Psychology), the HIE pursues
 interdisciplinary innovation, integrating social and health sciences with new areas of advanced
 analytics, data science, imaging technology and artificial intelligence. The HIE sits across multiple
 academic structures of the University, fomenting cross-disciplinary research through joint funding
 applications, engagement of students in research (e.g. via regular seminars), training courses,
 and cross-faculty research events. Since the establishment of the HIE, over £1M income has
 been generated, links have been forged with over 20 external collaborating organisations,
 research networking events have been organised, attended by over 140 early career staff and
 students from across all colleges. The cross-college seminar series run by the HEI is regularly
 attended by over 120 researchers. Events have ranged from cross-disciplinary conversations on
 health, through to focal topics like sleep, Covid-19 and chronic fatigue.

 The Centre for Resilience established in 2014 is based at our flagship Polyclinic on our Fitzrovia
 campus and was established to help individuals, healthcare providers and companies improve
 individual and organisational wellbeing, productivity, performance and creativity. The Centre
 receives patients and members of the public in the Polyclinic and undertakes a series of tailored
 physical and mental health-related assessments. Using this approach, it provides services to
 external organisations to reduce worker burnout, with a focus on GPs, NHS secondary care and
 companies. Funded through research consultancies (e.g. the Royal College of General
 Practitioners), the centre has pioneered working with hard-to-engage groups (e.g. hospital
 consultants, corporate leaders, men with mental health problems), by applying our cutting-edge
 research (e.g. Ridge, funded by Nelsons, £142K). REFRAME workshops are half-day, intensive
 resilience-training programmes originally designed to help doctors cope better and perform safely
 and competently under pressure. ResilienceLab 360 incorporates measures of heart rate
 variability, psychometrics, and hormones (cortisol and DHEA) to provide participants with data to
 discuss burnout and building resilience. The programme has been run and evaluated with a range
 of corporations (Microsoft, OFCOM) and the NHS and continues to have significant impact on
 well-being in the NHS and corporations, individually and systemically.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There is a long history of patient-centred research at Westminster. By adopting a holistic
 approach to complex health issues, Ridge, Fixsen, Visiting Professor Dixon, and former staff
 members (Polley and Pilkington) identified that primary care could improve the health and
 wellbeing of patients with person-centred practitioners. This led to a Wellcome grant (£41K) to
 define, develop and promote an approach to social prescribing that was subsequently adopted as
 part of the NHS Long Term Plan published in January 2019. This approach uses frontline
 professionals to refer patients to a ‘link worker’, the patient discusses their issues at length, and
 works with the link worker to co-produce a (social) prescription to fit their complex needs. The
 team was also funded by ‘Make my day better’ (£147K) and NHS England (£80K) to develop the
 National Guidance for Social Prescribing, and Social Prescribing Networks (established across
 England). Their research has shown that through social prescribing individuals reduce their GP
 consultations by an average of 28% and A&E attendances by an average of 24%. This approach
 now forms one of the cornerstones of the NHS system of Personalised Care.

 Placing people and communities at the heart of our research, work commissioned by the Food
 Standards Agency (Draper) surveyed consumers on the type of front-of-pack (FoP) food labels
 they found easiest to understand. This established that, of the myriad labels in use, hybrid (multiple
 type) labels were the best; this finding was adopted by the Department of Health and Social Care
 and two-thirds of all packaged food and drinks on the market in the UK now sport hybrid FoP
 labels. The exploration of public perceptions of food safety has fed into how food scares and
 scandals can be better managed to inform populations (Draper, ESRC £7.8K). Research on
 attitudinal determinants of diet quality and lifestyle of British minority ethnic women in London and
 in Africa and Asia has led to development of the concept of “Local Food for Global Health”. This
 approach works with communities to develop tailored nutrition for disease prevention (Tewfik).
 Further work on the effects of vitamin D and calcium supplementation on the metabolic and
 inflammatory profile among pregnant women in Brazil continues to place minority groups at the
 centre of our dietary research (Rodriguez, Science Without Borders, £13.4K; Danish Dairy
 Research Foundation, £103K).

 LABORATORY-BASED, HEALTH-FOCUSSED RESEARCH:
 The Translational Physiology Group (led by Elliott) links whole-person research with
 laboratory-studies, focussing on how environmental stimuli affect physiology. Studies include the
 effect of exercise on physiological processes, for example, platelet activation, and hypoxia as a
 treatment for type-2 diabetes, and research into the effect of extreme environmental conditions on
 physical performance (Deb), the protective role of exercise on aging (Elliott) and biochemical
 markers of heart health during exercise (Gaze). The interplay between dietary intakes and
 supplements on physiology includes work with nano-formulations as nutraceuticals to promote
 iron absorption (Zariwala). Funding has been received from Innovate UK (£35K), Indonesia
 Endowment Fund (£161K) and Gencore Pacific (£0.5M). A significant impact of this work has been
 development of a low dose high absorption oral iron supplement; one of the best-selling products
 in its category in the UK. This group has also developed a first-of-its-kind cellular and mitostasis
 analysis pipeline (“MiTye”) to assess medicinal plant and bio-product functionality (Booker, Bell).

 The agility of staff to quickly respond to emerging threats and global challenges was demonstrated
 by the development of a cost-effective, portable, battery-powered device to provide in the field
 diagnosis during the Ebola epidemic (Moschos, Wellcome Trust £0.6M). Work in collaboration
 with the University of Cambridge was carried out to assess a trivalent haemorrhagic fever vaccine
 against Lassa, Ebola and Marburg viruses (Wright, Innovate UK, 0.69M) and rapid discovery and
 development of broadly neutralizing human antibodies for acute treatment of Ebola infection
 (Wright, Wellcome, £39K). McCormick and Dwek are developing a prototype lung-on-a-chip as
 a tool for screening antiviral properties of approved drugs for the treatment of COVID-19; the aim
 is a model system suited to future viral pandemics (University Health Innovation and Wellbeing
 research community, £17K).

 Further laboratory research in our state-of-the-art facilities includes identification of pathogenic
 microbes (Anyogu, Hayes, Mohammed). The use of microbes as tools for the production and
 development of a range of bio-products and in environmental applications has been extensively

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigated. Polyhydroxyalkanoates as biodegradable polymers for tissue engineering have been
 pioneered by Professor Roy (coordinator EU projects: REBIOSTENT €4.9M and HYMEDPOLY
 €3.5M) and continued by Basnett, previously a postdoctoral fellow now appointed to Lecturer.
 Environmental applications include the use of microbial electron transfer (METRIS) with microbial
 fuel cells adapted to clean polluted water (Kyazze and Keshavarz, British Council, Newton-
 Mosharafa Fund, £162K).

 The Cancer Research Group (led by Uysal-Onganer) is concerned with the development and
 progression of solid and blood-borne cancers. The group comprises 10 researchers and 8 doctoral
 researchers. Dwek and Robertson lead the DietCompLyf study, the largest U.K. prospective
 study of breast cancer survival and dietary consumptions, Dwek curates and manages the
 DietCompLyf biobank/database (Against Breast Cancer, £482K). As members of the Breast
 Cancer Association Consortium, Dwek and Presneau feed into genome-wide association and
 transcriptomic studies to identify important breast cancer subtypes. Studies of DNA damage and
 post-transcriptional regulation have also been carried out (Surendranath and Murphy) (Children
 with Cancer £14K). Further work has focussed on genome instability (Volpi), identification of new
 driver genes (Presneau), cell signalling (Chen, Montana-Hernandez, Porakishvili) and the role
 of micro-RNAs in cancer (Uysal-Onganer). The team has a track record in biomarker discovery
 (Dwek, Robertson). Through the development of cardiac troponin testing, Gaze, with the
 Association of Clinical Biochemists committee, is developing guidelines for the use of cardiac
 troponin testing in the field of cardio-oncology. Work on new technologies has enabled deeper
 insight into carcinogenesis, the development of new cancer models and identification of
 biomarkers. This groundwork has been supported by external funding and we expect to attract
 substantial future funding from UKRI, relevant cancer charities, and Biotech interested in testing
 novel anti-cancer compounds.

 The Tissue Architecture and Regeneration Group (led by Lange) identify cellular pathways
 contributing to tissue remodelling and regeneration, in response to both physiological and
 pathophysiological stimuli. Lange, an internationally-recognized expert on peptidylarginine
 deiminase (PAD) mediated protein deimination in the central nervous system damage, showed
 that extracellular vesicles act as cargo-carriers for PADs in health and in disease. The group has
 identified markers of epilepsy (Liu) and integrity of the blood brain barrier (Drndarski). Further
 work has been concerned with the role of endogenous retroviruses in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
 (McCormick) (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association $327K), the role of inflammation and
 cell death in liver cells exposed to alcohol (V. Patel), melanocortin peptides and natural products
 (Getting, Locke) and lipid mediators in inflammation in arthritis (Haworth). The Tissue
 Architecture and Regeneration Group are building on insights from basic research to identify new
 biomarkers and potential novel therapeutic targets for serious diseases for which there is currently
 an unmet clinical need, most notably, inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases. The themes
 align with the aims of funders including UKRI, medical charities and Biotech.

 PERFORMANCE AGAINST 2014 PLANS: Our research strategy in the current assessment
 period (2014-2020) was designed to build on, and move beyond, our successes in REF2014, in
 line with the University of Westminster strategy to further strengthen our research by increasing
 the proportion of staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR), improving the quality and
 quantity of research outputs and focusing on our areas of research where we make a difference
 and where our research impact is recognised, valued and sought after. We have more than
 doubled the number of researchers submitted to this UOA compared with REF2014 and are
 returning 52 staff. Appointments since 2014 have included four Professors, eight Senior Lecturers,
 eleven Lecturers, eight Research Fellows, eight Research Associates and a Daphne Jackson
 Trust Research Fellow. We continue to grow our researchers from within and during the reporting
 period twelve staff were promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, two from Senior Lecturer to
 Principal Lecturer/Reader (Kyazze, Lange) and a further three to Professor (Dwek, Thomas,
 Zariwala).

 Through tailored support and in line with our overall strategy we substantially increased external
 funding since our last REF submission. In this census period we returned £8.11M to HESA, this

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 represents a greater than 2-fold increase in our research income compared with REF2014
 (average income for REF2014: £0.76M pa; REF2021: £1.16M pa). Our strategy in REF2014 was
 to diversify our income. We have been awarded funding from the European Research Council
 programmes, the British Council Newton Fund, UKRI, the Charitable sector, NHS, Innovate UK,
 and others. See section 3 for further details.

 In this reporting period we have published >300 peer-reviewed journal articles, 4 guest editions of
 journals, >400 conference presentations, >60 books and >140 book chapters. This increase in
 high-quality research activity has contributed immensely to our research environment and has
 enabled us to build upon the priority areas identified in REF2014.

 Several staff benefitted from Sabbatical Leave funded by QR income to the unit (Tewfik, Barr,
 Murphy) and support for attendance at training courses. These successes result from careful
 recruitment of early career researchers (ECRs) whom we see as the research leaders of the future
 as well as professorial appointments to build our interdisciplinary research (Bell, Dartnell). This
 has also resulted from a careful and sustained focus on the research strategy that was described
 in REF2014. We continued to support initiatives that our colleagues told us were helpful, for
 example, writing retreats, and implemented clearer processes for funding bid support.

 During the reporting period the University entirely reconfigured its research support, amalgamating
 the research and knowledge-exchange functions into a combined Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Office (RKEO). This now includes a dedicated Research Development Partner,
 Collaborations Partner, Community Facilitators and dedicated Impact Officer. Alongside this, a
 new Researcher Development programme has been established and is overseen by the
 Researcher Development Working Group, with representation from researchers at all levels (see
 REF5a).

 Research is further supported and catalysed by four University of Westminster Research
 Communities, established in September 2019, acting as a platform for the research work
 undertaken across the Institution. The Diversity and Inclusion Community (led by Dwek) and
 Health Innovation and Wellbeing Community are particularly relevant to this UoA and provide
 internal pump-priming and seed-funding for new impactful research projects under specific
 themes, thus fostering internal collaboration and interdisciplinary research across the University.
 Staff submitted in this unit have received funding from both the Diversity and Inclusion and the
 Health Innovation and Wellbeing communities.

 OPEN RESEARCH STRATEGY: Our research strategy strongly emphasises the value of open
 access research data and publications and attempts to ensure this whenever possible across all
 its research centres and groups. The University has a dedicated open access fund to which
 researchers are encouraged to apply (to support publishing via gold OA), supplemented by the
 College of Liberal Arts and Sciences through QR funding, with green OA enabled by the
 University’s Repository, WestminsterResearch, and Virtual Research Environment. Open access
 is also built-in at the bid-writing stage thereby ensuring that research dissemination and
 accessibility are considered from the outset at the research planning stage.

 PLANS FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS:
 Development of our research centres and connectivity with industry: Our ambition is to
 develop close links with private, public and third sectors through our research and knowledge
 exchange work. Industry and Employer Advisory Boards have been launched and play an
 important role in fulfilling this ambition. Schools will supplement the existing Research Director
 role with a Knowledge Exchange (KE) Coordinator (Dec 2020) who will drive engagement and
 enable strong levels of impact from our research and KE. Additionally, the establishment of an
 International Coordinator in each School in the University (Jan 2021) is aimed at maximising
 opportunities for international collaborations and partnerships that will improve our research reach
 and density. We will increase support to and promotion of our existing Centres: the Centre for
 Optimal Health, Centre for Resilience and those being launched this academic year, the Centre
 for Nutraceuticals and the International Centre for Social Prescribing.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Researcher development: We will continue to “grow our own” researchers through targeted
 support of early career researchers. Our cross-University mentorship scheme will be expanded
 and refined to operate at College level to support early-stage researchers in a more
 interdisciplinary way. We will help researchers in their bid-writing and plan to bid for larger
 programmes, year-on-year. Our mentoring circles initiative (launched in 2019-20) will pay
 particular attention to equality and diversity in researcher development. Our newly developed
 University Researcher Development Programme is extensive and has been designed in
 consultation with School Research Leads and ECR representatives (see REF5a). It launched in
 October 2020 and covers a range of training under the headings “Impact and Engagement”,
 “Funding for Research and Knowledge Exchange”, “Publishing, data, ethics and integrity” and
 “Taking charge of your career”. We expect the development programme to assist further our very
 positive research trajectory.

 Collaborative research initiatives: Building on our current networks of collaboration and
 partnerships we will drive up the quality, impact and international reach of our research. By 2023
 we aim to have doubled the income from research grants - with increments likely to begin after
 2019/20 due to the changes in support from the central Research and Knowledge Exchange Office
 (RKEO). We will fully contribute to the University Research Communities and nurture the emergent
 research themes across the College and Schools.

 Research infrastructure and development of the environment: School and College based
 research funding will continue to be strategically invested to support work leading to external
 awards and impact. A programme of matched funding and Centre-based collaborative applications
 to external funding bodies will increase funding to the unit over the next five years. The School of
 Life Sciences will continue to invest in capital equipment, doctoral studentships, consumables,
 conference attendance, and publication costs to underpin our researchers’ activities and to
 support external funding bids. Future funding bids will include, where appropriate, support for
 technical assistance to improve infrastructure and enable safe use and maintenance of our
 extensive specialist equipment facilities. We will continue to grow our seminar programme
 organised by doctoral researchers and will continue to supplement this with research Colloquia,
 continuing to attract high-profile, internationally-renowned speakers and a series of open public
 lectures to improve public engagement.

 IMPACT STRATEGY:
 Our impact strategy is based on our commitment to support research that is medically and socially
 relevant and sensitive to the wider needs of society. Following REF2014 the University of
 Westminster used its Strategic Research Fund to resource a range of impact-related activities,
 which enabled researchers to competitively bid for funding for impact work. For example, Dwek
 and Robertson were awarded £19.5K for a project with Computer Sciences to develop a
 PhytoApp to benefit patients with breast cancer. The RKEO also hosts a dedicated Impact Officer
 with responsibility for facilitating impact activities.

 Since 2014 we have supported a range of impact activities, including those underpinning the case
 studies submitted in this REF. For example, the continued support of the Polyclinic for patient-
 centred research enabled the establishment of better ways for understanding and ameliorating
 burnout and depression, including among harder-to-reach men (Ridge), and for the development
 of social prescribing as mainstream NHS healthcare provision (Fixsen, Polley, Ridge). We have
 been proactive in raising the profile and importance of impact in the UoA through workshops and
 one-to-one mentoring. A series of ‘achieving impact’ seminars and workshops have been
 delivered during the assessment period, which have included specific guidance on planning for
 impact and on evidencing and documenting impact. All research-active staff are required to
 provide annual, audited impact statements. Targeted financial support for existing and promising
 impact cases has been provided via the Impact Support Fund, sabbaticals, and School funds to
 further develop impact-related research activity for maximum impact. These have resulted in the
 impact case studies presented by this UoA, including the work by MacKenzie on Suicide
 Prevention; Ridge on Depression and Burn-out Prevention; Fixsen, Polley and Ridge on Social

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prescribing in the NHS; Bell and Thomas on Non-Invasive Diagnosis of Liver Diseases; and Gaze
 on Enhancing the Clinical Utility of Cardiac Troponin. The case studies evidence how our research
 has led to real-world improvements in the care and treatment of patients (Bell and Thomas, Gaze,
 Polley, Ridge), as well as wider impacts on societal health (MacKenzie).

 Potential future impact opportunities are being monitored and nurtured including, for example, diet
 and lifestyle changes and the impact on cancer survival (Dwek, Robertson), tailored foods for
 optimal health (Tewfik), microbes for clean water solutions (Kyazze), biodegradable polymers for
 tissue engineering (Basnett) and nano-formulations of nutraceuticals to improve iron absorption
 (Zariwala).

 To further support impact generation, we have implemented a dynamic portfolio of external
 engagement activities (see section 4). These include public lectures (Dartnell, Elliott), other
 public-facing events (e.g., Dartnell: Natural History Museum Lates; Roy: Tate Modern “Use of
 Biodegradable Plastics”), engaging with the media, working closely with the University Press
 Office (Dwek, Polley, Ridge); and via regular social media interactions on both the
 LifeSciWestmin, Psychology and University Twitter accounts as well as contributing to The
 Conversation (Chong, Elliott, Mohammed, Uysal-Onganer).

 KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE AND INTERACTION WITH INDUSTRY:
 An ambitious programme of Knowledge Exchange (KE) is planned over the next five years. The
 Clinic@Westminster will deliver CPD to the NHS, Industry, members of the public including
 Nutrition Advice, Nutrition in Emergencies, Statistics for the diagnostics industry, CRISPR use,
 Link worker updates, AI and healthcare and many more. This will strengthen the impact of our
 research and further develop our networks. Our new Centre for Nutraceuticals exemplifies our
 commitment to translational research, knowledge exchange and societal impact. It has strong
 industry collaborations and brings evidence-based approaches to product development in this
 vibrant sector. It will launch in January 2021 with some £500K+ of external funding, two patents
 in process, two products on the market, two Centre-linked PhD studentship projects and a range
 of national and international contracts under negotiation.

 The Centre for Nutraceuticals will act as a model for our future KE and industry engagement
 work around product development, contract research and consultancy. The School of Life
 Sciences is establishing an Industry Visiting Professoriate and aims to have “industry on the
 inside” rather than outside looking in. It will create hot desk space in Central London and work
 with industry sectors to create industry lecture series, think tanks, reverse mentoring and Live
 Projects with our PhD students. Our connection to the University’s new Incubator project on
 Marylebone Road will provide an end-to-end route from Lab to point-of-use and we look forward
 to building impact through this route. A programme of Clinic and laboratory refurbishment and
 restructure will provide a platform for our research activities and a vibrant place for our
 researchers to develop and create new knowledge.

 2. People

 STAFF: We recognise that “we are our people”. The UoA has put into practice the idea that to
 develop our research we must support and nurture our people. Our researchers hold important
 university-wide roles ensuring that we feed into decision-making and implementation of the
 university research mission. Roles include the Diversity and Inclusion Research Community Lead
 (Dwek), University Research Committee (Dwek, Ridge), Knowledge Exchange Committee
 (Zariwala), Graduate School Board (Volpi), Researcher Development Working Group (Dwek),
 College Research Director (Ridge) and Public Engagement Lead (Elliott). Our researchers are
 active members of staff networks including the BME, Women of Westminster (WOW) and
 LGBTQ+ networks.

 All new appointments have been made in our areas of strategic importance and aligned to
 research centres and groups so that when researchers join us, they integrate into a supportive
 environment. We recruited high-quality research staff and grew our research. Anyogu, Basnett,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Booker, Chen, Coleman, Deb, Drndarski, Elliott, Gaze, Gerbault, Haworth, Hayes, Lange,
 Liu, McCormick, Mohammed, Montano, Nadarzynski, Presneau Raheem, Surendranath,
 Thomas, Uysal Onganer, Zariwala have all joined us since 2014, and we appointed new
 Professors to develop specific themes: Bell, Dartnell. We are pleased that several of our new
 appointees have been promoted and that two have joined the Professoriate: Thomas, Zariwala.

 SUPPORT FOR RESEARCHER DEVELOPMENT: All new staff are offered one-to-one support
 on appointment. They undertake a university-wide induction and, locally, meet the School
 Research Director and REF unit lead to discuss their research plans and aspirations. New staff
 are introduced to the leads of the University Research Communities and are encouraged to join
 community activities. Newly appointed researchers are routinely given a light teaching load for the
 first semester to enable them to establish their research and to allow them to integrate with the
 research centres and groupings.

 Since REF2014 the University has adopted a workload allocation model (WAM) in which, annually,
 research hours are directly incorporated into staff timetables as a part of their overall workload of
 1504 hours pro rata (250–350 hours for level 1 or 2 research, 425 hours for Readers and
 Professors), with an additional 174 hours allocated to all staff for scholarship activities. Allocation
 of WAM hours is linked to the production of high-quality outputs and grant proposals. Staff
 development needs are identified through annual WAM meetings. Formal applications to the Staff
 Development Fund for attendance at conferences or specific training are encouraged from staff at
 all levels, including those on fractional and fixed-term contracts. All new staff members are
 automatically provided with a start-up fund of £2K and can bid for further funding (£6K-12K) to
 enable pilot work to be undertaken.

 All staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), which allows for reflection and goal
 setting. The University, as a member of the leadership foundation, has promoted the Aurora Role
 Model Scheme and the Springboard Program both providing specialist leadership training for our
 researchers. The College (and previously Faculty) has a defined policy for mentoring and follows
 the key principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. This has
 been supplemented since 2019/20 by mentoring circles where up to eight mentees meet to discuss
 professional experiences and challenges in a supportive peer group; led by one or two highly
 experienced senior academics from the College. The feedback from the first mentoring circles has
 been extremely positive: 93% of the mentee respondents reported that they would like to continue
 to meet with their cohort for further peer discussions and 93% of mentees said they would be
 interested in participating in the scheme again.

 All staff are encouraged to avail themselves of staff development opportunities. This includes
 training sessions coordinated by the RKEO on topics such as research governance, ethics, data
 management, intellectual property, research integrity, media training, alongside compulsory
 workshops prior to supervision of doctoral researchers and interview training for all those
 participating in appointment panels. In addition, all researchers undertake relevant subject-
 specific training, provided by staff in the School of Life Sciences, including, for example, on the
 requirements of the Human Tissue Act and Laboratory Health and Safety.

 We have a defined policy for sabbatical support in the College, which is available to all researchers
 who have completed three years of continuous service. Sabbaticals are also promoted to staff
 with individual circumstances who will benefit from help in re‐establishing their research, for
 example following maternity leave. We support approximately one sabbatical per annum, awarded
 based on defined activity and outcomes. For example, Porakishvili, during sabbatical leave, built
 a consortium of universities in the South Caucasus and successfully obtained funding as the
 coordinator of the E.U. Tempus programmes for “The development of a curriculum and
 establishment of a regional training platform for Haematology in life sciences and medicine
 (DECERPH)” (€0.99M) and “Establishment of Multidisciplinary Innovative Centres for the
 Development of virtual Laboratories (MICVL) in Biology and Medicine (EMICVL)” (€0.94M).
 Tewfik visited the Harvard School of Public Health and developed a sustainability plan for an


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 HIV/AIDS public health nutrition intervention in Nigeria and for the dissemination of tailored meals
 for HIV patients in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

 A key aspect of staff development for all researchers is our facilitated “writing workshops” and “bid
 development workshops” organised by the College. These structured activities are held several
 times each semester on-site and three times a year off-site (residential) and provide the
 opportunity, in a conducive and supportive environment, to write and work on outputs and bids.
 The retreats are run by a trained writing facilitator with staff wellbeing activities incorporated.

 We have a detailed College policy on the submission of funding bids. This involves “sponsorship”
 from a senior academic (Reader/Professor) who evaluates the bid against the funding call and
 ensures alignment with research groups and/or centres. An internal peer-review process in which
 two members of staff feedback on the proposed work is a standard requirement prior to the bid
 sign-off by the College Research Director. Pre- and post-bid support is provided through a
 dedicated Research Development Partner based in the RKEO. Researchers are regularly invited
 to attend introductory grant writing workshops if they have had no previous experience of external
 grant writing. More in-depth “bid clinics” for experienced researchers are facilitated by experts from
 the Missenden Centre and senior academics in the College provide in-depth group feedback on
 participants’ draft proposals. The RKEO organise meetings that host speakers from, for example,
 UKRI and Innovate UK to promote funding schemes to researchers. Our annual “employer day”
 stimulates interaction between researchers and industry (large and small). Through these
 interactions, researchers have successfully secured Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and
 consultancy, involving secondment of staff to SMEs (Thomas).

 To maintain continuity of research activity and leadership we have a clearly-defined strategy for
 succession planning. Our school structure now incorporates Assistant Heads and we have
 increased our number of Readers/Professors and continued to promote from within. Retirees
 have, where appropriate, continued to contribute to our research as Emeritus Professors/Fellows.
 We aim to nurture early career researchers (ECRs) to ensure that they have opportunities to grow
 professionally, for example by involvement in doctoral researcher supervision. Normally three
 fully-funded doctoral studentships are made available to bid for annually; studentships to support
 the fees of overseas doctoral researchers are also available, approximately two per annum. In the
 allocation of the studentships, priority is given to ECRs and new staff.

 Development of research identities is nurtured through shared ownership of research narratives,
 groups and communities. Opportunities include the School of Life Sciences weekly PhD and
 research seminar series, as well as the monthly Colloquia, a programme of high-profile talks given
 by distinguished speakers on research topics of broad interest. The format of the Colloquia allows
 for informal networking over refreshments after the talks, almost as mini symposia. Examples of
 invited speakers include Richard Oreffo (Southampton) on regenerative medicine, Mark Read
 (Newcastle) on research impact, Suzy Lishman, OBE, on modern pathology and personalised
 medicine, Geoffrey Guy (GW Pharma), on taking scientific results from bench to commercial
 products. Similarly, the Translational Physiology Research group host the Physiological Society
 Sponsored Seminar Series, since 2017, with 4 speakers per annum including, for example: Ana-
 Mishel Spiroski (Cambridge), Cameron Hill (Coventry), Lorna Harries (Exeter), Nicola Guess and
 Thomas Francis (KCL), Naiara Demnitz (Oxford), Marina Ezcurra (QMUL), Claire Nolan (Royal
 Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust).

 DOCTORAL RESEARCHERS: The unit includes 52 doctoral research students (31/7/2020)
 studying in the fields of anatomy and physiology, biology, applied biotechnology, molecular
 biology, microbiology, nutrition and pharmacology (including 9 students enrolled on a PhD by
 Published Work/Professional Doctorate routes). The doctoral researchers share a newly
 refurbished common office area in two dedicated rooms located close to our research laboratories.

 All doctoral researchers are assigned to a research centre or group in the School. Robust
 procedures are in place to ensure that doctoral researchers are properly supported and expertly
 supervised during their programme of study. Alongside our on-site doctoral researchers, our

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professional Doctorate in Health Sciences enables cross-disciplinary work often involving
 medical-laboratory staff undertaking applied research. Researchers undertaking Professional
 Doctorates similarly engage with Graduate School and School of Life Sciences training
 programmes.

 Researchers are assigned a supervisory team consisting of a minimum of two supervisors: a
 Director of Studies and a Second Supervisor with relevant complementary research expertise. All
 supervisors are required to attend the University Doctoral Supervisor Training programme to
 ensure familiarity with processes and regulations and to support research planning, to help identify
 specialist training and dissemination strategies and to ensure key academic stages are reached
 in a timely fashion.

 The research proposal, progression reports and MPhil/PhD transfer examinations are assessed
 by staff external to the supervisory team. Annual monitoring is a formal part of the students’
 progression through key stages of the PhD life-cycle: from registration to transfer, and completion
 – supported through an online monitoring system operating at the School, College and University
 level. All records, for example ethics applications, formal progress reports and outputs for each
 doctoral researcher, are entered into the online Virtual Research Environment, and progress is
 coordinated by the University Graduate School (see REF5a).

 Doctoral researchers are aware of expectations and individual milestones are established at the
 outset. Clear processes are implemented to prevent, and where required to address,
 unsatisfactory performance. Where remedial action is needed this is articulated in a timely manner
 and solutions determined collaboratively between the doctoral researcher and the supervisory
 team. In the rare occasion that it may be required, there are clear procedures for escalation of
 interventions (Annex F framework).

 On enrolment, all doctoral researchers join the University’s Doctoral Research Development
 Programme (DRDP), our institution’s implementation of the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. This cross-university programme gives the researchers an opportunity to interact with
 others from their same cohort from Schools across our institution. The doctoral researchers are
 introduced to the doctoral process and provided with instruction around generic research skills
 including academic skills; career development and employability; engagement influence and
 impact. Doctoral researchers are given the opportunity to engage with tailored support to develop
 further their skill set; new provision includes “academic English”, “well-being when writing” and
 mental health and physical wellbeing. For further details, see REF5a.

 To augment the Graduate School provision, a programme of training is overseen locally by the
 DRDP School coordinator (Porakishvili). We run a series of tailored training events for PhD
 students in Life Sciences, including workshops on public engagement of science (delivered by our
 Professor in Science Communication, Dartnell), knowledge transfer/exchange (Zariwala, V.
 Patel), research practice and compliance (Murphy, Dwek, Volpi), Human Tissue Act
 requirements (introduced by our Designated Individual) with detailed training programme
 undertaken where appropriate. The Centre for Resilience provides tailored support sessions for
 incoming doctoral researchers to help them develop strategies for coping with the competing
 demands experienced at different stages of the PhD lifecycle.

 Doctoral researchers have their voice heard through fora run centrally through the Graduate
 School as outlined in REF5a and locally by involvement in Research Committee and the School
 Executive Group. Local activities for doctoral researchers include the School of Life Sciences
 Doctoral Researchers Annual Conference, journal clubs and research seminars. These events
 provide the opportunity to network, discuss research and showcase work internally. Researchers
 who have submitted their thesis act as judges during the poster sessions of our Annual
 Conference. These events also provide a focal point for researchers and support other
 development opportunities offered across the University such as the Graduate School Annual
 Reception, attended by external guests and designed to showcase work undertaken by doctoral
 researchers to the outside world, and the Graduate School Annual Lecture, a networking event

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 featuring high-profile speakers such as notable alumna Professor Sophie Scott MBE,
 Neuroscientist and Wellcome Trust Senior Fellow, in 2020. Researchers are also encouraged to
 participate in the Three-minute Thesis (3MT) Competition, which leads to selection of a University
 Finalist forwarded for consideration for the National Finals, coordinated by Vitae. As part of the
 programme of development activities, doctoral researchers are offered the opportunity to gain a
 Postgraduate Certificate of Special Study in Supporting Learning from the University Centre for
 Education and Teaching Innovation; this formal qualification recognises supervisory and teaching
 skills and has been awarded to 24 doctoral researchers in this UoA since its inception in 2015.

 A Doctoral Researcher Development Fund is available within the School to support doctoral
 researchers financially, enabling attendance at national and international conferences during their
 period of study. This fund also helps researchers to attend specialist training courses. Additionally,
 the Graduate School Globally Engaged Students initiative has benefited doctoral researchers who
 are encouraged to apply for funding for participation in conferences (nationally or internationally)
 and at training courses and workshops to develop and enhance research methods skills. The
 University 125-Fund also offers doctoral researchers the opportunity to bid for sums of money for
 consumables and equipment to support their research. Travel awards obtained externally include
 funding by the Physiological Society for specialist training at McMaster University, Canada.

 Awards received at international conferences for doctoral researchers include Best Young
 Researcher Award at the 15th Global Diabetes and Obesity Conference (Dubai), Best Abstract in
 the “Young Scientist” Category at the 12th International Conference and 5th Asian Conference on
 Environmental Mutagens (South Korea) and second-best project idea and presentation at the
 Climate Launchpad “JSP Waste to Energy: Microworld to Megawatts” competition in 2018.

 Recent papers authored by PhD students in the unit as lead investigators (first name) include
 publications in Antioxidants, European Journal of Pharmacology, Frontiers in Pharmacology,
 Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology, Gene, Journal of Medical Microbiology, Journal of
 Parkinson’s Disease, Methods in Molecular Biology, Mutation Research, Obesity, Open Heart,
 Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity, and Scientific Reports. High-profile public engagement
 initiatives to which doctoral researchers have contributed include the Royal Astronomical Society
 #reach2019 event and the Natural History Museum Lates series, as well as contributions to The
 Conversation and Guardian.

 Post-Doctoral employment routes range from editorial roles (Journal Specialist in Frontiers in
 Oncology) and independent consultancies in health and public health to more traditional roles in
 academia as well as in research and healthcare institutions. Examples of destinations in the UK
 include the NHS and the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control, examples of
 overseas destinations include the University of Arizona (USA), the Edward Francis Small Teaching
 Hospital (the Gambia), and the IPC and Sigma Clermont (France).

 ENSURING EQUALITY & DIVERSITY: At the heart of our Being Westminster strategy is the
 intellectual and creative capital of our diverse staff. Our aim is that colleagues are “comfortable
 bringing their whole selves to work, where they are empowered, supported, provided with
 development opportunities and enabled to engage in work they love...” We consider that
 addressing issues of equity is simply the right thing to do.

 As described in REF5a, the University has committed at the highest level and across the
 organisation to implementing and evaluating the success of initiatives to build equality, diversity
 and inclusion across all structures of the university, including our research environment. We are
 fully committed to the principles underlying the Race Equality Charter, the Athena SWAN Charter
 and Stonewall, and are proud to have been the first university to be awarded the post May-2015
 Athena SWAN Bronze award. We recognise that cultural change comes through the modification
 of behaviours of staff at all levels and we recognise that intersectionality and a holistic approach
 is needed to achieve equality of opportunity. We have adopted many practices to foster inclusivity
 and equality of opportunity within our School and College and are working to implement new
 initiatives as we continue in our aim to build a fair and equitable research environment.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Several of our researchers are champions for different aspects of EDI. The university-wide
 Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Research Community (led by Dwek) undertakes research into all
 aspects of EDI, most recently embarking on a wide-ranging consultation with staff around D&I
 research at Westminster. Research funded by the D&I Research community covers many aspects
 and includes work to assess the effect of remote working during the COVID-19 pandemic on
 diverse groups of staff including researchers. In a collaboration with Westminster Business
 School, Dwek undertook a commissioned report for the Royal Society entitled “Leading the way:
 increasing diversity in the scientific workforce”. Uysal Onganer is an Athena SWAN champion.

 All researchers are required to undertake an on-line diversity training module. We also require that
 all staff undertake interview training before they are involved in any part of our recruitment
 processes. We have implemented our mentoring and researcher development schemes described
 above to ensure that ECRs as well as experienced staff are supported through their career life
 cycle. We supported the recruitment of a Daphne Jackson Trust (DJT) fellow. This programme is
 designed to encourage the return of scientists following a career-break. Her advisor (Locke)
 stated: “The DJT fellowship provided a unique opportunity to bring an experienced scientist back
 into the talent pool. The structured and supportive re-entry route enabled her to restart and
 continue her career. Our research group benefitted from the addition of her knowledge, skills and
 experience. A very positive experience all round.”

 We monitor EDI issues at School and College Research Committees, we work actively to ensure
 gender parity in pastoral roles. Our policies are designed to ensure equal access to resources for
 research including sabbaticals, start-up funding, conference attendance and specialist training.
 Researchers who require extended periods of leave due to caring responsibilities, parental leave
 or ill health are contacted shortly before their return to the school by a member of senior staff, and
 plans are put in place to enable them to pick up their research effectively with the appropriate
 support. We have a system in place enabling researchers to request flexible and part-time
 working for childcare, other caring or health-related reasons. Similarly, we operate a maternity,
 paternity and post-adoption leave scheme. We are mindful of the caring responsibilities of our
 colleagues and ensure meetings, seminars and colloquia are organised within core-hours. Where
 there is a necessity to host events in the evening, or on the weekend, we ensure that these are
 advertised with sufficient notice for colleagues to arrange cover.

 Our evaluation of the gender balance of doctoral researchers (during the census period) showed
 that approximately 70% reported as female and 30% as male. The School enrols doctoral
 researchers from a range of backgrounds and we recognise the deficit of UK-domiciled doctoral
 researchers who identify as “BAME”. To start to address this we have begun work to encourage
 progression from BSc/MSc taught programmes to doctoral research, both in our own institution
 and beyond. Whilst recognising the issues with definitions of ethnicity and other protected
 characteristics, and the difficulties with data capture, we realise that an important aim in the coming
 period will be to better understand the make-up of those that come to work on research projects
 with us. We will continue to undertake work in this area, listening to those traditionally under-
 represented in postgraduate research and will use the information to direct our doctoral research
 recruitment as well as to gain a deeper understanding of doctoral researcher experiences through
 every part of the postgraduate research lifecycle.

 In preparation for this REF submission, we evaluated the information provided on the equalities
 monitoring form that staff complete on taking up their appointment at the University. From this we
 were able to determine how representative this submission was of staff with protected
 characteristics in the UoA, i.e., those with significant responsibility for research (SRR). There was
 no significant difference between researchers with SRR in terms of the gender balance (female
 54% in this submission v 53% in the whole unit, male 46% in this submission v 47% in the whole
 unit), or self-reported disability (94% with no reported disability in this submission v 92% in the
 whole unit). More staff who identified as BME had SRR (31% in this submission v 23% in the
 whole unit) and there were fewer white researchers with SRR (67% in this submission v 72% in
 the whole unit). Most of the researchers with SRR work full-time (94%), whilst very are few part-

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time (6%). Overall, 22% of the colleagues in the unit work part-time and we aim to improve their
 representation in subsequent REF submissions.

 We trained a group of researchers to evaluate (score) the outputs in this submission. The scorers
 reflected the gender, age and ethnicity of the researchers returned in this UoA. The outputs were
 scored in accordance with the guidelines established by the University. We chose the best scoring
 output from each researcher and the remaining outputs were selected from the “best of the rest”
 up to a maximum of five named outputs per researcher. In undertaking the final selection, where
 there were outputs that were equally ranked we selected to ensure that the output pool reflected
 the researchers in the UOA as a whole.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 INCOME: We more than doubled our external funding for research compared with our last REF
 submission. During this census period we returned to HESA £8.11M from funds that we obtained
 for research (compared with the £3.8M in REF2014). This vast increase in income follows our
 intense focus on funding and follows a review of internal processes for funding applications. We
 streamlined our processes and ensured that we have defined timelines in place for all funding
 bids. We have a Virtual Research Environment that serves as a portal for project planning from
 start to finish and for reporting (see REF5a). As described in section 2, our processes are designed
 such that all researchers, including ECRs, are appropriately supported when bidding for external
 funding. The requirement for sponsorship by a senior academic has ensured alignment of
 proposals to the funding call itself, certifying that they fit with school and college priority areas. The
 requirement for two independent internal academic reviewers means that all bids are assessed
 prior to their submission. This enhanced support for bid-writing in the College and the University
 has led to our significantly increased research income since REF2014.

 Funding has been secured in all our priority areas and our income streams were more diversified,
 as had been planned in our environment statement for REF2014. Examples include:
     • NHS: What does successful social prescribing look like? Polley, £44.7K.
     • Medical Research Council: Support for studies of adiposity, Bell & Thomas, £1.25M.
     • British Council Newton Fund: METRIS: microbial electron transfer, Kyazze, £162K.
     • European Research Council: HYMEDPOLY, Roy, €3.5M, RE-BIOSTENT, Roy, €4.6M;
        TEMPUS EMCVIL, Porakishvili, €0.94M & DECERPH, Porakishvili, €0.9M.
    • ALS Association: HERV-K in ALS, McCormick, $327K.

 Charities that have supported the research include the Wellcome Trust: Ebola Check, Moschos,
 £0.6M, Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellowship: Beyond Tradition Styles of Practice and
 Ways of Knowing in East Asian Medicine, Scheid £0.84M. Against Breast Cancer: Research Unit
 and DietCompLyf Database, Dwek, £482K.

 Income has also been received from Knowledge Exchange activities including, for example,
 Calico: Evolution of Enriched-Phenotypes for Health Exploration and Discovery, Bell & Thomas,
 £0.57M, and extension £0.99M; Gencor Pacific: Effects of HydroCurc™ on inflammation and iron
 status Zariwala £251K; consultancy work and gifts in kind.

 INFRASTRUCTURE: Since 2014 we have invested over £1.77M, renovating our laboratories and
 researcher offices. We developed a new laboratory for regenerative medicine and GLP level cell
 culture work, on our Fitzrovia Campus (£1.76M). The new doctoral researchers’ office has 40+
 desks and the post-doctoral researchers’ office 20+ desks near to our laboratories (£144K). We
 installed swipe access throughout and a Siso Smart Hub and facilities booking tool (£4K).

 FACILITIES: We invested >£0.6M in new equipment for research during the census period. All
 equipment is housed in our purpose-built laboratories on our Fitzrovia campus. This investment
 has significantly enhanced our research capabilities in key areas and has led to collaborative
 ventures, as evidenced by our outputs and income, detailed above and in section 4.


                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We established our Biochemistry Testing Service using a Werfen Ilab Aries analyser (V. Patel,
 £22K) this provides a service for routine blood testing and has gained UKAS accreditation. The
 Sysmex XP-300 haematology analyser complements this and augments the now very well-
 equipped physiology testing labs. These house an Individual Hypoxic Chamber (Elliott £18K) and
 the latest Seca mBCA 515 Medical Body Composition Analyzer (£7.6K). These combined facilities
 generate £20K per annum income for the school. We invested in a new cell line collection
 purchased from the ATCC (£35K) and re-housed our liquid nitrogen storage facility. Our capability
 for undertaking metabolic studies was expanded by the addition of a Seahorse XFe24 analyser
 (Bell & Thomas, £64K). 3D cell studies are undertaken in our cell culture suite using the Quasi-
 vivo flow system, Kirkstall (Dwek). Cellular analysis with EVOS FL microscopy with a Servomex
 O2-CO2 analyser for real-time imaging studies (gift in kind to Bell & Thomas, £75K). Nanosight
 nanoparticle tracking (gift in kind to Lange & Bell, £22K) for the analysis of extracellular vesicles.
 Pathology resources include Whole Slide Imaging with Zeiss Axioscan Z1 slide scanner (£66K)
 and PathXL web interface (£41K). Our molecular biology work has been supported by investment
 in new q-RT-PCR equipment and protein work has been supported by investment in fluorescent
 and ECL blot analysis systems (Azure C6001 £38K and UVP, £11K), Trace 1300 gas GC-MS
 Chromotograph (£50K). A significant investment has been the purchase of BD LSR Fortessa X-
 20 multi-colour flow cytometer (£166K) used for a range of cellular investigations including
 analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (Porakishvilli, Volpi, Murphy). Our biomaterials
 research expanded significantly to include 3D printing, Melt Electrospinning (£35K), Contact Angle
 Measurements (£9.5K), Differential Scanning Calorimetry (£9.5) and Instron Tensile Testing
 (£9.6K).

 We have invested in a suite of software, including for digital pathology Cirdan PathXL (£12.2K),
 heart monitoring first beat bodyguard services (£13K) and Covidence metanalysis (£20K). The
 research laboratories are used for a range of commercial activities as well as TV health
 programmes. All our resources are open-access and supported by appropriate technical training.
 We have also accessed other facilities such as HEI shared resources including the Diamond
 Source for NMR work and the Harwell super microscopy facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Researchers in this UoA have a very proactive approach to collaborations within the research
 base, but also beyond this with wider society and the public through ongoing public engagement
 activities and close association with industrial partners and public bodies. This strategy reflects
 the University’s intent to become a forum for the creation and interchange of pioneering, disruptive
 innovations and ideas, between scientists, industrial partners and the public at large. A Professor
 of Science Communication was appointed in June 2016 to spearhead this work (Dartnell). This
 has enabled us to reach and engage a broader audience, attract substantial funding (described
 above, section 3) and extend our collaborations and impact in key areas of health and economic
 growth. We are committed to engaging young people in STEM subjects and health-related
 studies.

 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS AT NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVELS:

 National (examples): Aberdeen (Dartnell), Bath (Zariwala), Birmingham (Barr), Brunel (Volpi),
 Cambridge (Dwek, Robertson), Cardiff (Uysal-Onganer), Coventry (Zariwala), Edinburgh
 (Dartnell, Smith), Essex (Murphy), Francis Crick Institute (Murphy, Surendranath), Harwell
 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (Bell, Thomas), Imperial College (Dwek, Montano, Robertson,
 Uysal-Onganer, Volpi), King’s College London (V. Patel, Smith, Volpi), Middlesex
 (Porakishvili), Oxford (Dwek & Robertson, Ridge), Queen Mary University of London
 (Porakishvili, Ridge), Queen’s University Belfast (Dwek & Robertson), Reading (Zariwala),
 University College London (Dartnell, Dwek, Montano, Murphy, Porakishvili, Presneau).

 International (examples): Feinstein Institute of Medical Research, NY, 2014–ongoing
 (Porakishvili). Kultur University, Turkey, 2016–ongoing (Uysal-Onganer). National Research
 Centre, Cairo, 2018–ongoing (Barr). University Hospital Eppendorf, Hamburg, 2014–ongoing

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Dwek). University of Zurich, 2019–ongoing (Murphy). Staff are also involved in national and
 international research projects, such as the Breast Cancer Association Consortium (Dwek,
 Presneau), the NCI ‘Modifiable lifestyle-related factors and triple negative breast cancer
 prognosis’ (Dwek, Robertson), University of Lund, 2016–ongoing (Bell, Thomas), Diabetes Unit,
 KEM Hospital, Pune, India 2018–ongoing (Bell, Thomas), University of Debrecen, Hungary 2017–
 ongoing (Bell, Thomas). Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA, (Tewfik).

 MAJOR CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE:

 Membership of Journal Editorial Boards (examples): 4OPEN, Life Sciences-Medicine 2018–
 (Roy), Astrobiology Journal 2014– (Dartnell), Cancer Science and Oncology 2019– (Montano),
 Current Cancer Drug Targets 2014– (Dwek), Evolutionary Bioinformatics Journal 2015
 (Gerbault), Frontiers in Physiology 2018– (Elliott), International Journal of Tissue Engineering
 2016– (Roy), Journal of Chemical Technology and Biotechnology 2014– (Roy), Journal of the
 Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom 2017– (Lewis), Journal of Visualized
 Experiments (JoVE) 2018–2019 (Barr), MDBI - Sports 2018– (Elliott), Molecular Cytogenetics,
 Thematic Series 'Chromosomal Imbalances in Cancer' 2017– (Volpi), PLoS1 2014– (Dalby),
 Scientific Reports 2016–2019 (Dwek).

 Plenary/keynote lectures (examples): Royal Society Synthetic Glycobiology Meeting; Theo
 Murphy International Scientific Meeting: Bucks. England, 2018 (Dwek). International School on
 Immunotherapy, Tbilisi, Georgia, 2016 (Porakishvili). Natural Polymers of bacterial origin and
 their medical applications, POLYMAR, Athens, Greece, October 2018 (Roy).

 Conference organisation (examples): International Cancer symposium, University of Westminster,
 London 2020 (Montano, Presneau, Uysal-Onganer). European Cytogenomics Association,
 Mutagenesis and Toxicogenetics, Salzburg, 2019 (Volpi). British Sociological Association Food
 Studies Group International Conferences, University of Westminster, 2014, 2017, 2018 (Draper).
 1st International Social Prescribing Network Research Conference, Salford, 2018 (Polley). UK
 Society of Biomaterials Annual Conference, London, 2016 (Roy), 6th European Phycological
 Congress, London, 2015 (Lewis).

 Contributions to funding organisations: Austrian Science Fund, 2018 (Gerbault), BBRSC, 2014–
 2019 (Barr, Dalby, Draper, Dwek, Volpi, Zariwala), BHF 2014- (Barr), Biochemical Society -
 Eric Reid Fund for Methodology, 2016– (Dwek), Brain Research UK, 2019 (Uysal-Onganer),
 Breast Cancer Now, 2016–2018 (Dwek, Montano), British Council Newton Fund, 2018 (Lewis),
 DEFRA, 2015 (Draper), DFG, Germany, 2015 (Roy), Diabetes UK, 2017– (Zariwala), EPSRC,
 2014– (Dalby, Dwek, Roy), ESRC, 2016- (Draper, Ridge), EU Policy Evaluation Network, 2017
 (Draper), FWF, Austria, 2014 (Roy), Glasgow Children's Hospital Charity, 2016 (Draper), Inserm
 – Département de l'Evaluation et du Suivi des Programmes - Modèles Expérimentaux, 2018-
 (Dwek), Leverhulme Trust, 2016 (Dartnell), MRC, 2014– (Barr, Elliott, Dwek), National Science
 and Research Centre, France, 2018 (Dwek), National Institute for Health Research, 2014–
 (Ridge), National Science Center, Poland, 2018 (Dwek), Natural Sciences and Engineering
 Research Council of Canada 2017, 2018 (Lewis), NSFC, China, 2014 (Roy), Royal Academy of
 Engineering, 2018 (Roy), Royal Tropical Institute, Amsterdam, 2016 (Draper), Telethon, Italy,
 2015 (Volpi), U.K. Space Agency, Aurora grant 2014– (Dartnell), U.K. Space Agency, Aurora
 grant, 2018– (Dartnell), University of Sharjah - United Arab Emirates, 2018 (Dwek), Wellcome,
 2015–2020 (Bell, Dwek, V. Patel, Volpi).

 Visiting Research Fellows: Honorary Senior Research Assistant, University College London
 (Gerbault), Honorary Senior Research Fellow and Lecturer UCL, Great Ormond Street Institute
 of Child Health (Montano), Honorary Visiting Scientist Imperial College, London (Montano),
 Visiting Fellow in Molecular Cytogenetics, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford
 (Volpi).

 COLLABORATION AND INTEGRATION WITH PUBLIC BODIES:


                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NHS AND SOCIAL CARE: National Institute of Clinical & Healthcare Excellence (NICE): 1st U.K.
 wide guidance on managing and treating depression in adults and featured in the updated edition:
 National Clinical Practice Guideline 90, published by The British Psychological Society and The
 Royal College of Psychiatrists (Ridge). Additionally, featured in the November 2020 NICE Myalgic
 encephalomyelitis (or encephalopathy)/chronic fatigue syndrome evidence reviews for the non-
 pharmacological treatment of CFS/ME. Guy’s & St Thomas’s NHS Trust: Developed intensive
 resilience training programmes for mental wellbeing of medical practitioners and workshops for
 doctors to help them better cope and perform safely and competently under stress (Ridge). NHS
 England Outcomes Framework Development Group: Committee Member (Polley), 2017–2018.
 North West London NHS Clinical Commissioning Group: Design and implementation of £50M
 Social Prescribing Strategy (Polley), Jan–Oct 2019. Kensington & Chelsea Clinical
 Commissioning Group: Chair, Yoga for Health (Polley), July 2017–2019. 55 NHS Hospitals:
 DietCompLyf Study (Dwek), 2012–ongoing.

 GOVERNMENT ADVISORY BODIES: Greater London Authority: Member of Evaluation Sub-
 committee for development of Social Prescribing Strategy for the Mayor of London (Polley), April
 2018 onwards. Social Prescribing Youth Network: Chair of Expert Advisory Group (Polley), Oct
 2018–ongoing. Social Science Research Committee. A Scientific Advisory Committee to the UK
 Food Standards Agency: Expert Member (Draper), 2011–2018. National Centre for Social
 Statistics: (Draper), 2015–ongoing. UK BioBank: (Bell, Dwek, Thomas), 2014–ongoing. Pirbright
 Institute: (Dalby), 2015–ongoing. The MARCH Network. (Polley), 2018–ongoing. Wellcome
 Trust. Physiology in Health & Disease Expert Review Group (ERG 6): (Polley), 2016–2020.

 SPECIALIST WORKSHOPS: Institute of Biomedical Sciences (IBMS) London Region Cellular
 Pathology Discussion Group: convenes 4-5 evenings per year, at least one of which is hosted on
 the Fitzrovia campus. “Issues with Tissues” is a one-day annual conference, covering a range of
 themed subjects encompassing research, applied biomedical science and workshops. The annual
 event is hosted at the Marylebone campus and attracts up to 300 delegates with a national and
 international reach. The annual conference is supported by companies including Agilent,
 AnatoPath, Biocartis, CellPath, Histocyte Laboratories, and Roche.

 COLLABORATIONS WITH INDUSTRIAL PARTNERS: AInostics (UK): development of machine-
 learning models for the “opportunistic” analysis of standard clinical MR images.
 AMRA (Sweden): development of new standard for quantitative imaging in diabetes and
 sarcopenia. Attana AG, (Sweden): Development of methods to allow interaction kinetics between
 drugs and cancer cell surfaces. Calico (USA): development and implementation of AI based
 pipeline for the large-scale MR image analysis of UK Biobank. GW Pharma (UK): Confidential –
 Assessment of functionality of novel products. HerbaLife (USA): Confidential – Assessment of
 functionality of novel products. Kirkstall (UK): Development of fluid flow into 3D models of solid
 cancers. Perspectum (UK): Development of quantitative imaging methodology for assessment of
 liver function in health and disease, including longterm-COVID19 effects. Pukka Ltd (UK):
 Confidential – Assessment of functionality of novel products. PhytoQuest (UK): Confidential –
 Assessment of glycosidase inhibitors as anti-cancer drugs. Select Research: Development and
 implementation of App for individual and large-scale body composition assessment and tracking
 (e-Health). Sun Tan (Taiwan): Confidential – Assessment of functionality of novel products.

 PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT:

 The founding ethos of the University was to share knowledge and research in the arts and
 sciences with the public, and throughout this period the School has undertaken significant public
 engagement activities linked to our research activities. These are broadly grouped into 4 areas,
 reflecting different stakeholders and area of impact:

 1. YOUNG PEOPLE: Obesity Day Event: (Volpi) 2016 onwards. School Science Symposium:
    (Thomas) 2016 onwards. Interactive Medical Research Workshops: (Volpi) 2017 onwards.
    Nuffield Foundation Medical Research placements: (Dwek, Robertson) 2016 onwards.
    Problem-Based Learning Workshops: (Dartnell) 2019.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT: New Scientist Expo: (Dwek, Elliott, Smith) 2017. Cheltenham
    Science Festival: (Bell, Dartnell) 2016/2017/2019. SparkLab Washington DC: (Lewis)
    2018/2019. Hong Kong 'Science Alive Festival: (Dartnell) 2017 (Dartnell). KAUST, Saudi
    Arabia: (Dartnell). 2016. Tate Modern on use of plastics: (Roy) 2018. ikJi Festival, Korea:
    (Dartnell), 2016. British Council Mauritius: (Dartnell) 2017 lecture tour Hay Festival: (Dartnell)
    2019. Against Breast Cancer Charity Open Days for Public Awareness (Dwek, Robertson)
    2018. York Festival of Ideas: (Dartnell) 2019.

 3. PUBLIC POLICY: Business Women from the City of London Event and for Europa DONNA
    UK, House of Lords: (Montano) 2018. Executive member of Europa DONNA UK at the Royal
    Society of Medicine: (Montano). STEM for Britain: (Zariwala) 2017. STEM Ambassadors:
    (Dwek, McCormick, Uysal Onganer, Zariwala) 2016 onwards.

 4. BEYOND THE LECTURE THEATRE: we have taken our scientific research endeavours and
    discussion beyond the normal constraints of public engagement. Funzing and Nerd Nite:
    (Chong) 2019. Pub PhD London, PhD students presenting and discussing their work away
    from lecture theatres 2017 onwards. Street Science (Thomas) 2016

 MEDIA: Our research has generated a great deal of interest, nationally and internationally,
 appearing frequently in the printed press as well as visual and social media. It has featured in
 News items as well as popular science/health programs and articles, including:

 •   PRINTED PRESS: BBC Sky at Night magazine: (Dartnell) monthly column. Daily Mail:
     (Thomas) 2015; Economist: (Polley) 2018. Evening Standard: (Dartnell) 2019. Express:
     (Bell, Dartnell, Dwek) 2015, 2019. Guardian/Observer: (Ridge) 2015, (Dartnell) 2019).
     Handelsblatt: (Thomas, Bell) 2016. Huffington Post: (Roy) 2018. Independent, (Chong,
     Ridge) 2017, (Dartnell) 2019. International Business News: (Chong) 2017. Metro: (Chong,
     Dartnell) 2017, 2019. New Scientist: (Dartnell, Dwek) 2019. New Zealand Herald: (Chong)
     2017. Saga Magazine: (Dwek, Polley) 2018. Sun: (Chong) 2017. Telegraph: (Dwek) 2015,
     (Bell, Ridge) 2017. Times of Malta: (Chong) 2018. Wall Street Journal: (Chong) 2015.

 •   TELEVISION: BBC-1: “How to Stay Young” 2016 (Bell). BBC2: “Twinstitute” 2019 (Elliott).
     BBC News: 2017, 2018, 2020 (Elliott, McCormick) “Coronavirus: How to wash your hands”
     (McCormick). BBC Royal Institution Christmas Lecture: 2016 (Elliott). Channel 4: “How to
     lose weight well” 2017, 2018 (Elliott, Bell, V. Patel). ITV: “100 Years Younger” 2017, 2018
     (Elliott). ITV: “Good Morning Britain”, 2017 (Elliott); ITV: 2019 (Polley).

 •   RADIO: Radio-1: 2016 (Elliott). Radio-4: 2018 (Polley). Radio Canada BC: 2018 (Polley).
     BBC-3 Counties Radio: 2017 (Uysal-Onganer). BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour: 2015 (Dwek).

 •   SOCIAL MEDIA: The Conversation: 2017/2018 (Chong, Elliott, Mohammed, Uysal-
     Onganer). Channel News Asia: 2019 (Chong). Daily Mail Online: 2015 (Dwek). King’s Fund
     Webinar: “Social prescribing”, 2018 (Polley). LifeScience: 2015 (Chong). Runnersworld:
     “Hidden fat and how to beat it” 2016 (Bell). TEDx Talk: “Oxygen and Life” 2017 (Elliott).
     UKHealthRadio: 2018 (Polley). YouTube Series: “Brothers do Science” 2017 (Elliott). UK
     Biobank: “Imaging the body” 2016 (Bell).




                                                                                              Page 18
