Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: A-02 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


We are motivated by a strong desire to conduct world leading research to improve the health and
wellbeing of the population. We bring a diverse range of methodological expertise located in one
large department to work alongside practitioners and users with direct experience of public health
and health care. We collaborate successfully with disciplines across the University and with
national and international researchers to address the big challenges facing health systems around
the world. Our close and continuous engagement with stakeholders ensures our research is driven
by the needs of policymakers, practitioners, and service users.

We have achieved sustained growth in research activity with research income increasing by
74% from £40.5m in REF2014 to £70.4m in this assessment period. We have consistently
performed well in national competitions, winning major grants for large programmes of work,
including ScHARR’s NICE Technology Assessment Group (ScHARR-TAG), DHSC Economic
Evaluation Policy Research Unit (EEPRU), NIHR’s School of Public Health (SPHR), Yorkshire and
Humber Applied Health Research Consortium (ARC Y&H), Research Design Service for Yorkshire
and the Humber (RDS Y&H) and MRC System-science Informed Public Health Economic
Research (SIPHER).

A distinctive feature has been the growth in knowledge exchange (KE), with annual income
increasing to £2m from a combination of public and private sources, including 32 projects with
Public Health England (PHE). PhDs awarded grew by 150% from 44 in REF2014 to 110 for this
assessment period. Our PhD programme includes the prestigious Wellcome Doctoral Training
Centre (DTC) in Public Health Economics and Decision Science whose renewal increased overall
numbers to 35. During this time, we have had our Athena SWAN Silver Award renewed,
recognising the importance we place on equality, diversity, and inclusion.

1.1 Research structure

This submission brings together expertise in four academic sections of the School of Health and
Related Research (ScHARR), in the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health:

   •   Design Trials and Statistics

   •   Health Economics and Decision Science

   •   Health Services Research

   •   Public Health.

Our staff work together across the School in research centres to address complex challenges
around our core research themes of ‘Alcohol Policy’, ‘Urgent and Emergency Care’, ‘Clinical Trials’,
‘Health Technology Assessment’, ‘Global Health’, ‘Public Health’ (includes health equity and
inclusion, health and place, food and nutrition), ‘Mental Health’, ‘Primary Care’, ‘Measuring and
Valuing Health’ and ‘Complex Interventions’.




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Our achievements

1) Applied clinical research: key examples of our achievements include the growing CTRU, CURE
and building clinical research capability in Sheffield:

   •   Clinical Trials Research Unit (CTRU) is an NIHR-funded registered trials unit growing
       from 37 to 67 staff over the assessment period with 39 studies including 36 CTRU-led trials
       funded from NIHR HTA, NIHR Public Health Research, Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB)
       and the MRC. Our research has delivered clinically important findings such as increasing
       word finding in people with aphasia after stroke (BiG Cactus; Lancet Neurology) and
       demonstrating results for diaphragm pacing for motor neurone disease and amyotrophic
       lateral sclerosis (MND/ALS) patients adopted by policy makers (Dipals impact case study).
       With the Medical Statistics group it has pioneered the development of methods for the
       reporting of adaptive designs for clinical trials. To support growth and diversification in
       clinical trials across Sheffield it has been agreed to fund three new posts over the next five
       years (one of which has been appointed).

   •   Centre for Urgent and Emergency Care (CURE) is the largest of its kind in the country
       with three clinical professors and securing over £10.2m during this assessment period. In
       close collaboration with the emergency department of the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals
       Trust, the Yorkshire Ambulance Service locally and emergency and urgent care services
       nationally, its work improves the delivery of care across the urgent and emergency system.
       Key work areas include performance metrics, waiting times and risk-adjusted mortality
       rates, methods for managing demand for urgent care, such as walk in centres, NHS 111
       and reducing avoidable admissions, and delivery of specialist emergency care. Their
       research has also had a substantial NHS policy impact through work on ambulance
       performance measurement and standards (PGfAR PHoEBE project and NHS England
       Ambulance Response Programme, Nicholl, and Booth). Two current NIHR funded studies
       in progress are developing pre-hospital assessment or triage tools to help paramedics
       identify patients with major trauma (MaTTS) and sepsis (PHEWS).

   •   Building capacity in applied clinical research: the Clinical Research Academy was
       established to support Sheffield to build capacity to undertake high quality applied clinical
       research, with an expected increase in grant capture from the NIHR and other national peer
       reviewed funding programmes. Since 2015 we have collaborated with local NHS Trusts to
       support 15 aspiring clinical academics to spend a day per week in ScHARR. A total of 29
       full research applications were submitted resulting in 22 successful awards, 10 as lead
       (including two HTA and one EME) and 11 as co-applicant (including one HTA, one HS&DR,
       two EME and three RfPB) generating 97 journal articles. The successful bids included two
       NIHR EME awards (£2.3m, Snowden and £2.5m, Lobo).

2) Developed the profile and impact of public health research: the growth in public health
research is exemplified by SARG, SIPHER and the Evidence Synthesis Centre.

   •   Sheffield Alcohol Research Group (SARG) is an internationally leading centre for policy,
       epidemiological and economic research on alcohol with income of £7.6m, and an excellent
       example of how we work across disciplines (health economics and public health). The
       growing impact of SARG is demonstrated by its alcohol policy analyses, e.g. minimum
       pricing in Scotland (extended to cover the remainder of the UK, Australia, New Zealand and
       Canada) and the recent revision to drinking guidelines in the UK and Australia, as well as in
       its expansion from 12 staff and PGR students in 2014 to 28 in 2020. The Vice-Chancellor’s
       Strategic Development Fund invested in a research manager to support developing their

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       research strategy, external profile and moving forward, a Northern Alcohol Research
       collaboration (a network of academics, practitioners, and policymakers). We have also
       been studying the impact of the pandemic on specialist alcohol services (Holmes).

   •   Systems Science in Public Health and Health Economics Research (SIPHER) is a
       major investment (£5m) by the UK Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP). Led by
       ScHARR, it brings together researchers across six universities, three government partners
       at local, regional, and national level, and ten practice partner organisations. It is unique in
       assembling a broad set of skills (mathematical modelling, mixed methods research, data
       analytics, health economics) in an ambitious co-produced programme to evaluate
       interventions in four policy areas on health, well-being and inequalities.

   •   Evidence synthesis work funded since 2014 by NIHR to undertake projects to directly
       address critical priorities of policymakers via the PH Review Team and Health Services &
       Delivery Evidence Synthesis Centre. It uses innovative approaches to public involvement
       and co-production of outputs with a range of stakeholders, e.g. reviews of gambling-related
       harm and public health impacts of extending working lives, areas where recent trends may
       have a substantial impact on population health and inequalities in the absence of evidence-
       based interventions to mitigate future harm. In relation to COVID-19, we have contributed to
       Cochrane reviews on infection control (Booth), and ethical frameworks for COVID-19
       testing (Dawson).

3) Internationalised our research: we have internationalised our research and raised its profile
around the world through dissemination, translation, and adaptation to other settings. This is
reflected in our research awards involving collaborators from 33 other countries and 132
international institutions. One third of our totals outputs in this assessment period have
international co-authors across 95 countries. There have also been 102 international KE projects
completed or are ongoing. ECRs are supported to develop plans to enhance the international
reach of their research with funding to develop and participate in collaborations with international
partners.

4) Advanced methods research: the continued advancement of methods ensures our work is
progressive and provides important staff development opportunities:

   •   Measuring and valuing health includes work on preference-based measures for
       calculating Quality Adjusted Life Years (e.g. valuation of EQ-5D, a new version of SF-6D),
       and developing condition specific measures and mapping between measures for use in
       economic evaluation (e.g. EQ-5D-5L to 3L mapping recommended by NICE). Seven new
       patient reported outcome measures have been developed including the Recovering Quality
       of Life (ReQoL) in mental health with over 150 free licenses granted to NHS users. Our
       staff have also led influential International Society for Pharmacoeconomic Outcomes and
       Research (ISPOR) task forces in three areas: ‘Using utilities in CE models’ (Brazier, 2019);
       ‘Mapping studies’ (Wailoo, 2017); ‘Multi criteria decision analysis’ (Thokala, 2014).

   •   Statistics: we have expertise in the use of Bayesian statistics in health economics
       (CHEBS, Director: Stevens). The analysis and presentation of hospital mortality data
       resulted in an impact case study (Mortality Review). Our researchers have also led on the
       MRC guidance for benefit risk assessment and Consolidated Standards for Reporting Trials
       (CONSORT) guideline for adaptive designs (Dimairo). Since 2014 we have co-written MRC
       guidance for quantifying effects sizes (Julious, Walters) and placebo surgery trials (Nicholl)
       and pioneering methods for computing value of information measures where this has


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       previously been infeasible, including a major contribution to the 2020 ISPOR Task force on
       Value of Information (Strong).

   •   Public health economics - ScHARR is world leading (with colleagues in the Engineering
       faculty) in modelling complex behaviours to explore the impact of interventions in public
       health for economic evaluation. Wellcome funded, and renewed, the first DTC in Public
       Health Economics and Decision Science (2016, 2020). The UKPRP funded SIPHER (see
       above) a hugely ambitious embedded programme of work with devolved local governments
       examining the complex interactions between policies and public health and the
       SPECTRUM programme on the activities of 'unhealthy commodities industries' focusing on
       health and economic impacts of tobacco and alcohol (Brennan). Our developments include
       novel methods for modelling social systems using computationally intensive agent-based
       simulations during the United States NIH-funded CASCADE Programme (Brennan, Strong,
       Vu).

   •   Complex interventions: we led the development of methods to evaluate complex
       interventions, including the publication of MRC-funded guidance on how to develop
       complex interventions (O’Cathain, 2019), co-authored highly cited MRC guidance on
       process evaluation (over 1,400 citations since 2015), published widely on the use of
       qualitative research with RCTs and co-authored new MRC-funded guidance on adapting
       complex interventions.

   •   COVID-19 had a major impact on priorities for, and delivery of, health research. We
       reorganised our research priorities to address the challenge of the pandemic, drawing upon
       our specific areas of expertise in analysis of large datasets, evidence synthesis, emergency
       department research and global health research. We have played an integral part in the
       PRIEST study - an observational cohort study to evaluate existing and develop new triage
       tools for patients attending the emergency department with suspected infection, and one of
       the NIHR COVID-19 priority studies. We have also examined the impact of the pandemic
       on modern slavery (Such).

1.3 Our strategic objectives

1) Develop capacity in health data analytics/informatics: we invested in a Chair in Health Data
Analytics in 2018 (Bath), held jointly with the Information School to drive forward the development
of advanced analytical skills capability and capacity, leading a cross-University group on Health
Data Science and Analytics. This group informs the development of a secure and safe research
data infrastructure facility for the University, which will meet our need for health research data
storage. This benefits the whole School, including the Wellcome DTC in Public Health Economics
and Decision Science, analysis of admissions data in emergency care (CURE) and public health
research (e.g. SIPHER).

Mason and Bath have key roles in the Better Care Northern Partnership (2020-23), funded by HDR
UK which we plan to use to create further opportunities for development in this area. An NIHR
grant for a project looking at artificial intelligence for multiple long-term conditions is a recent
success. Going forward a senior lecturer is to be appointed to enhance our capability to access
and analyse large, linked NHS and population-level datasets for undertaking interdisciplinary
clinical, health services and public health research.

2) Maximise links with the University’s Flagship Institutes: our staff are developing new
collaborative research programmes as partners in two of the University's Flagships (see REF5a),
launched in 2019 - Healthy Lifespan Institute (Goyder and Brennan) and the Institute for

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sustainable Food (Caton is associate director and co-lead of the ‘Food, Sustainability and Health’
pillar). Funding has been secured for projects focusing on the dual burden of disease in China
(BBSRC/GCRF), childhood obesity in Ghana (GCRF) and understanding the benefits of home-
grown food (EPSRC). These will help address major public health challenges utilising our public
health, HTA and health economics experts with skills in complex systems science and
mathematical/computational modelling. We will also harness mixed methods research, with the aim
of expanding understanding of the complex mechanisms that drive population health.

3) Develop mental health research into local and national priorities: mental health is a national
priority and there is a recognition of underinvestment in infrastructure in the North of England for
conducting mental health research. Our aspiration is to grow mental health research alongside
related themes, such as urgent and emergency care, alcohol, gambling, and physical activity. We
have an agreement with our local Mental Health Trust to establish the Sheffield Mental Health
Collaborative (together with service users and local charities), to provide the support and capacity
to increase NHS mental health research. The Trust has agreed to fund a researcher to develop
mental health grant writing (0.6 FTE) and the University will fund an additional clinical senior
lecturer.

4) Developing KE activities including our response to the industrial strategy challenge: our
KE strategy for 2018-23 focuses on further developing KE partnerships with external global and
national stakeholders and maximising the interplay of our high-impact research and KE activities.
For example, we are looking to develop a KE-specific strategy alongside the investment in health
data analytics/informatics and public health economic modelling. We will use our expertise from
previous KE with stakeholders to respond to the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. An approved
investment in two part-time deputy director posts enables the KE Director to focus on developing
strategic involvement and further increase our research with private and public sector partners.

1.4 Enabling impact

Having a positive impact on health and health services has been the raison d'etre of ScHARR
since it was founded 26 years ago. We have been at the forefront of the impact delivery for many
years investing in resources before REF2014 to develop an impact infrastructure. An Impact
Strategy Group facilitates activities, with an Impact Director to provide senior professorial
leadership, supported by a deputy. The group provides coordination and implements our plans,
working closely with the Faculty impact team.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future strategy for impact



      Dialogue and                                                       Improving
                                    Stimulating public
   interaction with key                                              accessibility of our
                                       engagement
       stakeholders                                                       research




                     Systematically                     Using KE to
                    analysing impact                  increase impact




                 Sharing knowledge and expertise about impact


Dialogue and interaction with key stakeholders: we will continue to build upon and sustain our
interactions with key stakeholders and partnerships to ensure research is relevant to their priorities.
For example, the NIHR YH ARC has a strong focus on co-design and engagement with many
impacts demonstrated locally, nationally and internationally in our impact and legacy brochure. We
have adopted a co-design approach with integrated knowledge mobilisation throughout the
research cycle. This together with our work on actionable tools facilitates research evidence
implementation through policy and practice. The NIHR RDS YH has co-led events and workshops
with the NIHR Impact Lead, focusing on how public involvement can be utilised to maximise impact
in research. Our model of collaborative research explicitly responds to knowledge users’ needs in
order to produce research findings that are useful, usable and used. For example development of
the ReQoL mental health measure (Brit J Psychiatry) was supported by input from 75 service users
ensuring its acceptability. We share decision-making between knowledge users and researchers,
with mutual learning and respect.

Stimulating public engagement with research: we have contributed to opportunities offered
through the University’s Partnerships and Regional Engagement programme including creative
exhibitions and workshops for the Festival of the Mind and International Clinical Trials Day, which
have engaged more than 400,000 members of the public in recent years. We have launched a
series of monthly online mini master classes on current health research topics to discuss issues
with a wider audience. We have proactively sought opportunities to stimulate engagement with
parliamentary routes to ensure that our research can be utilised to inform policy changes. This
includes liaison with the UK Parliament Knowledge Exchange Unit to share opportunities for
involvement and training, and to formulate responses to Select Committee and All-Party
Parliamentary Groups enquiries (e.g. SARG, CURE). We have also initiated a parliamentary
launch of research findings from the ReQoL programme.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Improving the accessibility of our research: we have worked with filmmakers to create videos
and a documentary “Making a Difference” detailing our work in the NIHR CLAHRC YH and our
impact locally, nationally and internationally.

Using KE to increase the impact of our work: we promote the impact of our work through
substantial and vibrant KE activities led by an academic director and their KE business team that
supports the procurement of public/private sector research opportunities from proposal
development to contract award and management. We have a networking presence at key
conferences to promote the impact of our work.

Systematically analysing the impact of our research: we will ensure systematic collation of
evidence of impact to allow us to optimise the impact of future research. This evidence gathering
will focus on our ongoing research themes and new priority areas and may include the following:
the identification of guidelines drawing upon our research; the use of routine NHS and national
audit data to demonstrate impact on health services; and the use of economic modelling to
estimate the health gains and cost savings associated with our research.

Sharing knowledge and expertise about impact: we will continue to develop our knowledge
around research impact pathways and assessment and share knowledge and practice.

Submitted impact case studies

All of our impact case studies are proven examples of co-production and integrated knowledge
mobilisation, which are based on research arising from ongoing interactions with key stakeholders,
including members of the public who have been involved in the design, delivery and management
of our research.

 Case study                                       Stakeholder engagement
 Troponin testing: reducing hospital admissions   From working with clinicians and implemented
 for suspected heart attack                       through working with NICE Diagnostic Group
 Mortality review: Using mortality review         Developed with DHSC and implanted by
 methods to improve care                          working with RCP and Y&H Academic health
                                                  Sciences
 Newborn screening: Changing national policy      From a close working relationship with the UK
 to expand the newborn bloodspot screening        National Screening Committee, clinicians and
 programme and to deliver economic benefits       the CLAHRC
 Cancer screening: Refining the national bowel    Working closely with the DHSC and the UK
 cancer screening programme to optimise           National Screening Committee to inform policy
 population outcomes                              decisions and implementation of bowel cancer
                                                  screening.
 Diabetes prevention: Shaping policy and          Arose through close working with NHS
 implementation for Type 2 Diabetes prevention    England and PHE to determine the cost-
 in the UK                                        effectiveness and effectiveness of the NHS
                                                  Diabetes Prevention Programme (DPP).
 DiPALS: Stopping the use of diaphragm            From collaborations with clinicians and NHS
 pacing in MND/ALS patients                       and directly resulted in halting/no-adoption of
                                                  diaphragm pacing (DPS) in ALS/MND in the
                                                  UK, Europe, and Canada




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.5 Open research environment

We take our responsibility to ensure our research is open and reproducible seriously, working with
University initiatives such as the Reproducibility Network. To ensure maximum discoverability of
our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with
Leeds and York (green route). The 2,895 outputs deposited over this assessment period were
downloaded 305,000 times. This is our preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities
regardless of available funding; we also publish outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where
required for funder compliance.

We created a group to explore avenues to open data that has led to, for example, the sharing of
code using GitHub (Gillespie and Angus; Strong); sharing data from the PRIEST study (22,445
patients with suspected COVID-19) on the University’s open data repository (ORDA); and data
from Lifestyle Matters (randomised controlled trial of 288 patients evaluating an occupational
therapy based intervention in people aged 65 years) on the UK Data Service repository.

We have increased our commitment to sharing non-journal outputs such as research protocols,
posters, datasets, and grey literature on ORDA, which has led to around 39,000 views and 13,000
downloads. We have made our outcomes measures and their scoring algorithms accessible via a
University licensing site. These are free to academics and public sector institutions. Over 2,000
licenses have been issued for SF-6D and more than 200 for ReQoL. Where Information
Governance arrangements allow, we make models publicly available via the open-access RShiny
platform (e.g. vascular service, SAVI, Park Run) including access to the open-source code-base
(e.g. SAVI).

Throughout this assessment period, we have hosted seminars, workshops and bite-size sessions
on open data and sharing practices, research communications and open access, ensuring that all
staff are knowledgeable of the importance of open research. We have hosted events as part of
Open Access Week with showings of ‘Paywall the Movie’ along with Q&A sessions with University
open research professionals.

1.6 Research integrity

Ensuring trust and confidence in the methods used and the findings of our research is fundamental
to our reputation – we expect high professional standards from our research staff and ensure that
the training and development opportunities that we offer facilitate this. We also ensure that our
PGRs are accessing institutional training on research ethics and generating a data management
plan for their research. We developed a ‘Working Better Together’ initiative, which specifies
expected behaviours in five domains, including ‘Encouraging a Culture of Integrity’.

Our Research Ethics Committee and Information Governance Committee have responsibility for
developing and implementing local policies (based on comprehensive University policies),
including delivering and ensuring participation in dedicated training, and identifying, investigating
and addressing breaches, should these occur. Our Research Committee promotes a positive
research integrity culture, seeking to build on existing standards, including ‘Working Better
Together’. They agreed a set of research integrity values and are working across the School to
promote them. This includes best practice in research governance, and ethical approaches to
authorship, inclusion, and openness, all of which are closely aligned to our core values and
enshrined in our research strategy.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


ScHARR is a collegial and supportive place to work and our success lies in our people. Enshrined
in our vision is to be a strong, diverse, enterprising, and financially secure School with world-
leading research groups; with equal opportunities for recognition, reward, and progression for all
staff whatever their grade or role. We regularly review our staff development strategy with all staff
and management.

2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

We focus growth and recruitment in our strategic areas, e.g. during this assessment period we
established and recruited to professorial posts in health econometrics, applied health data
analytics, assistive technology and mental health. We are a research focussed department, with no
undergraduate programmes but a thriving postgraduate taught (PGT) and research (PGR)
community. Our environment is tailored to the achievement of research excellence and our staffing
strategy reflects this.

   •   90 submitted Category A staff (78.19 FTE) of which 43 have teaching and research
       contracts (37.35 FTE) and 47 research-specialist (40.84 FTE).

   •   38 professors and readers, of which four are research-specialist, and 20 (53%) aged under
       55.

   •   24 (92%) senior research fellows are aged under 55.

Many of our research-specialist staff joined us as ECRs and have since successfully developed an
independent research career. ScHARR is seen as an attractive place to work and we can
demonstrate promotion of staff at all grades with 10 to professor, 10 to reader, 30 to senior
lecturer/senior research fellow, and 31 to lecturer/research fellow from postdoctoral. We have also
supported staff to extend or expand their roles and move from professional services to research
contracts. We have examples of staff who joined us as ECRs and have progressed to professor
(Tappenden, Wailoo, Cooper, Baird).

We have a thriving group of clinical academics who are jointly funded with health and social care
organisations to provide important links with practitioners and policymakers, help to ensure the
clinical relevance of our research, and promote impact. We also support clinical academic training,
with NIHR-funded clinical lecturers, doctoral fellows, and academic clinical fellows. CURE is the
leading national clinical academic centre for emergency medicine, with two NIHR Senior
Investigators (out of three nationwide), three professors and two clinical lecturers.

2.2 Developing our staff (including ECRs)

We aim to provide a coherent and progressive training programme for all. As a result, our research
specialist staff have been hugely successful over the years in terms of authoring peer-reviewed
journals, winning competitive grants, and gaining promotion. Over half of submitted staff are
externally funded independent researchers, reflecting the value we place on their contribution.

We have a joined-up staff development strategy, linking training and personal development,
including the Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS), staff induction, mentoring, line
management and reward and promotion processes. We support the institutional implementation of
the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure: how we operationalise the Concordat

   Ensuring a supportive and inclusive research culture
      • ScHARR Researchers Group
      • Working Better Together - developing self and others
      • Flexible working for all staff
      • Writing support


             Ensuring researchers are recruited, employed, and managed to recognise
             their value and contribution
                • Bespoke section level induction
                • Objective setting with regular reviews
                • Use of open-ended contracts for all researchers where possible
                • Reward and recognition for research and impact


 Enabling researchers to reach their full potential
    • ScHARR and Faculty mentoring
    • Academic Career Pathways route for research specialist staff
    • Access to training and development funds
    • Key leadership roles open to all staff


Ensuring a supportive and inclusive research culture. Our line management culture and staff
review processes ensure that institutional policies and practices are adhered to. Our ‘Working
Better Together’ initiative (see 2.5 below) has focused on support for all staff, particularly around
the integration of research-specialists, to encourage a positive, supportive culture and to tackle
potential inappropriate behaviours as well as providing appropriate support for those reporting
issues. The new behaviour around development of self and others’ was generated primarily by
research staff comments in the staff survey, and enshrines the importance of ensuring that staff
can develop. We schedule writing weeks for all staff in January and July and Write Club sessions
are offered every month, which attract mainly female ECRs. Courses on ‘How to write a Paper’ are
held regularly and open to all.

Ensuring researchers are recruited, employed, and managed under conditions that
recognise and value their contributions. We have an effective induction programme with a
buddy system for new staff to ensure that they are integrated and aware of relevant policies and
practices. Although there is no formal probation for research-specialist staff as there is for T&R
staff, they set objectives at the start of employment which are followed-up regularly by their line
manager, and formally through the mid-year and annual SRDS. We recommend that all research
staff consider using a bespoke ECR form for their SRDS, as this ensures consideration both of
their career development aims and their contribution in role.

We understand that precarity of employment is a significant stressor for our externally funded
research specialists and have put in place mechanisms to increase job security through internal
redeployment processes and using open-ended contracts to employ researchers wherever
feasible. We have made considerable progress in moving staff to open-ended contracts, with the
proportion increasing from 58% in 2013 to 79% in 2020 across all research fellow posts and above.
The remainder are those who have held their contract for fewer than three years, the point at which
fixed-term contracts are reviewed.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We actively promote the University’s Reward and Recognition Scheme amongst staff. This
recognises positive achievements and contributions through modest quick turnaround financial and
other awards, in addition to promotions and accelerated pay increases. The awards provide a
flexible, responsive and transparent means of recognising and rewarding staff contribution. There
have been 365 successful nominations since August 2017 (earliest data available) to 164
individuals.

Enabling researchers to develop their full potential by supporting their professional and
career development. We are very actively involved in the University formal mentoring
programmes, for example the ‘Think Ahead’ programme, enhanced by offering new staff the option
of a mentor during induction.

We supplement University and Faculty staff development provision by providing training and
development funds to enable all staff to attend courses, conferences, and meetings. ECRs are
particularly encouraged to contribute to conferences, with our travel fund aimed primarily at them.
Out of 176 grants, 73 (40%) were for ECRs, totalling >£48k since the fund was established in
2013. One example of success was an application to GCRF QR pump-priming awards. We
encourage and support junior staff in developing successful bids with the use of a ‘bid kit’, and
training on writing and costing grant applications. There are a wide range of University training
opportunities available and weekly bitesize lunchtime sessions cover research-specific topics such
as managing research data, research ethics and GDPR, altmetrics and communication and
evidence reviews. In 2017, we successfully obtained funding from MRC to host one of ten national
Skills Development Fellowship Programmes - in ‘Population Health Systems Science and Decision
Modelling’ (PI Brazier). This currently supports three postdoctoral fellows to develop new skills in
advanced quantitative methods.

Research-specialist staff undertake key management and leadership roles, with their time
recognised through the Workload Allocation Model (WAM) and funded where appropriate. These
roles provide excellent opportunities for professional development and we advertise them openly
and encourage staff at all career stages to apply.

We conduct an annual survey to monitor staff satisfaction and identify any issues that are affecting
staff development or performance. The Executive Group responded to the results of both this and
the University survey with a ‘this is what you said and this is what we did/will do’ email to all staff.
We identify staff development issues and appropriate remedial actions through additional
questions in our annual staff survey and identify common areas where training or support for
development is required.

2.3 Supporting and rewarding research and impact

Our research is undertaken primarily with the aim of having an impact on health policy and
practice. Making a positive impact is part of our culture. We have a variety of ways of engaging and
rewarding researchers in both research and impact related activities. The most explicit way is
through the research criteria in the University’s ‘Academic Career Pathways’ (income, PGR
supervision and impact – see REF5a), the framework for driving promotions and accelerated
increments (including professorial pay review) and is used to structure annual staff appraisal.

We draw upon University-wide HEIF funding, and public engagement funds to facilitate routes and
activities to build impact. We recognise impact activities (both activities and membership of our
Impact Strategy Group) through the WAM. Staff can use the travel fund to support impact-related
activities. We provide on-going support and guidance through our Impact Strategy Group, including
workshops, updates and one-to-one support.

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Study leave is accessible for all research active staff, regardless of contract type. Staff can apply
for one semester of study leave for each completed period of seven semesters' service. In this
assessment period 22 staff have taken study leave.

2.4 Research students

Over the assessment period, we have delivered on our objective to increase PGR numbers, with
annual new registrations now averaging just over 20 per annum and with a cohort of 88 students.
The number of doctoral degrees awarded increased by 150% from 48 in REF2014 to 110. We host
a Wellcome Trust DTC for Public Health Economics and Decision Science (7 students p.a.), the
winning (2015) and renewal (2019) of which was a key part of our strategy to increase PGR
numbers. It is highly prestigious and attracts excellent quality applicants. Other funders, such as
NIHR and MRC, have supported our PGRs across a range of pre- (and post-) doctoral schemes
including NIHR Research Methods (4), NIHR Doctoral Fellowships (10), NIHR Clinical Doctoral
Fellowships (1). In addition, the University and Faculty funded a further nine studentships in open
competition and ScHARR supported another 15, plus 7 fee waivers. Two PhD studentships have
been match-funded by industry.

Our future PGR recruitment strategy is driven by our priority research areas, hence our strategic
exploration of funding through Wellcome. In addition to NIHR and UKRI funding we plan to explore
opportunities with 11 industrial partners with whom we have framework or master agreements. To
achieve our ambition of growing our key research theme teams we aim to further increase PGR
numbers and to continue to attract high-calibre candidates by offering studentships in our core
research programmes (e.g. two each for EEPRU, ARC, SIPHER). To ensure transparency we
have developed a set of criteria for reviewing studentship applications in an open and transparent
way, with criteria including a wide variety of characteristics such as low income and
underrepresented groups.

Our PGR Committee meets monthly to oversee student welfare. It is chaired by the Director for
Postgraduate Research (Young), who also attends the Faculty PGR committee, and includes three
PGR representatives. At least two staff supervise each student in supervisory teams. Progress
review meetings are every 4-6 weeks, with a report including agreed future work/training targets.
The supervisory teams report milestone targets to our PGR Committee in line with institutional
guidance and we actively follow-up with PGRs falling behind target to provide support. We have a
programme for potential new supervisors to shadow existing supervisory teams to gain experience.
In this assessment period we have introduced an annual survey inviting PGRs to feed back on
supervision quality. Average ratings are consistently 4 (out of 5) or above (agree or strongly
agree).

We have our own additional and long-standing policies for the support and development of
PGRs and doctoral training fellows. This includes access to specialist research advice (e.g. in
health economics, statistics and information retrieval/literature reviewing), bespoke sessions
organised by the PGRs research training officer, bespoke sessions for supervisors, personal and
peer mentoring and regular review and development appraisals. PRES 2019 results showed that
97% of our students said that their skills in applying appropriate research methodology had
developed during their research programme.

Professional development is an integral part of doctoral study. Supervisors and students are jointly
responsible for undertaking a personalised research training needs assessment. The Faculty's
Graduate School coordinates a Doctoral Development Programme (DDP) to deliver this. A wide
variety of courses are available, delivering generic, transferable and specific research training


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
skills, including modular courses given through our extensive PGT programmes, which also
attracts students from across the University.

Our staff are encouraged to undertake a PhD and we strongly support PhD by Publication to widen
access to those who have entered a research pathway following clinical or non-clinical professional
careers.

2.5 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

Our environment: we are committed to providing a supportive and inclusive research environment
for our staff and students. As described in REF5a, the University is a leader in EDI. We work
closely with the Faculty and University through our EDI Director (also a member of the Executive)
and EDI Committee, which was established in 2014. In addition to working on University priorities,
three ongoing task and finish groups have been established in response to staff feedback in our
most recent departmental and University staff surveys, to address EDI in (a) leadership and
management (b) senior female progression and (c) job security and inequalities. Our EDI
committee has an ‘open slot’, where any of our staff or students can raise issues, such as
exploring signing-up to the endometriosis friendly employer scheme, clarification of our maternity
checklist in relation to fixed-term funding, and feedback to the University on the accessibility of
standard templates and disability information.

Gender: we were one of the first departments in the University to be successful in obtaining an
Athena SWAN Silver Award (2014). Our Athena SWAN action plan is focused on the improvement
of gender balance, our seminar speakers and posters displayed across the school, and ensuring
funding for staff to attend conferences. Since 2015, 105 academic staff have benefited from the
University’s flagship Women Academic Returners Programme, which gives women the opportunity
to re-establish their research following maternity/adoption leave. Outcomes have included research
papers, grant applications and attendances at conferences. ScHARR has also adopted the ‘Whyte
Payment’, which funds childcare for keep-in-touch days for staff returning from a period of parental
leave.

ScHARR good practice: our ‘Working Better Together’ group is a key feature of our commitment
to provide a positive and more inclusive work environment for all, for example, by identifying
specific ‘Behaviours for Excellence’ which underpin how we work better together – valuing others,
working together, leading by example, communicating effectively; and more recently developing
self and others.

Our longstanding flexible working policy (2013) helps staff to achieve a satisfactory balance
between work and personal life. Since 2015, all but one application for a flexible working
arrangement have been approved. In the 2018 University survey, 95% of our staff were happy to
discuss flexible working with their line manager and we have a comparatively high proportion
(42%) of part-time staff at all grades, the majority of which are female (73%). We ensure our
promotions panel considers the impact of part-time working and career breaks when assessing
research metrics.

All ScHARR staff are required to complete online EDI training and members of our Executive
Group, promotions panels and chairs of core committees undertake mandatory unconscious bias
training. In addition to signposting staff and students to the range of University services for well-
being and mental health, we have run mental health events for staff including sessions on
mindfulness and meditation to promote well-being.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.6 Constructing our submission

We have large numbers of research-specialist staff across all grades. Those who meet the REF
definition of an independent researcher have been submitted alongside our T&R staff. Selection
and attribution of outputs was undertaken following the University Code of Practice, designed to
reduce unconscious or other bias, and to fairly consider staff with protected characteristics. We
also scrutinised the results of the equality impact assessment on output allocation and made
changes where required. We have sent a strong message across the School that the REF is a
collective effort and a substantial team of staff were involved in drafting this environment
statement, led by the Dean (Brazier). All staff involved in REF decision-making have undergone
the bespoke REF EDI training. We send a clear message that we do not use REF in review or
promotion cases. We encouraged staff to disclose equality related circumstances and have
submitted a unit reduction case.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

Our strategic objective has been to achieve a stable and steadily increasing income, whilst
increasing the diversity of funders. We aspire to grow in order to meet our ambitious goals going
forward (see Section 1) and to diversify to provide longer-term security of funding and expand the
range of research problems we address.

We have achieved a steady and sustainable growth in research income, increasing by 74% from
£40.5m in REF 2014 to £70.4m in this assessment period. We achieved this by maintaining our
key externally funded programmes and growing funding in our key strategic areas, whilst
diversifying our funding sources (including UKRI, ISCF and GCRF funding and major charities).

A large part of our income derives from major, usually five-year, competitive grants (over £1m) for
programmes of research: ScHARR TAG (NICE, £7.6m), NIHR RDS Y&H (£2.64m), MRC SIPHER
(£5m), NIHR SPHR (£1.6m), NIHR CLAHRC Y&H (£5.2m), NIHR ARC Y&H (£2.5m) and EEPRU 1
and 2 (£4.85m). At the same time, we have improved the diversity of funding with large increases
in UKRI awards from £4.8m in REF2014 to £5.4m and charitable income from £1.0m to £2.4m.

3.2 Strategy for growth: developing the infrastructure

Our research is supported by a comprehensive infrastructure at School, Faculty and University
level. Our Research Director is supported by a Research Committee, an Information Governance
Committee, an Ethics Committee, a common open research policy, and an Impact Director. All
report to the Executive chaired by the Dean.

Separate strategies are developed within the research groups and brought together to inform
investment decisions, such as new posts (see below) and developing collaborations, and the
organisational and operational infrastructure of the School. This includes a recognition of the
importance of establishing a secure and safe data infrastructure beyond our current single study
needs (e.g. CTRU trials) to a much larger facility for cross departmental working.

3.3 Organisational infrastructure

Our investment in research leadership (29 professors and 31 senior lecturers or senior research
fellows) provides the capacity for producing competitive grant applications. Our interdisciplinary

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
working, collaborative culture, and willingness to work with colleagues nationally and
internationally, ensures we can respond to the changing funding environment.

We appointed new posts to align with our strategic areas for growth (see section 1), including a
new chair in health informatics held jointly with the Information School (Bath) and a senior lecturer
in nutrition (Ranawana) in line with the flagship Institute for Sustainable Food. There has also been
a key research management post from an investment by the Vice-Chancellor’s fund in SARG.
Other planned posts included a senior lecturer in health informatics, a clinical senior lecturer in
mental health, and senior statistician and quality assurance posts to support the CTRU.

We seek to grow our own research leadership. The majority of our professors have come through
the ranks (18), including our research-specialist staff (5). An important part of staff development
opportunities come from our research stimulation fund, outlined above, which is available to all
staff, particularly ECRs. Recent outcomes have included successful bids to NIHR for fellowships
(Ren and Pennington) and ESRC/NIHR for research funding as well as production of articles and
applications to GCRF – including a recent application to the GCRF/Newton COVID-19 fund.

We encourage and train ECRs about impact through access to an impact internship programme.
The RDS provides leadership on supporting researchers in planning impact at the design stage of
the application. Integrating sessions on impact into Grant Writing Workshops and one-to-one
support has helped researchers plan their impact pathway at the early stages.

3.4 Operational infrastructure

Research

Our Research Committee includes staff representatives at all levels, including ECRs. One member
also sits on the EDI committee to ensure that strategies and operations are aligned. Administrative
support for research, including bids, is organised into faculty-level research hubs. Our hub of three
staff advise and support us across a broad range of tasks such as preparing applications. We also
fund a specialist information resources team, in addition to University library, and computing
facilities to input into research projects and systematic reviews and provide guidance and advice
on publication.

We have a comprehensive research ethics review process for all students and staff conducting
research involving human participants. We manage research governance procedures for all health
research within the School, with the exception of clinical trials where the University manages the
process. Our Information Governance Committee is responsible for the creation, dissemination and
implementation of information governance policies and processes, which demonstrate that we can
be trusted to maintain confidentiality and security. Our information governance policy applies to all
staff (including students, emeritus, honorary, visiting, and short-term contract staff); who must
complete (and pass assessments in) annual information security training. We fund a research
fellow two days a week to support the work of this committee. Our robust processes enable us to
handle health data from external sources (such as NHS Digital) and ensure we successfully pass
relevant data security audits.

We host the NIHR Research Design Service for Yorkshire and Humber (RDS YH), a White Rose
collaboration with Leeds and York, which supports researchers to develop and design high-quality
research proposals for submission to the NIHR and other national, peer-reviewed funding
competitions. We lead the NIHR RDS YH patient and public involvement forum, which consists of
public members and health and social care professionals across the region. The group's core role
is to advise on the development and delivery of, and to monitor progress, in all activities. We also


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
host a part NIHR-funded and registered Clinical Trials Research Unit (Director: Cooper), which
provides expert support for the development and conduct of clinical trials to the highest regulatory
and scientific standards. It is a pivotal focus for the development of clinical trials within the South
Yorkshire research community.

Our researchers (Burton, Mitchell, Dickson) support the only NIHR ‘deep end’ Clinical Research
Network for general practices serving the most deprived 10% of the population. It provides PPI
input to local and national studies and recruited patients to 15 studies between 2017 and 2020.

Impact

Our Impact Strategy Group facilitates impact activities across ScHARR, and is chaired by a
professorial Impact Director to provide senior leadership, supported by a deputy. The group acts as
a focal point to coordinate and implement our plans, working closely with the Faculty impact team.

The University has supported our successful impact activities via the allocation of £42k from HEIF
funds. We also make available internal funds to support staff in impact-generating activities
including a research stimulation fund from 2016. Funds have been allocated to a total of 53
projects. We developed School-wide impact training, an impact toolkit, and on-going sharing of
good practice through workshops and away days. We have continued to provide one-to-one
support for embedding impact as part of new funding proposals.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


The research that we undertake is highly collaborative, requiring multiple methodological
approaches and engagement from stakeholders, both academic and in wider society. We engage
across these areas from research design to dissemination and engagement.

4.1 Research collaborations

International collaborations

Our process of internationalisation has drawn on our research strengths and reputation (e.g. in
HTA methods) to develop our international collaborations and global networks. We also support
staff spending study leave in centres of international importance and welcome international visitors.

One of our key areas of expertise is health technology assessment (HTA). We have a large
programme grant to support the work and decision-making of NICE (ScHARR-TAG is their largest
Evidence Review Group), and our reputation in this field means that our expertise is much sought
after. We have partnership arrangements in this area with other leading universities and institutions
in Europe (Haute Autorité de Santé - France), North America (Institute for Clinical and Economic
Review - a U.S. body styled on NICE) and Asia (Singapore Ministry of Health). Other examples
include a collaboration with the University of Pennsylvania to undertake economic analysis of
diagnostic strategies for acute coronary events, securing NIH funding to extend the application of
our economic model to the U.S. and extending new-born screening collaboration in Bangladesh.
Finally, we (Brennan; Strong) are founding members of the Collaborative Network for Value of
Information methods research, alongside international partners from North America (Harvard,
Stanford, Yale, Toronto), Europe (Cambridge, Bristol, Oslo, Twente) and Australia (Griffiths).

We are recognised internationally for our outcomes research, including work on key internationally
adopted health-related quality of life measures (EQ-5D, SF-6D, CHU-9D) with international
collaborators in the U.S. (Chicago), Australia (Flinders, Melbourne, Sydney), China (Tianjin) and

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Netherlands (Leiden, Groningen). A recent example of a major international collaboration is the
‘Extending the QALY’ project (Brazier) to develop a new generic measure (EQ-HWB) funded by
MRC and EuroQol Research Foundation in an Industrial Collaboration with colleagues across five
countries (USA, Germany, Argentina, China, Australia).

We also have a growing portfolio of global health projects, working closely with colleagues around
the world. We have focused on developing our links with international partners in selected
countries, to influence key stakeholders (such as governments and health providers) to achieve
impact in those countries. Success in this area includes the development of the Global Emergency
Care Research network (GEM-CARN), led by Lecky, developing international collaborations based
on our expertise in urgent and emergency care. Well-established partnerships with the University
of Ghana School of Public Health and the Ghanaian University of Health and Allied Sciences have
yielded successful grant income. Our long-term, established partnership with the non-
governmental organisation PHASE Nepal continues to generate a number of successful research
grants drawing on research collaborations in ScHARR and across the University (Karki, Lee,
Balen).

National collaborations

Our national and regional collaborations are extensive. We pursue important strategic alliances
with universities and other bodies to deliver large programmes of work. For example, the SIPHER
consortium with Leeds, Edinburgh, Sheffield City Council, Greater Manchester Combined
Authority, and the Scottish Government. In the field of HTA, we lead the NICE Decision Support
Unit (DSU), a collaboration with the University of Leicester and University of York, who we also
collaborate with to provide the UK DHSCs Policy Research Unit for Economic Methods of
Evaluation in Health and Social Care Interventions (EEPRU). We also contribute to other national
initiatives, such as Health Data Research UK – the national institute for health data science.

Our collaborations with the NIHR and its partners, at a national and regional level, is extensive. We
form part of the NIHR School of Public Health (together with the London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, University College London, the universities of Cambridge, Bristol and Exeter,
the FUSE collaboration in the north east and the LiLac collaboration in the north west) and, in the
Yorkshire and Humber region, collaborate with the University of York and University of Leeds to
deliver the regional NIHR RDS-YH, as well as the NIHR ARC with the universities of Leeds,
Bradford and York. We therefore play a central role in the design and application of research in the
NHS and social care services in our region.

We contribute to the Connected Healthy Cities initiative, a Government-funded programme that
uses information and technology to improve health and social care services for patients across the
North of England; the Northern Health Science Alliance (NHSA); and the Yorkshire and Humber
Academic Health Science Network (YH-AHSN). We also work with others in our region to develop
the next generation of researchers as an active part of the White Rose Collaboration (e.g. leading
doctoral programmes).

Local collaborations

Internal (ScHARR) collaborations: most of our large research programmes (e.g. MRC SIPHER,
NIHR School of Public Health (SPHR), NIHR RDS-YH, and NIHR ARC Y&H) and many of our
larger projects are School-wide activities, run jointly between sections within the School. There is a
comprehensive cross-School infrastructure to support research and impact.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University of Sheffield collaborations: we have many well-developed collaborations with
colleagues across the Faculty and the rest of the University. We work closely with other
departments: Medicine, Dentistry, Economics, Statistics, Geography, Psychology and Sociology,
and the Faculty of Engineering. We support clinical trials and research studies with staff from
across the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Heath and the local NHS trusts. We also have three
professors who are joint appointments – Tsuchiya (Economics), Bath (Information School) and
Dawson (Management School). Research centres, themes and projects also provide the
opportunity for close interdisciplinary work, for example the SIPHER project, with the Faculty of
Engineering (Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering). As discussed
elsewhere, we are developing new collaborative research programmes as partners in two
University's Flagships launched in 2019: the Healthy Lifespan Institute (Goyder and Brennan) and
the Institute for Sustainable Food (Caton associate director and co-leads the research pillar “Food,
Sustainability and Health”).

Local NHS: we work in close collaboration with numerous NHS organisations, including hospital,
community and ambulance service trusts, NHS Direct and other urgent care providers on national
programmes and multi-centre trials and collaborations. We have jointly-funded posts in A&E
medicine (3 professors) and mental health (1 professor), and host a half-time post funded by St.
Luke’s Hospice. Our Dean has been a member of the joint University and Sheffield Hospital Trust’s
Research Strategy Group. We have a strong collaboration with the Sheffield Clinical
Commissioning Group, including membership of its R&D strategy group. The CTRU offers
expertise to NHS collaborators in the feasibility assessment, design and conduct of trials in clinical,
community and general practice settings. The RDS supports NHS researchers in developing and
designing high quality research proposals. The Yorkshire and Humber ARC, and CLAHRC, before
it provides a forum for developing research jointly with local providers, clinicians, and service
users. NHS staff are regularly seconded to us for research, training, and career development.

The CLAHRC in Y&H was established in 2014 with an initial investment of £10m from NIHR,
realised £14.6m in matched funds along with an additional contribution of £2.6m from industry.
Funding was used to support a diverse range of projects including establishment of smoke-free
mental health services, palliative care through collaboration with Sensory Technologies Ltd. and
expansion in the range of diseases screened in newborn (impact case study: Newborn Screening)
in collaboration with Great Ormond Street Hospital. We have had international reach with newborn
screening implemented in Bangladesh while in Bangalore local women have been enabled to use
a mobile diagnostic and screening toolkit, developed with support from CLAHRC YH, to screen for
diseases in some of India’s poorest urban areas.

An exciting initiative has been the Sheffield Mental Health Collaborative (SMHC), established in
2019, which is a formal partnership between the University and Sheffield Health and Social Care
NHS Foundation Trust (SHSC), local healthcare commissioners, Sheffield City Council and
voluntary sector partners in mental health research, teaching & learning and knowledge
mobilisation.

These collaborations involve a genuine commitment from all sides, including the local Mental
Health Trust investment in our staff (specifically grant writing capacity), the Clinical Research
Academy (see above) and Research Capability Funding from the NHS into our Clinical Trials Unit
to invest in research capacity.

Collaborative grants and outputs: these national and international collaborations have been
hugely successful in terms of winning funding and producing outputs. The number of grants with
other Sheffield colleagues was 179, and internationally was 73 out of a total of 520. Out of the 177
submitted outputs, 143 have co-authors from outside Sheffield and 47 (26%) have international co-

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
authors from 22 countries. Many also have co-authors from Sheffield Teaching Hospitals and
Services, and other Sheffield departments.

Academic visitors, honorary contracts, and joint appointments: our international
collaborations frequently lead to academic visitors, who spend time physically located here. All
staff are encouraged to generate these collaborations and in this assessment period we have
hosted an average of five per year. These collaborations generate outputs, for example, work
developed by Dr Romero from Brazil whilst visiting led to three papers on antenatal syphilis
screening to inform policy making in Brazil. We also have an extensive list of honorary contracts
with academics from other institutions, clinicians, and other partners (74). A number of our staff
have joint posts with the NHS (including three clinicians), one working with a local hospice and one
with a private company.

4.2 Impact: contribution to the economy and society

Our work is motivated by a strong desire to improve policymaking and practice through research
and KE. Co-production is central to our research and involves such users as DHSC, NICE, NHS,
patients, the public and industry. Our extensive local collaborations are described above.
Mechanisms for ongoing stakeholder engagement include having end users on project steering
groups, participation as co-investigators and careful dissemination of research to users.

Our reputation in contributing through impact is evidenced by the appointment of Mawson and
Baird as senior advisers on the NIHR Impact Advisory Board and our hosting of two successful
NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Fellowships.

Contributions beyond our impact case studies

The breadth and depth of our contribution to the economy and society can be seen from our
extensive range of impacts beyond the six impact case studies we are returning and our extensive
KE activities in the public and private sectors. An initial survey of staff to identify potential case
studies had over 40 completed questionnaires. We have produced a report showcasing the impact
of our research: ScHARR's 20 years of making an impact.

A recognised area of impact is in HTA, where ScHARR-TAG work has influenced NICE Guidance
including three original appraisals. In RA for example, pharmaceutical companies were heavily
promoting the use of biologics in a wider group of patients than had previously been
recommended. It was anticipated that the additional annual cost of this strategy would be over
£150m. Our research provided fundamental evidence for the NICE decision-making process and
suggested that this money would generate greater patient benefits if used elsewhere in the NHS.
NICE decided not to expand the use of bDMARDs and this resulted in a reduced use of bDMARDs
in the UK. Our mathematical model has become the new benchmark for modelling RA and has
been replicated in multiple subsequent company submissions to NICE. In another example,
mandatory NICE guidance on bisphosphonates i(TA464) and non-bisphosphonates for
osteoporosis impact on the treatment decisions of over 20 million people and promote the use of
treatment in those where it represents value for money, and not in those where it does not, thus
improving societal outcomes. The Fracture Liaison Service Database Annual Report indicates that
the prescribing of bisphosphonates has increased since our work.

Contribution through KE

We have built strong external partnerships with key stakeholders from the public and private
sectors including client-focussed consultancy and research (and professional skills capacity
building). We have multiple global and national framework and master service agreements (MSAs)
                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and long-standing working relationships with a broad range of partners within private, public and
third sector organisations. Major formal partnerships include several global pharmaceutical industry
partners, national public policy entities including PHE and third sector organisations including the
Yorkshire Cancer Research Fund. The KE programme accounts for an average annual income of
£2m, with its three largest customers being PHE (£2m during the assessment period), NHS
England (£1m) and Novartis (£0.5m).

Our KE activity covers three broad themes: public health policy, global health through WHO and
innovative work around rare diseases.

Public health policy decision making: we work in close partnership with public health
policymakers to address specific policy questions including PHE’s Health Economics, Specialist
Provider and Screening Frameworks. We successfully won and completed 32 projects for them.
This has included the development of commissioning support tools like the CVD prevention return
on investment tool used by local public health departments to inform their investment decisions,
which has had over 2,000 uses. Another example was research into optimising bowel cancer
screening which directly informed the 2016 UK National Screening Committee recommendation to
replace the guaiac occult blood test (gFOBt) with the Faecal Immunochemical Test (FIT)
screening. Outside the frameworks we have used our strong KE infrastructure to apply core areas
of our public health research portfolio to the specific requirements of multiple local, national, and
international bodies. Examples include support for alcohol-related policy (including contributing to
the Australian low-drinking guidelines), NHS Cancer Screening Programmes and NHS Diabetes
Prevention Programme.

Global health: we regularly provide analytical consultancy services to the World Health
Organisation (WHO) contributing to two WHO global reports including the Global Tuberculosis (TB)
Report and the Global Report on Assistive Technology (GReAT) and to support the WHO Health
Evidence Network (HEN) in the development of evidence synthesis reports.

Rare diseases: we work closely with patient groups and charities to develop tools to support the
management of rare inherited conditions and to understand the impact they have on individuals
and their families. Examples include the development of a quality-of-life tool for Duchenne
muscular dystrophy (with a Duchenne's UK consortium) and modelling the screening and
treatment choices for severe combined immunodeficiency. We have also applied our
methodological expertise to provide advice and recommendations on policy decision-making
processes in the area of rare diseases, including the use of multi-criteria decision analysis for
orphan drugs and evidence review methods for the NHS Specialised and Highly Specialised
Commissioning.

Contribution through intellectual property

Intellectual property sharing and commercialisation activities include a suite of health outcome
instruments (eight, with another four being prepared) available through the University’s online
licensing portal. Since August 2013, the SF-6D preference-based measure for calculating QALYs
has sold 1,568 commercial licences that have been purchased globally generating more than
£1.6m in royalty income. The SF-6D is also freely available to non-commercial bodies for use in
research and policymaking (668 free licenses). The ReQoL for mental health has seen 205 free
licenses granted, mainly to the NHS to support community mental health services.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engagement with diverse communities: patients and the public

We have a long-standing commitment to public involvement (PI) in research with a PI Lead and
have established numerous PI networks, including Yorkshire and Humber Voices which is a
regional network and brings together PI Leads from all parts of the NIHR infrastructure, charities,
YH-AHSN and members of the public to share best practice, avoid duplication of effort and
increase efficacy overall. Our PI lead led on the development of the National RDS Brief Guide on
Public Involvement and we have a member of staff who sits on the NIHR Public Involvement Board
(Baird). The brief guide focuses more on PI at the design stage of research and in developing grant
applications with additional guidance on inclusivity, public members as co-applicants and the UK
Standards.

Working closely with our local NHS Trusts we have contributed to the development of over 20
disease-specific public involvement panels, which researchers have access to when developing
their research projects. We also work with a public involvement panel that represents a
socioeconomically and ethnically diverse area of Sheffield and have been ground-breaking in
developing public involvement in methodological research, where our panels have built-up
expertise in evidence synthesis and economic evaluation.

We have worked hard to engage with under-represented groups. We successfully obtained
INVOLVE and National RDS Reaching Out Funding for an exciting project using a community
development approach to engage with gypsy and traveller communities (GTCs) within the region.
This is a collaborative, regional project with input from CRN, CLAHRC, York Travellers’ Trust and
Leeds Gate Gypsy and Traveller Exchange. The approaches we are using have also been
transferred to public health, social care, and global health research. To date our learning includes:
the importance of creating spaces for informal, face-to-face discussions, including time to build
individual and institutional trust in project timelines; the vital role community partners (e.g. charities)
have in facilitating relationships; and developing appropriate approaches, positive change and
empowerment within communities during the engagement process itself. The project has received
national interest with invitations to contribute to an NIHR Academy webinar and the NIHR
International Nurses Day. In line with the ‘Working Better Together’ standard we have also:
published in the final INVOLVE newsletter; contributed to ‘A Practical Guide to Being Inclusive in
Public Involvement in Health’; and shared learning regionally via the Voices Network and the
national PI groups.

4.3 Contributions to the discipline

The contributions of our staff both to their disciplines and society are evidenced in many ways.
Nicholl was awarded a CBE for contributions to health research; we have four NIHR Senior
Investigators (Brazier, Goodacre, Walters, Mason); two NIHR Senior Investigator Emeritus
(Brazier, Nicholl); Brazier and Nicholl have been elected as Fellows of the Academy of Medical
Sciences, and Meier elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Social Science. In terms of the COVID-
19 pandemic, our research environment has allowed us to support our staff to make an impact on
SAGE sub-committees (Mason) and in supporting data to aid decision makers (Angus). We have
also worked with a team from Lancaster University (Mason) to assess the impact of COVID-19 on
care homes and their residents.

The wider impact and appreciation of our staff and their work is also evidenced by the requests for
their expertise at the highest national level: Foster and Holmes have been invited onto Cabinet
Office Advisory Panels; there have been direct invitations to members of the Alcohol Group to
provide evidence for Parliamentary enquiries (Holmes, Brennan, Angus); and as invited experts to
provide advisory input into the Cross-Whitehall Trials Advisory Panel (Cabinet Office) (Cooper and

                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Goodacre). It should also be noted that among these staff is one of our PGR students and ECRs
(Alexis Foster). The findings of the REQoL project were launched in Parliament highlighting the
reputation of ScHARR and our staff.

The quality and reputation of our staff is further recognised by their appointment to very many
national advisory bodies and committees. They have chaired 38 trial steering committees and 13
trial data monitoring committees and have been members of 20 other TSCs and 28 other DMECs.
Since 2014, two have chaired (Goodacre - HTA, Cooper- RfPB and Baird - DSE) and 13 have
been members of external research funding panels. There have been two members of the
Academy of Medical Sciences Membership Committee and the panel for Senior Investigators
Awards (Brazier, Nicholl). Nine members of staff have been or are currently members of NICE
Technology Appraisal Committees, and one member of staff was the HTA expert on the NICE
Interventional Procedures Advisory Committee (Carroll). These committees all produce guidance
for clinical practice within the NHS. Other NICE Advisory Groups and panels have also appointed
many members of our staff for their expertise (17 staff – one NICE Public Health Advisory
Committee, three NICE Methods Guide Groups, four NICE Methods Working Parties, 11 other
NICE Advisory Groups). Beyond NICE, the professional standing of our staff is also evidenced by
appointments to a number of NIHR bodies, including the NIHR Advanced Fellowship Panel
(Julious), NIHR Strategy Board (Baird), the NIHR PPI SLT (Baird), the NIHR Public Health
Oversight Group (Baird) and the NIHR Academy Forum (Baird). Finally, Baird has also been
appointed to the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) Accelerating Detection of Disease
Advisory Group.

The international reputation of our staff has also seen appointments to The National Rehabilitation
Hospital for Ireland (Ariss); the International Advisory panel for Singapore’s Health Care Agency
(Wailoo); the International Clinical Trials Methodology Conference Scientific Committee
(O’Cathain); the International Federation of Emergency Medicine Research Committee (Lecky) and
led three ISPOR Task Forces on aspects of HTA (see above). We also have the President of the
Kettil Bruun Learned Society (Meier). Luc De Witte is president of the Global Alliance of Assistive
Technology Organisations (GAATO), Robert Akparibo (PH) is a member of the Worldwide
Universities Network and a member of the academic platform for scaling up nutrition in Ghana,
Rebecca Palmer (HSR) chairs the World Federation for NeuroRehabilitation communication
disorder special interest group and is a member of the Trials in Aphasia Panel (TAP) within the
international collaboration of aphasia trialists (CATs). Pete Dodd is a Global Fund modelling
guidance group participant and a member of WHO TB impact estimation and measurement task
force.

Since 2014, our staff have chaired six Conference Scientific Committees and given 17 keynote or
invited lectures at national or international research conferences, and 31 people have had editorial
roles on journals, and 25 have been members of journal editorial boards.




                                                                                            Page 22
