Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: 15

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure:

 Awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in November 2013 for its achievements in archaeology
 and heritage, the School of Archaeology and Ancient History (SAAH) continues to be recognised
 internationally for innovative impactful research on the archaeology of historical periods. This
 REF period has seen significant investment and a developing profile in archaeological science,
 prehistory and theory. Our approach to research and impact (R&I) increasingly centres on
 diversity in our understandings of heritage and the material world. We celebrate difference: in
 expertise, from the Palaeolithic to Plantagenet kings, from the Ancient Near East to the colonial
 Caribbean, and from Roman Pompeii to the 20th-century Pacific; in approaches, bringing
 together researchers in two distinct disciplines and working alongside a top archaeological unit
 (ULAS); and in contributions to the wider economy and society, with impact fully integrated
 within our research vision.

 Consistently ranked in the top 100 departments worldwide, we set world-leading standards for
 integrated study of text, material culture and landscape. Our outstanding record of outputs, grant
 capture, PhD completions and staff promotions demonstrates the vitality of our research culture;
 our careful succession planning in securing replacement/investment posts and infrastructural
 investment show our sustainability. Our R&I community comprises >200 individuals (28
 Category A staff, 8 postdoctoral/research staff, 50 ULAS staff, 9 emeritus/visiting professors, 50
 associated researchers, 2 technicians and 55 PGRs). Part of the College of Social Sciences,
 Arts and Humanities (CSSAH), we enjoy close links with other Schools/Colleges, providing an
 environment of stimulating interdisciplinary research.

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact (R&I):

 In REF2014 we set eight objectives, aligned to University and College strategy, to develop and
 enhance our research environment. All have been met (Table 1):

   Objectives REF2014                   Achievements (see also individual sections)
   1. Capitalising on synergies         New strategic R&I directions have emerged (below),
   between identified and               building on established strengths and evolving
   emerging research                    approaches, and capitalising on investments facilitated by
   groupings/themes                     forward-looking succession planning.
   2. Growing income and grants         Research income has doubled (£8.7M to £17.8M).
   across staff base                    96% of Category A staff have held awards.
   3. Expanding PGR numbers             79 PhD awards (up 70% on REF2014) demonstrate
   and support funding                  success in supporting our PGR community. AHRC DTP
                                        initiatives have enhanced our doctoral offer.
   4. Developing infrastructure,        Secured competitive £500k funding for refurbishing SAAH
   supported by internal and            building/laboratories (up 270% on REF2014); invested
   external funding                     £302k in equipment/geoinformatics (up 26%).
   5. Supporting researcher             Exemplary staff development record, recognised by 2019

                                                  1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   development and career              Athena Swan Bronze Award. Equality approaches fully
   progression at every level, while   embedded in recruitment/research strategies. We have
   promoting equality and diversity    supported 51 postdoctoral staff in this period (up 104% on
                                       REF2014); 8 are in post; 43 have taken up
                                       academic/professional positions.
   6. Promoting inter-disciplinary     Partnerships with researchers in our/other disciplines in
   research/                           UK and 47 other countries. Within UoL, we collaborate with
   collaborations                      colleagues across 11 departments.
   7. Underpinning heritage-           Substantially expanded our R&I work on heritage (3 new
   related themes in College and       staff), especially in the Middle East and North Africa
   University strategies               (MENA). Work by ULAS and academic staff has helped
                                       deliver the University’s agenda for the region (Institutional
                                       Environment Statement [IES], 2.4, 2.8).
   8. Collecting and analysing         Restructuring of University and College support (IES, 4.1)
   research data to facilitate         has facilitated data collection for expanding impact and
   effective research management       public engagement activities; analysis has enabled us to
                                       target areas needing investment/mentoring and optimise
                                       use of resources.

 In addition to these specific objectives, our overarching goal was to extend our reach in world
 archaeology and foster emergent areas, while sustaining our core identity. Our successes are
 illustrated by notable achievements and developments across four themes identified in REF2014
 themes (set out below). Our research transcends artificial divides between prehistory and
 history, and between material and text, while embracing a plurality of intellectual approaches
 and methodologies. This is reflected in an output profile in which 61.5 monographs form an
 exceptionally strong and distinctive element, from sole-authored volumes to collective works on
 large-scale projects, including foundational studies of important data sets that will be key points
 of future reference. This achievement underlines SAAH’s commitment to making a sustained
 and vital contribution to the discipline. The reach of our research is seen in the 388 weeks of
 funded fieldwork or analysis of museum collections undertaken in the period by Category A staff,
 across 21 countries and four continents.

 Among our principal achievements in our REF2014 identified themes, we would highlight:

    1. Landscape and space (LAS): This theme embraces all aspects of landscapes,
       environments and spatial scholarship, from survey archaeology (e.g. James, Stewart) to
       the intersection between ethnographic and geographic writing (Merrills, Shipley); and
       from innovative use of GIS (Gillings) to the social production of urban space (e.g.
       Allison, Christie, James). Significant grants include ‘Living with Monuments’ (Gillings),
       and ‘Selected Greek Geographers’ (Shipley). Monographs include The ‘Pharaonic’ Sites
       (Edwards 2020), Roman Geographies (Merrills 2017) and outputs of major projects
       reported in REF2014 (e.g. Later Prehistory NW Europe; Haselgrove; Coin Hoards:
       Haselgrove, Mattingly, Taylor; Trans-Sahara: Mattingly). Our confidential Impact Case
       Study (ICS2) addresses landscapes. A key contribution is work on African landscapes, in
       Egypt (Merrills), the Sahara (Mattingly) and Sudan (Edwards), now extended to sub-
       Saharan Africa (Basell).

    2. Medieval to modern archaeology (MMA): From Bradgate Park and Greyfriars in
       Leicester to 20th-century Australia and Canada, the interdisciplinarity central to SAAH is

                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        evident, combining textual and material sources (Allison, Christie, Samson, Tarlow)
        with scientific approaches and heritage perspectives (Guiry, Thomas, Young). Our
        Centre for Historical Archaeology fosters a research culture leading to new grants
        including ‘Feeding Anglo-Saxon England’ (FEEDSAX 2017; Thomas), project outputs
        such as Tarlow’s Criminal Corpse and Young’s Historical Archaeology and Heritage,
        and monographs on South Asia (Young) and colonial Australia (Allison). Our reach has
        been extended by appointments in the Caribbean (Samson) and Islamic world (Carvajal
        Lopez). A flagship for our interdisciplinarity is the acclaimed ‘Richard III’ project (ICS1
        Appleby et al). Our medieval research grows from participation in the cross-college
        Medieval Research Centre.

    3. Bodies, identities, communities (BIC): Research foci include the making of human
       bodies through food (Barton, Thomas, Van der Veen); ageing processes and
       pathologies (Appleby); and social and cultural production of identities and communities
       through ethnic claims (MacSweeney) and bodily signalling (Allison). We have expertise
       in gendered identities (Harlow, Harris, Masséglia) and mortuary archaeology (Appleby,
       Tarlow), whilst a post in molecular bioarchaeology (Guiry) has expanded our range.
       Grants included ‘Communities and Connectivities’ (Armit, Appleby), ‘Cultural and
       Scientific Perceptions of Human-Chicken Interactions’ (Thomas), and a Leverhulme
       Prize (Harris). Important outputs include studies of Hellenistic body language
       (Masséglia) and ritual pollution in Ancient Rome (Lennon), and ground-breaking articles
       blending the latest scientific developments with theoretically informed perspectives
       (Appleby, Guiry), particularly critical analysis of approaches to ancient DNA (Crellin,
       Harris).

    4. The ancient Mediterranean and surrounding regions (AMSR): Research from
       Assyrian divination to Roman multiculturalism within this theme exemplifies the
       interdisciplinarity for which SAAH is known and deliberately stretches the ancient world’s
       conceptual boundaries. Hellenistic Greece (Masséglia, Shipley, Stewart), Roman
       cultural history (Allison, Harlow, Lennon, Mattingly), and Late Antiquity (Christie,
       Edwards, Merrills) are distinctive strengths, while strategic appointments have
       expanded our capacity in the MENA region (Masséglia, Wisnom). Notable
       achievements include: another Leverhulme Prize (MacSweeney); projects such as
       ‘Ancient Akrotiri’ (James), ‘In Caesar’s Footsteps’ (Haselgrove) and ‘Migration and the
       Making of the Ancient Greek World’ (MIGMAG; MacSweeney); books on the Trojan War
       (MacSweeney), the Hellenistic Peloponnese (Shipley), and Mesopotamian culture
       (Wisnom); and hosting the 2018 Classical Association Meeting. Detailed studies of
       Leicester by ULAS underpin our ‘Roman Worlds for Diverse Communities’ (RWDC) ICS3
       (Scott et al.), and we would also signal the innovative analysis of legacy data, combined
       with new survey to re-plan the urban landscape and rewrite the socio-political history of
       Dura-Europos, Syria (James).

 The vitality of our research is attested by publication metrics: in this cycle, Category A staff have
 published 61.5 authored/edited books, 185 journal articles, 31 papers in conference
 proceedings, 168 chapters and 225 other publications/reviews (up 9% per FTE on REF2014).
 ULAS staff have published 5.5 books, 32 journal articles, 4 chapters and 18 other publications.
 Joint SAAH/ULAS projects crucially expand the wide-ranging contributions our research makes
 to economy and society. These contributions are further evidenced by our ICSs, which together
 demonstrate the success of our impact strategy during the cycle. As the three ICSs show, our

                                                   3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research impacts on creativity, culture and society, the environment and public policy, learning
 and participation, and fuels our regional economy.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our vision for research has changed over the cycle, informed by our commitment to diversity,
 interdisciplinarity, engagement beyond academia and arrival of new staff. We have developed a
 fully integrated R&I strategy. This approach is based on recognition, derived from experience,
 that activities leading to impact are not simply rooted in research but can reciprocally (re)shape
 and enrich it. The impact strand of our strategy has three principles:

       impact-focused initiatives may evolve into research-focused projects (e.g. Ancient
        Akrotiri)
       impact initiatives need not be tied to particular projects, but may draw on multiple
        research strands (RWDC ICS3)
       not all research projects need to have clear impact potential at the outset
       To ensure all staff engage with these principles, they are embedded in our mentoring of
        research design and grant applications.

 In developing these principles, we have moved from subject-derived themes (1–4 above) to a
 greater focus on activities and approaches. While we will continue to pursue wide-ranging
 research agenda across both disciplines, the following emergent themes are increasingly acting
 as strategic foci for R&I, with one weighted slightly towards Impact, the other towards Research.
 Although still transitioning, these themes represent our new strategies moving forward. Several
 achievements can already be noted:

    5. Diverse heritages: Diversity is central to our working environment (Section 2) and home
       city, and also to how we approach the past. Heritage was anticipated as a new direction
       in REF2014, and our rapidly expanding research in this area often focuses on discrepant
       and alternative visions of the past. Ongoing projects engage with contested heritages in
       conflict zones (‘Babylon’, Young; ‘EAMENA’, Mattingly); explore post-colonial heritages
       (‘East Pemba Tanzania’, Basell; ‘El Corazòn del Caribe’, Samson); and recover the
       silenced voices of the socially and historically marginalised (‘Roman Stigma’, Lennon).
       Other flagship projects have promoted greater understanding of Leicester’s ethnic
       heritage (ICS3) and common heritages transcending language barriers in continental
       Europe (‘LatinNOW’, Masséglia). We have secured funding for a new collaborative
       programme with heritage professionals in North Africa (‘Oasis Civilization in Morocco’,
       Mattingly).

        Strategic vision: To lead in developing new approaches to heritage and endangered
        archaeology, by consolidating current activities focused in the MENA region and locally,
        and expanding this work to the Caribbean and Americas (Samson), sub-Saharan Africa
        (Basell) and Southeast Asia and China (Barton). This will ensure future vitality by
        creating fresh opportunities for collaboration, and sustainability by further developing
        growth income streams including GCRF. A local focus on the heritage of our diverse
        region is central to the work of the Centre for Historical Archaeology.

        Specific objectives:
        (i) Internationally, establish a Centre for Endangered Archaeology and Cultural Heritage,

                                                 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
              moving beyond our MENA connections (Mattingly, Young to lead).
        (ii) Regionally, build on RWDC (ICS3) through programmes integrating the outputs of
              collaborations with ULAS at Bradgate Park (Thomas) and Burrough Hill (Taylor), and
              covering other periods.
        (iii) Broaden activities to engage with the arts and creative industries, expanding on work
              with theatre companies (Wisnom) and arts organisations (Artefact to Art, Scott,
              Stewart).

    6. New approaches to the material world: This theme builds on agenda-setting
       publications such as Change and Archaeology (Crellin), Archaeological Theory in the
       New Millennium (Harris), Archaeological Theory in Dialogue (Crellin, Harris) and
       networks like Big Data on the Roman Table (Allison). Leicester is a world leading centre
       for new theoretical approaches emphasising the active role of materials in shaping and
       creating past worlds and rejecting traditional competing divisions between humanities
       and sciences; we seek instead to integrate scientific and philosophical approaches.
       Critical here is our materials laboratory – refitted for improved analysis of starch and
       other organic residues (Barton), ceramics (Carvajal Lopez), and stone and metal
       microwear (Barton, Crellin) – where researchers interweave and engage recording
       evidential details with the philosophical processes that bring these back to life. ‘Arch-I-
       Scan’ (Allison) is pioneering new ways of recording artefacts using tools from applied
       mathematics, artificial intelligence and machine learning, whilst ‘Beyond the Three Age
       System’ (Barton et al.) uses microwear analysis of stone and metal to undercut artificial
       period boundaries and explore how materials make history. Just as we attend to material
       things, our bioarchaeological work (Appleby, Guiry, Inskip, Thomas) attends to material
       bodies. In each case method and theory are integrated and mutually sustaining.

        Strategic vision: Deliver a recognisably ‘Leicester Approach’ to the material world that
        brings together state-of-the-art scientific and theoretical approaches, rooted in new ways
        of conceptualising the material world. This will promote vitality by stimulating new
        research directions, and sustainability by allowing SAAH to explore the potential to
        undertake further analytical contract work in our laboratories, which in turn will financially
        support and enhance our cutting-edge work at the interface between science and
        philosophy.

        Specific objectives:
        (i) Complete and launch projects in our new Isotopes Preparation and Forensic and
             Ancient Biomolecules (FAB) labs (Guiry, Inskip, King, Thomas to lead: Section 3).
        (ii) Create a Thinking Through Things group centred on our materials lab. The aim is to
             forge a distinct approach to the material world and conduct world-leading research on
             a range of materials from different periods (Harris, Crellin to lead).

 We have embraced the University’s ambitious OA agenda (IES, 2.6) and put OA at the heart of
 our impact and outreach agenda, allowing our research to be delivered to communities we work
 with worldwide. Staff follow University protocol on depositing publications (IES, 2.6), and build
 funding for Gold OA into applications where allowed; our submission includes Gold OA journal
 articles and books (Criminal Corpse, ‘Pharaonic’ Sites). Staff promote OA more widely through
 work on editorial committees, and publisher agreements to make monographs OA after fixed
 periods (Archaeology of Fazzan, Cartimandua’s Capital). SAAH has been at the forefront of
 making underpinning data available online for scrutiny and reanalysis (Pompeian Households,

                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engendering Roman Military Spaces, Later Prehistory NW Europe via ADS). All our work aims
 at the highest standards of Research Integrity (IES, 2.7), monitored by our Research Ethics
 Officer.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development

 The central tenet of our strategy is recognising that collective strength stems from diversity. We
 seek to recruit and nurture outstanding staff with different backgrounds at all levels and
 encourage them to develop their potential in an open, inclusive environment (IES, 3.2) which
 values flexible working. We welcome the enhanced emphasis on EDI issues, reflected also in
 Leicester’s Code of Practice which endorses SAAH’s strategic approach to staffing. Success is
 measured not only by our high-quality outputs, but also by promotions in the cycle (13) which
 highlight how early and mid-career researchers are supported through career progression, i.e. to
 Associate Professor/Reader: 4F, 3M; to Professor: 3F, 3M. All new staff in the period have been
 supported successfully to complete probation in the expected time frame. We continue to ensure
 that robust equality and inclusion practices are in place for staff and PGR recruitment. All
 recruitment involves explicit EDI consideration, and the School continues to seize new University
 funding opportunities for diversifying our PhD cohort. Diversifying at all levels represents an
 ongoing and critical challenge.

 Staff changes contributed to the directional shifts described above. Eight staff (including four
 Professors) left or retired in cycle and our robust succession planning secured 9 replacement
 and investment posts: a Professor, an Associate Professor, and 7 Lecturers (6 ECRs when
 appointed; two started during the pandemic). Replacements in established areas included
 Lennon (Roman history) for Katsari, and Masséglia (Greek history, visual culture) for Foxhall.
 Cipolla’s replacement by Samson upholds our long-standing interest in the Americas; Carvajal
 Lopez maintains expertise in ceramics following Whitbread’s retirement, while crucially adding
 Islamic archaeology; both contribute to the success of the Centre for Historical Archaeology and
 Carvajal Lopez to the Medieval Research Centre. We anticipated forthcoming retirements with
 early replacement of Haselgrove (now part-time) by Crellin (later prehistory, materials analysis,
 archaeological theory).

 In addition, four investment posts provided opportunities to attain our strategic goal of expanded
 global reach. Wisnom’s post in Mesopotamian history adds new dimensions to our strengths in
 MENA archaeology and heritage. Basell maintains expertise in landscape analysis and
 prehistory following Gillings’ move and Hopkinson’s retirement, whilst expanding research on
 human origins and cultural heritage to Sub-Saharan Africa. Guiry’s post in biomolecular
 archaeology is part of a strategy to refocus our scientific work after Van der Veen’s retirement,
 complementing existing expertise in SAAH and other Schools (Geography, Geology and
 Environment; Genetics and Genome Biology). Our initiative to capitalise on Leicester’s particular
 strengths in both archaeology and genetics resulted in a professorial post (Armit), which led to
 an ERC grant within a year. With Armit’s departure, we have instead transformed our capabilities
 through a UKRI FLF (Inskip, started November 2020). This £1.5M project explores
 bioarchaeological consequences of the introduction of tobacco to Europe, drawing on an
 innovative combination of palaeopathological, ancient DNA and metabolomic data; on
 completion of her fellowship, Inskip will move to an open-ended academic post in SAAH. Two
 further open-ended academic posts have been awarded for the next REF cycle; given the

                                                 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenging economic environment, these investments demonstrate strong institutional
 confidence in SAAH and the sustainability of our research.

 Measured on a binary scale, the proportion of SAAH female staff has risen from 38.5 to 46.4%
 over the REF cycle, with slight variability in gender profile at different levels of seniority (Figure
 1).

 Our pro-active approach to staff development and support is threefold:
    1. Enhancing practices surrounding parental leave and flexible working. In the census
        period, we supported six instances of parental leave, totalling over 5 full years of
        Category A staff time, building on Athena SWAN action plans.
    2. Strengthening mentoring schemes for all staff through grant mentorship and research
        clinics, in addition to annual R&I interviews, Performance Development Discussions,
        peer review and internal support of grant applications for all staff and formal mentoring of
        probationary/fixed-term staff.
    3. Supporting revision of UoL’s Academic Career Map ensuring all contributions – including
        impact, outreach, and engagement – are rewarded at all career stages.



       2019/20               4                        6                        4                   3                       5                      6

       2018/19       2                            7                        5                           4                       4              5

       2017/18       2                    5                        5                           5                   3                  5

       2016/17           3                        5                    5                           5                       3              4

       2015/16           3                    4                4                           6                           4                  4

       2014/15           3                    4                4                       5                       3                      7

       2013/14           3                    4            3                       5                       4                          7

                 0                            5                    10                          15                          20                  25     30

                                 Prof F           Prof M       AProf/Reader F                      AProf/Reader M                  Lec F      Lec M



                         Fig. 1: Nos of Category A staff by level & gender identification

 SAAH promotions figures (above) strongly demonstrate the value of this approach, as do the
 successes of our researchers gaining other posts (below).

 Our commitment to equalities goes beyond gender. Our aspirations for creating an inclusive
 working environment have allowed us to attract and retain BAME individuals and non-UK
 nationals, who together consistently comprise around 30-40% of staff (Figure 2). Category A
 staff include three individuals with protected characteristics, all of whom have been supported to
 achieve research success and/or promotion.




                                                                                       7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




           2019/20

           2018/19

           2017/18

           2016/17

           2015/16

           2014/15

           2013/14

                     0       10       20      30    40       50    60     70      80   90   100

                                  BAME CatA        BAME postdoc     Non-UK CatA
                                  Non-UK postdoc   White UK CatA    White UK postdoc


                         Fig. 2: Percentages of BAME, non-UK, and white UK staff

 Although our commitment to equalities and inclusivity was recognised by an Athena Swan
 Bronze Award (2019), we see this as a starting point. We have a robust commitment to honest
 reflection and specific action regarding diversity, equality and inclusion, and are now targeting a
 Silver Award. The School Business Group, which meets fortnightly to support the Head of
 School, includes our Athena Swan Lead to ensure equality issues are embedded in all School
 decisions. Through our School Diversity Champion (a Category A role), we actively support the
 University’s engagement with the Race Equality Charter, Disability Staff Equality Forum, and
 LGBT+ Staff Equality Forum. Potential REF outputs have been reviewed in accordance with
 DORA, internally and externally, with reference to both scores and commentary, the institutional
 Code of Practice, and advice from our Athena Swan lead governing final selection. The
 proportions of submitted outputs authored by (A) female staff and (B) staff at different career
 levels are broadly consistent with the makeup of Category A staff, allowing for ECR status and
 the distribution of major funded projects that have been completed in the cycle (Table 2):

                         A. Outputs from        B. Outputs from Cat. A staff by career level
                         female staff (46.4% of Prof. (35.7%)   Ass.Prof. (25%)       Lect. (39.3%)
                         Cat. A)
  No. of outputs         28                     28              17                    18
  Percentage of          41.8%                  41.8%           25.4%                 26.8%
  outputs

 Our explicit commitment to staff development applies to all post-doctoral staff. In the census
 period we hosted 7 Postdoctoral Fellows, 7 Teaching Fellows providing replacements for
 parental and/or study leave, and 37 project-based Research Associates, recruited from leading
 institutions across the UK, Europe, North America and beyond. Postdoctoral staff are assigned
 independent mentors and supported by the University ECR and Research Staff Enhancement
 Group. The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of
 Researchers, ensuring ECRs have time to pursue their own research, develop teaching
 experience and are supported and mentored in their future plans. Of 43 postdoctoral staff who
                                                         8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 left in period, 29 (67%) went to other UK or overseas academic roles, and 14 (33%) to posts in
 the Heritage sector or other professions.

 SAAH ensures postdoctoral colleagues receive the same support, opportunities, and access to
 facilities as Category A staff (see above and IES, 3.2), including R&I interviews with senior
 faculty which assist all staff to plan their goals strategically. In June 2020 we conducted
 ‘Research-In-The-Times-Of-COVID’ interviews, to ascertain how best to support individuals to
 continue R&I work given the short and medium-term challenges of the pandemic. During the
 pandemic, optional furlough schemes for project-based research staff have been supported and
 implemented by the institution.

 All staff are encouraged to apply for external grants, supported by internal peer-review, pump-
 priming awards (Section 3), UoL funder groups, and the Research and Enterprise Division
 (RED). Category A staff can also apply for one semester study leave after six semesters – vital
 for producing double-weighted outputs. Support for study leave has been unstinting, with a total
 of 58 semesters taken by Category A staff in the cycle, 33 institutionally funded (with equality of
 division by gender). Staff have taken key leadership roles in developing University and College
 research strategies: Thomas is CSSAH Dean of Research; Christie served 5 years as CSSAH
 PGR Director and directs the cross College Medieval Research Centre. Given the size of the
 School, this represents high-level commitment to institutional research leadership.

 All members of our community are encouraged to present their research and participate in
 seminars and more informal discussion groups. As well as a weekly SAAH seminar, these
 include seminars organised by our Centre for Historical Archaeology, the Medieval Research
 Centre and other University networks, an annual ULAS research seminar and the Dorothy
 Buchan Lecture in Ancient History. Two initiatives specifically aimed at encouraging a more
 open and inclusive research environment are: (i) the ‘Research Celebration’, taking as its model
 the book launch but offers an opportunity to celebrate other types of success such as new
 grants, and running of events; and (2) the ‘Work in Progress Seminar’ encourages constructive
 criticism and open discussion of ideas and publications under development. In addition, events
 throughout the year help celebrate staff achievement, such as exhibitions for International
 Women’s Day.

 PGRs

 This cycle has seen 79 PhDs awarded – including 15 international Distance Learning PhDs – a
 striking 70% increase over REF2014, with annual numbers of graduates exceeding sector and
 Russell Group averages (Figure 3). Over the REF cycle we have had equal numbers of male
 and female PGRs. Our PGRs report high satisfaction rates, scoring their overall experience at
 87%, and supervision at 94% on average for the REF period (PRES).

 The PGR environment and access to training and funding have been greatly enhanced by the
 creation of the University’s Doctoral College, following recommendations from a review led by
 Mattingly (see IES, 3.2), and implementation of the Researcher Development Framework and
 other initiatives (e.g. BAME Graduate Teaching Assistant Studentships). School staff (Mattingly,
 Christie) played leading roles institutionally and regionally in establishing the Midlands3Cities
 (M3C) and Midlands4Cities (M4C) AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs), developing
 innovative aspects such as cross-HEI supervisory teams, creative industry partners, extra
 training opportunities and placements opening up careers beyond academia, and leveraging

                                                  9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high levels of institutional match funding.

                                                  12


                                                  10

                   Ann. ave. no. of individuals
                                                   8


                                                   6


                                                   4


                                                   2


                                                   0
                                                              Sector              Russell Group         SAAH


                                                       Fig. 3: Average annual PhD completions 2013/14-19/20*
                                                                * External data only available to 2018/19

 We apply our ethos of equality and inclusivity to PGRs. Our PGR community is drawn from
 leading institutions worldwide, resulting in significant ethnic and linguistic variation among our
 current cohort of 55 PGRs, of whom 30 are part-time (PT: 15 DL, 15 CB), 25 female, 18>40
 years old, and 9 are non-white or UK BAME. They came to us from 16 countries, four from the
 Global South, enriching our community through a wealth of perspectives and experiences.
 Figure 4 shows non-white/BAME, non-UK national, mature and DL completions through the
 cycle. BAME PGRs in particular report high levels of satisfaction with supervisors and contact
 time in PRES survey results (94% average over the census period).


              70

              60

              50

              40

              30

              20

              10

               0
                                                         DL            Over 35s        Non-white/BAME   non-UK


                                                  Fig. 4: Percentages of non-traditional PhD completions 2013-20

 We are committed to supporting all PGRs, whether arriving direct from higher education or
 pursuing doctoral study for career change/enhancement, or in retirement, with critical attention
                                                                                  10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 paid to an inclusive welcome. Consequently, a good proportion of PT and DL PGRs are
 archaeological or heritage professionals as these options allow for work or caring
 responsibilities. Our success at supporting these PGRs is evident not only from the chart above,
 but also in high PT PRES satisfaction scores for their supervisors and contact time (96%
 average). Refurbishment of our building improved accessibility and made laboratories more
 usable for disabled PGRs and staff.

 We have an excellent record of securing funding, with 25 full- and part-time PGRs funded
 through the AHRC M3C (2015–18) and M4C (2019–24) DTPs. This represents a 178% increase
 from the previous cycle. We have continued to develop our strong links with museums and other
 external partners through 9 AHRC CDPs, while the rise in DTP awards has allowed more PGRs
 to take funded career-enhancing placements, some leading directly to employment, e.g. with the
 Portable Antiquities Scheme. Other PGRs have been funded through 14 foreign government
 scholarships and 12 University studentships.

 Areas of good practice developed within M3C/M4C have been extended to our entire PGR body.
 In addition to Doctoral College-provided training (IES 3.2), we run discipline-specific weekly
 training seminars (available as videos for DL PGRs and online during the pandemic), on
 subjects such as pedagogy, job applications, organising and presenting at conferences, and
 academic publishing. PGRs also run annual SAAH PGR conferences (including during the
 pandemic). Through Archaeology and Classics in the Community, our PGRs and staff promote
 our world-class research in archaeology and ancient history for the benefit of the widest possible
 audience. This has brought important new opportunities for PGRs to engage in outreach and
 impact work, while gaining practical experience of project management, budgeting, etc. (ICS3).
 Two of our PhD graduates manage this programme, and currently 7 PGRs regularly participate.

 Developing from our M3C/CDP experience, PGRs are assigned a supervisory team (including
 external supervisor(s) as appropriate), and supported by the PGR Tutor and Administrator within
 SAAH. Monthly supervision reports (pro rata for PT) detailing progress and agreed actions are
 uploaded on MyPGR, facilitating regular monitoring and allowing early identification of cases in
 need of extra support. Supervisions are face-to-face, by phone or online. Completion data
 confirm the success of our monitoring and support measures: first-year probationary review by
 an independent panel, with further annual reviews until completion. All CB PGRs are allocated
 office space (plus bench space for those pursuing laboratory-based training), and access to
 essential equipment/IT resources.

 PGRs play a central role in our community, participating not only in informal reading and
 discussion groups, but also in formal research networks and seminars, and organising the
 weekly School and Centre for Historical Archaeology seminars (mentored by Category A staff).
 PGRs are encouraged to share their research at the annual SAAH PGR conference and in
 University doctoral poster competitions, providing supportive spaces for preparing to present at
 larger conferences, fostering a sense of community. PGRs have been involved in running
 international conferences hosted by SAAH (Section 4) and organised meetings of their own (e.g.
 The Hellenistic Peloponnese and 19th Iron Age Research Student Symposium, both in 2016).
 Several of our PGRs have been selected to give prestigious University of Leicester Doctoral
 Inaugural Lectures (2018, Canning; 2017, Gordon, Marshman; 2016, Newstead) and we
 encourage our staff and PGRs to co-author outputs.

 PhD graduates’ success in securing jobs (or higher-level roles for PT PGRs already in

                                                11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 employment) attest to the research and professional skills they develop during their training. Of
 79 PhD graduates this cycle, 26 have continued in academe in the UK or aboard, 24 went to
 Heritage posts, 4 to Education, 19 to other professional/administrative roles, with 2 retired and 4
 still seeking.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 Throughout the census period we have ranked in the top 5 institutions for income/FTE (HESA).
 Research income has doubled over the cycle (up 105%), representing a substantial increase
 both by year and by staff FTE (Table 3):

                   Total income        Average per        Average per      Annual average
                                       year               FTE              per FTE
   REF2014         £8.7M               £1.7M              £328k            £66k
   REF2021         £17.8M              £2.54M             £669k            £96k

 New grants since 2013 from various funders (Figure 5) – including important new sources such
 as ODA/GCRF – total £10.4M (£1.5M pa), up 148% per year on the previous 5-year cycle
 (£0.9M pa). Income from industry has risen 142% from £4.3M (£0.9M pa) to £10.3M (£1.5M pa).
 This total only includes income from ULAS projects with major academic inputs meeting the
 HESA definition of research, but not other commercial income to the unit.


                                           Other
                                                                 AHRC
                                            1%
                                                                  21%

                              ERC
                              33%


                                                                         Other UKRI
                                                                            12%


                                                                            British
                                                                        Academy/Royal
                                                                           Society
                            UK charities
                                                                             5%
                               28%




                        Fig. 5: Sources of competitive grants awarded 2013-20
                                             (N = £10.4m)

 Income and awards data do not fully capture our success in attracting competitive funding, as
 they exclude in-kind awards (e.g. NERC scientific dating, visiting awards, support for fieldwork
 and conference organisation); support for research awarded at School, College and University
 level; external grants for impact and outreach work; and funding to collaborator institutions from
 grants to SAAH staff (Table 4):


                                                     12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                 Funder                                             Amount
                 In-kind awards                                     £120k
                 Institutional support and pump-priming             £251k
                 External impact awards                             £97k
                 Funding for collaborator institutions              £667k

 Diversifying the funding sources from which we secure grants is central to our R&I and staff
 development strategies (Sections 1–2). Our culture of inclusive research excellence and broad-
 based grant-getting has resulted in 96% of Category A staff holding awards as PIs in period.
 These have ranged from large-scale projects to smaller fieldwork and research network grants,
 and from individual fellowships to funding for conferences and/or outreach programmes. This
 record testifies to the energy and variety of R&I activity among our staff, and our supportive
 culture.

 Larger grants are well distributed. Of 28 Category A staff, 17 (61%) have been awarded 46
 grants > £10k in this cycle. The group is diverse in seniority, gender identification, and protected
 characteristics (Table 5):

   Award level         No. of         Staff/seniority          Gender split     Other
                       grants
   £1M+                3              1Prof                    2F               1protected
                                      1AssocProf               1M               characteristics
                                      1PDF
   £500–999k           4              2Prof                    1F
                                                               1M
   £200–499k           6              2Profs                   2F
                                      4AssocProfs              6M
                                      1Lecturer
                                      1PDF
   £100–199k           6              1Prof                    2F               1protected
                                      4AssocProfs              3M               characteristics
   £10–99k             27             4Prof                    6F               1protected
                                      5AssocProfs              7M               characteristics
                                      3Lecturers
                                      1PDF

 The size and makeup of grant awardees is another index of our broad and inclusive research
 culture and strong mentoring and support systems: we have a 100% success rate in 3 major
 AHRC (£1.9M) research grant applications since 2015, secured 2 ERC grants (MacSweeney
 MIGMAG, £1.47M to Leicester and Armit COMMIOS, £1.67M, to Leicester), and a UKRI FLF
 award in 2019–20 (Inskip £1.22M). We also draw upon the University’s Coaching and Mentoring
 Academy (IES, 3.2), which plays a key role in leadership training within the School.

 Several projects within the ambit of established REF2014 research themes have successfully
 combined research with outreach and engagement providing pathways to impact. Many included
 significant fieldwork components. In AMSR, Haselgrove’s In Caesar’s Footsteps (£330k,
 Leverhulme) attracted intense media attention with the 2018 announcement of identification of
 Julius Caesar’s likely landing site in Britain in 54 BCE, as well as advancing our outreach
 agenda through the participation of local volunteers and stakeholders in the fieldwork. Another
                                                  13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 high-profile collaborative AMSR project with international partners is Ancient Akrotiri led by
 James (£85k, various). Additionally, Allison’s ‘Big Data on the Roman Table’ (£45k, AHRC),
 made a significant contribution to the professional manual A Standard for Pottery Studies in
 Archaeology. In LAS, Crellin’s ‘Round Mounds of the Isle of Man’ project attracted widespread
 2019 media attention for dramatic finds including an intact jet bead necklace (£105K, various).

 New multi-institutional projects begun in the cycle included FEEDSAX (Thomas, £1.7M in total,
 £11k to Leicester, ERC) in MMA; Living with Monuments (Gillings, £952k in total, £318k to
 Leicester, AHRC) in LAS; ‘Cultural and Scientific Perceptions of Human-Chicken Interactions’
 (Thomas, £1.94M in total, £240k to Leicester, AHRC Science in Culture) in BIC, while new
 awards included COMMIOS (Armit, Appleby, £1.67M, ERC) in BIC; and MIGMAG
 (MacSweeney, £1.47M, ERC) in AMSR.

 This submission incorporates the principal outputs of several projects initiated in the last cycle,
 including Trans-Sahara (Mattingly, €2.4M, ERC); Harnessing the Power of the Criminal Corpse
 (Tarlow, £900k, Wellcome); and Hoarding in Iron Age and Roman Britain (Haselgrove,
 Mattingly, Taylor, £645k AHRC). There have been many others: e.g. Knowledge Networks and
 Craft Traditions in the Ancient World (Foxhall, Rebay-Salisbury), The Archaeology of Money
 (Haselgrove, Krmnicek), and The Human Body in Early Iron Age Central Europe (Rebay-
 Salisbury) are all outputs from the interdisciplinary Tracing Networks programme (£1.73M
 Leverhulme).

 Looking forward, several current projects contribute to our emerging R&I themes. Along with
 international politics, the collaborative Endangered Archaeology of the Middle East and North
 Africa (EAMENA) project (Mattingly, £1.82M to Leicester; Arcadia Fund, British Council) was an
 important catalyst in the emergence of our Diverse Heritages theme. Within this theme,
 Mattingly’s new project ‘Oasis Civilizations’ (£759k, AHRC), confronts questions of heritage and
 identity, and involves close work with Moroccan civic authorities. ‘Beyond the Three Age System’
 (Barton et al., £222k, Leverhulme) and Arch-I-Scan (Allison, £812k, AHRC) have similarly been
 crucial in the development of the New Approaches to the Material World theme.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Delivery of R&I strategy is steered and monitored through SAAH’s Research, Enterprise, and
 Impact Committee (REIC), with a representative membership including Category A and ULAS
 staff, postdoctoral researchers, PGRs, and a Professional Services Team (PST) member.
 Chaired by the Director of REIC, standing membership includes a Deputy Director, Impact
 Officer, Research Ethics Officer, and Postgraduate Tutor, all Category A roles. REIC reports
 both to School Meetings and the equivalent CSSAH committee.

 The Directors of REIC and ULAS are members of the School Business Group where School
 resources are allocated, such as space, technician time and pump-priming funding to support
 research and enterprise activities, over and above a basic allowance to all Category A staff. PST
 support for R&I includes two technicians (in period appointments), and administrators dealing
 with PGRs, project finance, and operations. Grant applications are supported and managed by
 CSSAH and RED (IES 4.1).

 Since REF2014, institutional investment in research infrastructure and facilities as part of a
 rolling programme linked to our long-term strategy has totalled >£1.4M. SAAH occupies its own

                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 building, which houses facilities including dedicated laboratories for human bone, animal bone,
 archaeobotany, microscopy and wet preparation, residues, and materials analysis. Separate
 rooms house meD-XRF, portable X-ray, microscopes, thin-sectioning and other equipment.

 In 2019, our building underwent a £500k refurbishment and upgrade. The animal bone and
 materials laboratories were refitted with state-of-the-art furnishings, including height-adjustable
 tables to improve access to mobility-impaired users. Reference collections (organics, animal
 bone, ceramics, lithics, artefacts) have been rehoused in new storage and museum-quality
 display cabinets, improving security and access. We have reconfigured the archaeobotany
 laboratory to meet future needs and are fitting out a new isotope preparation laboratory linked to
 Guiry’s appointment.

 The University has also provided capital investment of £632k to create a FAB clean lab for the
 study of ancient and forensic DNA samples, lipids and stable isotopes (IES, 4.4). Shared with
 Genetics and Genome Biology, this facility will promote interdisciplinary research and permit
 broader collaborations beyond academia including with the cultural heritage sector, police
 forces, and commercial interests. Together with SAAH building refurbishments, these works
 represent a significant expansion of our laboratory capabilities in support of our ambition to
 develop inter-disciplinary projects linked to our new strategic focus, New Approaches to the
 Material World.

 Another feature of the 2019 refurbishment was creation of a dedicated outreach room,
 manifesting our commitment to public engagement and educational activities fundamental to
 delivering impact. This houses equipment including graphics facilities as well as resources for
 working with schools and in adult education. It is a vital facility for engagement efforts, providing
 a customised space for teams planning outreach work, collaborating with external stakeholders
 (e.g. UK teachers: RWDC ICS3), and preparing continuing professional development (CPD) and
 other teaching and event materials.

 Assisted by competitive awards totalling £242k from central University funds, SAAH has secured
 important new investments in field and laboratory equipment, including a portable digital x-ray,
 multi-sensor geophysical array with differential GPS, a GPR unit, a robotic reflectorless total
 station, a separate differential GPS, stereo microscopes, gradiometer, kiln, and fieldwork
 vehicle. These investments have been targeted against key identified strategic needs for
 fieldwork, but also to facilitate grant capture in our materials laboratory. Post-census, SAAH has
 been awarded £1.8M from the AHRC Capability for Collections fund to upgrade analytical
 laboratory equipment in 2021.

 Research in our disciplines is supported by a growing library collection, subscriptions to
 important databases, and access to key online resources such as the Loeb Library, New Pauly
 and Brill’s New Jacoby (£60k spent on new digital resources). A liaison librarian ensures that
 subject collections are up to date. SAAH houses the archives of the Society for Libyan Studies
 (SLS), an invaluable resource for MENA research and impact work, for which we have attracted
 >£50k funding so far towards cataloguing and digitisation, part of the School’s commitment to
 OA. With 24hr access to the main library, the SLS archives, and regular renewals of computers
 (including optional university-owned laptops), all researchers have easy and convenient access
 to a wide range of archival and bibliographic resources.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                  15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaboration

 We have established collaborations with over 120 leading organisations in 47 countries and
 autonomous regions around the globe (Figure 6), as well as informal partnerships with groups
 and individuals in many others; indeed 39% of submitted outputs feature co-authorship with, or
 substantial contributions by, international authors. Within the UK, we have a strong record of
 inter-university collaboration, including the multi-institutional projects noted in Section 3.

 With regard to Diverse Heritages, we have worked with heritage organisations and museums
 across the UK (e.g. Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, Archaeology Scotland,
 National Trust, British Geological Survey, National Museums Scotland, regional museums,
 Royal Armouries, Vindolanda Trust), local authorities (e.g. Kent, Leicester, Northamptonshire,
 Oxford) and commercial units (e.g. Headland, MOLA, Oxford, Wessex). This work often
 integrates research and impact seamlessly, with positive consequences for wider society and
 the economy (below). It has led to significant outputs (e.g. Contact, Concord & Conquest, 2020,
 Haselgrove with Northern Archaeological Associates) and been central to major projects (e.g.
 ‘Coin Hoards’ with the British Museum). Beyond the UK, the ‘East Pemba Maritime Heritage
 Project’ (Basell with Royal Agricultural University, University of Zanzibar and Tanzania
 Government) seeks to preserve tangible and intangible heritage in the archipelago. ‘Women and
 Chickens in Ethiopia’ supports female economic empowerment by exploring cultural contexts
 and practices of poultry rearing (Thomas with Nottingham, Oxford, Roehampton, National
 Museum of Ethiopia and International Livestock Research Institute Addis Ababa). EAMENA
 (with Oxford and Durham) works with organisations across 20 MENA countries; the Leicester
 team has a special focus on training of North African heritage professionals in state-of-the-art
 satellite technologies, heritage databases, GIS and condition assessment.




 Many of the innovative collaborations underpinning New Approaches to the Material World were
 stimulated by interdisciplinary groups within the University, among them the Alec Jeffreys
 Forensic Science Unit, Leicester Migration Network, Stanley Burton Centre for Holocaust and
 Genocide Studies, Centres for Creative and Critical Geographies and Urban History, and the
                                                16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies. A prime example is Richard III (ICS1) involving several
 SAAH staff (Appleby, Buckley, Morris, O’Sullivan), King (Genetics, affiliated to SAAH) and
 colleagues in other disciplines. Allison’s Arch-I-Scan is working with computer scientists and
 mathematicians to develop new techniques for artefact recording, and collaborating with the
 pan-European ERC ArchAIDE project. Collaborative work with natural and social scientists has
 also resulted in important outputs (e.g. ‘Isotopic analyses’, Guiry). Tarlow’s Criminal Corpse
 brings together archaeology, the natural sciences and other fields of historical study.

 A testament to our research culture is that staff, past and present, often work together, resulting
 in important outputs (e.g. Archaeological Theory in Dialogue, Coin Hoards, Homer’s Iliad) and
 projects (Beyond the Three Age System). Collaborations between Category A and ULAS staff
 have been a cornerstone of many successful projects from Ancient Akrotiri and Richard III
 (ICS1) to the research-led field schools at Bradgate Park and Burrough Hill.

 Contribution to the research base

 Our contributions to the international research base take many forms. One is leadership.
 Mattingly is on the REF2021 Main Panel C, chairs the C15 Sub-Panel and has chaired the Arts
 and Social Science Panel of the Portuguese National Research Council. Haselgrove chaired
 the British Academy H7 Standing Committee and represented the discipline on the Humanities
 Group; he was instrumental in the Academy’s decision to conduct a wide-ranging review of the
 health of the discipline published after extensive consultation with stakeholders (Reflections in
 Archaeology, 2017). Thomas chaired the Association for Environmental Archaeology.

 Early to mid-career staff have been recognised as future research leaders, for example through
 Philip Leverhulme Prizes (Harris, MacSweeney) and invitations to give prestigious Royal
 Anthropological Institute Curl Lectures (Crellin, Harris). Other markers of esteem are the award
 of the Prehistoric Society 2020 Europa Prize to Haselgrove and Allison’s appointment as
 Lansdowne Lecturer for Social Sciences at Victoria University, Canada in 2020.

 Another important contribution to the research base is our service on 44 grant panels, research
 committees and councils for national and international organisations, including the British School
 at Rome (where Mattingly was on Council and is Chair of Archaeology), British School at
 Athens (Shipley), ERC Advanced Grants panel SH6 (Mattingly), EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Fellowships panel (Allison, Mattingly), International Council for Archaeozoology (Thomas),
 Centre Archéologique Européen Conseil Scientifique (Haselgrove), AHRC Peer Review College
 (Basell, Harris), Leverhulme Research Awards Advisory Committee (Mattingly) and NERC
 radiocarbon panel (Basell, Mattingly), Through this involvement, staff have shaped and served
 the wider research community.

 Leadership roles in publishing have included Chair of the Council of British Archaeology
 Publications Committee (James); Editor-in-Chief of Anatolian Studies (MacSweeney) and
 Global Pasts (Appleby); and Reviews editor of Medieval Archaeology (Christie) and Journal of
 Islamic Archaeology (Carvajal Lopez). We have served on editorial boards for 58 international
 journals and 12 book series; peer-reviewed articles for 101 journals as well as book manuscripts
 and proposals for 19 publishers; reviewed grant applications for 49 different bodies and
 schemes internationally; and acted as assessors for 16 external promotion or tenure panels.
 Staff have examined doctoral/higher degree dissertations at nearly every UK university where
 our disciplines are taught and 61 in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Netherlands,

                                                 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Norway, Pakistan, Spain, Switzerland, and Tunisia (up 74% on REF2014). Staff are also in
 demand as external supervisors at other UK and overseas HEIs, serving on 9 M4C PGR
 supervisory teams at Birmingham and Nottingham (4 awarded in period), and supervising 4
 PGRs in other HEIs.

 During the cycle, staff organised 72 conferences and workshops (up from 42 in the previous
 cycle). These include leading annual meetings, from the 2018 Classical Association Conference
 (with nearly 400 delegates, the largest CA conference at that time) to the 25th Theoretical
 Roman Archaeology Conference (notable for high PGR engagement, with proceedings edited by
 our PGRs Manditch, Derrick, Gonzalez Sanchez, Savani, Zampieri). We helped organise the
 Frontiers of Humanities symposium (British Academy/Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung, 2020)
 and were scheduled to host the 2020 Prehistoric Society Europa and TAG conferences, both
 postponed to 2021 due to COVID.

 Category A staff have presented invited keynote lectures at 318 events, and papers at 256
 conferences/seminars, but the clearest quantitative indicator of our contributions to the research
 base are our publications (Section 1). Broadening our international reach, four monographs have
 been translated into other languages (Arabic, Chinese, German, Korean).

 Contribution to society and economy

 We see our research contributing more widely to civil society and the economy in three main
 areas, building on our impact principles defined above. In so doing it prefigures and forms a
 natural partner with the University’s emergent 2020 commitment to Citizens of Change (IES, 2.8)
 particularly on culture and heritage.

 Leicester and the Midlands Engine:

 Our work has made major contributions to the economy as part of the Government’s ‘Midlands
 Engine’ policy in which UoL has played a crucial role (IES, 2.4). The Richard III project and
 Visitor Centre has brought jobs and tourism to the city (ICS1). In terms of Enterprise, ULAS
 provides an essential service for major construction schemes such as Leicester Waterside and
 Pineham (Northants) within the region and well beyond (Figure 7), playing a significant role in
 mitigating the environmental impact of modern development. Commercial research through the
 new FAB and Isotopes laboratories will offer more potential opportunities for economic inputs
 and increase the scope of in-house post-excavation analysis available to ULAS.




                                                18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 We have had a significant impact on identity and heritage in Leicester and the Midlands. The
 Burrough Hill and Bradgate Park projects and the Stibbe Mosaic (ULAS) attracted over 17K
 visitors and national media attention. We use our projects to engage a range of local groups,
 and to encourage a broader, more inclusive sense of heritage and identity, evident in our case
 studies Richard III (ICS1) and RWDC (ICS3). Collaborations between Category A and ULAS
 staff are crucial, ensuring in-depth networking, and sustained engagement with communities.
 This in turn has enriched the quality of our research and the complexity of our questions. Our
 achievements have been recognised nationally: through a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2013;
 an OBE for Buckley in 2014 who also won the coveted Current Archaeologist of the Year award
 for 2014; Score was 2017 CBA Community Archaeologist of the Year; and three SAAH projects
 were shortlisted for Current Archaeology Research Project of the Year Haselgrove 2018, ULAS
 2016, James 2014.

 Education and civil society:

 Our research has underpinned major contributions to teaching resources and curriculum
 development for UK schools. This has been particularly true for Latin, ancient Greek, and
 Classical Civilisation (ICS3). This work speaks to our Diverse Heritages theme: first for
 promoting accessibility of classical subjects, long the preserve of selective schools, in state
 education; and second by radically reshaping popular conceptions of the ‘classical’ to include
 greater inclusivity. Impact effort in this area involves working directly in schools and with
 teachers and providing teaching resources. Staff have made major contributions to curriculum
 development through reviewing GCSE and A-Level textbooks (MacSweeney) and membership
 of OFQUAL (Masséglia). We are extending this work to reach beyond the UK and the classical
 disciplines. An example is the 6-country, 6-language exhibition VOCES POPVLI, which ran
 workshops on cursive Latin for >2000 European schoolchildren (Masséglia). Teaching
 resources include a children’s book about the famous Jumbo the elephant based on Thomas’
 research (see 2C). Here our impact draws on multiple research strands.

 We offer a range of CPD opportunities for heritage professionals internationally. This has usually
 focused on skills training, e.g. EAMENA and Babylon working with heritage professionals in
 North Africa and Iraq; and Young’s Sri Lanka Heritage Network, setting up a new venue for
 knowledge sharing amongst heritage professionals there. Our ‘Archaeology and Heritage’
 Masters programme, informed by our Category A research and ULAS professionals, is available
                                                19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for study part-time and internationally by DL. The new FAB lab will provide a vehicle for offering
 new CPD training opportunities to forensic anthropology professionals and other interested
 groups (e.g. lawyers) in developing countries, building on successful pilot courses devised by
 Appleby for the United Nations Development Programme in Kosovo. Further CPD courses for
 teachers based around SAAH’s dedicated outreach facilities (Section 3) will be rolled out in 2021
 (Scott).

 Category A and ULAS staff engage wider publics through a range of outreach activities. Over
 the census period, we took part in >800 public engagement and outreach events, reaching a
 total audience of >70,000 people. We have also sought to engage audiences through broadcast
 media. Category A and ULAS staff have featured in c.100 radio/television appearances within
 the UK, as well as several international television appearances. Many have been linked to our
 work on Richard III (ICS1 Appleby, O’Sullivan, Thomas); but we have also presented and had
 our fieldwork featured on BBC’s Digging for Britain (Harris, Haselgrove, MacSweeney, Taylor,
 Thomas). Documentaries showcasing our research include the real story of Jumbo the
 elephant, featuring Sir David Attenborough and David Suzuki (Thomas, BBC and CBC, 2017),
 the Enderby Shield (Crellin, ULAS, BBC 2015), animal mummies (Thomas, BBC 2015), the
 Ardnamurchan boat burial (Harris, Smithsonian Channel 2019), Pleistocene colonisation of
 Australasia (Barton, PBS USA, 2015) and the Trojan War (MacSweeney, Travel Channel
 2018).

 Heritage preservation:

 Much of our Heritage Preservation work focuses on the documentation of archaeological sites
 and monuments (and where appropriate other forms of heritage) under imminent threat from
 conflict or development. Much of this emerged organically from our research in LAS. We have
 run several such projects in the MENA region where we have particular expertise and long-
 embedded relationships. These include EAMENA, and the Lower Göksu Archaeological Salvage
 Survey (MacSweeney). Within the UK, as well as enhancing the research value of ULAS
 projects by acting as academic advisors, staff lend their expertise to other commercial units and
 assist in developing research strategies for major projects, e.g. Haselgrove serves on the
 Academic Advisory Committee for the A14 road project, the largest of its kind in Britain and was
 academic editor for the principal monograph from the A1(M) L2B project (above).

 Our staff have contributed to discussions and policy debates over the official heritage protection
 status of several sites and monuments. This has involved research-informed consultations and
 contributions on the UNESCO WHS bids on the Roman Danube frontier (Christie) and in Spain
 and Peru (Emeritus Professor Ruggles). Our confidential ICS presents especially high-impact
 engagement in this area. We have also contributed to conservation and heritage policies on UK
 MOD Sovereign Bases in Cyprus through the Ancient Akrotiri Project, where an impact-focused
 initiative has developed into a research project.

 We also provide training to support heritage protection and documentation. In activities
 overlapping with 2B, we have designed CPD to support heritage professionals in developing
 digital methods for documenting heritage under threat; CPD has been particularly important for
 capacity building of local staff in conflict-affected zones such as the MENA region.

 Finally, we engage with long-term heritage preservation by tackling politicised use of the past.
 Identifying use and abuse of the past in present political discourse is an especially important

                                                 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aspect of projects in conflict-affected countries: the Babylon project (Young) foregrounds its long
 history as a site for the projection of political power, from Nebuchadnezzar to Saddam Hussein.
 Contributions to international and national debates on this topic also occur closer to home. The
 ‘Claiming the Classical’ project (MacSweeney) considered use of Greco-Roman antiquity in
 21st-century political rhetoric; new projects are planned in this area.

 Our multi-faceted contributions to economy, society, and the research base provide concrete
 evidence for our vibrant R&I environment. Through collaborative partnerships, hosting
 conferences, participation in learned societies and inputs to public, professional and academic
 bodies, we have benefitted the wider research community. Simultaneously, we have sought to
 maximise our work in – and impact on – broader society, through public outreach and media
 engagement, our committed longstanding work with schools, provision of CPD training, and
 disseminating our international expertise through consultation and professional archaeological
 services. In return, we have been enriched by this work, which feeds back into our overall R&I
 strategy.

 Conclusion

 We believe SAAH has enhanced its position among top UK departments for our disciplines. The
 success of our strategy and vitality of our research culture are demonstrated by the quality of our
 outputs and ICSs, rising research income and investment in staff and facilities in the cycle,
 careful succession planning ensuring long-term sustainability, and exciting future directions. Our
 PhD cohort has grown, boosted by the innovative approaches of the M4C consortium to
 supervision and training for careers beyond academia. Our strong engagement with EDI
 initiatives is reflected throughout the submission, with notable staff successes and increasing
 equality and diversity, whilst our ICSs confirm that our research makes a real difference beyond
 academia.




                                                 21
