Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The Social Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment (UoA) at the University of Edinburgh is a
 vibrant community of leading researchers from multiple disciplines, committed to addressing key
 challenges confronting policy and society from community to global levels. It brings together 91
 colleagues (84.5 FTE) to stimulate major interdisciplinary research initiatives, catalyse
 advancement in research training and to enable a cohesive approach to informing policy and
 practice. Our vitality and sustainability is evident in substantial growth across the REF period, an
 increase of 44% on our inclusive 2014 submission. Co-located on one campus, the UoA
 links diverse critical social science researchers from across the School of Social and Political
 Science (SSPS; Social Policy and Social Work subject areas), the School of Health in Social
 Sciences (SHiSS), and Edinburgh Medical School’s Usher Institute, spanning the Colleges of
 Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (CAHSS) and Medicine and Veterinary Medicine (CMVM).

 Building on our success in REF2014, we have strengthened our pre-existing three themes:
 Health, inequalities and care; Governance of welfare states; and Children, families and
 relationships. Our expansion has also provided critical mass to develop two interconnected
 themes that were emerging in our previous submission: Global health policy and Science,
 knowledge and policy.

 This submission reflects our achievements in promoting interdisciplinary collaboration,
 supporting methodological innovation, providing high quality research training, and promoting
 impact. Key evidence for enhanced success includes:
    Expanding across our five research themes through 24 new, open-ended posts, 17 of
     which were awarded to Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
    Obtaining £20.46m in external research funding over the REF period (averaging £2.92m
     pa, an increase of 26% from £2.33m pa in REF2014, and reaching £4.77m in 2019-20)
    Securing major strategic research awards, including leading consortia funded via the UK
     Prevention Research Partnership (UKPRP, SPECTRUM, £5.9m) and the Global
     Challenges Research Fund (GCRF, Tobacco Control Capacity Programme £3.9m), and
     the Wellcome-supported Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society (CBSS, £1.2m).
    Prestigious fellowships including two ERC Starting Grants (Grek, Meinck), Wellcome
     Investigator Awards (Chandler A, Cunningham-Burley, Sridhar), Leverhulme Major
     Research Fellowship (Paterson) and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Brooks).
    Broad engagement in research leadership across our submission, with 63 colleagues
     working as principal investigators across 192 new externally funded projects.
    56% growth of doctoral completions, with an average of 17.6 PhD awards pa (up from
     11.3 pa for REF2014).
    Directing significant developments in methodological research and training, including
     via the Edinburgh Q-Step Centre for advanced quantitative methods and the new £20m
     Advanced Care Research Centre (ACRC) to catalyse interdisciplinary innovation in care,
     and within the £237m investment by UK and Scottish Governments in UoE’s £660m Data
     Driven Innovation (DDI) programme.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    A step-change in our knowledge exchange and impact, epitomised by influential
     contributions to COVID-19 responses across national and international policy advisory
     roles (Sridhar, Curry, Hellowell, Qureshi) and public engagement across diverse media
     (Bauld, Sridhar).

 1.2 Research Themes
 Our research and impact are structured around five themes, each of which provides a platform
 to develop research projects and secure research funding; to generate leading publications and
 outputs; and to advance impact. Within each theme we ensure a balance between
 interdisciplinary collaboration to advance strategic priorities, and support for independent
 intellectual trajectories. All themes share an emphasis on analysing modes of governance,
 understanding policy and practice interventions, and examining the experiences of practitioners,
 service users and wider publics.

 1.2.1 Health, Inequalities and Care
 Our work on Health, Inequalities and Care employs critical social science perspectives to
 address diverse challenges confronting health and social policy. This encompasses systems
 level analyses of the social determinants of health and of public health policy, and micro level
 explorations of the lived experience of illness and health and social care. We have built on our
 contributions to flagship initiatives during the previous REF cycle, including via two UKCRC
 Public Health Research Centres of Excellence (2008-2018), the Scottish Collaboration for Public
 Health Research and Policy (Jepson, Doi) and the UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies
 (Amos, Bauld, Collin). These successes have stimulated further major funding awards, notably
 in our leadership of SPECTRUM. This £5.9m UKPRP consortium leads research into major
 drivers of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) to shape health policies and to reduce
 inequalities and harm (Bauld, Collin, Hill, Smith K). This is at the centre of a suite of equity-
 focused projects that examine the regulation of unhealthy commodity industries and the diverse
 impacts of interventions to address NCDs. These include the first comparative realist evaluation
 of youth smoking prevention initiatives (SILNE-R, European Commission, £225k; Amos, Hill);
 developing an MRC-funded framework for an alcohol brief intervention for remand prisoners
 (£140k; Holloway); and work on e-cigarettes for Cancer Research UK, including analyses of
 emergent business strategies (£38k; de Andrade) and impacts on inequalities (£91k; Amos,
 Collin, Hill, Smith K).

 In addition to major contributions to a second UKPRP consortium, SIPHER (System-science in
 Public Health and Health Economic Research Science; Smith K, Stewart), other major policy-
 focused health research includes a £1.2m National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
 evaluation of the impacts of reduced speed limits in Edinburgh and Belfast (Jepson); a THIS
 Institute fellowship (£225k; Boydell) to study participatory approaches to improving sexual and
 reproductive health services for young people; and the MRC-funded development of a social
 network intervention to prevent gambling related harm in adolescents (£152k; Dobbie).
 Extensive funding from Wellcome has supported programmes of research on cancer
 patienthood in the post-genomics era (£518k; Cunningham-Burley), on the roles of charity and
 voluntarism in Britain's mixed economy of health care (£1.4m; Stewart), and an innovative
 mixed-methods study of the social contexts and cultural meanings of suicide (£918k; Chandler
 A). The recently established Advanced Care Research Centre (2020-27) provides a new
 opportunity to advance our interdisciplinary approach to tackling key concerns in health and
 social care, from fundamental research through to intervention development and evaluation.

 Key outputs under this theme demonstrate its diversity, depth and breadth. Systems level
 analyses include a BMJ book prize-winning edited volume on critical perspectives on health


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 inequalities for Oxford University Press (Hill, Smith K, with contributions from Collin, Hellowell,
 Stewart); assessment of out-of-pocket spending for hospitalizations in the US health system
 (Adrion); examination of cohort differences in frailty among older people (Marshall); and
 comparative analysis and evaluation of methodologies for conducting value for money
 appraisals in public private partnerships (Hellowell). The strength of our contributions to
 exploring lived experience of illness, inequalities and interventions is evident across the first
 ethnography of homelessness and squatting by a researcher who was formally homeless
 throughout fieldwork (Grohmann); a qualitative analysis of peer support in dementia care
 (Alexjuk, Clarke, Wilkinson); and a novel conceptual approach linking affect and space in a study
 of a sexual health clinic (Wright).

 Our commitment to informing health policy and practice is evident in the extent of our work on
 knowledge exchange and impact. Three of our impact case studies (ICS) are based on work
 under this theme: on disrupting current framings of policy, services, and public perceptions to
 benefit people living with dementia (ICS1: Clarke, Wilkinson); on securing equitable policy and
 practice for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) for HIV in the UK (ICS6: Boydell, Young); and
 addressing challenges of IT policy and practice to improve ePrescribing in the NHS (ICS3:
 Cresswell). Our broad engagement with policy and practice in health inequalities and care has
 been further supported by a series of ESRC Impact accelerator awards to: analyse innovative
 options for promoting public health via fiscal policy (Hellowell, Smith K); use creative and
 relational data about communities’ lived experiences to rethink public health evidence (de
 Andrade); and to implement a digital information resource for people experiencing
 homelessness (Cuthill).

 1.2.2 Global Health Policy
 Building on our successful initiation of a programme of research on global health policy in the
 previous REF period, we have advanced further important contributions via major new funding
 initiatives. Supported by the GCRF, the Tobacco Control Capacity Programme (TCCP: Bauld,
 Collin, Dobbie, Ralston) is a £3.4m investment to work with partners in eight countries across
 sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. This is enhancing policy-relevant research capacity to
 address key governance challenges in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). GCRF-
 supported research also includes our contributions to the NIHR Global Health Research Unit on
 Respiratory Health, RESPIRE (£6.9m; Cresswell, Sridhar) and Meinck’s work on
 intergenerational violence transmission in South Africa within the GCRF Accelerating
 Achievement for Africa's Adolescents Hub (£101k). Other key projects include a Wellcome-
 funded exploration of the impacts of the World Bank on global health (£775k; Sridhar), NIHR-
 funded research to accelerate progress on emergency preparedness and universal health
 coverage in four Ebola-affected countries (£92k; Hellowell), and an MRC-supported network for
 studying psychological resilience in LMICs (£197k; Jain, Pickersgill). Our support for innovation
 in global health governance is further enhanced via collaborations and consultancies with
 agencies including WHO, UN Development Programme, Pan American Health Organization,
 Public Health England, the (former) Department for International Development, and with
 Bloomberg Philanthropies.

 Key outputs from this theme include analyses of the role of public/private partnerships in
 healthcare delivery in sub-Saharan Africa (Hellowell); of the role of health insurance for low
 income groups in promoting access to health care in India (Virk); of diverse understandings of
 conflict of interest in international nutrition policy (Collin, Hill, Ralston); of the role of public-
 private partnerships in global health governance (Sridhar); and of barriers to effective
 participation by LMICs in global governance via a study of the WHO Framework Convention on
 Tobacco Control (Collin, Hill). The latter has stimulated work with Cancer Research UK and with
 an international civil society network, the Framework Convention Alliance, to develop training for


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 LMIC delegations via a Global Impact Accelerator award (Bauld, Collin, Ralston). This
 exemplifies our active pursuit of opportunities to engage in global debates and to work with
 international organisations and NGOs to influence policy in LMIC contexts and at international
 level. Such efforts are elucidated in two impact case studies: supporting the development of
 tools to manage conflict of interest in global health governance (ICS7: Collin, Hill, Ralston); and
 engaging the private sector to achieve universal health coverage (ICS4: Hellowell). Impact-
 focused activities also include work to support a recovery oriented mental health approach in
 northern India (Jain) and to enhance access to reproductive health services for refugees in
 Uganda and Jordan (Palattiyil).

 1.2.3 Governance of Welfare States
 We have built on our prominent position in European collaborative and comparative social policy
 research. This has extended our strengths in analysis of labour markets including via work on
 class antagonism, labour agency and Britain’s active labour market reforms. Such work is
 supported by an Independent Social Research Foundation fellowship (£44k; Wiggan) and our
 successful contributions to COPE, an EU project on combating poverty in Europe (2012-15)
 examining re-organisation of active inclusion policies (£315k; Clegg). New recruitment is
 supporting the development of an innovative research programme examining the impacts of
 populism on social policy, including Rathgeb analysing the influence of radical right parties on
 the reform trajectories of European welfare states, and Ketola’s work on populism, welfare
 chauvinism and social citizenship. A key focus for growth has been a programme of research in
 education policy, including via a £799k ERC Starting Grant to study of the role of metrics as a
 policy tool in the making of transnational governance (Grek) and a Leverhulme Major Research
 Fellowship analysing Scotland’s pioneering use of national surveys (£139k; Paterson).

 Leading publications emerging from our education policy research include a co-edited volume
 examining the role of school inspections in governing education in England, Scotland and
 Sweden (Grek) and a unique analysis of the long-term effects of secondary-school reforms in
 the first half of the twentieth century through long-term follow up of a sample of people born in
 Lothian, Scotland in 1936 (Paterson). Other key outputs on governance of welfare states include
 a monograph on gender, work and social control, situating contemporary debates on incapacity
 benefits and conditionality in the historical context of a century of disability benefits (Gulland);
 analysis of the political economy dynamics of high skill formation in knowledge-based labour
 markets (Durazzi); a monograph on labour market inequality and the social protection of
 precarious workers (Rathgeb); a reconceptualization of how comparative scholars should
 analyse labour market policies (Clasen, Clegg); and work with colleagues in Law examining
 increasing inequality in patterns of victimisation during the fall in crime since the early ‘90s
 (Norris). The breadth of our efforts to promote knowledge exchange and enhance the impact of
 our research is indicated by a partnership with Oxfam Scotland exploring challenges for the
 Scottish Government’s Poverty and Inequality Commission (Freeman); working with the
 Samaritans for their report ‘Dying from Inequality’ (Chandler A, Heins, Smith K); a monthly
 column on education policy for Sunday Times Scotland (Paterson); and a collaboration with
 colleagues in local and Scottish Government to expand availability of restorative justice across
 Scotland (Kirkwood; detailed in ICS5).

 1.2.4 Children, Families and Relationships
 Our longstanding strengths in this area have been further enhanced by strategic appointments of
 leading researchers in domestic violence and child and maternal health, and we continue to
 make major contributions to policy and practice via our research, collaborations and associated
 networks. Our research includes a major focus on children living with domestic violence, with
 key projects including: a Nuffield-funded longitudinal analysis of effects on children’s wellbeing
 (£217k; Skafida, Devaney); an ESRC study to support innovation in social care for children and


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 families affected by domestic abuse (£210k, Devaney); analysis of care leaver relationships,
 mental health and social media (eNurture, £56k; Roesch-Marsh, ESRC); and development of a
 national collaborative research agenda around mental health and young people in care (MRC,
 £115k; Devaney). Our increasing engagement with sustainable development challenges is being
 led by Meinck’s research, initially via an ESRC Future Research Leaders Award (2017-2019)
 that developed measures for observation and evaluation of child abuse in a global context. This
 innovative work is being further advanced via Meinck’s new ERC Starting Grant for a unique
 longitudinal study of intergenerational violence transmission in South Africa (2020-25, £716k),
 and through ‘Generation Malawi’, a £3.7m MRC study of family, maternal and childhood mental
 health (Pickersgill).

 Key outputs under this theme include a monograph on marital breakdown in British Asian
 families that challenges longstanding characterisations of conservatism and authoritarianism
 (Qureshi); a co-edited volume on the international politics of parental leave policies (Koslowski);
 and a cross-national analysis of parents’ logistical challenges in managing access to childcare
 (Koslowski, Naumann). Our partnerships with research participants, service users, practitioners
 and policymakers constitute a particular strength, in which our Centre for Research on Families
 and Relationships (CRFR) has played a pioneering role since 2001. Our colleagues make key
 contributions to national policy and practice via advisory roles with Scottish and Irish
 Governments on child protection and gender-based violence (Devaney, Houghton) and the
 Scottish Government Early Learning and Childcare Monitoring and Evaluation Working Group
 (Koslowski). To inform debates across Europe, we work with the European Institute on Gender
 Equality on domestic abuse policy (Houghton, Devaney); with the European Commission’s
 Gender Equality Unit; the European Council Employment Committee Social Protection
 Committee (both Koslowski); and the WHO/Europe’s expert group on child maltreatment
 prevention (Meinck). Our commitment to co-production of research feeds directly into our
 approach to generating impact. This is epitomised in ICS2, highlighting Houghton’s work
 integrating children’s rights into gender-based violence policy in Scotland, including via
 participation of young survivors of violence.

 1.2.5 Science, Knowledge & Policy:
 This new theme /builds on the collaborative achievements of colleagues within and beyond this
 UoA through two major initiatives. First, the development of the Centre for Science, Knowledge
 and Policy (SKAPE), which advances interdisciplinary collaborations and critical reflection on
 how knowledge for policy is produced, applied, and legitimised in policymaking. Second, our
 new Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society (CBSS), funded by Wellcome (£1.2m) which
 examines the social and ethical dimensions of biomedical and public health knowledge
 production, translation and application (Chan, Cunningham-Burley, Pickersgill). Across the
 theme, significant research contributions include: a monograph examining the representation
 and management of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic by the World Health Organization (Abeysinghe);
 analysis of the epistemological and ontological status of antisociality (Pickersgill); and an
 account of the OECD as a site of co-production and the politics of policy mobilization in
 European governance (Grek).

 Our research also includes a strong focus on understanding the impact agenda and its
 significance for research and policy, with outputs including a book analysing the research
 impact agenda and situating it within international efforts to improve research utilisation
 (Bandola-Gill, Smith K, Stewart); analyses of why social policy academics need to engage with
 the impact agenda (Stewart, Smith K); of contradiction and co-dependence between relevance
 and excellence in research (Bandola-Gill); and of how knowledge mobilisation can be
 reconsidered to enhance the impact of practitioner-led research (Wilkinson).Our commitment to
 ensuring that our research on knowledge production and translation can be applied to support


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 policy-making and implementation is evident in work with clinical colleagues in Fukushima
 hospitals using social science methods to understand the impacts of the region’s triple disaster
 (Abeysinghe); in the development of a consensus statement on public engagement in health-
 related data science (Cunningham-Burley); advice to policymakers in Scotland, Ireland and
 Norway on establishing systems for the review of domestic homicides (Devaney); and through a
 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award focused on social science and policy
 (Pickersgill).

 1.3 Impact Strategy
 Promoting effective knowledge exchange and impact (KEI) is central to our research agenda,
 reflecting our strategy to address key challenges confronting policy and society. During the REF
 period we have achieved a significant uplift in support for colleagues in building sustained
 collaboration and diverse partnerships across policy, practice and advocacy contexts. We
 maximised opportunities to secure impact-focused internal and external funding. Scholars in
 our UoA benefited from over £300k in seed-funding in 31 projects supported via three schemes
 – the Knowledge Exchange and Impact grant, the Strategic Impact Grant, and the Edinburgh
 ESRC Impact Accelerator (particularly significant at £262k). Such funding has underpinned each
 of our ICSs, and provided opportunities for ECRs to engage in and lead KEI work. Houghton led
 the programme of research and activities to inform policy on gender-based violence reported in
 ICS2, while Ralston made key contributions to stakeholder dialogues with Brazil’s ministry of
 health in ICS7. Impact projects led by ECRs include McCusker’s initiative on mental health with
 care experienced children and young people, Robertson-Rose on engaging employers in
 workplace pensions, and Fang’s contributions to the Lothian Diary Project exploring questions of
 health, media and communication arising from COVID-19.

 Our ICS and achievements in wider KEI also reflect significant investment in expert
 professional support, with 5.1 FTE devoted to impact-focused roles across the UoA.
 Professional services colleagues provide specialist support in media engagement, events
 organisation, digital communications, graphic design and policy and industry engagement. We
 also offer access to wide-ranging impact enhancing services including training and ‘Learning
 Lunches’ to hone impact skills, promote our research and expertise to key audiences, event
 management to enhance live public dissemination, and bespoke digital platforms including
 websites, social media, infographics and videos to enhance the visibility of our research.

 We actively pursue opportunities to support innovations in policy and practice via
 commissioned research and consultancies, and we utilise our expertise to make important
 contributions via advisory positions, board memberships, and trustee roles (detailed in Section
 4). The ICS submitted demonstrate the strengths and diversity of our partnerships, including via
 Kirkwood’s membership of Scotland’s Restorative Justice Forum and his work with social
 workers from City of Edinburgh Council as knowledge exchange fellows (ICS5); Young’s
 collaborations on pre-exposure prophylaxis with the Scottish Government and the activist
 organisation PrEPster (ICS6); longstanding collaborations with Alzheimer Scotland and the
 Mental Health Foundation in shaping dementia policy (ICS1); and underpinning research on
 conflict of interest developed in consultation with Alcohol Focus Scotland and co-authored with a
 colleague from Pan American Health Organization (PAHO, ICS7). Other key contexts of such
 collaboration include the Centre for Homeless and Inclusion’s health partnership with Cyrenians
 and the Access Practice, a homelessness GP practice in Edinburgh (Cuthill); Roesch-Marsh
 collaborating with Multi-Cultural Family Base in supporting refugee and migrant families;
 Grohman’s work with homelessness and squatting; and Wilkinson’s partnership with Crossreach
 and the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy to develop counselling services
 for people with dementia.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The centrality of KEI across the work of the UoA is epitomised in our contributions to pandemic
 response strategies of governments, international agencies, health and social services, and
 third sector organisations. Sridhar chairs the Royal Society DELVE (Data Evaluation and
 Learning for Viral Epidemics) Committee, is a member of the Scottish Government’s COVID-19
 Advisory Group, and has attended UK Cabinet Office advisory meetings. Curry informs the
 DELVE data analytics group as a member of its Action Team, while Qureshi is a directory
 member of the Insights group on behaviours supporting the Scientific Advisory Group for
 Emergencies (SAGE). Hellowell has developed guidance for a WHO Advisory Group on the
 Governance of the Private Sector for Universal Health Care and, in collaboration with the World
 Bank Global Finance Facility, has led online training for governments in promoting access to
 health care during the pandemic. We have provided verbal and written evidence to
 parliamentary committees in Scotland and the House of Commons (Bauld, Hill, Qureshi,
 Sridhar), and worked to support our civil society partners in responding to new financial
 challenges and changing policy context. As Cancer Research UK’s cancer prevention adviser
 (0.4 FTE secondment), Bauld has been supporting the planning for recovery and the continuity
 of prevention programmes given new financial constraints and, in collaboration with the Royal
 College of General Practitioners, has worked to move cancer prevention training for GPs online.
 Colleagues have worked with NCD Alliance to engage their member organisations and networks
 in mapping how health-harming industries have responded to the pandemic, generating over
 1500 responses across 95 countries via an online tool; and in exploring implications of these
 findings with tobacco, nutrition, alcohol and gambling policy teams across leading international
 NGOs and WHO, PAHO and Public Health England (Collin, Hill, Ralston).

 We make key contributions to public debates through active engagement with media across
 print, television, and online news and via social media. Paterson’s prominence within education
 policy debates is reflected in a monthly column in Sunday Times Scotland, and Clapton’s work
 on adults affected by adoption includes regular articles in The Scotsman. The scale of our
 contributions to public understanding of COVID-19 has been particularly striking, led by
 Sridhar and Bauld. Sridhar was quoted in 10,732 articles across online news, print, blogs and
 broadcasts from January-July 2020, with high profile television appearances and a Twitter
 following that increased tenfold in 2020 to over 200k. From March-July 2020, Bauld was quoted
 in 248 news articles, and gave 82 interviews on television and 124 on radio.

 1.4 Research Ethics and Open Research
 Good ethical practice is foundational to all of our research and engagement activities,
 embodying our duty of care to research participants, collaborators, colleagues, and wider
 communities. Rigorous procedures support staff and students in developing best practice and in
 ensuring thorough ethical review and accountability across the research process. Abyesinghe
 has led recent developments such as creating online ethics resources and a revised online
 review form; increasing capacity through creating subject area research ethics leads; and
 contributing to the University’s pandemic response Adaptation & Renewal sub-committee on
 ethics and data issues in resuming research data collection. SKAPE and CBSS are focal points
 for exploring ethical issues of socio‐technical transformations in science, medicine, health and
 health care. Our research agenda addresses key challenges in research governance including
 participatory ethics in domestic abuse research (Houghton); stakeholder perspectives on
 consent procedures (Lawton); and sharing and linkage of health data for research (Cunningham-
 Burley, Jepson).

 Methods training for our research students at all levels includes increased attention to research
 ethics and data management, and our new Research Training Centre (RTC) offers workshops
 on ethical challenges in conducting research with vulnerable populations (Meinck), in
 participatory research methods (Houghton), and provides additional training resources for PhD

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 supervisors. We led a University-level series of GCRF workshops on research for global and
 local development, informing an online toolkit for building ethical, sustainable, international
 partnerships in LMICs, and we are collaborating to explore the power dynamics of autonomy and
 capacity building in GCRF research (Bauld, Collin, Ralston).

 We are committed to making our research and data as widely available as possible, embracing
 the UK Data Service’s principle of ‘open where possible, closed where necessary’. Open
 Research is promoted by our Open Access Officer, who provides training and support to achieve
 ambitious OA requirements covering all outputs published since 2016 (we have a 96% REF OA
 compliance rate). Our contributions to UKDS ReShare online data repository include datasets
 focused on welfare markets and personal risk management (Clasen, Koslowski), on
 transnational policy learning in OECD and EU education policy (Grek), and on improving
 evidence sharing in health and social care for older people (Wilkinson).

 1.5 Future Strategy
 Our priorities moving forward are to make leading contributions in response to pressing national
 and global challenges across social work and social policy. In continuing to grow all our themes
 and enhance intellectual links across the UoA we will:
       Focus on sustainable development priorities to examine global and regional dynamics of
        migration, global mental health, and gender, violence and sexual offending.
       Utilise our new £20m Advanced Care Research Centre (ACRC; partnership with
        Legal&General, 2020) to reshape advanced care, driving novel, data driven research, to
        shape innovations in care and building a new cohort of ECRs skilled in interdisciplinary,
        collaborative research and leadership.
       Work with the Edinburgh Futures Institute within UoE’s £237m UK and Scottish
        Government-funded Data Driven Innovation (DDI) programme (2018-27) to harness the
        potential of digital technologies to promote inclusive and participatory governance and
        services in health and social care.
       Deploy our distinctive combination of strengths across social work, social policy, and
        public and global health as COVID-19 propels us to redefine policy, practice and
        research agendas.

 Our capacity to engage with these key societal and policy challenges has been harnessed in our
 rapid and extensive responses to the pandemic. We are pivoting ongoing major collaborations
 to address the changing research needs of key external partners including the Scottish
 Government, NHS, Public Health agencies of England, Scotland and Wales, and WHO;
 enhancing research capacity in advanced care via the unprecedented investment in the ACRC;
 and developing new collaborations within and beyond the UoA via an exploratory research forum
 on COVID, policy and governance. By July 2020, 21 colleagues from all parts of the UoA were
 named investigators across 16 COVID-related projects while advancing each of our five themes.
 Emergent work includes:
 Health, inequalities and care: analyses of the impacts of social distancing on health and well-
    being in the UK and in Latin America (Adrion, Marshall) and on young people in Scotland
    and Ethiopia (Jepson); and analysing the experiences of women and health professionals
    with early medical abortion services (Harden).
 Global health policy: examining progress on emergency preparedness in the formerly Ebola-
     affected countries of Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea and the Democratic Republic of Congo
     (Hellowell, Sridhar) and the impacts of COVID-19 on non-communicable disease (NCD)



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     policy agendas in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Pakistan and Uganda (Bauld, Collin,
     Dobbie, Ralston).
 Governance of welfare states: cross-national analysis of the impacts of pandemic policy
    responses on leave policies (Koslowski); and appraising COVID-19’s disproportionate
    impacts on ethnic minorities in Scotland and UK (Curry, Qureshi, Hill) and implications for
    vulnerable older workers’ ability to save for retirement (Robertson-Rose).
 Children, families and relationships: understanding the psychosocial impact of social distancing
     and behavioural changes on families of care home residents (Hockley, Jain, Palattiyil) and
     developing crisis-resilient childcare systems in Scotland (Marshall, Naumann, Packwood).
 Science, knowledge and policy: examining public narratives of risk and threat that underpin the
     stigmatisation of health workers in Indonesia (Abeysinghe, Adrion), constructions and
     representations of knowledge about mental ill-health and COVID-19 (Pickersgill), and critical
     understandings of cancer research and care during the pandemic (Swallow).


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Over the REF period we have made substantial investments in staff, PGRs and support for
 career development, enabling us to realise the ambitious plans for growth outlined in REF2014.
 We are returning 91 colleagues (84.5 FTE); this is an expansion of 44 per cent on our already
 large 2014 submission to what was then UoA22 (62 colleagues at 58.69 FTE). 24 colleagues
 have been appointed to new open-ended posts, and this expansion has been well distributed
 across our research themes and (as discussed below) characterised by the active pursuit of
 equality and diversity.

 Career development has been a key priority. The success of our emphasis on appointing
 promising researchers at the start of their academic careers and supporting and promoting
 talented colleagues is illustrated by 29 colleagues who gained promotions since 2014. We have
 worked to support the career development of colleagues on fixed-term contracts as part of an
 active commitment to addressing employment precarity. Whereas in 2014 over one quarter of
 our colleagues (16 of 62) were on fixed term contracts, in our current submission that has been
 reduced to around one seventh (13 of 91). Sixteen colleagues who worked with us on fixed term
 contracts have successfully transitioned to open ended research active positions since 2014
 (Abeysinghe, Brooks, Chan, De Andrade, Gulland, Houghton, Heins, Mitchell, Pickersgill,
 Qureshi, Skafida, Stewart, Watson and Young; plus Kapilashrami and Treanor before departing
 for senior positions elsewhere).

 Seven colleagues (Chan, Chandler, Cresswell, Eichhorn, Stewart, Willis and Young) were
 appointed via major University investment in internationally-advertised tenure-track
 Chancellor’s Fellowships (CFs), while Cole was appointed via a new CF in Global Challenges
 to enable interdisciplinary and impactful work related to the SDGs. These prestigious fellowships
 are initially five year appointments, supported by start-up research funds (eg, Usher-based CFs
 receive up to £30k of research support and a linked PhD studentship), structured mentoring and
 career development advice, with expected conversion to an open-ended appointment after a
 third-year review. These contribute significantly towards sustainability and excellence across the
 submission, supporting the development of key projects including Wellcome Trust Investigator,
 Collaborative and Seed Awards (Chan, Chandler A, Stewart, Young) and major Centre
 investments (CBSS). We have sought to support fixed term teaching and research staff in
 developing the rounded profile necessary to secure lectureship positions, including via the


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 creation of Career Development Fellowships. These enable acquisition of diverse skills and
 expertise in teaching, academic citizenship and impact alongside developing a research portfolio
 (currently Pultar, Ralston, Ribe and Robertson-Rose; Brooks and Houghton subsequently
 appointed to lectureships). In the Usher Institute, CFs and colleagues with externally funded
 fellowships receive support via the Edinburgh Scientific Academic Track, including mentoring,
 development of interdisciplinary skillsets, promoting collaborative opportunities, and annual
 workshops; the scheme enables the acquisition of knowledge and experience appropriate to
 open-ended employment upon its successful completion (including by Chan, Pickergsill, Stewart,
 Young).

 The University is signatory to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, a commitment spearheaded by our Institute for Academic Development (IAD). We
 aim to recruit and retain the most promising postdoctoral researchers by providing attractive
 career development opportunities. University HR runs Aurora and Mentoring Connections
 schemes, offering all staff a mentor, and the University’s Talent Register prioritises existing staff
 nearing the end of their contracts for consideration for redeployment for relevant posts. We run
 ECR workshops (on topics such as developing a successful publication strategy and applying for
 postdoctoral funding), and work very closely with potential applicants for fellowship schemes,
 from initial preliminary application right through to interview preparation. Newly appointed staff
 receive a bespoke programme of training in conjunction with the IAD, as well as by mentoring
 that provides direct access to relevant expertise among senior colleagues, including in winning
 grants from particular funders. Mandatory annual reviews for all staff focus on key self-defined
 objectives, training needs and on identifying support mechanisms that can facilitate their
 progress. Early career staff benefit from adjustments to teaching and administrative workloads,
 as well as from increased financial support for attendance at relevant conferences and courses
 (eg, ECRs based in SSPS can access £2k pa in flexible research development funding to
 support self-identified needs and activities).

 We provide training courses and career development workshops for all newly appointed
 staff and intensive mentoring for postdoctoral fellows, who, for example, receive coaching and
 support in writing a larger research proposal as a PI. Early-career staff supervising PhD students
 are teamed with experienced supervisors, and attend seminars on best practice in supervision;
 all supervisors are trained and required to attend regular updating sessions. A research leave
 scheme (one semester in six) applies across most of this submission, with newly recruited
 lecturers becoming eligible for research leave two and a half years after appointment. Following
 the sector-wide Concordat, we ensure that all research-only staff, including research assistants
 and postdoctoral fellows, receive access to the same support available to those on
 teaching/research contracts.

 2.2 Training PG Researchers
 Our research community both actively supports and benefits substantially from the development
 of a large and diverse student body. We have averaged 17.6 doctoral awards pa over the
 assessment period (11.3 for REF2014; 8.2 for RAE 2008). Our PG researchers have
 successfully secured funding from UK research councils (ESRC, AHRC, MRC); governmental
 sources (Scottish Government, Chief Scientists Office); Commonwealth scholarships;
 philanthropies and charities (Wellcome Trust, Macqueen Trust, Alzheimer's Society Doctoral
 Fellowship); and from agencies around the world (including Chile, China, Indonesia, Kenya,
 Kurdistan Regional Government of Iraq, Nigeria, Thailand). Internal funding sources include the
 Principal’s Career Development Scholarship integrating research, training, KE and community
 development (recipients include Bandola-Gill’s work on impact as a policy concept, and Hirono
 on participatory approaches for health equity); the Chrystal Macmillan studentship for work in
 social justice, gender and equality (Alsaba on social determinants of health and conflict in Syria;

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cary’s feminist institutionalist analysis of accountability in global philanthropy); and new Alice
 Brown studentships to widen access though supporting part-time study.

 PGRs benefit from at least two supervisors, in many cases drawn from across disciplines, and
 in each subject area a dedicated Postgraduate Advisor supports the PGR student body. Our
 PGR programmes – in Social Work, Social Policy, Counselling Studies, Global Health Policy,
 Health in Social Sciences, Population Health Sciences and Nursing Studies – combine internal
 disciplinary seminars with external interdisciplinary social science research methods training
 provided by Scotland’s ESRC DTP, the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS).
 PGRs are encouraged to present papers at professional conferences, and all research students
 (including self-funded) can apply for help with costs of up to £500 per year. PGR-led applications
 are eligible for Special Project Grants, including, for example, a biannual round in the Usher
 Institute to enable activities such as conferences and workshops, writing and research retreats,
 collaboration and networking, and research and technology training. PhD students also benefit
 from access to the University’s Institute of Academic Development, providing access to a wide
 range of courses that enhance employability (such as courses on communication, IT skills and
 business and enterprise) and which support research planning and professional development for
 PhD students and staff.

 Enhancing postgraduate research training has been a key development priority. Our lead
 role in Scotland's Applied Quantitative Methods Network (AQMeN) has enabled us to provide
 training in complex problems in survey and related methods, including the management and
 manipulation of 'big data' (mass transactional data) and the use of Bayesian statistics. Support
 for advanced quantitative research skills training is further enhanced via the Edinburgh Q-Step
 Centre, a University-wide initiative led from within the UoA (Koslowski, Marshall, Skafida).
 Funded by the Nuffield Foundation, ESRC and HEFCE, this centre supports the development of
 advanced quantitative methods courses for postgraduate students. Research training
 opportunities in qualitative methods are similarly being strengthened by the development of a
 new Research Training Centre (RTC; directed by Marshall, with Houghton, Packwood). The
 RTC is leading the creation of a new flexible portfolio of skills training resources available to
 PGRs to provide rapid and responsive training in specific software and techniques.

 Alongside this broad strengthening of research training, we have successfully developed
 flagship initiatives offering highly targeted training routes in priority areas. In collaboration with
 the Roslin Institute, our new Wellcome Trust-funded 4-year PhD programme in One Health
 Models of Disease: Science, Ethics and Society allows for an innovative combination of training
 in social sciences and bioethics alongside bioscience (£5.3m, co-director Pickersgill). The ACRC
 includes the creation of an Academy (deputy director Wilkinson), developing a cohort of doctoral
 research trained leaders to pioneer innovation and implementation in advanced care. The
 Academy will deliver a four-year programme of funded study entitled “PhD with Integrated Study
 in Advanced Care”, entailing cross-College supervision, a cohort focused first year of
 interdisciplinary training with internships, and three years on research projects linked to the
 ACRC’s work packages.

 We are committed to supporting our PGR colleagues in tutoring as a key element of
 academic training. Recruitment has been professionalised, with a formal application process,
 Guaranteed Hours contracts, and annual training workshops for new tutors. The year-long
 Edinburgh Award and shorter Professional Development Certificate reward PGR students for
 undertaking extracurricular community and public engagement, digital content creation, and
 coaching. PhD students run an MSc Mentoring Scheme, which trains PhD student mentors to
 offer peer-led guidance and support for PGT students, facilitating interaction and integration
 between the taught and research student communities.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our PGR training creates diverse fora for engagement with professionals, policy makers,
 practitioners and publics, supporting our strategy for embedding KEI. Practice workshops bring
 together visiting practitioners and postgraduate students to discuss aspects of professional and
 organizational practice (including a long-standing collaboration with the City of Edinburgh
 Council around seminars and workshops between social work practitioners, PGR students and
 staff). We enable students to pursue opportunities for internships and placements, including with
 the Scottish Parliament to support parliamentarians in understanding problems in health policy
 implementation (Wright); the Scottish Government primary care policy team on rural health and
 social care (Gambier-Ross) and with Canada’s International Development Research Centre
 (Arthur). Our students draw on their research findings to make notable and diverse contributions
 to public and policy engagement. Examples include being selected among the BBC’s 100
 Women for contributions to health in Syria (Alsaba); participating in commissions on the
 regulation of marijuana in California and Canada (Barry); and advising the Scottish Government
 on how and why hate crime occurs (Hamad).

 Our postgraduate students have performed exceptionally well in securing postdoctoral
 fellowship and academic positions in leading universities. Within the UK, doctoral students
 graduating within this REF cycle have secured roles including research fellowships at University
 of Glasgow, Kings’ College London, Oxford, Newcastle, lectureships at Edinburgh Napier
 University, and KEI role with Policy Scotland at the University of Glasgow. Internationally,
 successes include a Marie Curie grant to work at the Autonomous University of Barcelona
 (Papanastasiou), and positions at Yale (Zagel), Harvard (Grau), and the Hertie School of
 Governance, Berlin (Weishaar). Our global contribution to research training in nursing includes
 recent students securing positions as deans in Hangzhou Normal University (Yiexian Tao) and
 the University of Malawi (Chodzaza), as director of Boramorajonani College of Nursing Phayao,
 Thailand (Thannee Glomjai), as research assistant professor at Hong Kong University (Lee), and
 as associate professor at Langzou University (Zhang).

 Our former PGRs are also making key impacts on research, policy and practice through
 developing careers in government, civil society and in professional practice. Examples include
 several students in positions as senior policy analysts in the Scottish Government, as members
 of the Civil Service Fast Track scheme, as Private Secretary to Scotland’s Chief Medical Officer;
 in the UK Statistics Authority; with health advocacy organisations including the Institute of
 Alcohol Studies and Framework Convention Alliance; as research coordinator in the German
 Ministry of Social Affairs; and as ESRC deputy director for data strategy and infrastructure.

 2.3 Equality and diversity
 We are committed to embedding equality and diversity across all of our work. UoE received a
 Silver Athena Swan Award in 2015, while each School represented here has also received an
 award (silver for Edinburgh Clinical Medical School, including Usher, in 2016 and for SHiSS in
 2017; bronze for SSPS in 2017). Our colleagues make significant teaching, research and KEI
 contributions via genderED, a university network to promote connectivity and co-production in
 gender and sexualities studies, and are active in the UoE Staff Pride (LGBT+) Network
 (Stonewall Scotland’s Network of the Year, 2018). UoE participates in Stonewall’s Workplace
 Equality Index, improving our score/position in 2019; and is a member of the Race Equality
 Charter. We are prominent within the newly established RACE.ED cross-University hub for
 interdisciplinary research and teaching on race, ethnicity and decolonial thought and practice,
 with our UoA hosting student-initiated annual events on Decolonising Global Health, and
 developing research and KEI work on COVID-19’s inequitable impacts across BAME
 communities.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have shaped the development of the University’s extensive policies on equality, diversity,
 and inclusion (EDI), with Cunningham-Burley in the role of University Lead on EDI. New EDI
 committees have been created in each part of the UoA, with initiatives including working groups
 on gender culture, physical accessibility, trans/non-binary equality, harassment and bullying, and
 mental health, and focus group discussions on PG student support, webpage content, women in
 academia and speed mentoring, black and ethnic minorities, and returning parents/carers. SSPS
 created a People+ committee whose innovations include guidance on preferred pronouns; a
 gender-neutral wheelchair-accessible toilet on each floor of SSPS’ main Chrystal Macmillan
 Building; baby-changing facilities on the ground floor; and a secure, single-occupancy
 breastfeeding / expressing room (awarded an NHS Lothian Breastfeeding Friendly certificate in
 2016). The University promotes diverse health and wellbeing activities, and offers workshops on
 mindfulness, confidence, presentations, and managing anxiety, sleep, people, pressure and
 time, as well as yoga. In line with the University’s Occupational Health policy, Maternity Leave
 toolkit, and Caring for Carers strategy, returnees from leave can benefit from a phased return, a
 reduced teaching load to support development and research, and changes to their working
 hours.

 We are responding to the challenges posed by COVID-19 to equity, inclusion and well-being
 across all aspects of our work. University initiatives have aimed to maximise flexibility in work
 patterns for colleagues with caring responsibilities, to invest in supporting home working, and
 expanded hardship funding and support for extensions for PGRs. All University Adaptation and
 Renewal groups include an EDI lead and have assessed impacts of emerging practices,
 including for hybrid teaching, home working, research pause, research restarting, and research
 careers. CAHSS has developed a Support for Research during Covid Hub (SERCH), available
 across the University, providing diverse resources to promote researcher well-being alongside
 guidance on adapting research methods, addressing research ethics amid the pandemic, and
 promoting digital approaches to KEI. We are targeting research support for ECRs, for mid-career
 colleagues at transitional stages in career development, and for those whose research has been
 most seriously disrupted. This is reflected, for example, in new criteria for the academic year for
 the allocation of internal research support funds and in reviewing allocation of research leave to
 support those disproportionately affected, and the development of a new Research Staff Hub in
 IAD. The UoA will directly benefit from the University’s recruitment of a new cohort of 30
 Chancellor’s Fellows, funded by the Scottish Funding Council support for research during
 COVID-19; these will be appointed from among existing staff on fixed term contracts, aiming for
 at least 50% women and 20% BAME staff.

 This submission demonstrates significant achievement in advancing equality and diversity in
 our staff. The majority of colleagues returned are women (59 of 91), as in 2014 (40 of 62), and
 this is reflected in the balance of our professoriate (10 of 16 professors). Five of the eight
 colleagues promoted to personal chairs during the REF period are women (Grek [from 08/20],
 Jepson, Kosloswki, Sridhar, and Smith K), as are two of the three appointments via advertised
 recruitment (Bauld and Holloway). We have sought to enhance equity and diversity in
 recruitment and promotion. All members of shortlisting and interview panels are required to have
 completed three compulsory online training courses in recruitment, selection and the law;
 diversity in the workplace; and overcoming unconscious bias. Our Schools and Colleges
 sponsor applicants for the Aurora female leadership programme and Diversifying Leadership
 programme for BAME staff, promotes the Enterprising Women and Ingenious Women leadership
 programmes, and runs a suite of internal leadership programmes for different career stages.

 In line with the University’s REF Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to
 defining ‘independent researcher’, and our decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff
 builds on our inclusive 2014 submission (84% of eligible staff submitted). We adopted a


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 rigorous, fair and transparent approach to selecting outputs, accounting for staff special
 circumstances affecting research activity. The process built in unconscious bias and E&D
 training, and we established an independent E&D group to review output distribution across staff
 by gender and career stage (as we could not access accurate data on other protected
 characteristics). This review demonstrated a balanced spread of outputs across gender and
 career stage: 74% of outputs included an author from among our female staff (who comprise
 64% of our staff), with 37% including a male colleague; 66% of our single-authored outputs were
 by female colleagues. Similarly, ECRs constitute 28% of our staff, and 28% of our outputs
 included an ECR author.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 The research reported here was underpinned by 192 new grants, generating income over the
 REF2021 period of £20.46m (fEC). At an average of £2.92m pa, this represents an increase of
 26% on the £2.33m pa for REF2014, and the emergent impact of recent recruitments is
 indicated by income reaching £4.77m in 2019-20.

 Our successes have built upon major research programmes secured during the previous
 REF cycle, including our leadership of the Scottish Collaboration of Public Health Research and
 Policy (including a £4.12m investment from 2013-18 co-funded by the Medical Research Council
 and Chief Scientist’s Office: Jepson, Doi) and via the UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol
 Studies (UKCTAS), a UK Public Health Research Centre of Excellence (total funding £4.29m,
 2013-19: Amos, Collin). Our UKCTAS work initiated our cross-College Group for Research on
 Inequalities and Tobacco (GRIT), and an ESRC seminar series (Amos, Bauld, Collin, Hill, Smith
 K) articulated GRIT’s distinctive research agenda on the commercial determinants of health and
 inequalities. This shaped development of the UKPRP SPECTRUM consortium, (£5.9m) directed
 by Bauld, that includes a work package on governance (Collin), incorporates equity foci on
 participatory approaches (Smith K) and stigma (Hill), and research on local environments by
 GRIT colleagues from Geosciences (Pearce, Shortt). Our leading roles in a second of the four
 UKPRP consortia, the Sheffield-based SIPHER (£4.9m; Smith K, Stewart), emerged from
 discussions at SKAPE’s 2017 conference on experts and expert knowledge in policy.

 We have also responded to the major changes in the funding landscape represented by the
 GCRF and related initiatives. This includes our leadership of the £3.4m Tobacco Control
 Capacity Programme (Bauld, Collin, Dobbie, Ralston), funded via the GCRF Growing Research
 Capability call to strengthen expertise and address sustainable development challenges
 confronting LMICs. Our colleagues are also co-investigators in other Edinburgh-based GCRF
 collaborations, including Sridhar and Cresswell in the £6.9m RESPIRE NIHR Global Health
 Research Unit to reduce the impact of respiratory diseases in Asia, and Pickersgill’s role in the
 £3.7m ‘Generation Malawi’ study of family, maternal and childhood mental health. Meinck’s work
 on intergenerational violence transmission in South Africa contributes to the £18.5m GCRF
 Accelerating Achievement for Africa's Adolescents Hub based at Oxford.

 We have been particularly successful in securing funding from across the Wellcome Trust’s
 humanities and social sciences programmes, with over £5.7m of Trust funding across 15
 research investments plus >£5m for engagement and education projects. These awards support
 researchers across all career stages, from early career fellowships to investigator awards for
 established researchers. Most notably, these include £1.2m for the development of a Wellcome-
 supported Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society (Chan, Cunningham-Burley, Pickersgill),
 while Stewart co-leads a collaborative award (£1.4m) exploring the neglected roles of charity

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and voluntarism in Britain’s mixed economy of health care since 1948. Wellcome Investigator
 Awards have been awarded to Chandler A (£918k) for a reimagining of suicide research
 explored via suicide cultures, to Cunningham-Burley (£518k) to examine translations and
 transformations in cancer patienthood in the post-genomics era, and to Sridhar (£775k) to
 analyse the influence of the World Bank in global health. Pickersgill received a University Award
 for work on the social dimensions of psychiatric diagnosis (£345k), and Swallow was awarded a
 fellowship (£214k) to trace practices of immunity in cancer.

 We have likewise been successful with applications for ERC Starting Grants, reflecting active
 support within the UoA and from the Edinburgh Research Office (ERO) EU team. Grek (£799k)
 is examining how international organisations have shaped the emergence of a global
 metrological field, while Meinck’s mixed-methods longitudinal study in South Africa (£716k) is
 developing approaches to interrupt the intergenerational transmission of violence. The
 effectiveness of our support for our ECRs in developing research portfolios is further indicated
 by fellowship awards including Grohmann’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£75k)
 exploring marketized service delivery affects the ethics of third sector work with marginalized
 service users (£75k), and Brooks’ forthcoming UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (£916k) to
 examine the implications of the better regulation agenda for health policy in the EU.

 We recognise that valuable policy-relevant research does not always require large scale
 resources, and that smaller scale projects can offer real opportunities for impact, particularly in
 collaboration with well-chosen non-academic partners. Regardless of scale, our projects are
 developed within the context of a commitment to a mixed economy of research funding to
 maximize opportunities for colleagues to develop their careers, skills, and networks and to
 respond to changes in the research environment. The broad participation in research
 leadership roles enabled by our UoA is indicated by 63 UoA colleagues having been a principal
 investigator on a research grant during this REF period.

 The impact of our research on policy, practice and society has been promoted via institutional
 access to diverse KEI grants from both internal and external sources, including:
 ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), offering up to £20k social science-led KEI activities.
    This has been invaluable to the development of our KEI work, reflected by the prominence
    of such funding across several submitted case studies (see ICS. Awards under the IAA
    have directly supported activities supporting participation of young survivors in the
    development of Scotland’s Gender-Based Violence policy (ICS2); risk, resilience and
    relationships in dementia (ICS1); and conflict of interest in health governance (ICS7). More
    broadly, investments under IAA have also underpinned contributions to policy and practice
    including via awards to measure humanity through music in schools (de Andrade) and to
    advance child protection in Scotland (Roesch-Marsh, Clapton).
 SFC ODA Global Challenges Internal Funding Scheme, providing grants of up to £50k to
    develop partnerships, deliver KEI, and build capacity. This supported work to use health
    taxes to strengthen capacity for universal health coverage in LMICs (Hellowell), to promote
    mental health in South Asia (Jain), and to improve reproductive health services for refugees
    in Uganda and Jordan (Palattiyil).
 Global Impact Accelerator Account, funded by UKRI, has supported work on promoting effective
     LMIC participation in global health governance in collaboration with Cancer Research UK
     and leading NGOs (Bauld, Collin, Ralston).
 Wellcome Trust ScotPen Public Engagement Fund, providing up to £100k for Wellcome Trust-
     funded researchers and ECR co-applicants to undertake engagement activities. This
     scheme enabled the creation of a graphic novel of experiences of tailored treatments for


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     cancer, linked to research on personalising cancer medicine (Cunningham-Burley). Our
     impact-focused activities have also been supported via the Wellcome Institutional Strategic
     Support Fund, including a citizens’ jury on the use of newborn blood spots to inform Scottish
     Government policy (Cunningham-Burley) and the development of a tool-kit for Implementing
     urban speed reducing measures in UK cities (Jepson).


 3.2 Support for research and KEI grants
 Institutional investments in research support underpin our capacity to generate income for
 research and KEI activities. ERO, the University’s central research office provides coordinating
 services including hosting funder visits, running briefing events, and curating a dossier of
 successful applications. The University’s commercialisation service, Edinburgh Innovations (EI),
 similarly supports the development of consultancies, and has been important in enabling
 contractually complex initiatives such as our professional training collaboration with the World
 Bank (Hellowell ICS4). EI’s expertise has helped us to respond more rapidly to opportunities to
 engage with partners via consultancies, generating research outputs, new projects, and
 significant KEI. Collaborations via consultancies include work with Bloomberg Philanthropies;
 British Columbia Green Party; Centre for Effective Services; European Commission; European
 Parliament; European Trade Union Institute; Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Germany; Frontline AIDS;
 IPSOS Mori; Istituto Per La Ricera Sociale, Italy; NHS Lothian; Pan American Health
 Organization; Royal Bank of Scotland; Samaritans; Scottish Book Trust; Scottish Government;
 UN Development Programme; and WHO.

 We have also benefited from substantial investment in research support operations across the
 UoA, assisting with increasingly complex applications, reporting, ethical and data management
 requirements, KEI, and post-award delivery. Our School and Institute research offices have
 more than doubled since REF2014 (from a total of 12.0FTE to 26.85), with new posts to manage
 research strategy and portfolios, KEI, communications and research data as well as grant-
 funded posts to support project delivery. Academic support is provided by our Research
 Convenors, who cascade targeted information on funding opportunities; broker peer review; and
 support research development via mechanisms including 1-to-1 research mentoring, targeted
 appraisals to identify training needs and develop research plans, themed reading groups,
 seminars, writing retreats, grant-writing workshops, mock pitch-to-peers sessions, and research
 away days. A dedicated UoA Impact Fellow (Bennett) advised us on KEI funding, peer reviewed
 KEI sections of grant applications, and developed a systematic procedure for early identification
 and mapping of impact potential.

 Staff can access a range of schemes to fund pilot projects and activities to develop grant
 applications. The Strategic Research Support Fund (SRSF), for example, provides seed funding
 grants through an accessible light-touch process (with outcomes communicated within 48
 hours). Staff can apply for up to £2k per annum to support funding bids, networking or support
 for producing publications; those preparing bids for large grants can apply for up to £5k per year.
 Brooks’ successful application to the UKRI Future Leaders programme exemplifies the value of
 such funding; SRSF support initiated her KE-focused collaboration with European Public Health
 Association, stimulating work examining the health implications of the EU’s better regulation
 agenda.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our UoA is central to flagship University programmes of infrastructural investment. These
 include engagement with a £1.3b Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal,
 providing £375m for research and training opportunities to staff and students via a Data Driven
 Innovation (DDI) scheme to tackle global challenges including climate change, inequality and

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 economic growth, and a new purpose-built building for the Usher Institute. Usher-based
 colleagues Iead the DDI’s work on health and social care, driving innovation at scale by
 integrating clinicians, life scientists, social scientists and data scientists to co-produce insights
 with industry and public sector organisations. We are similarly prominent within the Advanced
 Care Research Centre, supported by £20m investment by Legal & General (the University’s
 largest industrial award to date). UoA colleagues are leading work packages on shifting the
 focus of care to promote social participation and active citizenship throughout life (Wilkinson)
 and on data-driven insight and prediction (Marshall).

 More broadly, the University has made significant investments in infrastructure, information-
 technology, and administrative support that enhanced our work. These include a £2.9m
 institutional investment to create the Data Safe Haven, to enable colleagues across the
 University to benefit from data security measures at recognised standards of international
 excellence. During this REF period, £1.75m was invested to renovate listed buildings on George
 Square into a new PhD space named after the South African doctor and anti-apartheid activist
 Dr Kesaveloo Goonam. 137 desks in shared offices are allocated to individual PhD students (not
 hot desks), prioritising students through their writing-up. We have invested to enhance equity
 and promote access, including via a major overhaul of lifts in the Chrystal Macmillan Building to
 enable access outside of working hours and in developing personal emergency evacuation plans
 (£488k); support to provide colleagues with the same IT and office configuration at home as in
 allocated office space; and the Apps Anywhere initiative allows staff and students working
 internationally to access a full range of software for research and teaching.

 Our location also offers easy access to two world class libraries: the National Library of
 Scotland (NLS) and Edinburgh University Library. The NLS is one of six legal deposit libraries in
 the UK, containing 15m books, 7m manuscript items, almost 2m maps and 100,000 journal,
 magazine and newspaper titles. The university’s research library provides over 2 million printed
 volumes and 60 kilometres of Special Collections, Museum and Art Collections, along with
 185,000 e-journals, 850 licensed databases and 1.4 million e-books. University collections were
 central to Edinburgh Global’s student-led collaborative decolonial research project UncoverEd,
 which exhibited marginalised student experiences in a rotating display throughout 2019.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration and networks
 Our ability to forge innovative interdisciplinary collaborations across UoE and with other
 universities has been a key driver of successes. Our research centres and leading roles in key
 externally funded initiatives enable research collaborations that respond to the needs of external
 partners across governments and international agencies, civil society, health and social care,
 and professional and practice organisations.

 Within the University: The University’s structure fosters interdisciplinary engagement across
 the institution, and our extensive engagements across this UoA are matched by active research
 collaborations encompassing 20 of the University’s 21 schools. This includes particularly close
 links with other subject areas within SSPS (Politics and International Relations; Social
 Anthropology; Science, Technology and Innovation Studies; Sociology) as well as with
 Education, Geography and Law. Interdisciplinary collaborations are promoted by our
 participation in diverse centres and institutes beyond the UoA, notably including the Mason
 Institute for Medicine, Life Sciences and the Law, Centre for Research in Education Inclusion
 and Diversity, Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, and the
 Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health.

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Collaborations with other universities: During this REF period, we have collaborated to co-
 develop projects and co-author publications with colleagues from over 70 UK universities and
 research institutes. International collaborations are central to our work across all five thematic
 priorities, and over this REF period our colleagues have been involved in research projects in
 over 60 countries. Alongside our well-established networks involving leading institutions across
 Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand, we are building new links with universities
 in Asia (especially Japan) and our successes with GCRF and related initiatives have increased
 engagement with research partners across the Global South. For example, our work in the NIHR
 Global Health Research Unit on respiratory health (RESPIRE) involves multiple partners across
 Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Malaysia; the ‘Generation Malawi’ study of family, maternal and
 childhood mental health is in collaboration with the Malawi College of Medicine; and work on
 intergenerational violence transmission in South Africa is undertaken in partnership with
 Witwatersrand and North-Western University.

 Our research contributions and collaborations are reflected in an extensive range of visiting
 fellowships and professorships including at Australian National U. (Chandler A, Collin);
 German Institute for International and Security Affairs (Kenealy); Hertie School of Governance,
 Berlin (Clasen); U. Indonesia (Abeysinghe); Institute for Employment Research, Nuremberg
 (Clegg); Jyväskylä (Stewart); Johns Hopkins (Holloway); Kings College London (Smith P); LMU
 Munich (Sridhar); Otago (Hill); National Autonomous U. of Mexico (Chan); National Institutes for
 the Humanities, Japan (Chan); North-West University South Africa (Meinck); Sciences Po
 Centre d'Economie de la Sorbonne (Clegg); Stockholm (Koslowski); U. Technology at Sydney
 (Pickersgill); Texas at Austin (Devaney); Victoria U. of Wellington (Kirkwood); and Wollongong
 (Rodgers). Cunningham-Burley was awarded a Rockefeller Foundation Academic Residency at
 the Bellagio Centre, Italy.

 Building relationships beyond the academy: Our research environment is enriched and
 capacity to promote impact enhanced by co-production of research. The Centre for Research on
 Families and Relationships (Chandler, Cunningham-Burley, Harden, Houghton) has been path-
 breaking in its ‘knowledge to action’ approach, networking with policymakers and third sector
 organisations to develop projects, disseminate findings, respond to policy and service needs and
 organising events. We host the Scottish Collaboration for Public Health Research and Policy
 (SCPHRP), jointly established by the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the Chief Scientist
 Office (CSO), to cultivate collaborations between government, researchers and the public health
 community. Our major research initiatives entail active involvement of diverse agencies as
 research partners. This includes key roles within ACRC of the Scottish Government’s primary
 and social care teams, local Health and Social Care Partnerships and their Integrated Joint
 Boards, and Age UK and Which; SPECTRUM’s collaboration with Public Health England, Public
 Health Scotland and Public Health Wales and leading civil society networks including Alcohol
 Health Alliance, NCD Alliance, Obesity Health Alliance, Poverty Alliance, and Smokefree Action
 Coalition (SFAC); and TCCP’s inclusion of NGOs as research partners (ARK Foundation,
 Bangladesh; Cancer Research UK; Centre for Tobacco Control in Africa, Uganda; HRIDAY,
 India; and The Initiative, Pakistan).

 Both the dissemination of our research and its responsiveness to user needs are enhanced by
 active engagement with policy and advocacy organisations through diverse roles including:
 Policy advisory positions: House of Commons Treasury Select Committee (Hellowell); Irish
      Government and Scottish Government committees on child protection and gender based
      violence (Devaney); Open Societies Foundations (Eichhorn); Public Health England (Bauld,
      Holloway); SAGE Independent Scientific Pandemic Insights Group on Behaviours (Qureshi);




                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Scottish Government COVID-19 Advisory Group (Sridhar); Scottish Government's Suicide
     Prevention Action Plan (Chandler A); WHO Private Sector Advisory Group (Hellowell).
 Expert working groups: ALLEA Permanent Working Group on Science and Ethics (Pickersgill);
    BBSRC Science in Society Strategy Panel (Pickersgill); Centre for Disease Control, US
    (Ralston); European Institute for Gender Equality (Koslwoski); HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis
    (PrEP) in Scotland short-life working group (Young); National Institute for Health and Care
    Excellence (NICE) Centre for Guidelines (Amos, Bauld, Devaney); Northern Ireland reform
    of Social Fund (Wiggan); Pan American Health Organization (Collin); Royal Society Data
    Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics group (DELVE) (Curry; Sridhar); Royal Society
    of Edinburgh Post-COVID Futures Commission (Bauld); Scottish Government’s Pregnancy
    and Young Parenthood Strategy evaluation (Harden); Scottish Ministerial Working Group on
    Tobacco Control and Research and Evaluation sub-committee (Amos, Bauld, Collin); WHO
    Tobacco Free Initiative (Collin).
 NGO trustees, directors, advisors: Alcohol Focus Scotland (Collin); ASH Scotland (Hill);
    Community Justice Scotland (Kirkwood); Diabetes UK (Lawton); d|part - think tank for
    political participation, Germany (Eichhorn); Fathers Network Scotland (Clapton); Homestart
    (Devaney); Institute of Alcohol Studies (Bauld, Collin); International Society for the
    Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect (Meinck); International Women’s Network Against
    Tobacco (Amos); NSPCC (Devaney); Project Burans, India (Jain).

 Our flexible and responsive collaborative structures help us to engage effectively with diverse
 communities and publics. The Edinburgh Centre for Research on the Experience of Dementia
 (E-CRED), for instance, promotes interdisciplinary collaborations bringing together dementia
 researchers, people with dementia, dementia practitioners, the campaign organisations
 Upstream and Pamis, and the Dementia Centre, HammondCare. Our work with local
 communities and commitment to widening participation also shape the work of the Q-Step
 Academy in raising the profile of social statistics in secondary schools. This includes a program
 of quantitative research methods training for eight local schools, designing and publishing a
 social statistics module for national roll-out with The Brilliant Club, and creating opportunities for
 school students from WP backgrounds to participate in research projects via the Nuffield
 Research Placement scheme.

 Our research includes a strong focus on understanding and promoting effective forms of public
 involvement and engagement (PI&E) with research. Within the Farr Institute of Health
 Informatics Research, Cunningham-Burley led its work stream on public engagement; a series of
 dialogic workshops and ongoing deliberation with its public panel, explored the social and ethical
 implications of ‘big data’ research and its governance. This led to a consensus statement on
 PI&E in data-intensive health research generated through a workshop of international experts
 and stakeholders, including those with lay expertise.

 Engagement with the commercial sector: Our contributions to the economy and society also
 include research-focused interactions with diverse private sector actors. In addition to
 engagement in flagship initiatives such as ACRC and the Edinburgh and SE Scotland City
 Region Deal, the SPECTRUM consortium’s commercial partners Sandtable and The Retail Data
 Partnership provide key data, analytical platforms and skills to enhance the reach and relevance
 of our work. UoA colleagues have undertaken consultancies with Fintech and Royal Bank of
 Scotland (Robertson-Rose), Panteia (Durazzi); and maintained close relationships with social
 enterprises including Skimstone Arts (Dementia ICS) and Birthlink (Clapton). Such partnerships
 are undertaken alongside policy advisory work and research on appropriate interactions and the
 management of conflict of interest with commercial actors in policy contexts. This includes work
 with WHO to promote effective contributions towards universal health care in LMICs (Hellowell),


                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and leading a scientific committee to develop a framework for public health research interactions
 with commercial actors (Bauld, Collin) in a joint initiative of the Canadian Institutes of Health
 Research, Cancer Research UK, Medical Research Council, National Institute for Health
 Research, and Wellcome Trust.

 4.2 Research leadership
 UoA colleagues exercise substantive leadership across social work and social policy and in
 social science scholarship more broadly, including via professional associations. Professional
 contributions within social work include membership of the Joint Social Work Education
 Committee executive (Devaney) and of the Scottish Mental Health Law Review (McCusker);
 participating in the Scottish Social Services Council review of standards in social work education
 (Roesch-Marsh); and chairing the British Association for the Study and Prevention of Child
 Abuse and Neglect (Devaney). Our staff have played key roles within the Social Policy
 Association (Eicchorn, Heins, Ketola, Koslowski, Naumann, Smith K, Stewart), while Clegg has
 served as a board member for the European Social Policy Analysis Network (ESPAnet), of
 which Clasen is an Honorary President. Colleagues play leading roles with key research
 networks including the British Society for Population Studies (Marshall); British Association for
 the Study and Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect (Devaney); Census and Administrative
 Data Longitudinal Studies Hub (Marshall); International Collaboration for Community Health
 Nursing Research (Smith P); International Domestic Homicide Research Network (Devaney);
 and International Network for Leave Policies and Research (Koslowski).

 Our contributions to the research base encompass serving as panel members for leading
 research funding organisations and initiatives within the UK and internationally including:
 ESRC-AHRC GCRF panel on mental health research (Pickersgill); Breast Cancer Now (Bauld);
 Chief Scientist Office (CSO) (Holloway, Lawton); Cancer Research UK (Bauld, Collin, Hill);
 Health Research Board, Ireland (Cunningham-Burley); International Development Research
 Centre (IDRC) Canada (Hellowell); Medical Research Council (MRC) (Bauld, Cunningham-
 Burley); National Cancer Institute, France (Amos, Cunningham-Burley); Population Systems
 Medicine Board (Bauld); UKRI/ESRC social science Covid-19 funding board (Bauld); UKRI-
 Minciencias (Pickersgill); and several Wellcome Trust panels (Chan, Collin, Cunningham-Burley,
 Hellowell, Hill, Pickersgill, Sridhar). UoA colleagues also make important contributions to
 research funders via extensive involvement in peer review, including via serving on UKRI Peer
 Review Colleges and have reviewed proposals for major national funders (British Academy,
 Carnegie Trust, ESRC, Independent Social Research Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, MRC,
 NIHR, Wellcome Trust) as well as international funders like the European Research Council,
 European Commission, IDRC, WHO, and World Bank, and national social science and health
 funding bodies in around the world (Australia, Austria, Canada, Croatia, France, Germany, India,
 Indonesia, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, South Africa, Sweden,
 Switzerland, and the USA).

 We make extensive contributions across multiple fields through roles as editors and advisors
 for leading journals and book series, with the majority of UoA colleagues from across career
 stages performing editorial roles. The Social Policy subject area has both hosted and edited the
 leading journals Journal of European Social Policy (Clasen) and Journal of Social Policy
 (Eichhorn, Naumann, Wiggan), while Families, Relationships and Societies was co-founded
 (Cunningham-Burley) and is edited (Koswlowski, Roesch-Marsh) by UoA colleagues. Other
 journals to which we have made senior editorial roles include Annual International Review of
 Leave Policies (Koslowski), Critical Policy Studies (Freeman), Critical Social Policy (Wiggan),
 Emotion, Society and Space (Willis), European Educational Research (Grek), Evidence and
 Policy (Smith K) Journal of European Social Security (Clegg), New Genetics and Society
 (Pickersgill), Nicotine and Tobacco Research (Bauld), and Tobacco Control (Hill). Colleagues

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 have served as editorial board members and advisors to many other journals across social
 policy, social work and cognate fields including British Journal of Social Psychology; Children &
 Youth Services Review; Community Practitioner; Criminology and Criminal Justice; Current
 Sociology; Dementia; Engaging Science, Technology, & Society; Journal of Family Violence;
 Science as Culture; Social Studies of Science; Sociological Review; and Sociology of Health and
 Illness.

 Colleagues have also served as editors and co-editors of book series including Palgrave
 Studies in Science, Knowledge and Policy (Freeman, Grek, Smith K); the Palgrave Health,
 Technology and Society series (Pickersgill); the Edward Elgar-published series on Globalization
 and Welfare (Clasen); Work and Welfare in Europe for Palgrave (Clegg); and two series for
 Dunedin Academic Press: ‘Health and Social Care’ (Clarke) and ‘Protecting Children and Young
 People’ (Devaney).

 4.3 Esteem indicators
 Our contributions to research, policy and practice have been recognized through the award of
 diverse honours and other esteem indicators to colleagues across all career stages. Our
 research outputs are published in the leading outlets in their field and have won prizes including:
 BMA Book Awards prize in public health (Hill, Smith K); British Sociological Association best first
 book award (Chandler A); Critical Perspectives Cambridge University Press Award for
 Excellence in Social Policy Scholarship (Smith K, Stewart); ECPR SG Knowledge Politics and
 Policies Excellent Paper Award (Bandola-Gill); Foundation for the Sociology of Health and
 Illness best book in medical sociology (Chandler A); Philip Leverhulme Prize for Sociology &
 Social Policy (Smith K); Herbert Gottweis Prize for best paper in Critical Policy Studies in 2014
 (Grek); Council for European Studies Political Economy and Welfare Network best paper
 (Durazzi); while Rathgeb’s work on labour market inequality and the social protection of
 precarious workers was awarded the Theodor Körner Prize for outstanding junior scholars, the
 Science Award and the Innovation Award of the Austrian Chamber of Labour. Career awards
 include an MBE to Smith P for services to nursing and education and an OBE to Amos for
 services to public health; the Henry Duncan Medal of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) for
 outstanding scholarly work (Pickersgill); ISPCAN C. Henry Kempe Award for outstanding young
 professional in child abuse and neglect (Meinck); and UoE accolades via Chancellor’s Awards to
 Koslowski for her leadership of the Q-Step initiative and the Rising Star award for Sridhar.
 During this REF period several colleagues have been also made Fellows of prestigious
 societies including the Academy of Social Sciences (Bauld); British Academy (Paterson); Faculty
 of Public Health (Amos, Cunningham-Burley); RSE (Bauld, Cunningham-Burley); and RSE
 Young Academy of Scotland (Chan, Cresswell, Grek, Naumann).




                                                                                            Page 21
