Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 22 (Anthropology)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Established in 2002, the Department of Anthropology (11.5FTE) sits within the School of Social
 Science alongside the Departments of Sociology, Politics and International Relations. We began
 with a research focus on the Anthropology of the North and, over the ensuing years, have
 introduced a complementary focus on the themes of Environment, Creativity and Perception. We
 have become an internationally leading centre for research in these twin fields. During the
 current REF period we were the only anthropology department in the UK to hold two ERC grants
 simultaneously (led by Anderson and Ingold). A coherent set of research themes underpins our
 work going forward: (1) Anthropology of the North; (2) Environment, Creativity and Perception;
 (3) Museums and Histories of Science; (4) Religion, Politics and the State; (5) Anthropology with
 Art and Craft. Regionally, our northern research extends from Scotland to the Canadian Arctic,
 the Nordic and Baltic countries, Russia and Siberia. We also undertake research in the Andes,
 Central Asia, Tibet and the Himalayas, and North Africa.

  1.     Anthropology of the North
 The Anthropology of the North has been at the core of the Department’s mission since its
 foundation. Today we have one of the largest concentrations of anthropologists working in the
 northern circumpolar regions worldwide. Our work covers sustainable development and resource
 co-management, oral tradition and cultural revitalisation, human-animal relations and histories of
 domestication. For example, the ERC-funded Arctic Domus project, led by Anderson, has
 assembled field research in anthropology, archaeology, environmental history and social studies
 of science around the circumpolar North to elaborate a new model of human-animal relations in
 the Arctic. Our northern research has also profited from the Department’s involvement in three of
 the four research programmes funded by the University-wide interdisciplinary theme on The
 North, led by Ingold (2012-15). Brown and Wachowich were joint leaders of Northern
 Colonialism, and Árnason, Wishart and Argounova-Low were on the programme teams for
 The Northern Temperament and Fragility, Adaptation and Resilience (FAR North).

 2.      Environment, Creativity and Perception
 Our approach to environmental anthropology rests on the principle that people, and their
 environments, are co-constitutive and ever emergent within coupled processes of perception
 and action. We have been working to understand the intrinsic creativity of these processes, thus,
 placing creativity firmly within the nexus of human environmental relations. This approach
 underwrites the Department’s MSc programme People and Environment, directed by
 Whitehouse. In a series of AHRC-funded projects, Vergunst and his co-investigators have
 looked at creative ways of engaging with lived landscape and heritage in northeast Scotland. In
 the ERC-funded project Knowing From the Inside (KFI), a research team led by Ingold has
 explored the properties and histories of use of a wide range of vital materials looking at how
 these material engagements can enhance sustainability in human-environmental relations.
 Anderson, Wishart and Wachowich, with funding from the ERC, ESRC and SSHRC, have
 looked at craft and its importance in building resilience in Indigenous communities. This focus on
 resilience and local engagement and participation in environmental projects aligns with the UN’s
 sustainable development goals on climate and environment.

 3.      Museums and Histories of Science
 Our research under this theme encompasses histories of anthropology, science and technology,
 heritage and museum anthropology. Wishart’s SSHRC-funded work on Franz Boas’s papers
 reassesses how ideas of environment and domestication shaped early American cultural
 anthropology. Anderson, with funding from the Leverhulme Trust and the ESRC, explores links
 between Russian and Chinese concepts of etnos and minzu, and Euro-American concepts of
 nation and ethnicity. Bolton’s uncovering of connections between Aberdeen and Bolivia in the
 stories of 19th and early 20th century Aberdonian miners has reignited interest in local heritage.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brown’s work on collaborative practices between museums and source communities, funded by
 the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust, informs our innovative MLitt in Museum Studies, which she co-
 convenes with Walklate.

  4.     Religion, Politics and the State
 Anthropological research on religion tends to rest on a secular conception that treats religion as
 an object of study. Our research under this theme, by contrast, engages with non-secular
 traditions of thought and practice to rethink and go beyond the constraints on theory imposed by
 the secular model. Mills has developed South and Central Asian approaches to the ceremonial
 construction of the state, and to the historical development of “constitutional mythologies”, as a
 range of state-ideas outside the bounds of modern constitutionalism. Árnason researches the
 intersection between religion, state and individual in a context of “moral collapse” in Iceland.
 Anderson works on shamanism and neo-shamanism in Eurasia and its relation to the post-
 Soviet state. Rasanayagam studies state practices of governmentality and the development of
 Muslim moral subjectivities in Uzbekistan. His work on Qur’anic healing, spirit possession and
 magic in Morocco, funded by the Carnegie Trust, interrogates questions of perception and
 imagination through a conversation with an Islamic tradition.

  5.      Anthropology with Art and Craft
 Our approach to this theme regards the practices of art and craft as ways of study in
 themselves, on a par with anthropology, from which we can learn in a spirit of interdisciplinarity.
 This was key to Ingold’s KFI project, which structured a collaboration between scholars and
 contemporary artists, woodworkers and eco-builders to develop a speculative inquiry working
 with persons and materials to explore sustainable living. In 2016-17, artist-poet Alec Finlay
 worked with Vergunst as Leverhulme Artist in Residence on place names and landscape in
 Aberdeenshire. Our work in this field has also focused on indigenous craft production and the
 revival of craft skills. Wachowich has looked at how the revitalisation of Inuit sealskin sewing
 skills promotes the sustainability of the Inuit seal hunt in the Canadian High Arctic, and obtained
 co-funding for a women’s arts collective in Pond Inlet, Nunavut, with a current membership of 25
 women. Argounova-Low has explored the craft of carving mammoth tusks among Sakha
 people in Siberia from the first experiments to contemporary kitsch.

 Review and forward look

 In our overview of future plans submitted in REF2014, we highlighted expected growth in three
 of our research areas: Anthropology of the North, Creativity of Practice, and Religion, Belief and
 Practice. This growth has been largely achieved, boosted by the Department’s leading
 involvement in the University’s strategic research theme on The North (2012-15), by the award
 of two ERC Advanced Grants, Arctic Domus and KFI (2013-18), and by our collaboration with
 colleagues in Divinity and Religious Studies and Politics and International Relations in the
 programme Religion and Politics in the Contemporary World, funded by the University’s College
 of Arts and Social Sciences. We have since reformulated our research themes to reflect these
 achievements. Thus, our work on creativity is now tied to our research both on environment and
 perception and with art and craft disciplines, while our work on religion has expanded to include
 its relations with politics and the state.

 Over the next five years we will develop our research through all our themes. Anderson and
 Wishart recently obtained seed-funding from the ESRC and NERC to explore “food
 sovereignty”, a topic, which cuts across the themes of the Anthropology of the North,
 Environment, Creativity and Perception, and Museums and Histories of Science. Wishart
 will examine coastal resource use in Scotland and the impact of the blue economy. He is also
 developing research into food sovereignty in remote areas and the impact of failing food supply
 chains in times of crisis such as pandemics and severe weather events. Anderson will continue
 his work on identity and nationality policy in Eurasia to explore the history and roots of neo-
 liberal governance in late Soviet economic reforms. Within our theme of Environment,
 Creativity and Perception, Vergunst will investigate the policy concerns of environmental
 sustainability with arts, heritage and community participation in relation to the Scottish

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 landscape. His current AHRC network will seed further research proposals in this field.
 Whitehouse will explore environmental change by thinking through bird migration, and is
 developing research on shifting environmental relations in response to COVID-19. Within our
 theme of Museums and Histories of Science, Walklate, with Carnegie Trust support, is
 examining documentation practices and webs of relations at the University of Aberdeen’s
 Museums, within the themes of historical consciousness, memory and hauntology. Bolton will
 continue research into historical connections between Scotland and Bolivia. Brown is part of an
 AHRC-funded Network, led by Central Saint Martin’s School of Art, looking at digital access to
 Blackfoot collections in the UK and developing a bid to examine how virtual visits to German
 museums can support Blackfoot goals of sharing collections-based knowledge post-COVID-19.
 Under the theme of Religion, Politics and the State, Mills is researching the relationship
 between personhood and the state through a study of Tibetan imperial systems of statecraft and
 the organisation of the Tibetan state under the Dalai Lamas. In dialogue with Islamic
 theologians, Rasanayagam is designing new research on social exclusion, citizenship and
 governance that engages with non-secular modes of thought. Árnason is involved in projects on
 trauma and mourning in times of pandemics, and an ongoing project involves documenting the
 social history of trauma in Iceland. Argounova-Low, within the theme of Anthropology with
 Art and Craft, will continue her research into Sakha mammoth ivory carving practices.
 Wachowich will address Inuit food sovereignty and self-governance through the initiation of
 locally run projects on traditional methods of preparing hunted meat.


 Achieving impact

 We enhance the impact of our work by concentrating our efforts within a well-defined structure of
 research themes. Here, we present two of these as examples of our general strategy, and
 describe how our selected case studies (see Ref3b) relate to our approach to achieving impact:

  1.     Environment, Creativity and Perception
 Work under this theme, with its focus on the improvisational dynamics of everyday life, has led to
 productive collaborations in the fields of contemporary art and performance, architecture and
 design. This has benefited practising artists, architectural and design professionals,
 environmental managers and policy makers. In the KFI project, for example, we worked with
 local arts organisations Deveron Arts, Peacock Visual Arts and the Scottish Sculpture
 Workshop. Similarly, our work on heritage and landscape involves multiple network partners,
 community groups in Scotland, and an interactive digital community learning hub. Further, our
 research in collaboration with Indigenous peoples contributes to the development of policies for
 sustainable natural resource co-management, the protection of Indigenous rights to land and the
 revival of their own heritage.

  2.     Museums and Cultural Heritage
 Our research has led to collaborations with Indigenous communities and museums and galleries
 in the UK and internationally, bringing benefits to source communities, museum audiences and
 the museum sector. A notable example is the AHRC-funded Narrative Objects project, led by
 Brown and Argounova-Low, in which we partnered with the National Museum of the Arts of the
 Sakha Republic and the British Museum (see REF3). This, in turn, fed into the British Museum’s
 lead exhibition for 2020-21, Arctic: Culture and Climate. Co-curated by Lincoln and Loovers
 (both Aberdeen Anthropology PhDs, 2011), the exhibition acknowledges eight of the
 Department’s current staff and researchers as having contributed with materials and ideas. Our
 work with the University’s Museums and Special Collections has raised their profile
 internationally and is contributing to wider public discussions on decolonising museum work.

 Our impact case studies, “Revitalising Culture: Community Collections Research with Digital
 Engagement” and “UK Tibet Policy”, highlight the ways in which our core research themes
 underpin both the distinct Aberdeen approach to anthropological scholarship and the global
 reach of our work. They both demonstrate our commitment to collaboration with Indigenous
 communities and to informing policy and practice in regard to these communities. Thus,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research for our first case study on connecting communities with historical collections involved
 working with local collaborators, including Indigenous communities, to generate outputs aimed at
 cultural revival. The Scottish Centre for Himalayan Research, the focus of our second study,
 draws on a wide network of contacts in India, Nepal and Tibet, as well as collaborations with
 historians, archaeologists, legal scholars and specialists in comparative religion. In its role as
 secretariat of the Scottish Parliament Cross-Party Group on Tibet, it informs policymaking by
 parliamentary and government bodies, development agencies and civil society organisations
 working on human and cultural rights, cultural revitalisation and environmental mitigation.

 Supporting impact into the future
 Supported through Departmental, School and wider University mechanisms, for example, via the
 GCRF Impact Accelerator awards or the Public Engagement with Research Enabling Fund, staff
 will continue to build on long-standing community and policy connections. As examples, our
 long-term plans to engage with the University Museum and Special Collections through the lens
 of decolonisation will impact audiences locally and internationally and contribute to curatorial
 practice. Walklate’s recent appointment enables us to expand existing work in this area and
 integrate it more fully into our postgraduate programmes. Likewise, we expect links with
 governments in the Himalayan region to be maintained and expanded through the SCHR, and
 we anticipate working on climate change specifically. We will maintain the departmental post of
 Impact Officer, which involves work with other academic staff to identify and develop impact from
 research and to promote opportunities for support and funding beyond the Department. At
 University level we will continue to draw on training, cross-disciplinary discussions and funding
 support for impact.


 Support for interdisciplinary research

 Much anthropological research is by nature interdisciplinary, and ours is no exception. We have
 been at the forefront of interdisciplinary collaboration at the University, bringing an
 anthropological approach and expertise into dialogue with disciplines across the entire academic
 spectrum, from art and architecture, through education, law, history, linguistics and archaeology,
 to the biological, geological and chemical sciences. This has contributed much to the vitality of
 our research, and will continue to do so. Our interdisciplinary work is supported by University
 initiatives. In 2012, for example, the University identified four priority themes for strategic
 investment, in one of which (The North, led by Ingold) the Department played a leading role. Its
 staff, postdoctoral researchers and PhD students collaborated with historians (in the programme
 Northern colonialism), psychologists (in the programme The Northern temperament) and
 geoscientists (in the programme FAR North). With matching funding from a range of other
 sources, these programmes ran from 2012 to 2015. Another example is Árnason’s collaboration
 with colleagues in the Schools of Medicine, Geosciences, Divinity, History and Philosophy, as
 part of the University’s Interdisciplinary Conversations series in response to COVID-19. The
 result has been a project on funerals and the ethics of care in the context of pandemics, recently
 awarded ESRC funding. To illustrate our interdisciplinary research we focus next on our two
 ERC-funded projects; however all staff routinely collaborate with colleagues from a wide range
 of disciplines in the UK and internationally.

 The KFI project was interdisciplinary in its very conception. Uniting anthropology, art,
 architecture and design, its primary objective was to establish and trial a speculative mode of
 inquiry which would bring scholars and practitioners in all four fields together in a synergistic
 exploration of the conditions and possibilities for sustainable living. As the project developed, it
 expanded to include experimental theatre, dance and music, as well as the philosophy of art and
 education. Visiting scholars included the education theorist Jan Masschelein (KU Leuven) and
 philosopher Erin Manning (Concordia). They influenced not only our ways of working but our
 project outcomes, which have included, besides written texts, works of art and craft,
 performances and installations. Many of these were displayed in 2017 in a University-wide
 exhibition.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Arctic Domus project was, likewise, founded on an interdisciplinary synergy, in this case
 embracing circumpolar ethnography, the history of science, environmental archaeology,
 linguistics and animal genetics and osteology. The project’s teams, comprised of
 anthropologists, chemists, geneticists, archaeologists and zoologists, worked at the same field
 sites, co-designed research and co-authored papers published in both natural science and
 anthropological journals. This blend of geoarchaeological research on past environments with
 ethnographic and linguistic work in the present was a hallmark of the project. It redefined the
 biogeographic and biogenetic study of animal populations through the use of data from
 ethnographic interviews. In recognition of his leadership Anderson received an Outstanding
 Interdisciplinary Research award from the University of Aberdeen in 2020.


 Progress towards an open research environment

 It is a basic principle of research in social anthropology that observations take their meanings
 from the situations in which they are made. Thus openness, for us, goes far beyond the
 technicalities of data management. It is about promoting a climate of generosity and collegiality
 in which work-in-progress is routinely presented and discussed in a spirit of constructive
 criticism. We support initiatives to open up access to publications arising from our research,
 supported by the University’s Scholarly Communications Service, see REF5a. Within the limits
 of technical possibility, we have ensured that all publications from our two ERC-funded projects,
 KFI and Arctic Domus, are open-access, as are the key outputs of AHRC-funded research by
 Vergunst on landscape and heritage and Brown on the Blackfoot Shirts project. The
 Department is one of the supporting institutions that have enabled the publisher Berghahn to
 make all 13 of their core anthropology journals open access.

 Culture of research integrity

 All staff and postgraduate student research is subject to institutional research ethics approval
 procedures and follows guidelines established by professional organisations such as the
 Association of Social Anthropologists. All staff undertake mandatory training in research
 integrity, and ethics training is embedded within all our undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes. Anthropological research, however, often poses ethical dilemmas that do not
 register with formal procedures, in part because of the active involvement of our interlocutors as
 co-participants in the research process. It calls for on-the-spot judgement and sensitivity on the
 part of researchers to, often, unpredictable situations. Our culture of research integrity is
 founded on the premise that all research is a practice of care, entailing not only responsibility but
 also ongoing responsiveness towards those with whom we study. Thus, we insist on keeping the
 ethical dimension as a topic at the forefront of the research process itself, rather than allowing it
 to be relegated to a separate domain of procedure. Brown sits on the University’s Research
 Policy Committee and contributes to institutional research strategy. Árnason is School of Social
 Science Ethics Officer and provides guidance to all staff and postgraduate students in the
 School. He also contributes to ethics approval procedures elsewhere in the University.

 3B   2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Equality and Diversity are embedded into the culture of our department, with training regularly
 provided on topics such as unconscious bias and protected characteristics awareness.
 Anthropology, as part of the School of Social Science, achieved the Athena SWAN Bronze
 Award in 2017, with the self-assessment team including Wachowich, Vergunst and Árnason.

 Staffing and recruitment
 Most appointments since REF2014 have been at postdoctoral level to support externally funded
 research projects. There have also been several staff changes since REF2014. Leach left the
 University in 2014, and King left in 2015. Ingold retired in 2018 after working part-time since

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2015. Bolton (2014) and Whitehouse (2015) have been promoted to Lectureships, and
 Argounova-Low (2016) and Vergunst (2017) to Senior Lectureships. Brown was promoted to
 Senior Lecturer in 2014 and subsequently to a Personal Chair (2017). The previous and current
 REF periods have seen a continuous career progression of staff from temporary to open-ended
 contracts and from junior to senior roles. In 2019, Walklate was appointed as lecturer to
 strengthen the Department’s teaching and research strengths in Museum Studies. We now have
 12 staff including two professors, five senior lecturers and five lecturers.

 Staff development and research support
 Demonstrating our commitment to equality and diversity, we ensure that all staff are treated fairly
 in the allocation of time and opportunity for research. Teaching duties are shared equally among
 staff, with workload figures made available to all. Staff research is supported by bespoke
 training, mentorship and appraisal, leave arrangements, flexible scheduling of duties,
 accommodation of individual staff circumstances and structures of line management.

 We have developed bespoke training in writing grant applications for Early Career Researchers,
 and subsequently delivered this to the entire School of Social Science. We work with the
 University’s Grants Academy (see REF5a), which organises training in research ethics and
 integrity, publishing, preparing grant applications, project management and public engagement.
 In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (and supported by
 the University’s Researcher Development Unit) all staff are encouraged to participate in training
 and career development opportunities, such as HEA recognition, using the Continuous
 Professional Development Framework for Learning and Teaching. This strong foundation of
 developmental support for our researchers is reflected in the University’s HR Excellence in
 Research Award (see REF5a).

 All new members of staff at Lecturer level are assigned a senior colleague as mentor. The
 progress of every staff member is monitored through annual appraisal meetings, which offer
 individually tailored advice on publication, funding, grant proposals and professional
 development.

 The School of Social Science honours requests for full-cost replacement backed by external
 funding and rearranges teaching so that partial funding awards can be taken up. Requests for
 leave unsupported by external funding are initially considered at Departmental level. Decisions,
 ratified at School level, take account of funding applications, previous leave and relevant
 personal circumstances. Leave is scheduled to coincide with stages in a research project that
 require undivided attention. All staff are treated fairly and equally in the allocation of research
 leave, and no disadvantage accrues to those whose alpha-rated applications were unfunded.

 Staff research is also supported through the scheduling of teaching, which wherever possible, is
 arranged to release staff from core teaching for one semester per year. Teaching at advanced
 levels is tied to staff interests, so that ideas generated in course presentation can directly inform
 research and writing. The requirements of staff with caring and other responsibilities are
 supported through flexible allocation of teaching and other scheduled duties agreed through
 discussion with the Head of Department. In the changed working environment necessitated by
 the COVID-19 pandemic, the department has maintained weekly staff meetings during which
 issues arising from individual staff circumstances can be managed. This has ensured that all
 staff have the resources required to work remotely.

 Individual staff circumstances are accommodated to enable colleagues to undertake research to
 the best of their abilities. Some staff members, including postdoctoral research fellows, have had
 to take periods of absence from work due to illness. Health permitting, they have been re-
 integrated into our research and teaching programmes. In addition, part-time working and
 parental/adoption leave has been facilitated for staff.

 In 2015 the University introduced an Academic Line Manager system throughout the


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institution. In the Department of Anthropology, we incorporated this into our existing Head of
 Department role, with responsibility for permanent staff, while introducing a separate Academic
 Line Manager with responsibility for externally funded postdoctoral research staff who liaises
 with project PIs to ensure that ECRs are well-supported. Feedback from our postdoctoral
 research fellows indicates that they value a dedicated channel for communication with the
 Department and the University, independent of their individual project PI or supervisor, on
 matters not directly related to their research projects.

 REF submission
 In developing our REF submission we have followed the University’s Code of Practice. Central
 to this have been principles of inclusivity, consistency, accountability and transparency. The
 selection of outputs was based solely on quality, assessed through a process of internal and
 external review, which was discussed in Departmental staff meetings to ensure transparency.
 Each output proposed by a staff member was reviewed for quality by at least two others at the
 grade of senior lecturer or above. These assessments formed the basis for the final selection,
 which was made by the REF Unit Lead, the School Director of Research and Institutional REF
 leads. Every person involved in the selection of staff, outputs and case studies has completed
 equality and diversity training tailored to the requirements of the REF process.

 Contribution of postdoctoral researchers
 During the REF period, the Department has supported an exceptional number of postdoctoral
 research fellows (PDRFs) through its externally funded projects. Our PDRFs have contributed to
 every aspect of the Department’s work, and to its vibrant research culture, with significant
 publications of their own. They are listed below:

  ERC Arctic         ESRC Etnos          ESRC JPI           ERC KFI              AHRC
  Domus                                  Climate                                 Narrative
                     Alymov                                 Clarke               Objects
  Loovers            Arzyutov            Haurrault          Gatt
  Kamerling          Nakhshina                              Harkness             Peers
  Salmi                                                     Higgin
  Schroer                                                   Hodson
  Siragusa                                                  Scheldeman
  Volzhanina
  Ween

 Another PDRF, Simonetti (PhD, Aberdeen 2012), was appointed in the Department for three
 years (2012-15), funded by the University’s interdisciplinary research theme on The North. We
 also hosted several visiting postdoctoral fellows with funding from other sources including Martin
 and Stoll (both supported by the Fyssen Foundation).

 PDRFs were given opportunities to design and teach honours level undergraduate courses
 relating to their specific expertise under the mentorship of experienced members of staff.
 Examples include the Level 3 courses, Linguistic Anthropology, taught by Siragusa and Society
 and Nature, taught by Loovers.

 With the support of the research training and experience gained while working on their
 respective projects, the majority of our PDRFs have gone on to further research and/or teaching
 posts. For example, Hodson holds a Lectureship at Glasgow College of Art; Ween is a senior
 curator at the Ethnographic Museum, University of Oslo; Peers is Arctic Information Specialist at
 the Scott Polar Research Institute, University of Cambridge; and Alymov is a senior research
 fellow at the Institute of Ethnography in Moscow.


 Research students



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR numbers in the Department have remained buoyant, and we sustained high numbers of
 PhD completions (2.9 FTE in 2014, 5 in 2015, 5.35 in 2016, 9.25 in 2017, 5.2 in 2018, 6.8 in
 2019, 5.9 in 2020), totalling 40.4 FTE. Additionally, we have welcomed many visiting PhD
 students, for periods of up to a year, from countries as diverse as Russia, Norway, France,
 Germany, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Mexico and Brazil. Our international PGR students form a
 cohesive and mutually supportive community and have achieved prominence through the
 collective organisation of workshops, exhibitions and conference panels. Many of our students
 have achieved individual distinction, further raising the department’s profile. For example, Martin
 (2020) was offered a competitive place on the Ostego Institute Summer Seminar in 2017;
 Moderbacher (2019) received an award from the Austrian Film Commission to make a feature
 length documentary; and Kuprian (commenced 2014) won the 2016 Magnus Magnusson essay
 prize from the Scottish Society for Northern Studies. Our former PhD students have been
 outstandingly successful in finding employment; of the 29 who completed in 2014-20, 17 moved
 directly into post-doctoral positions.

 Recruitment and funding
 We receive many international applications for admission to our PhD programme, with numbers
 boosted by the global reputation of the Department and the important ambassadorial role played
 by present and former students. We have had considerable success in supporting students in
 their applications for grants and in securing grant funding ourselves. Five PhD students were
 funded through our two ERC grants, and several others affiliated to these projects received
 financial support for fieldwork as well as workshop/conference participation. Some of our non-
 UK/EU students have secured funding from their own national bodies (in Thailand, Chile and
 Belgium). Five students held studentships from the ERSC, and two from AHRC, during the
 assessment period, and three were funded by the University under its interdisciplinary theme on
 The North. Thanks to a generous private donation, we fully funded three Galloway Trust PhD
 Studentships. Many of our students received support from funds administered by the University’s
 Development Trust. For example, from 2008 to 2014, 12 PhD students received support from
 the Angus Pelham Burn Fund for their fieldwork in a variety of locations in the circumpolar North,
 and two were supported by the Friends of Aberdeen University Library to work on the University
 Museum collections.

 Support mechanisms
 Every PhD student has two supervisors. While one takes the lead, the other plays an active role,
 ensuring continuity of supervision. Junior staff gain supervisory experience by being paired with
 senior mentors. Supervisory meetings take place fortnightly in the first year of the PhD. Students
 on fieldwork are supported via e-mail and, where possible, by video calls, and during writing-up
 they meet regularly with their supervisors for feedback and career mentoring. PhD student
 progress is monitored through two formal assessment reviews: the Pre-fieldwork review at the
 end of the first year and the End of year two assessment, by which time students will normally
 have completed their fieldwork and are beginning to write up. Both reviews are undertaken by
 two members of staff not on the supervisory team. All students, during their writing-up period,
 make at least one contribution to the Departmental seminar which is assessed by staff as an
 indicator of progress. Every semester, the progress of all our PGRs is discussed in a
 Departmental staff meeting. PGRs and their supervisors are required to submit a progress form,
 at six-monthly intervals throughout the period of registration, to the University’s Postgraduate
 Research School.

 We encourage our PGRs to contribute to workshops and conferences and help them to secure
 the funds to do so. Besides drawing on project funding, all PGRs may apply for travel awards for
 conference attendance from the School of Social Science. We actively support PGRs in the
 development of publications including co-authored papers and edited volumes. Notable
 examples include: Joly’s (PhD 2019) widely acclaimed articles in Extractive Industries and
 Societies and Social Compass and her co-edited book Extracting Home; Schroer’s (PhD 2014)
 co-edited book, Exploring Atmospheres Ethnographically; Anusas’s (PhD 2018) book Surfaces
 (co-edited with PDRF Simonetti); and Oehler’s (PhD 2018) authored book Beyond Wild and
 Tame and co-edited Multi-species Households.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cross-institutional PhD supervision
 Our staff supervise students in other departments in Scotland and beyond. Vergunst has co-
 supervised students with UHI, Glasgow School of Art and the University of Edinburgh; Bolton
 co-supervises with the Anthropology department in St Andrews; Argounova-Low co-supervises
 a PhD student with the Arctic University of Norway (Tromsø) as well as students in the Russian
 Federation and Greece; Ingold has co-supervised with colleagues at the University of Liège,
 and is currently supervising students at the Universities of Alicante and Barcelona. Wachowich
 has been a member (since 2007) of the Executive Steering Committee for the International PhD
 School for the Study of Arctic Societies.

 Skills development and career advice
 Along with their peers from St Andrews and Edinburgh, our postgraduates participate in the
 Scottish Training in Anthropological Research (STAR) programme. Established in 2006, this
 research training consortium delivers intensive residential workshops for MRes and first-year
 PhD students and, separately, for students in the writing-up phase. Post-fieldwork training
 includes masterclasses with distinguished visitors and sessions on strategies for publication,
 grant application, and career opportunities beyond the academic sector. Initially funded by the
 ESRC Researcher Development Initiative, STAR is now self-funding via the Scottish ESRC
 Doctoral Training Centre and contributions from each of the Scottish Anthropology departments.
 Those funded via AHRC participate in a variety of Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities training events across Scotland, giving them opportunities to meet with their peers
 and develop networks for life after the PhD.

 The University’s Postgraduate Research School provides a wide range of short courses, open to
 all our PhD students, on themes including getting started, research ethics and integrity, writing
 and publishing, research methods, data management, digital skills, wellbeing, networking,
 impact, career progression and research leadership (see REF5a).

 Placements and internships
 We ensure that our postgraduate students gain opportunities to collaborate with external
 organisations beyond Higher Education. This is partly through fieldwork opportunities at the
 doctoral level but also includes placements associated with our taught programmes. In recent
 years, for example, students on the People and Environment programme have worked with
 Scottish Natural Heritage, the National Trust for Scotland and the James Hutton Institute.
 Students on the Museum Studies MLitt have been placed in organisations throughout Scotland
 (e.g., National Museums Scotland, the Gordon Highlanders Museum), and internationally (e.g.,
 the Guggenheim, New York). PhD student Kernohan held an AHRC funded internship in 2019
 in the Dumfries Museum.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and income generating strategies
 Despite a challenging environment, our success in gaining external research funding has
 continued unabated. Alongside numerous smaller grants, significant examples include: ERC
 Advanced Grants awarded to Anderson (EUR2.5M) and Ingold (EUR2.4M); AHRC Research
 Grants awarded to Brown and Argounova-Low (GBP556K) and Vergunst (totalling
 GBP157K); two ESRC awards to Anderson (ESRC Etnos GBP517K, ESRC JPI Climate
 GBP398K); funding from the Social Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada
 (SSHRC) for Wachowich (GBP70K) and from the British Council Newton Fund for Bolton
 (GBP5K).

 Operational infrastructure and research support
 The unit benefits from the support of the University’s Research and Innovation Team including
 the Grants Academy for research grant applications and management and from IT Services for
 procurement and data management. (See REF5a) Monthly School Forums provide opportunities
 for staff to engage with the research support teams in the University as well as to familiarise

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 themselves with institutional guidance and external research environments; recent topics include
 research data management and research culture.

 Staff and PGRs have access to high quality library and information systems. Every research
 student has a computer and desk space in dedicated accommodation adjacent to the
 Department. With grants to support new courses, we have extended the University Library’s
 anthropology collections. We work closely with the University’s extensive Museum and Special
 Collections, assembled over five centuries, with Brown, Vergunst, Wachowich and Walklate
 appointed as Honorary Curatorial Fellows. The Department has established a multimedia
 workstation for digitising diverse media for analysis and editing and for producing analogue and
 digital media from paper printouts to DVDs and web media, depending on the technological
 needs of users. Effective dissemination of our research is vital, and we seek to enable open
 access wherever possible, supported by the Scholarly Communications Service (see REF5a).

 The University offers a wide range of pump-priming funds including its Global Challenge Internal
 Research Fund, Principal’s Interdisciplinary Fund and Knowledge Exchange and
 Commercialisation Fund. Funding is also available to support the purchase of new equipment
 and to cover Open Access publication costs. The School of Social Science allocates an annual
 staff allowance for travel and conference attendance, and further support comes from the
 Department’s share of overheads from external income.

 Our expectation is that every member of staff is either engaged in externally funded research or
 preparing a new project with the aim of submitting a funding application. We discuss our plans in
 the collegial setting of our termly Research Away Days where we consider research strategy,
 report progress on funding applications and future publications and evaluate our thematic
 priorities. Contributing to our success is our cohesive research ethos, backed by shared and
 clearly articulated thematic priorities and supported through regular seminars and research co-
 ordination meetings. The weekly Departmental seminar, financially supported by the School of
 Social Science, is attended by 20-30 staff and PGRs and addressed by visiting speakers from
 home and overseas. We also run informal lunch-time seminars for staff to present work-in-
 progress to colleagues, and our PGRs run their own reading group and writing-up seminars.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to the economy and society
 It is a hallmark of all our research that we involve the diverse practitioners and public with whom
 we work from project inception to completion. For example, Arctic Domus has worked with
 Indigenous communities around the circumpolar North, belonging to five Nations (Gwich’in,
 Saami, Nenets, Evenki, Sakha), sponsoring local initiatives of cultural and historical revival and
 in the support of livelihoods based on fishing and reindeer herding. In line with this, project
 researchers have made a point of publishing in languages accessible to Indigenous people.
 Arctic Domus is singled out in a 2019 Scottish Government report as “an excellent example of
 how social and natural sciences can be combined to better understand and support remote
 communities and economies in the Arctic”. KFI researchers, likewise, have worked with local
 communities, conservationists and artists in a series of projects ranging from the management of
 native pinewoods in Scotland, post-earthquake reconstruction in Japan and Italy, marine
 conservation in Argentina, skills training for refugees and migrants in Belgium, to experiments in
 the arts of collaboration with theatre practitioners and arts educators. The KFI Spring Gathering
 (May 2017), with its week-long programme of talks, performances, film screenings, workshops
 and discussion events, brought together over 70 participants, both scholars and practitioners,
 from around the world.

 Represented by Wishart and Anderson, the Department is a partner in the Centre for
 Indigenous Conservation and Development Alternatives (CICADA), an international,
 interdisciplinary, and inter-sector organisation with members from NGOs, Indigenous
 governments, and Indigenous community groups. CICADA has created a platform for
 transferring knowledge on the challenges faced by Indigenous peoples throughout the world,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creating alternative conservation and development strategies and advocating for Indigenous
 rights as envisioned by the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.

 Vergunst’s long-term research on landscape heritage in rural Aberdeenshire, through the AHRC
 Connected Communities programme, has directly involved community partners in oral history,
 archaeology and archival study. Dissemination to the wider public has also been facilitated by a
 Heritage Lottery Fund award to the community group Bailies of Bennachie, resulting in an app
 “Digital Bennachie Colony Trail” that has been downloaded over 800 times since its launch in
 2018 and is used by the Aberdeenshire Ranger Service. A further AHRC award enabled
 Vergunst to bring together community heritage groups working on similar projects in Sheffield,
 York and Cardiff, along with Aberdeenshire partners, to share learning experiences.

 Brown’s work with the four Blackfoot Nations involves extensive collaboration and public
 engagement in Canada, the USA and the UK. A public panel discussion on repatriation, held at
 the Royal Albert Memorial Museum, Exeter, was attended by around 120 people and contributed
 to the subsequent agreement in 2020 by Exeter City Council to repatriate significant Blackfoot
 cultural patrimony to the Siksika First Nation. Workshops have been held in Blackfoot community
 venues to inform local people about collections in the UK and to discuss possibilities for further
 research in Europe. This work has developed into a research programme with staff at Central St
 Martins School of Art and the University of Lethbridge looking at the digitization of Blackfoot
 collections.

 Over the assessment period we have curated multiple exhibitions in museums and community
 spaces in the UK, Canada, China, Russia and Norway (to name but a few), all of which were
 supported with public lectures and other engagement events. Brown’s outreach grant from the
 Foundation for Canadian Studies in the UK allowed the University to host the photographic
 exhibition Scarred/Sacred Water (September 2014-January 2015), which raised awareness of
 the environmental and societal impacts of the energy industry in Alberta, Canada. The exhibition
 Aberdonians in the Americas: Migrants and adventurers from Mexico to Paraguay (January-May
 2017), co-curated by Bolton, was held in the University’s King’s Museum and included two
 public lectures. Wachowich and her Mittimatalik Arnait Miqsuqtuit Collective colleagues have
 produced digital installations for a range of international venues including the Art Gallery of
 Ontario (2018), the University of Oslo Museum (2018) and the British Museum (2020-21).

 Research networks and partnerships
 Central to the Department’s research strategy is partnership and collaboration, both with other
 academic and international institutions, and with the communities with which we work. We
 support the University’s commitment to interdisciplinarity which is at the centre of its Aberdeen
 2040 strategic plan (See REF5a).

 During the assessment period, we have hosted several externally funded research networks
 including: The Political Ecology of Coastal Societies, led by Anderson and Wishart, which links
 scholars from the UK and Japan (ESRC, GBP50K); Creative Landscape Futures, led by
 Vergunst, linking partners and stakeholders in Scotland (AHRC, GBP36K); Etnos and Minzu
 Theory, led by Anderson (Leverhulme, GBP124K); and the Blackfoot-UK Museums Network,
 led by Brown, with the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, the
 Royal Albert Memorial Museum in Exeter and the four Blackfoot Nations (Leverhulme, GBP51K).

 Vergunst has collaborated with University of Aberdeen staff from Archaeology, Education and
 Museums in research on community heritage in Scotland, funded through the AHRC Connected
 Communities programme. He has published with Dr Helen Graham of York University and other
 UK colleagues on research arising from a previous AHRC, Heritage Legacies.

 Research carried out by staff, including within the ERC-funded Arctic Domus project, was
 facilitated with formal MOUs between the University of Aberdeen and the Museum of
 Ethnography and Anthropology (St. Petersburg), Tuva State University, Irkutsk State Technical
 University, the Northern Arctic Federal University in Arkhangelsk and the University of Alberta. In

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition, the ESRC/JPI funded HUMANOR project, brought together Aberdeen anthropologists
 and archaeologists with Aberdeen’s James Hutton Institute, the University of Lapland’s Arctic
 Centre, the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Management, the Centre for Arctic
 Research of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous, Okrug, the A.P. Vinogradov Institute of
 Geochemistry SB RAS, Irkutsk, the Scientific Research Centre of the Arctic, Salekhard, the Ájtte
 Swedish Mountain and Sámi Museum, Jokkmokk and the University of Uppsala.

 We have developed partnerships with a range of South American universities during the current
 REF assessment period. Ingold and Simonetti (PhD 2012, PDRF 2012-15, now at the Catholic
 University of Chile, Santiago) led a project entitled Solid Fluids in the Anthropocene, funded by
 the British Academy under its International Partnerships and Mobility scheme, with a view to
 establishing collaboration in teaching and research in anthropology and archaeology between
 Scotland and Chile. Bolton, with funding from the British Council/Newton Fund, hosted a
 workshop in Montevideo, Uruguay in 2017, under its Trilateral Workshops Scheme aimed at
 establishing partnerships between institutions in the UK, Uruguay and Brazil (São Paulo State).
 The workshop brought together 42 researchers, including 31 ECRs, to discuss human rights,
 gender equity and environmental sustainability. Participants compared material from Brazil,
 Guyana, Peru, Chile, Colombia, Uruguay, Bolivia and Mexico, as well as from the UK and other
 European countries.

 The Scottish Centre for Himalayan Research, directed by Mills, collaborates with historians at
 the British Library, the London-based International Dunhuang Project, the Rubin Museum in New
 York, archaeologists at the Leipzig Centre for Central Asian Studies and the School of Oriental
 and African Studies, London, legal specialists at the Centre for Sociolegal Studies, Oxford and
 religious specialists at Columbia University and the Buddhist Digital Resources Centre in New
 York. It has longstanding links with the Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh, the Environment
 Office of the Central Tibetan Administration and, more recently, with the International China
 Dialogue Institute and the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development.

 Partnerships with museums are central to our work. Bolton is collaborating with the National
 Historical Archive of Mining, El Alto, Bolivia, to develop a digitised archive of photographs of
 Bolivian mines held in Aberdeen; both Anderson and Brown led projects in partnership with the
 Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology; and Brown and Argounova-
 Low with the British Museum and the National Museum of the Arts of the Sakha Republic.

 Visiting scholars and Honorary appointments
 Between 2014 and 2020 the Department welcomed numerous visitors from international
 universities affiliated to our funded research programmes or to individual staff. These visitors
 collaborate with us on writing and other projects and contribute guest lectures to our
 postgraduate programmes. Our research culture is enhanced by the active participation in
 seminars and other activities of a vibrant community of Honorary fellows. As well as
 collaborating with us on specific research projects, these visitors provide informal mentorship
 and advice to our PGRs and ECRs.

 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 All staff are involved in enhancing the profile of our discipline nationally and internationally. Many
 of us review grant applications for research councils and scientific bodies including: UK
 Economic and Social Research Council (Vergunst); Carnegie Trust (Brown); British Academy
 (Bolton); Austrian Science Foundation (Brown); Social Science and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada (Anderson, Brown); and the Leverhulme Trust (Vergunst). Ingold served
 on the evaluation panel SH5 for European Research Council Consolidator Grants (2016) and is
 a committee member of the Association of Social Anthropologists. Brown was a member of the
 AHRC Peer Review College from 2014-2020 and sits on the UK Future Leaders Fellowships
 PRC and the British Council Newton Trust Panel for Arts and Humanities. She is a member of
 the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) Discipline + Catalyst for Cultural
 and Museum Studies and the Advisory Board for the Smithsonian Institution’s Summer Institute
 in Museum Anthropology programme (SIMA), 2018-21. Wachowich is an Expert Panel Member

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Large Grant Review Committee
 (2017-2018) and a member of the Canada Research Chairs (CRC) Program Review College.

 All staff routinely peer review articles and book manuscripts and sit on the advisory boards of
 academic journals relevant to our sub-disciplines. Rasanayagam is on the International
 Advisory Board of the Central Asian Survey; Walklate is Managing Editor and Board Member of
 Museums and Society; Wachowich sits on the Advisory Board of BC Studies; Anderson is on
 the Editorial Advisory Board for Sibirica: The Journal of Siberian Studies and Argounova-Low
 was Assistant Editor for that journal from 2006 to 2017. Árnason co-edits the journal Mortality
 and is a member of the council of the Association for the Study of Death in Society. Ingold and
 Anderson edit high profile book series published by Routledge. Anthropological Studies of
 Creativity and Perception, under Ingold’s general editorship, has now reached its ninth published
 volume (since 2008), and five more are in the pipeline. Arctic Worlds: Communities, Political
 Ecology and Ways of Knowing, under the editorship of Anderson, has published four volumes
 since 2018.

 Our staff are prominent in organising conferences and workshops, and in convening conference
 panels. A highlight was Beyond Perception, held in Aberdeen in September 2015, and designed
 both as a celebration of the Department since its foundation in 2002, and as a showcase for its
 research, while capitalising on our concurrently hosting two ERC Advanced Grant projects (KFI
 and Arctic Domus). With some 160 participants from around the world, the symposium provided
 a platform for presenting the research of both projects and included a series of postgraduate and
 early career sessions.

 Along with colleagues at the Universities of Edinburgh and St Andrews, and under the aegis of
 the STAR consortium, we hosted the 2014 Decennial Conference of the Association of Social
 Anthropologists, held in Edinburgh in June 2014. The Department played a key role in the
 organisation of the conference Conversations from the North in connection with the 2017
 Rectors’ Forum of the University of the Arctic which was held in Aberdeen. ECRs in the
 department were involved in training graduate students from universities from around the
 circumpolar north who attended the event, and several staff gave presentations at the
 conference. As Director of the University’s Research Theme on the North, Ingold was directly
 responsible for bringing these meetings to the University, thanks to which we have been invited
 to lead a major Scottish government initiative to expand the work of the University of the Arctic in
 Scotland.

 Other Indicators of wider influence
 All staff are routinely invited to present at symposia and give guest lectures nationally and
 internationally. Since January 2014, for example, Ingold has presented 39 keynote addresses
 and 44 special lectures in 19 different countries. Highlights include the Royal Anthropological
 Institute’s Huxley Memorial Lecture (2014), the Dewey Lectures delivered at the University of
 Rennes in 2016, the plenary lecture at the RAI Conference on Art, Materiality and
 Representation in 2018 and the plenary address at the International Society for Ethnology and
 Folklore (SIEF) Congress in 2019. In recognition of his services in connection with Finnish
 universities, in 2014, Ingold was named a Knight, First Class, of the Order of the White Rose of
 Finland. In the same year he was awarded the Huxley Memorial Medal, the highest honour of
 the Royal Anthropological Institute. He has received Honorary Doctorates from the Universities
 of Leuphana (2015) and Lapland (2019). Brown’s co-authored book Blackfoot Shirts in Museum
 Spaces received an Honourable Mention for the AAA Council for Museum Anthropology Book
 Award (2018). Anderson’s work on the history of science in Eurasia was awarded the 2019 Ab
 Imperio prize for the best study of the history of diversity in Northern Eurasia.




                                                                                             Page 13
