Institution: Joint Submission by the University of Edinburgh and Heriot Watt University
         as the Edinburgh Research Partnership in Engineering (ERPE)
Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. ERPE context and structure
   As one of the largest and fastest growing intra-urban academic collaborations in the UK, our
Vision is to be a world-leading partnership which delivers research, innovation and training that
underpins clean growth, healthier living and sustainable development in the era of climate
emergency and an increasing and ageing population. Our Mission to achieve this vision is to
develop and exploit advances in: artificial intelligence & robotics; data & communications
technologies; materials & processes and numerical & physical modelling that address the major
challenges facing global society and the environment that has lasting positive impact.
   The Edinburgh Research Partnership in Engineering (ERPE https://www.erpe.ac.uk/) was
founded in 2004 with a joint investment of £22M from the University of Edinburgh (UoE), Heriot-
Watt University (HWU), the Office of Science and Innovation and the Scottish Funding Council
(SFC), expressly to build and capitalise on the thematic alignment of complementary research
expertise across the engineering disciplines in both Universities.
   The partnership was reinforced in 2013 by an institutional Strategic Alliance that pooled our
human and physical resources, enabling us to return 210 academic staff to REF2014. In 2014 we
stated that we planned “to build on our strong position, in terms of people, research expertise and
KT processes to continue to deliver a significant impact on engineering practice, under-pinned by a
policy of recruiting and developing the highest calibre staff, encouraging and promoting interaction
with industry, and facilitating the transfer of results to industry and other research users, either by
direct engagement or through company formation”.
   We have strategically grown and structured our four original cross-cutting Organisational
Themes to deliver the above vision, by each of them addressing two or more of four agreed
interdisciplinary global Research Challenge Areas, as shown in Figure. 1.1.




        Figure 1.1 - ERPE Research Challenge Areas and Organisational Themes

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    In sections 1.2-1.5 we present three linked strategies that determine our investments and
efforts. They have helped us to deliver our 2014 plans, are key drivers of future planned activity
and support ERPE’s vitality and sustainability. Our Strategy for Development and Growth below
has been to invest in staff and facilities that, by enacting our Research Strategy (p.4), has allowed
us to shape and align our objectives and effort, enabling us to achieve our strategic aims (p.6)
and to ensure that our Impact Strategy (p.12) has been effective. Sections 1.6 and 1.7 describe
how we ensure that ERPE operates within an Open and Responsible Environment (p.15) which
is conducive to us realising our Future plans and achieving the forward vision (p.16).
 1.2. Strategy for development and growth
   ERPE’s strategy has been to expand and sustain a conducive environment for world-class
research, within which we co-ordinated investment in new staff and infrastructure, built on
evidenced areas of excellence and capitalised on our joint strengths to increase our research
income in new areas of activity and work with greater reach, delivering increased impact and
addressing our global research challenges and opportunities.
                                                                        Investment in New Staff
    Since 2014 we have increased our academic staff capacity by 37% to 288 people in 2021,
appointing 19 new professors and 27 senior lecturers/readers. Strategically focussing on early
career development and the vitality of our staff complement we have appointed 62 lecturers, of
which 19 are tenure-tracked research fellows. Examples of ERPE’s planned strategic growth
within our Organisational Themes include: 25 new appointments in bio-medical engineering; 9 in
multi-scale thermofluids; 10 in composite materials & digital manufacturing and 4 in fire safety
engineering.
                                                              Investment in New Infrastructure
   We have secured and invested over £100M to extend our research, doctoral training and
impact infrastructure.
    We have partnered in a successful bid for £661M investment from the UK and Scottish
Governments in Data-Driven Innovation (DDI) as part of the £1.3B Edinburgh and South-East
Scotland City Region Deal in 2018. The award exploits the university-based regional strengths in
technology and data science, recognising the growing
importance of the data economy and the need to tackle
the digital skills gap. Over 15 years, DDI will bring in
£500M of consequent funding to both institutions to
support ERPE-related research and innovation. At the
heart of its involvement in the City Deal, ERPE is co-
investing £36M to construct the National Robotarium
(to open in 2021), building on the Edinburgh Centre for            Figure 1.2.1 - FloWave
Robotics (ECR) that leads the £36M Offshore Robotics
for Certification of Assets Hub (ORCA Hub), funded
through the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. We
have invested £22M in the creation of the Lyell Centre,
where the British Geological Survey (BGS) is co-
located with ERPE. Together with EPSRC and the
Scottish Government, we have invested £12M in the
FloWave Ocean Energy Research Facility (Figure
1.2.1), the world’s first circular combined current and          Figure 1.2.2 - FASTBLADE
                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
wave test basin. With EPSRC and Babcock
International Group, we are investing £4.1M in
FASTBLADE (Figure 1.2.2), the world’s first full-
scale accelerated tidal turbine blade fatigue test
facility.
    We have secured a £33.5M commitment from
UoE to build phase 1 of the new Engineering
Quarter (EQ1) at our King’s Buildings Campus         Figure 1.2.3 - Planned Engineering Quarter
(Figure 1.2.3). We have further benefitted by
aligned investments of over £21M to co-locate
Edinburgh Innovations (EI), UoE’s
commercialisation arm, in Murchison House close
to EQ1, and in the construction of the Global
Research, Innovation & Discovery Centre (GRID)
at Riccarton (Figure 1.2.4).
   We have invested over £11M in new and
upgraded laboratories in: laser-based                         Figure 1.2.4 - GRID Building
manufacturing, microfluidics, novel combustion engines and bio-medical engineering, and in
embedded labs at the Queen's Medical Research Institute (Edinburgh Royal Infirmary).
                                                       Growth of Income, Impact and Reach
    As a result of this investment, our strategy and the added value of the ERPE partnership, we
have increased our competitive advantage to deliver more at-scale engineering research,
innovation and impact of international standing. Since 2014 we have:
   o   Doubled our research and innovation income, winning over £200M of awards and
       support from UKRI, UK Government, EU and industry. Included in the above figure is
       £20M of new funding from the Royal Academy of Engineering and others to support 19
       prestigious early to mid-career fellowships. Specifically, our participation in the ORCA Hub
       (£36M), the Universities Defence Research Collaboration (£12M) and Advanced Care
       Research Centre (£20M) are all direct results of the strength of the ERPE partnership;
   o   Increased our doctoral training cohort by 73% from 618 to 1068 students and graduated
       a total of 831 doctoral engineers (EngD & PhD), 86% more than reported in 2014;
   o   Won leadership of, or participation in, 13 CDTs, amounting to nearly £80M of forward
       funding from UKRI and industry that will enable us, by 2028, to deliver more than 1100
       doctoral engineers and scientists into key UK and global industries;
   o   Won over £23M of UK and overseas industry funding and grown our industrial top-tier
       collaboration by over 30 companies, ranging from multi-nationals to SMEs, including
       Leonardo, Renishaw, Shell, BP, Total, Alstom, Jaguar Land Rover, Suzlon, BAE Systems,
       Canon Medical, seebyte, Metrohm Raman, Cubica Technology Ltd and Dstl;
   o   Increased our impact with 135 Granted Patents, based on 42 new technologies where
       the attributed Lead Inventor was from ERPE and 12 spin-out companies;
   o   Extended our global reach in over 50 new international collaborations, including with:
       Princeton; MIT, Stanford, Michigan, Illinois, Cornell, Texas Universities and Lawrence
       Berkeley and Sandia National Labs; ETH Zurich; SINTEF; Federal Universities of
       Pernambuco Rio de Janeiro; Pontifical Catholic University of Chile; UNAM Mexico;
       Shanghai Jiao Tong and X’ian Jiaotong Universities; and King Fahd University of Petroleum
       & Minerals in Saudi Arabia.
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3. Research strategy
   Our strategy has been to identify responses to global research challenges that will unlock,
promote and help to deliver clean growth, smarter and healthier living and sustainable
development and then to focus our aims, objectives and organisational themes on delivering world-
leading, inter-disciplinary, responsible research and innovation with immediate impact and potential
for lasting positive change.
   To support this strategy our research portfolio ranges from applied research, impacting on
industry and society’s immediate to medium-term needs, to more fundamental curiosity-inspired
research resulting in longer-term impact.
   We propagate diversity of activity within each of the four Organisational Themes to transcend
thematic, discipline, school, institutional, and national boundaries and add value through whole-
systems research at the intersections of multiple scientific, engineering and policy challenges.
ERPE researchers collaborate globally with colleagues from Medicine, Geosciences, Chemistry,
Physics, Informatics, Mathematics, Business, Economics, Social and Political Sciences. Figure 1.1
shows how our staff direct their efforts towards national to global imperatives defined, among other
places, in: the UK Government’s Grand Challenges within its Industrial Strategy; the UKRI Strength
in Places Initiative and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We summarise below,
for each of our global RCAs, our stated plans in REF 2014 and their strategic aims and objectives
now, in 2021. Section 1.4 identifies new awards, leaderships, assets and research highlights as
examples of achievement of our strategic aims.
                               RCA1 – Engineering the transition to a lower carbon future
   We aim to address the Climate Emergency by developing new technologies and processes, and
by delivering analysis that advises policy formation, that will help to accelerate society’s Energy
Transition to bring about a lower carbon, more sustainable future.
   In 2014 we planned that ERPE research would “uniquely encompass all aspects of the energy
cycle: from resource exploration and exploitation, diversification of efficient production, and the
development of methods and technologies to reduce and mitigate the impact of CO2 emissions”.
   Since then we have evolved our research portfolio to extend from natural energy resources
(both renewable and hydrocarbon) through the conversion and delivery infrastructure (as electricity
or fuel) through end-use (including heating and transport) and beyond to the re-processing, storage
and reuse of CO2 - always taking account of environmental, economic and energy policy effects.
We have extended our interests and capacity in ocean energy to include offshore fixed and floating
wind technologies. We have also invested to develop and expand the former Institute of Petroleum
Engineering into the Institute of GeoEnergy Engineering, to address a much broader range of
subsurface energy challenges - going beyond oil and gas to include carbon capture and storage,
geothermal energy and renewable energy storage.
      RCA2 – Developing materials, processes and manufacturing for healthier living
  We aim to discover, advance and apply novel science, technologies, processes and materials
used in the manufacturing and healthcare industries to benefit people of all ages in all sectors of
society.
   In 2014 we planned to “devise solutions for industrially important challenges: the design and
fabrication of micro- and nano- scale devices and systems; the development, use and control of
high power lasers and laser-driven processes; and the performance of materials at extreme
conditions.” We planned “to grow activity in bioengineering research focussing on technologies to
                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
assist stem cell medicine, medical diagnostics and bio-sensing, synthetic biology and
biotechnology.”
    Our research capacity has, since then, been extended to enable activities that span the range of
length and time scales from molecular processes to new technologies in three key areas: Non-
continuum and non-equilibrium fluid mechanics; multi-phase flows, interfaces & phase change; and
multi-phase, interfacial, and chemically reacting bulk flows. We have built capacity and
infrastructure in the strategic areas of advanced polymer composites and clean combustion
technology, the latter within a new Institute for Multi-scale Thermofluids. We have conjoined our
capacity in Micro-scale Device Manufacture (MDM) with new staff and facilities in Synthetic Biology
to create a new Bio-medical Engineering/Healthcare Technology cluster that has underpinned our
emerging diagnostics and sensing focus and allowed us to pioneer the adoption of biological
organisms as an engineering substrate. We now work with clinicians from across the UK and
beyond, particularly with those in the Edinburgh Medical School’s bio-engineering and bio-
photonics labs.
 RCA3 – Creating a smarter, safer world by innovation in data, comms, robotics & AI
  We aim to exploit the interactions between digital technologies and the world they operate in,
sensing, communicating and processing data to extract and act on the information to create and
ensure a smarter, safer world.
   In 2014 we recognised that in an environment of increasingly pervasive communications and
interconnected sensing, our research had to be planned to “focus on the theory and technologies
underpinning sensor data acquisition, data communication and the ability to store and process
large quantities of data.” We also planned “to invest in and grow activity in Robotics & Autonomous
Systems.”
    Our research activities now include and transcend the boundaries between Robotics &
Autonomous Systems, Signal & Image Processing, Sensor Devices & Systems and
Communications. We use data- and communications-driven innovation to increase the autonomy
of robotic and artificially intelligent systems for strategically important sectors, including defence
and security, energy and medicine. Our staff combine robotics and artificial intelligence (AI) to
exploit synergies in manipulation, control, and robot collaboration in outdoor and indoor
applications, and in marine and humanoid settings in the ORCA Hub. Along with other funded
activity, this has enabled us to create a world-leading research centre for Robotics & Autonomous
Systems (RAS).
   Our signal and image processing research spans underpinning theory to novel imaging
modalities including agile tomography, parallel and distributed processing, and machine learning
methods for advanced signal and image analysis in astronomy and multiple medical imaging
modalities. Our research in agile tomography is helping to reduce the environmental impact of
aviation and carbon-fuelled power generation, also supporting RCA1.
   We engineer novel micro- and nano-scale devices and systems using innovative fabrication
processes to manufacture: systems-on-chips; sensors and actuators; single-photon-avalanche-
diodes (SPADs) and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMs). They are used in many
application areas ranging from biomedical engineering to defence. Our staff deliver new wireless
connectivity technologies and processes, emerging technologies around Visible Light
Communications (LiFi), the Internet of Things and 5G, and beyond.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
             RCA4 - Engineering a safer and healthier infrastructure and environment
    We aim to develop new materials, practices and regulation to make the future urban and rural
infrastructure and environment safer, healthier, more resilient and more sustainable.
    In 2014 we planned to “focus on the relationship between infrastructure design, maintenance
and operation, and societal needs to improve the integrity, security and sustainability of
infrastructure systems, including the development of novel technologies for sanitation and water
quality improvement and computational research to understand the impact of climate change and
natural disasters on human systems.”
    Our research in IE now includes: exploiting advances in data analytics and sensors for
infrastructure resilience; developing enhanced techniques for fire safety in building construction;
and addressing UN Sustainability Goals affecting low- to middle-income countries. UK and EU
Research Councils support both fundamental and applied interdisciplinary research, conducted
with the support of industry partners. The research extends across infrastructure (structural
design, construction, maintenance, operation and safety), human wellbeing (societal need, flood
risk, water and wastewater treatment) and ecosystem sustainability (river systems). This research
encompasses: the assessment, monitoring, and improvement of transport and urban infrastructure;
fire safety; advanced structural mechanics and dynamics, granular mechanics and flow technology;
novel technologies for sanitation, and water and wastewater treatment; flood risk assessment;
environmental flow and eco-morphodynamic modelling, river ecosystem resilience, and the water-
energy nexus. This activity is delivered in the context of climate change and adaptation, carbon
reduction, and resilience against natural and manmade disasters.
 1.4. Achievement of strategic research aims
  Our investment to support the growth, research and impact strategies has created an
environment within which our growing staff numbers have delivered our research strategy and
achieved their aims across RCAs 1-4.
   Summed across ERPE, our academic staff numbers have increased by 37% to reach 288 and
our UKRI/Government funding has increased by 125% since 2014, EU funding by 127% and
industry/other funding by 47%. We have highlighted below, for each of our Organisational
Themes, selected research and innovation achievements from fundamental discoveries to
industrially-collaborative high-TRL impact, four of which are noted as submitted impact case
studies. We have included, where appropriate, hyperlinks to key related outputs.
                                                          Energy and Resource Management
   To accelerate society’s Energy Transition to a lower carbon, more sustainable future, ERM staff
have worked with industry to develop new technologies, materials and processes, particularly for
the Offshore Renewable Energy Sector where reliability and durability are critical. They have also
worked with government to deliver analysis that has advised policy.
   Aligned with our aims to address RCA1, ERM academic staff numbers have grown since 2014
by 34% to reach 75 and our research awards have nearly doubled to over £77M.
   ERPE’s capacity to address RCA1 is underpinned by new and renewed ERPE assets (since
2014) that include Jeffrey’s leadership of the EPSRC UK Centre for Marine Energy Research
(UKCMER) and Ingram’s leadership of the Industrial Doctoral Centre in Off-Shore Renewable
Energy - a collective investment of over £30M that has enabled ERPE and other UK academics to
lead the world in collaborative research, innovation and training in tidal, wave and offshore wind
energy technology and practice. These and other investments are supported by the FloWave
                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ocean Energy Research Facility. Owens leads our partnership in the ReFLEX (Responsive
Flexibility) project in Orkney, supported by £28.5M investment from Innovate UK, to demonstrate a
world-first island-based Virtual Energy System (VES) interlinking local electricity, transport, and
heat networks into one controllable, overarching system.
   Our leading position was recently reinforced by the appointment of Maroto-Valer as UK
Champion to lead the development of the new UK Industrial Decarbonisation Research and
Innovation Centre (IDRIC), a £35M UKRI and industry investment, that aims to deliver the
government’s ‘net zero’ ambitions by addressing the challenges of decarbonising the industrial
sector. The twinned £17M investments in the ERPE UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research
Centre (UKCCSRC) and Research Centre for Carbon Solutions have created a national hub and
network for research, development and innovation in carbon reduction, capture and storage.
   Additionally, the International Centre for Carbonate Reservoirs is a £4.7M industry-funded
research alliance developing new technologies to characterise high CO2 offshore geological
reservoirs and explore opportunities for CO2 storage in Brazil, as well as developing related
capacity in Brazilian higher education.
   In 2019 Kiprakis and Sellar made, in FloWave,
the first ever real-time measurements of flow,
performance, and structural loadings in a closely-
spaced array of 1.2m diameter scale tidal turbines,
also operating under wave loadings, connected to an
electricity network emulator (Figure 1.4.1). The
resultant findings, (Energies), and further
experimental work, underpinned the development of
the FASTBLADE accelerated blade fatigue test
facility and, working with tidal turbine developers   Figure 1.4.1 – Array Testing in FloWave
Sabella, Nova Innovations and Orbital Marine
Power, were incorporated into the DTOcean+ open-source software suite, now assisting tidal
energy array design across the ORE sector.
    Sellar worked with engineering multi-national
Alstom and subsea instrument manufacturer Nortek
to develop a Convergent-beam Acoustic Doppler
Profiler (CADP) that was the first field-scale 3D
velocimeter capable of directly measuring tidal site
turbulence, (J. Meas Sci & Technology). ERPE
developed successor technology that can
autonomously scan the velocity-field spanning a
turbine rotor-plane area. It will be deployed in
Fromveur passage, France, ahead of an operational
Sabella D10 prototype tidal turbine (Figure 1.4.2) that    Figure 1.4.2 – Sabella turbine in Brest
is also equipped with an ERPE online sensing system that captures the real-time environmental
conditions driving power fluctuations and varying dynamic structural loadings.
   These and other marine current turbine developers have, as a consequence, partnered with
Viola and McCarthy in a new £1.2M EPSRC project to develop fast-acting flexible trailing edges
that will enable tidal turbine blades to morph passively and reduce load fluctuations.
   Wind, wave and tidal current energies deliver high torques at low speeds to power take-off
systems which, without gearboxes, are fundamentally unsuited to conventional electromagnetic

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
induction in compact high-speed rotary generators. Mueller developed
two novel C-GEN air-cored low speed, direct drive rotary and linear
generators and improved their thermal performance, (IEEE Trans
Energy Conv.), leading to their demonstration in the Mocean Energy
Ltd Blue Star Project, and technology licensing to Vertax Wind, Swift
Energy and Mocean Energy. In Project Neptune he and colleagues
demonstrated, in Leith Docks, a pioneering flooded 150 kW vertical
linear generator (Figure1.4.3).
   Muradov and collaborators delivered pioneering research (J. Comp.
GeoSci) that identifies the principal geologies and oil production
conditions where autonomous oil and gas reservoir inflow control
valves installed along the well can reduce pipeline choking, resulting in
the environmental benefit of a 68% reduction in water usage for
cleaning and associated energy reduction. Working with the                  Figure 1.4.3 - C-Gen
Norwegian company Inflowcontrol they have demonstrated the potential for an annual ptune
                                                                                       economic
saving of $2.4M in operating costs. This is described more fully in our Impact Case Study
“Autonomous intelligent control valves enhance oil recovery and environmental sustainability”.
Within the BP Centre for Energy Economics, ERM staff delivered underpinning research for the
annual BP World Energy Outlook and Statistical Review of World Energy that forecast future
energy consumption and production, influencing shareholder investment and company strategies.
   Fundamental research by Viola on the aerodynamic properties of the dandelion seed
discovered that its ability to fly is due to a separated vortex ring; the publication (Nature) garnered
news reports in over 30 countries. Based on this curiosity-led work, Viola and collaborators in
Imperial College London, Cambridge and at Caltech have been awarded an ERC Consolidator
Grant (€2M, 2020), “DANDIDRONE: A dandelion-inspired drone for swarm sensing” to investigate
whether it is possible to develop a manmade flyer that can remain airborne without external power,
exploiting the energy in horizontal wind gusts and build the first-of-a-kind wind tunnel in ERPE.
                                                                    Manufacturing and Materials
    MM staff, particularly those in our expanding bio-medical engineering and multi-scale thermo-
fluids areas are collaborating extensively with the manufacturing and healthcare industries to jointly
discover and deliver the new science, technologies, processes and materials that are urgently
needed to positively impact all ages and sectors of society.
   MM academic staff numbers have grown, since 2014, by 54% to reach 91 and our research
awards have nearly trebled to £48M to develop world-leading technologies for medical science and
practice, aligned with ERPE’s aims to address RCA2&3.
   Our recent investments and co-funded assets to address RCA2 include PROTEUS, a £15M
EPSRC Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Healthcare Sensing, in which we are developing and
demonstrating the use of fluorescence-based micro endoscopy systems for detection of pathogens
in human lungs, and have pioneered the first in vivo human clinical studies. Most recently, we
have secured £6.1M from EPSRC to support research in transformative healthcare. The new U-
Care collaboration will deliver a point-of-care technology platform exploiting short wavelength light
to augment therapeutic pathways for some of the biggest challenges facing medicine including the
emergence of antimicrobial resistance and cancer therapy. The £20M Advanced Care Research
Centre (ACRC), which is funded directly by Legal & General, combines interdisciplinary research in
medicine and other care professions, life sciences, engineering, informatics, data and social
sciences. As the largest industry investment in the DDI initiative, it aims to improve understanding
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of care in later life and to revolutionise how it is delivered. Within ACRC we lead the doctoral
training in the £6M pan-disciplinary CDT. We have established the Medical Device Manufacturing
Centre (MDMC) which is a £3.2M four-university centre supported by the Advancing Manufacturing
Challenge Fund (AMCF). This investment in healthcare research, technologies and practice has
returned over £5.8M of consequent funding from UKRI, EU, Edinburgh & Lothians Health
Foundation, and the James Black Foundation.
     In the PROTEUS collaboration, SPAD array technology developed by Henderson (Nature
Comms) and image processing algorithms by McLaughlin (IEEE Trans Comp Imaging) led to the
world’s first SPAD line sensor capable of delivering information at rates sufficient for scanning
video images of the lung. This new technology provides picosecond resolution and, in the
TotalPhoton collaboration, is being exploited by Altmann, in time-resolved fluorescence
microscopy (Nature Comms). Through a secondment, Henderson transferred ERPE SPAD
technology into a leading commercial receiver array design and was co-inventor on 26 patent
filings, of which 6 have been granted to date. Henderson and colleagues have extended the
global reach and significant impact of the SPAD research for automated distance focussing in over
1 Billion mobile cell-phone cameras, described more fully in our the Impact Case Study “Innovation
in optical distance sensing drives global adoption in smartphones and other technologies”.
   Thomson, in collaboration with Medicine
at UoE, is using laser physics in the new U-
Care project to develop new sources of
deep UV light and the technologies that will
deliver this light with cellular precision to
advance cancer surgery and combat the
emergence of drug-resistant "super-bugs".
Figure 1.4.4 shows two images of ex vivo
lung tissue obtained down a coherent
imaging fibre. The image on the left is ex             Figure 1.4.4 – Ex-vivo lung tissue after labelling
vivo lung on its own, and the image on the
right is ex vivo lung with NBD–PMX SmartProbe labelled bacteria, both displayed as intensity with
a threshold applied based on lifetime to highlight labelled bacteria.
  In the PreCisE collaboration, with Renishaw and Coherent Scotland, Shephard and Hand have
developed a precision laser scalpel for colorectal cancer diagnosis and treatment (Scientific
Reports).
   Reuben’s work on Dynamic Instrumented
Palpation led to a spin-out company IntelliPalpDx Ltd
formed from joint research (totalling around £1.3M)
between ERPE and NHS Lothian Western General
Hospital. The ProstaPalp pre-prototype (Figure
1.4.5) integrates the concept of Dynamic
Instrumented Palpation into the inside of surgical
gloves to screen for early-stage prostate cancer (J.
Num Methods in BioEng). Since March 2020, the
company has won further support from Scottish                  Figure 1.4.5 – IntelliPalp diagnostic
Enterprise and Johnson has won a RAEng                                      probe
Enterprise Fellowship.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Desmulliez and co-workers won Global
Engineering Impact Awards in the Innovative
Research (2018) and Humanitarian (2019)
categories for the SonoPil project on swallowable,
ultrasonic endoscopic capsules with multi-modal
sensing, sponsored by National Instruments and
17 other companies (Figure 1.4.6) (Science
Robotics).
  In the EPSRC IMPACT project, Murray and
McLaughlin developed globally pioneering                  Figure 1.4.6 – SonoPil Capsule
approaches for cancer treatment based on implanted miniaturised, wireless sensor chips used to
monitor the status of a tumour (Vet Jnl).
   In the new Institute for Multi-scale Thermofluids (IMT) Peterson and Krueger each won highly
prestigious ERC Starting grants. Peterson was awarded £1.15M and is characterising transient
wall heat transfer using line-imaging of gas temperature via hybrid fs/ps rotational coherent anti-
Stokes Raman spectroscopy (Proc. Combustion Inst.). Krueger was awarded £1.5M and is
developing Lattice-Boltzmann models for multiphase flows, at nano- and micro-scales, of blood
cell-separation with deformable cell structures (J. Soft Matter).
   Reese, Borg, Zhang, Gibelli and Pillai won a globally competitive 3-year $2.8M partnership
programme of excellence awarded by King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) in
Saudi Arabia. This was the only successful European proposal, funded alongside MIT, Stanford,
Cornell, Texas, and W. Australia. Borg developed the open-source solvers IPKS2/3D which have
been used by KFUPM and Saudi Aramco to quantify the flow properties of shales (J. Comp
Physics Comms).
                                                                Sensors, Signals and Systems
   SSS staff and industry have jointly developed next generation sensing, digital technologies and
signal processing algorithms to optimise interactions with their operating environment and sense,
communicate and process data, ultimately making the world and society smarter and safer.
  SSS academic staff numbers have grown, since 2014, by 58% to reach 71 and our research
awards have increased by nearly two thirds to over £61M.
   We recognise that ubiquitous computing/communications and data-driven innovation are pre-
requisite elements of our response to RCA3 and we now engage deeply with colleagues in the
Alan Turing Institute, the Edinburgh City and South East Scotland Region Deal and its associated
entities including the Bayes Centre, the Edinburgh Futures Institute and the National Robotarium.
   We have won, for a third time, leadership of the £12M UK University Defence Research
Collaboration (UDRC) with the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), that brings
together all of the major industrial companies in Defence in the UK including Leonardo, BAE
Systems and Thales UK, to develop underpinning Signal Processing theory for future defence
systems. McLaughlin (Nature Comms) and Mulgrew (IEEE Trans Sig Proc) have developed new
sensing and imaging technologies for Dstl and other defence industry partners, which have been
raised to higher TRLs through 11 follow-on DASA and Dstl industry contracts of value £1.1M. The
work also led to several licensed technologies including: algorithms for fast Raman spectral un-
mixing of chemical species that were embedded in a handheld spectrometer by Metrohm; a novel
method for fast back projection code for Synthetic Aperture Radar Systems that was licenced to


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Leonardo; and an algorithm that enabled more efficient STAP radar systems and was used in the i-
STAR demonstration radar system by Dstl.
   We are collaborating with colleagues in Chemistry to address RCA2 and developing novel
SPAD arrays supported by a £7.2M EPSRC investment in healthcare technology to deliver ‘Optical
X-Rays’. ERPE’s partnership in the £20M Quantum Imaging Hub conjoins computational imaging
and SPAD research to deliver next generation imaging systems. Tsaftaris developed deep
learning tools for MRI analysis to aid diagnosis of coronary heart disease, supported by the
RAEng/Canon Medical Chair award, (J. Medical Imaging).
   In ERPE’s LiFi Research and Development Centre (LRDC) Haas and colleagues, in
collaboration with the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems ISE (Freiburg/Germany),
produced a single solar cell that received data at a rate of 500Mbps (in 2018) and 1Gbps (in 2019),
and achieved 2.5Gbps for multiple PV cells in multiple-input multiple-output mode, in collaboration
with St. Andrews University. These data rates and their increases have been fundamental in
demonstrating capability and enabling investment and growth of new LiFi technologies. Impacts
include the multi-award winning spin-out company pureLiFi securing £21M of external investment,
partnering in 200 projects in over 20 countries and leading to multiple world firsts for LED
communication products that are now utilised in education, healthcare, defence and commercial
applications. This is described more fully in our Impact Case Study “pureLiFi: The first LED light-
based communication system”, which aligns with the SSS vision to address RCA3 and affirms the
effects of the first-of-a-kind new technology in the global communications arena.
    Developing from McCann’s leadership of the Platform Grant “In-situ Chemical Measurement
and Imaging Diagnostics for Energy Process Engineering” (EPSRC, £1.1M), he and collaborators
in the LITECS project (EPSRC, £5.8M, Shell £1M), have deployed Chemical Species Tomography
for the first time in the largest civil aerospace gas-turbine engines and in laboratory turbine
combustors, (IEEE Trans. Inst. & Meas.), to elucidate key mechanisms for reduced environmental
impact (with Rolls-Royce, Siemens, Royal Dutch/Shell, INTA (Madrid) and 5 UK universities) – also
generating follow-on funding from the H2020 CleanSky2 project led by INTA (EU, €2M).
                                                                  Infrastructure and Environment
   IE staff have developed new technologies, practices and regulation whose deployment and
implementation have contributed to making the urban and rural infrastructure and environment
safer, healthier, and more sustainable, specifically improving urban and rural resilience to fire and
earthquake hazards.
  We have increased IE academic staff numbers to 51 and focussed our research towards UK
and UN Sustainable Development agendas, resulting in a more than doubling of our awards to
£20M.
    ERPE hosts the £4M Centre for Fire Safety Engineering in collaboration with key industry
partners (BRE, IFIC Forensics, OFR, Design Fire Consultants and Arup), which provides
international leadership in fire safety engineering research, practice, and consultancy. The
Centre’s research activities have extended to include the critical areas of wildfires, fire safety in
informal settlements, and cladding fires. The Centre provides research support related to fire
safety to UK government agencies including The Home Office and Scottish Parliament. In
infrastructure resilience, IE researchers held grants over £8M related to the EPSRC Centre for
Sustainable Road Freight Transport, and the European COST Action Scheme towards
autonomous vehicles, aimed at meeting the 2050 target of 80% reduction in CO2 emissions by
road freight transport.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Research on fire performance of timber, concrete, and steel structures carried out by Bisby,
Hadden, and Law has informed design codes in the UK (BSI), Europe (CEN), and USA (ACI,
ASTM and ASCE) (Proc J. Fire Safety). This has significantly raised awareness of the increased
fire hazard posed by use of mass timber in high-rise
buildings and has identified mitigation measures for
designers around the world, with significant influence
on improved safety and resilience. Bisby, is a high-
level advisor to UK Government (Home Office, Scottish
Parliament), professional bodies (RAEng, IStructE,
IFireE, RSE, BSI, and CEN), trade associations (The
Structural Timber Association), and research and
Innovation hubs (CSIC & CENSIS). He was, and
remains, a key technical expert advisor to the Grenfell
Tower Inquiry and, with Hadden, to the Metropolitan              Figure 1.4.7 – Hourglass damper on
Police Investigation into the Grenfell Tower Fire. Law,                      cyclic test
Welch, and Rush provided advice to UK Government
on Fire Safety (Proc. IStructE). Working in partnership with the
Structural Timber Alliance industry body, ERPE staff developed
and asserted the first industry guidance for the design and
construction for fire safety of timber buildings, now adopted in
the UK timber frame sector. This is described more fully in our
Impact Case Study “Improving fire protection regulations,
standards and industry guidance to enhance public safety”
which aligns with IE aspirations to address RCA4 to make the
urban environment healthier and safer. In collaboration with
IVALSA, Reynolds has pioneered earthquake-resistant, cross-
laminated timber multi-storey structures as a sustainable
construction technology for seismic regions (Proc J. Cons &
Bldg Mats). Vasdravellis pioneered an hourglass design of
steel dampers, which enhances the earthquake-resilience of
                                                                          Figure 1.4.8 – Energy pile
buildings (Figure 1.4.7), (J. Struct Eng). Sutman invented a
                                                                               being installed
new type of energy pile construction technique which reduces
structural risk and environmental impact; the technology is being promoted by Berkel and Co
Contractors, US, for deep foundation applications (Figure 1.4.8) (J. GeoMech for Energy and Env).
Cao, Pender and Borthwick contributed to theoretical models of landside-induced flood flows (Int
J Sediment Res) and barrier lake formation (J. Applied Math. Modelling), critically important to
earthquake-prone countries like China. Working with colleagues at Dalian University, PRC, they
have described the critical-state behaviour of soil, and informed studies of internal erosion in
embankment dams and sand liquefaction under cyclic loads. In collaboration, Ooi built upon the
Discrete Element Methodology and developed a coarse-graining methodology to model particle
flow in silos (J. Powder Tech). Working with Sun and Ness, they analysed suspension rheology in
paste extrusion applications. Sen Gupta’s work on arsenic and fluoride removal has resulted in
water treatment plants benefiting more than 1,000 villagers near Kolkata, (J. Env. Man.).




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5. Impact strategy
   Our strategy to increase the impact of ERPE’s research has been to develop a common culture,
to define and exploit agreed opportunities and to invest to deliver impact as we planned our
research effort, managed our assets and exploited the resulting outcomes through industrial,
governmental and societal partnerships at local, national and global scales.
  ERPE’s Co-Directors of Impact Smith and Hand, have shared responsibility to maximise the
impact of ERPE’s research. Reporting to the Heads of School, they co-chair the ERPE Impact
Committee whose remit is to support staff and maximise impact.
                                                                         Common impact culture
  ERPE’s culture of impact is reinforced amongst our staff as follows:
  o   In the annual Career Development Review process of academic staff, impact is a key metric
      of performance;
  o   We operate clear and specific mentoring schemes to ensure that senior academics connect
      with junior colleagues to include them in their industry networks. This allows us to engage
      with stakeholders and users from the earliest opportunity and: develop shared aspirations
      and ambitions; agree common aims and objectives; jointly deliver the research and
      collectively exploit the outcomes to deliver the impact sought;
  o   Training is provided by our commercialisation arms EI and GRID, collaborating with funding
      bodies and online resources. It includes seminars and dedicated courses, best-practice
      advice in writing Impact Plans and sharing experience to learn by example from others;
  o   We cultivate and nurture activity in areas of potential high impact through staff recruitment
      and development such as the recent investments in biomedical engineering and multi-scale
      thermofluids. During recruitment, our selection criteria for new academic staff now require
      ‘demonstrated impact’ (in the case of senior appointments) or ‘impact potential’ (in ECRs);
  o   We publicly celebrate impact using the services of our communications staff, bringing
      exceptional achievements to the attention of the public and media through our
      website/social media channels and press releases.
                                     Strategically define, protect and exploit opportunities
    ERPE staff use industry-standard planning tools and methodologies, such as the Theory of
Change Model, to identify potential beneficial impact, define the pathways to delivery and
exploit the benefits. ERPE theme leaders help to define impact strategy by horizon-scanning for
opportunities (assessing ambition, ultimate goals, and likely impact). The extensive reach of our
staff gives us strategically useful oversight of needs, markets, and technology trajectories that we
build into our impact planning. This also includes the identification and mitigation of threats,
liabilities, and shocks to the delivery plan, and the implementation of monitoring tools to follow
progress and adapt/re-align research activities to keep meeting stated targets and achieve impact.
  ERPE staff are supported in commercialisation and impact activities by colleagues in EI and
GRID, who provide excellent support including:
  o   Gathering and focussing the distribution of calls for proposals;
  o   Assistance with proposal writing and submission;
  o   Partnership brokering;
  o   Establishment of terms of reference and contractual frameworks;
  o   Advice on IP rights;
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  o   Assistance with the founding of spin-out companies, including sourcing seedcorn funding;
  o   Licensing arrangements and filing patents; and
  o   Outreach and soliciting partnerships on Academic Industry Meeting (AIM) days.
  Since 2014, EI and GRID staff have worked with ERPE colleagues to file patents, resulting in
135 being granted based on 42 new technologies which have been invented in ERPE.
   ERPE has a long successful history in creating spin-outs, totalling 11 since 2014 including
Particle Analytics Ltd, Kenoteq Ltd, Mocean Energy Ltd, MicroSense Technologies Ltd, IntelliPalp
DX Ltd, ReOptimise Systems, Photon Force Ltd, Natantis, OGI Bio and Power Enable Solutions
Ltd employing over 30 staff and going on to raise over £8.6M in equity and government high-
growth investment. As an example, Desmulliez and Flynn created microwave sensing technology
and spun-out Microsense Technologies (established in 2017) which won first prize in the Converge
Challenge in 2016, that aimed to incubate new companies. Microsense develops inline monitoring
technology now being exploited in 7 global regions to improve productivity, resilience and
sustainability in the food, beverage and transport sectors. Gousettis’ research in Satellite
Communication and antenna systems led to a five-month residency of Celestia UK in our GRID
facility, resulting in the company establishing themselves in HWU Research Park, creating 18 jobs.
                                                                         Investment in impact
   We have invested nearly £30M in new infrastructure and commercialisation initiatives
within EI and GRID to exploit ERPE research outcomes by enabling and expanding knowledge
transfer, licensed technology transfer, and the formation of companies. Since 2016 EI has
increased in size from 65 to 95 staff, among which the EI account team for ERPE consists of 15
staff, including Business Development (8), Consultancy (1), Technology Transfer (1), Company
Formations (2) and an Innovate UK/ISCF Bid team (3). Within the investment in GRID, there were
8 new appointments of Business Development Executives to drive additional ERPE impact. ERPE
staff can access an established EU/International Support Team to increase their success rates in
EU and international proposal submissions. An International Development Research Hub provides
multi-dimensional advice and support in the preparation of ODA/GCRF proposals.
   As an example of an investment to drive impact from new technology, UoE invested directly
£1.7M in the establishment, with Haas and colleagues, of the LiFi Research and Development
Centre (LRDC). While pureLiFi was spun out in 2011, it has secured £21M of investment since
2014 and is submitted as an ERPE impact case study.
   At an individual level, the Principal’s Innovation Awards and Principal’s Research Impact and
Engagement Awards pump-prime new research that will attract consequent external funding and
generate impact, as well as recognising outstanding achievement, innovation and creativity in
impact and public engagement with research. Stokes was a winner and is exploring new
functional materials for robotic inspection in severe or hazardous environments. Hands also won
funding to help develop liquid crystal tuneable micro-lasers. ERPE is a founder member of
CONVERGE, which is Scotland’s leading company creation programme for staff, students and
recent graduates of all Scottish Universities and Research Institutes. Since 2011, the programme
has delivered substantial human and economic impact, including training over 400 young
entrepreneurs and securing and distributing over £120M of funding. With this support, Medero
spun out Kenoteq and received £1.7M from the Construction Scotland Innovation Centre to
produce the new ‘K-brick’ that uses recycled construction and demolition waste, with a 90%
reduction in energy/CO2 emissions in its manufacture compared to clay bricks.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                      Propagate partnerships to drive impact
   Through thematic leadership, we expect and strongly encourage our researchers to develop
strategic local, national and global partnerships within academia, industry, government and
society. ERPE staff members, including Jeffrey, Flynn, Hand and Lane serve on pivotal
government, research council, national and EU standards and industry foresight bodies, enabling
ERPE to plan and invest in high impact research activities that tackle global challenges before or
when they arise, as highlighted in section 4.
   The responses to global RCAs are by their nature complex and interdisciplinary. To achieve
solutions that have real-world impact on challenging problems, ERPE promotes research activity
that is institutionally and internationally collaborative in nature, partnering with industry,
government, NGOs, and academic institutions. We pump-prime partnership activity through
dedicated support of nascent projects, such as providing internal travel grants and seed-corn
funding to researchers starting projects involving multiple partners in DAC-listed countries, defined
by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. Over 25 staff have received over £1M of
internal seed-corn funding to establish GCRF partnerships world-wide to address the challenges of
the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including developing local technologies and skills in areas
ranging from Sen-Gupta developing and installing sustainable water treatment technology in
Bangladesh, to Huang working with Conservation International and local building trades to improve
the cyclone resilience of traditional buildings in Madagascar.
 1.6. Creating an open and responsible research environment in ERPE
   ERPE has adopted the League of European Research Universities (LERU) Roadmap for Open
Science and aims to ensure that our data is FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Inter-operable, Re-
useable). ERPE abides by both the original and updated UUK Concordat to Support Research
Integrity, with UoE additionally a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research
Assessment (DORA). Ensuring adoption of these standards within ERPE is the remit of the
Executive Management Committee jointly chaired by the Heads of Schools. It meets quarterly to
review ERPE activities and ensure maximum interaction and impact with industry, academia, and
wider society from an open, transparent, ethical, collaborative environment that provides state-of-
the-art facilities and support for our academic and research staff. Specifically, we:
  o   Define, for every staff member during their induction, our expectations of adherence to the
      principles of responsible research and innovation and the need to understand the
      individual, community and societal drivers for their research;
  o   Operate within the jurisdiction of the Schools’ Ethics and Integrity Committees
      reporting ultimately to the Vice Principals. Any lapse in the highest of academic standards
      must be reported to our Research Ethics & Integrity Officers (Krueger and Shephard) who,
      after initial investigation and determination that there is a case to consider, may escalate it.
      Academic and research staff may then become subject to their University’s Procedures for
      Investigating Research Misconduct, defined in the University’s Disciplinary Code;
  o   Expect, and where necessary train, our staff to anticipate and understand the wider
      ethical and societal impacts of their work through discussion with industry, policy and
      societal stakeholders. This is a compulsory aspect of our pre-submission internal grant
      review procedures and expected to be revisited through the life of an award. The IMPACT
      programme sought patient views on implementation to guide technology development;
  o   Implement the principles of the UK Forum for Responsible Research Metrics, including
      robustness, humility, transparency, diversity and reflexivity;

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  o   Provide free, open online external access to our publications via Edinburgh Research
      Explorer and the Research Portal to ensure that our research results are transparent and
      have wide reach. ERPE supports its staff to make their research outputs Open Access.
      Green Open Access is our preferred route to ensure wider participation without access to
      publication funds. We have, however, invested in comprehensive support for open access
      and implementing Plan S from 2021, to ensure that output arising from publicly-funded
      research is published in compliant Open Access journals;
  o   Provide free and open online access to as much as possible of our raw data and
      experimental results (via PURE, Edinburgh Datashare and UKERC Energy Data Centre),
      particularly where they are obtained or used in extreme/hazardous environments;
  o   Nurture academic freedom and encourage an open approach to conducting research.
      Our staff lead many multi-partner national and EU consortium projects with around 15% of
      our published outputs being collaborative across ERPE;
  o   Ensure transparent dialogue and outreach with industry, government, NGOs and the
      wider publics through: annual assemblies; research colloquia; AIM days; doors-open days;
      public lectures and schools engagement, all of which are evaluated to refine future plans.
 1.7. Future vision and plans
    ERPE’s vision for the future is to deliver research, innovation and training whose impact and
reach will continue to drive the global transition towards net-zero carbon with economic,
environmental and social benefit in a world that we have demonstrably helped to make safer and
healthier. We will expand collaboration across thematic, institutional and international boundaries
to remain world-leading as we address global research challenges.
   We will invest time and money to increase the proposal intensity, success rate and collaborative
reach of all staff, particularly ECRs and colleagues new to the UK funding arena, who were
recruited as part of our structured expansion and planned ventures into newer areas of activity.
We will invest in the construction and occupation of the remainder of the Engineering Quarter at
King’s Buildings to bring our increased staff and research students in the Organisational Themes
physically closer together in greater, more conducive space and to enable us to grow further
doctoral training programmes. Specific plans and objectives for each of our global RCAs follow.
                               RCA1 – Engineering the transition to a lower carbon future
   We will build further capacity and collaborations to: invent and apply robotic and AI systems for
prognostic monitoring of offshore energy assets; synthesise and demonstrate intelligent materials
to animate working surfaces; develop technologies that exploit extremely high and low
temperatures for energy conversion and storage in generation and transport; and discover and
develop disruptive technologies and policies for real-time data acquisition and energy system
management. Specifically, we will:
  -   Contribute to the UK government’s ‘net zero’ ambitions through our leadership of the
      Industrial Decarbonisation Research and Innovation Centre;
  -   Build on the EPSRC £1M platform grant and exploit the unique capabilities of the new
      laboratory facilities for Clean Combustion and Agile Tomography and establish an
      international Research Centre in Sprays & Spray Technologies to drive CO2 reductions;
  -   Work with our societal, industry and academic partners in Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia
      and Latin America during the UK Presidency of COP26 to co-create projects that access the
      £1B UK Government commitment to the Ayrton Fund to address the UN Sustainable
      Development Goals (SDG7-10) and propel their clean energy transition; and

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  -    Continue the transition in GeoEnergy Engineering from industry funded research focused on
       hydrocarbon production, to expand activity in geological storage of CO2 and energy storage.
       RCA2 - Developing materials, processes and manufacturing for healthier living
  We will expand our capacity in translational bio-photonics and bio-medical device technologies,
deepen our through-process bio-manufacturing expertise to create a fifth ERPE theme in bio-
medical engineering. Specifically, we will:
  -    Leverage on the award of one of six national centres for synthetic biology to Edinburgh
       (£13.2M), build on the EPSRC platform grant 4MD, the investments in the MDMC and the
       most recently secured £7.6M EPSRC Transformative Healthcare Technologies for 2050
       award, to develop and translate technologies with impact over the next 30 years; and
  -    Work with Babcock International, University of Strathclyde, Fife Council and Fife College to
       establish a world-class advanced manufacturing park in Rosyth, incorporating: large-scale
       machining and composites manufacturing facilities; FASTBLADE; a digital skills academy
       and an innovation centre for SMEs in advanced robotics for hazardous materials handling in
       nuclear and offshore asset decommissioning.
 RCA3 - Creating a smarter, safer world by innovation in data, comms, robotics & AI
      We will develop the next generation of intelligent sensing and autonomous systems,
   embracing opportunities emerging from advanced sensing (Quantum techniques, new
   materials and algorithm developments), data-driven innovation, and the growing use of
   robotics, autonomy and machine learning. Specifically, we will:
   -   Build on ERPE’s existing investment in the National Robotarium to establish the UK’s
       leading innovation hub for robotics and autonomous systems;
   -   Support regional industry in wireless and satellite technologies, strengthening ongoing
       partnerships with Xilinx, Commscope, Leonardo, Honeywell, Celestia, Sofant and Alba
       Orbital;
   -   Collaborate with clinicians to develop new AI methods embodying machine learning and
       image analysis to aid the understanding and diagnosis of disease;
   -   Develop new design and fabrication technologies for micro- and nano-scale devices in new
       materials, enable their integration into systems and use our first-in-the-UK thermal scanning
       probe nanolithography technology for fast prototyping of nanoscale structures/devices; and
   -   Explore more efficient use of data to bridge between traditional signal processing and
       modern machine learning in the context of risk resilience and verifiability.
              RCA4 - Engineering a safer and healthier infrastructure and environment
   We will capitalise on the Edinburgh and Southeast Scotland Regional City Deal to expand our
research activities in Future Infrastructure and Data Driven Innovation in Infrastructure and
Environment. Specifically, we will:
  -    Build on the £156M University and UK government investment in the Edinburgh Futures
       Institute, our membership of the UK Collaboratorium for Research into Infrastructure and
       Cities (UKCRIC), our links to the Alan Turing Institute, the National Robotarium and the
       Bayes Centre to access the UKRI Strength in Places Initiative and establish an
       interdisciplinary Edinburgh Water Centre with the two universities’ schools of biology,
       business, chemistry, geosciences, law, mathematics, medicine, policy studies, and
       sociology; and
  -    Build on existing, and form new, international partnerships in Africa, North America and
       China aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG7-10).
                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
   Both Universities, and ERPE, subscribe to the three clear principles of the Concordat to Support
the Career Development of Researchers. We strive to ensure and increase the attractiveness and
sustainability of the careers of our academic and research staff and enable them to deliver in
quantity, the highest quality and most impactful research for the benefit of global society and the
UK economy.
 2.1. Staffing strategy
   We recognise that ERPE’s most essential and valuable asset is our staff. Our vision is to be a
place of first choice in the minds of academic and research staff and doctoral students around the
world. Our strategy is to attract and recruit the best people and then to develop and enable them
to achieve their best on a world-platform in an environment that ensures equality, diversity and
inclusion.
   Our staffing strategy is grounded in ensuring research and teaching excellence, shaped by
thematic and discipline needs, and informed by wider necessities such as critical mass and
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI). We select academic and research staff according to their
ability to contribute to research and teaching, their strategic fit to the aims of ERPE themes and
RCAs, and their opportunities for career development in the ERPE environment. To realise our
vision (p.1) we aspire to ensure that all academic staff, from the most senior Professor to the
newest tenure-tracked Fellow, pool their talents within a rich environment that promotes
collaboration, cooperation and collegiate activity. To maintain our research excellence, we foster
and nurture a diverse community of academic practitioners, senior postdoctoral researchers and
doctoral students, drawn from many different academic backgrounds, supported by IT, business
development, administrative, and technical support-staff. Our succession and contingency
planning includes having deputy appointments for all key strategic positions across ERPE.
                                                                                     Growth in staff numbers
  In 2014 we returned 210 staff. ERPE is now able to return 288 academic staff distributed as
shown by Organisational Theme and current grade (Figure 2.1).


 350
                                                                                                        Totals
 300

 250

 200

 150                By level
                                                                  By organisational theme
 100

  50

   0
        Lecturers SLs/Readers Professors Indep. Resrs.     ERM         MM          SSS         IE         ERPE
       68 (62 new) 108 (27 new) 89 (19 new) 23 (7 new) 75 (up 34%) 91 (up 54%) 71 (up 58%) 51 (up 2%) 288 (up 37%)

                                    2014      New staff/Growth by Theme since 2014

       Figure 2.1 - ERPE Staff distribution and growth since 2014 by level and organisational theme

                                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ERPE has recruited strategically to 115 academic posts to expand our academic staff
complement by 78 and replace 37 departures. Indications of ERPE strategy driving vitality within
the environment include that:
o   Over 90% of our 68 lecturers are new appointments, replacing those who have been promoted
    within ERPE or who have made an onward career move to a new institution;
o Two organisational themes have grown by more than 50%;
o Our academic staff capacity has increased by 37%;
o Professional (admin/finance/facilities) and Engineering (IT/marketing & PR/tech services)
    support staff numbers have grown by 36% to 83, and by 15% to 113 respectively;
o To address areas of high opportunity in key areas, we have developed many of our ECRs into
    leadership roles.
   Specifically, in RCA2, the 2015 cluster-hiring of Profs Linne (ex-Chalmers) and Reese (Regius
Professor of Engineering and RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies, now deceased), Peterson
(ex-Sandia National Lab) and Borg and Krueger (appointed as Chancellor’s Fellows now
Readers) founded our highly successful Institute for Multi-scale Thermofluids with research income
to date of £10M. The success of this nucleus has been used as a model for investment, in 2020,
for beyond the REF2021 period, through appointments of two new Profs (McHale, Zhang), two
Senior Lecturers (Ledesma, Wells) and three Lecturers (Attili, Wang, Haeri) in this area. Ó
Brádaigh was appointed to build a Polymer Composites Group, in which we have invested in six
new appointments from senior lecturer to Chancellors Fellow (Roy, McCarthy, Alam, Yang,
Martinez-Hergueta, Robert).
   While pursuing new opportunities in ERPE we also ensure that we support existing areas of
excellence, such as our renewable energy activity. To strengthen the Electrical Power Engineering
activity, Finney was appointed as Chair in Power Electronics, augmented recently by the
appointment of Judge and Morstyn as Lecturers. To provide strategic leadership in energy
storage we appointed Prof Rampen, who originally was a member of research staff who pioneered
digitally-controlled hydraulic transmission systems and founded the company Artemis Intelligent
Power before returning to ERPE. He was a key member of the Artemis team that won the 2015
RAEng MacRobert Award. Prof Krumdieck (formerly University of Canterbury in New Zealand)
brings leadership in transition engineering and Prof Busch left Shell to join ERPE and provide
leadership in low-carbon energy systems.
   To strengthen our signal processing and communications activity we appointed as Lecturers
Altmann, Ding, Halimi, Mota, Repetti, Ben Smida, Song and Lei Wang. This has underpinned
our contribution to computational research in the £20M Quantum Imaging Hub and the £12M
UDRC, as well as leading Celestia to locate their UK facility on Heriot Watt Research Park.
   To support and increase the return on our investment in major new facilities, we have made four
appointments to the new post of Senior Experimental Officer: Davey (FloWave); Steynor
(FASTBLADE); Johansen (Clean Combustion Lab) and Lloyd (Carbon Capture and Separation)
to drive and exploit the facilities’ inventory, research and industrial/academic engagement.
   We offer attractive lab start-up packages (typically CF/BRL/L £15k+a funded PhD; SL/R £30k+a
funded PhD; and Prof £50-100k+2 funded PhDs). New academic staff joining an area strategically
targeted for investment and growth are often attracted to and join a new or expanding research
environment.
   We aim to achieve a balance between senior staff (with research eminence, and strong
leadership) and early career staff (with obvious future potential): 62 appointments have been at


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Grade 8 with the specific aim of attracting the best talent worldwide in the emerging areas relevant
to our thematic needs.
    Our Chancellor’s Fellowship and Bicentennial Research Leaders schemes provide a route for
outstanding postdoctoral researchers to become full-time academics benefiting the health of the
discipline and their personal career development. Carter, Friedrich, Medina-Lopez, McCracken,
Repetti, Robinson, Sanna, Sellar, Shek, Thomson (Camilla), Yaghoobi-Vaighan, Vallejo,
Bandiera and Robert were all PDRAs in ERPE who (via a competitive process) were appointed
Chancellor’s Fellows in ERPE as part of their already burgeoning career development. They are
joined by external appointments, including Van den Bremer, Van der Weijde, Menolascina,
Song, van der Speck, Giorgio-Serchi, Mota, Garcia, Lau, Reynolds, Chitnis and Wang. To
help our rising stars establish themselves as independent researchers, we plan a controlled
increase in their teaching and administrative workload, over the first five years of appointment,
from an initially lower than average level. That ERPE is a highly attractive environment is reflected
in our recruitment of young global talent, for example bioengineering’s Menolascina (ex-MIT) who
joined as a Chancellor’s Fellow in 2016, has since won an EPSRC Future Leader Fellowship and
founded OGI Bio, winning a 2020 Scottish Edge Award for his mini-bioreactor technology.
 2.2.     Staff development and support
                                                                                    Staff Selection
   Our academic recruitment process ensures that appointees have clear communication skills
and have (or exhibit potential to gain) strong leadership skills. In addition to the normal interview
processes this includes delivery of short research seminars and teaching lectures and some social
interaction, after which staff and student views are sought in confidence. Candidates for Chair
positions are also assessed in a separate line management/leadership evaluation.
                                                          Staff Development and Progression
   Both ERPE Universities use rigorous processes to support and develop all staff throughout their
careers. Academic and support staff benefit from an annual Career Development Review to
explore their ongoing aspirations within the context of ERPE’s research needs and their School’s
teaching activities. Clear research and teaching statements identify necessary levels of excellence
for progression of staff who make significant contributions in either domain, and/or who are
delivering evidenced impact. All categories of staff activity are key to our strategy and their
development is planned, balanced and refined to be competitive within the University promotions
processes. We offer guidance in preparing for promotions, exercised through line managers and
mentors, as well as dedicated central staff. We are fully committed to academic and research staff
development in research and innovation through a portfolio of “personalised” CPD activities
delivered by the Institute for Academic Development and the Research Futures Academy
including: Grant-writing Workshops; Compulsory Supervisor Training; How to manage your
Research Teams; Strategic Leadership Programme; Research Ethics and Integrity; Enterprise and
Innovation and Effective Collaborations.
   Progression recognises sustained contribution to ERPE success and teaching excellence;
Chalmers joined ERPE as a Lecturer in 2010, her developing research independence saw
promotion to SL in 2015 and then to Reader in 2020, having graduated 5 PhDs and generated
£1.8M of income as a PI. As E&D Coordinator her leadership has contributed significantly to
EPRE’s two Bronze Awards in Athena SWAN assessments. Kersaudy-Kerhoas graduated from
HWU with a PhD and, after joining ERPE, went on to win a five-year RAEng Fellowship. In 2017
she won the £1.3M EPSRC Healthcare Technology Challenge Award and founded Natantis whose
                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
microfluidic biosample preparation technology was supported by a Scottish Enterprise HGSP
award. In 2019 she was promoted to Professor and in collaboration with the UoE Medical School,
has established the MKK Lab in Clinical Microfluidics. We aim to retain staff through career
development and progression. Over 25% of our Readers, Senior Lecturers and Professors joined
as research staff and were promoted to and through lectureships.
                                                                          Support and Training
   ERPE recognises the importance of developing momentum as soon as possible in a new
Lecturer’s appointment. We are also acutely aware of the pressure that this places on colleagues
and we provide extensive support and training for academics at all career stages, via a parallel
research mentoring scheme for new academics that complements the line management structure.
   Our PDRA champion (originally Krueger now Medina-Lopez) has created an early-career
‘community’, through PDRA-driven activities. A ‘buddy scheme’ first trialled in ERM is being rolled
out across ERPE. The PG Research Committees in ERPE also bring the PDRA and PhD
communities together, with emphasis on professional training and gaining chartered status. PDRAs
also have access to several local initiatives, such as Café Synthetique.
   We organise an annual symposium for early career researchers to raise awareness of career
development opportunities, encourage networking, and inform strategies for career advancement
within academia and beyond. The 2018 symposium covered a wide range of topics including role-
balancing, time-management and mental wellbeing. Our Strategic Leadership in Research
Programme uses experienced investigators and research leaders to provide participants with a
clear trajectory toward running a major grant, centre or network. Section 3.5 describes the support
systems that help ECRs to propagate, nurture and develop effective industry collaboration.
    Across ERPE there are many examples of ‘on-job’ training and collegiate support. For instance,
all research proposals from any staff member at any level of seniority are rigorously peer-reviewed
by colleagues in the research domain and recorded within our Worktribe systems, in addition to
being further independently checked for compliance with institutional and funder’s expectations.
For new lecturers and ECRs this is a key component of their development in the reviewing and
writing of winning proposals. Our strategy to support recently appointed staff has assisted many to
win prestigious fellowships and awards, including: Peterson, Krueger (ERC); Bandiera,
Menolascina, Hanley, Robert, Gyongy (EPSRC); Ness, Lucquiaud, Papanicolopulos,
Tsaftaris, Altmann, Halimi, van den Bremer (RAEng); Angeloudis (NERC); Reynolds, Van der
Weijde (Turing); Anagnostou, Podilchak, Georgiadis (H2020 MSCA); Crichton, Ding, Mota,
Marques-Hueso, Shek, Suphi-Edren, Law, Jia, Sun, Semiao (New Investigator Awards).
    Specific examples of rapidly developing track records among newly appointed ECRs includes:
o   Medina-Lopez joined us on a Talentia Fellowship to complete a joint PhD with ERPE and the
    University of Granada, before becoming a PDRA working in ERM. She became a work-
    package leader in DTOcean, a multi-national EU project before being appointed as a
    Chancellor’s Fellow in Data Driven Innovation. She made important contributions to securing
    two CDTs, IDCORE and SENSE: the Centre for Satellite Data in Environmental Science. She
    is now a member of the management teams of both CDTs.
o   Thomson (Camilla) completed her PhD in Edinburgh after working in industry as a Consulting
    Engineer and was then appointed as a PDRA in ERM. After that she was appointed as a
    ClimateXChange Fellow, supporting the Scottish Government’s carbon reduction planning,
    before being appointed as a Chancellor’s Fellow in Energy (Policy, Economics and Innovation).
    She is now working to support the ISCF PFER programme’s EnergyREV project.

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
o   Thomson (Robert) was awarded his PhD by HWU in 2006, quickly advancing to Professor
    within the Institute of Photonics and Quantum Sciences (IPaQS) where he leads a research
    group exploiting photonics to develop new types of instrumentation, for applications ranging
    from astronomy to medicine. He leads the recently awarded £6.1M U-Care project.
                                                                    Sabbaticals and study leave
   ERPE has a positive and pro-active study-leave and sabbatical policy that encourages
academic staff to apply for and gain relief from local teaching and administrative responsibilities to
spend between 3 and 12 months advancing their research, teaching, and impact activities at
another globally leading institution, or by secondment to industry/government. We aspire to have
1-in-7 of our academics on sabbatical or secondment at any one time. Academic staff can apply for
one semester of sabbatical leave following every 4 years of service, or for two semesters following
6 years of service. Sabbatical leave is granted based on the likely step-change or impact that
beckons. Examples of successful sabbatical leave include:
o   Davies (Prof) spent his sabbatical at Rice University in USA, EPFL in Switzerland and INRIA
    Rennes in France that led to three collaborative publications, one in the Society for Industrial
    and Applied Mathematics Journal of Imaging Science and two in IEEE Transactions on
    Information Theory. His sabbatical and collaborations formed also led to two awards to ERPE
    in Compressed Quantitative MRI, one joint with Wiaux and the other with the UoE Centre for
    Clinical Brain Sciences (EPSRC, £0.9M), and ultimately to the ERC Advanced Grant “C-
    SENSE: Exploiting low dimensional signal models in sensing, computation and signal
    processing” (EU, € 2.2M).
o   Hopgood (Senior Lecturer) developed a collaboration with Agilent Technologies, whose
    exchange of knowledge led to algorithms and an underlying concept that Agilent sought to
    patent. He secured an externally supported RAEng Industrial Secondment to spend a
    sabbatical working with Agilent applying signal processing techniques to electrophoresis
    analysis. The outcomes of this work formed the basis of an EPSRC award “Next-Generation
    Sensing for Human In-Vivo Pharmacology- Accelerating Drug Development in Inflammatory
    Diseases” (EPSRC, £1.5M), in collaboration with the UoE Centre for Inflammation Research
    and GlaxoSmithKline.
o   Altmann (Lecturer) spent a sabbatical at the University of Michigan that resulted in three
    publications, one in the Journal of Nuclear Materials Management, one in IEEE Transactions in
    Nuclear Sciences and one in Scientific Reports. The visit strengthened the collaboration with
    the Consortium for Verification Technologies (US CVT) - a $25M US research program.
                                                        Continuing Professional Development
    The ERPE Universities are committed to continuing professional development of our staff and
their registration with professional bodies such as the IMechE, IET, ICivE and IChemE for the
intrinsic benefits that this provides to ERPE and our staff. Our universities offer CPD programmes
and training which link directly to proposal development for early career staff, IP courses to assist
those focused on commercialisation of their research and career shaping towards professional,
learned society and HEA Fellowship, Senior Fellowship and Principal Fellowship. We also offer
mentoring and support to help staff gain membership (and fellowship) of engineering institutions.
   ERPE provides Leadership and Management training, offering different courses tailored to
career stage, often externally sub-contracted to specialist management development consultants.
For new staff these include: Leadership Workshops; What Does Leadership in Research Look
Like?; Time Management; Performance Management and Managing Team Conflict. For more
senior academic staff and potential Heads of School, both Universities offer Senior Leadership
                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Programmes. Accessing such opportunities and other research and teaching career development
is formally reviewed annually, at all levels of seniority, in the Career Development Review (with a
100% annual completion rate).
 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
   Both ERPE Universities are committed to continual improvement of the working environment in
ERPE to enhance its diverse community, united by agreed shared goals and efforts to ensure
equality of opportunity. We have appointed Prof Ingram as a Director of Diversity & Inclusion
(D&I) and ERPE enforces institutional Dignity and Respect Policies with a zero tolerance approach
to bullying, harassment or discrimination.
  We ensured full equality and diversity in the preparation of the REF2021 submission by:
  o    Creating and maintaining a gender, race and age/experience balance in the governance,
       delivery and internal review teams;
   o Ensuring that all members of the REF Team had completed unconscious bias training;
   o Sharing responsibilities and duties for leadership, review, accrual and delivery with due
       regard for diversity;
   o Creating a supportive working environment for the team (in person and latterly at distance)
       that encourages freedom of expression, mutual respect and shared value/understanding of
       the critical importance of the preparations and the REF process itself;
   o Embodying career development and training as a reason for inclusion in the REF Team.
   We adhere to the principles of full equality and diversity in all aspects of our operation,
including: access to support for submission of funding applications; obtaining internal pump-
priming or seed-corn funding; opportunities for conference attendance, sabbaticals and training;
aspiration and access to leadership roles; and research-related promotion and reward procedures.
                                                                                            Gender
    We aspire to attain a well-balanced staff gender profile. In the last census 11% of our academic
staff self-identified as female, this has now risen to 14%, just over the sectoral norm. Our policies
to encourage further rebalancing are defined in our current Athena SWAN Action Plans and are
affirmed by our two recent successful Bronze Awards. Our proactive approach to improving the
gender balance includes:
  o   Each School having a dedicated E&D team, chaired by a Director of Diversity & Inclusion
      (reporting to the Head of School) with 15 members from academic and support staff;
  o   Our appointment and training of 14 Equality Impact Assessment (EqIA) Champions who
      have systematically conducted EqIAs on new and updated School policies;
  o   Our introduction of a sabbatical programme specifically intended to give grade 8/9 female
      academic staff opportunity to strengthen their CVs and cases for research-related
      promotion;
  o   ERPE mentors and supports all staff seeking promotion but, since 2013, over half of our
      current female academic staff complement have applied for promotion with 100% success
      rate;
  o   The Molly Fergusson Initiative that promotes engineering as a career for women and to
      support our female academics. It is named after an Edinburgh graduate and the first female
      Fellow of the ICE, and is led by Thomson (Camilla), a recent Chancellor’s Fellow;
  o   A commitment to celebrating the achievements of our outstanding female academic staff.
      Two of ERPE’s senior professors (Maroto-Valer and Ocone) recently featured in the Royal


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Society of Edinburgh’s “Women in Science” exhibition. Thomson (Camilla) and Maroto-
       Valer were recently included among the Top 50 Women in Engineering;
   o   All of our CDTs have dedicated E&D plans. For example, the IDCORE has piloted a
       scheme to encourage diversity in its student body, to stress long-term positive outcomes for
       its diverse community, and to highlight support for maternity leave. In the 2019 entry, 45%
       of IDCORE’s applicants were female and we welcomed 5 women and 6 men (from a variety
       of ethnic and discipline backgrounds) onto the programme;
   o   We address the issue of potential isolation that frequently arises from low representation in
       small cohorts by supporting cross-cohort activities, cross-CDT events and links to the wider
       PhD student communities within the institutions. Isolation is reduced by running female-only
       events (e.g. hackathons) and support groups, such as Women in Robotics Edinburgh
       (WiRE).
                                                                                            Disability
   UoE hosts and supports a network for staff with disabilities and/or that are carers that makes
available resources on accessible technology, carer and disabled staff support, building
accessibility, transport/parking and fire safety. Staff Disability/Information Officers provide one-to-
one support and aid staff with accessibility problems. While there is no requirement for any staff
member to disclose any protected characteristics (including disability), line managers are required
to support them to enable them to research and contribute productively by ensuring that suitable
adjustments are put in place, liaising with the Occupational Health Units, Disability Services,
Counselling Services and Chaplaincy Centres.
   ERPE is assisted in determining policies that support staff with protected characteristics (e.g.
disabilities) to enable them to productively engage in research by its leadership of Inclusion
Matters projects, (EPSRC, £6.9M):
   o   Pender leads DISC which focuses on enabling and developing careers for researchers who
       are disabled or have chronic health problems;
   o   Robertson leads eBase which aims to improve gender and BME inclusion across
       engineering and the physical sciences research;
   o   Chalmers co-Ieads VisNET that seeks to increase the participation of women academics in
       international and industrial collaborations.
                                                                        Positive Working Practice
   ERPE follows both Universities’ procedures and policies for access to funds, promotion and
reward, appointment to leadership roles and sabbaticals, all of which have been subject to
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Assessments. Promotion and appointment boards always include
women members.
   Both Universities provide support structures for parents before and after the arrival of a child.
The required procedures for risk assessment at work during pregnancy are in place. We regularly
promote and support parental leave and monitor uptake to ensure that we exceed sectoral average
metrics. Maternity coaching schemes are offered before and after maternity leave with budgets to
enable returning staff to restart research.
   To ensure that staff and research students feel supported, whether returning to work following
parental, personal or sick leave, or those managing long-term illness, or with caring
responsibilities, we provide a renewed induction programme. This includes a refresh of the cultural
induction and a ‘Return to work’ checklist to make their welcome and return systematic. We also


                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
consider workloads and offer financial support to returning staff to enable them to attend
conferences and relevant training courses.
  Additionally, well before the Covid-19 Pandemic, all staff were encouraged to work flexibly, from
home or off-campus, where appropriate to increase the effectiveness or impact of their work, as
well as recognising additional external demands. Budgets were made available to ensure that
home-working was properly and safely equipped.
   Both ERPE Universities seek to appoint all academic staff to open-ended contracts; (in the case
of Chancellors Fellows, beyond a probation period). Appointments are normally full-time, but may
alternatively be part-time (in agreement with the staff concerned to enable them to balance family
and professional life), and all new appointees are supported by mentors over their early career with
us.
   All leadership posts are advertised internally to all staff. In their annual Career Development
Review (CDR), staff members discuss readiness for promotion with their line managers, as well as
assessment of the workload allocated to, and taken on, by each member of staff. Part-time and
flexible working arrangements are available to all staff members in accordance with institutional
policy and in discussion with the relevant Line Manager; typically around 5% of colleagues
routinely make use of such arrangements. We encourage strong but flexible commitment in
working practice and expect staff to participate in training courses on leadership, media interaction,
unconscious bias, stress management and work-life balance.
                                                                          Sexual & Gender Identity
   Both Universities offer specific resources and support for staff and students and have an active
Staff Pride Network for LGBTQ+ staff and allies, which gained national recognition in the Stonewall
Scotland Network of the Year 2018.
                                                        Ethnic, Religious and Cultural Diversity
   ERPE is an outward-looking, diverse community, with nearly half of our academic staff,
research staff and students originating from over 100 countries outside the UK, and from every
continent. This diversity is a consequence of the global reach of ERPE’s activities supported by
Edinburgh Global, whose regional offices seek out research and teaching partnerships, and attract
talented staff and students from every continent. This is enhanced by HWU’s international
teaching activities in Dubai, Malaysia, Brazil and China, where ERPE academic staff deliver local
programmes, many for over 15 years. The remit of the Director of Diversity & Inclusion includes
helping to ensure that the ERPE environment is supportive to all ethnicities. We have widened
participation to increase the number of BAME staff (at all levels of seniority) as well as the number
of BAME doctoral and undergraduate students. A recent analysis suggests that 27% of ERPE staff
in grades 7 and above identify as of BAME origin and 20% of ERPE staff in promoted positions
identified as BAME. Responding to the findings and recommendations of a University-wide
committee, all staff are made aware of how to recognise, respond and counter forms of everyday
racism. Across all ERPE campuses, we offer multiple religious prayer spaces, multi-cultural
catering, and we promote a culturally sensitive approach to dress and conduct.
 2.4. Research students
      Growth and contribution to sustainability of research community and discipline
   A key part of our strategy for growth and vitality is to attract, develop, nurture and integrate into
our environment an expanding community of the very highest quality of doctoral researchers,
working with us to address the global RCAs1-4. Since 2014 we have:

                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   Grown our postgraduate researcher PhD community, as shown in Table 2.4, by 73% to
       nearly 1100, largely through successes in establishing 13 new CDTs (p.32);
   o   Graduated 831 doctoral engineers (EngD, PhD) – 86% more than our REF2014 total;
   o   Secured additional industrial sponsorship and secondments for doctoral training and
       increased our global reach.

                                            RCA1     RCA2     RCA3      RCA4                   Total
 Graduations                                     305     245      151      130                  831
 Growth (+%)                                     154     123       18       49                   86
 Registrations                                   354     339      231      144                 1068
 Growth (+%)                                      49     137       80       32                   73
                        Table 2.4 ERPE Doctoral Community and Graduations
   We consider nurturing and graduating our community of over 1100 doctoral engineers to be one
of our most significant contributions to the sustainability of the community and well-being of several
engineering disciplines and manufacturing sectors.
                                                                                              Impact
   Industrially sponsored, supported or engaged projects benefit reciprocally and mutually the
industrial partner, the PhD student and enhance ERPE’s impact. These projects align with our
strategic vision and the needs of our existing and future Industrial Project Partners across many
sectors including renewable energy, oil & gas, healthcare, assisted living, construction, defence,
space, automotive, security, manufacturing & materials, nuclear, digital media and education.
                                                                        Recruitment and training
  All doctoral training opportunities are openly advertised and filled in the national and global
marketplace with full EDI compliance, subject only to any requirements or restrictions of funders.
   ERPE runs induction sessions for all new postgraduate research students, typically held over
two half-days, twice annually, at the start of the first and second semesters. These are organised
in collaboration with colleagues in Academic Development and externally contracted organisations.
   All PhD students have a template training plan, with compulsory core courses in Writing and
Presenting and optional training, for example concerned with needs, aspirations, subject areas and
work-life balance issues.
   We run an annual Thesis-writing Workshop offered to PhD students at all stages of their
studies. The workshop is led by a senior academic and includes practical exercises aimed to bring
students to an excellent understanding of both the research and training aspects of PhD study, and
how to apportion their efforts accordingly.
                                                                   Monitoring and staff training
   Our monitoring and progress review processes are prescribed by our institutional requirements
and practice, including: defined schedules for meetings; internal peer scrutiny and review at
seminars; regular stage-gating of progress; independent review by discipline-related staff and
defined expectations for publishing outcomes of the research.
    To ensure that we provide the highest quality and most conducive PhD supervision we organise
courses that are attended by new academics, and other academics whose previous supervisor
training was more than 5 years earlier.
   The personalised CDT Technical Learning Portfolio approach is designed to give students a
flexible working pattern thus maximising retention of students with personal circumstances e.g. for
carers or those with health-related issues.
                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                                Outreach and engagement
   Each year the individual and joint ERPE Graduate Schools hold postgraduate research
conferences to showcase work being done by postgraduate students across the four themes. The
conferences provide opportunities for 1st year students to find out about the wider research
activities in ERPE, and for 2nd year students to make oral presentations and exhibit posters.




                                                                                      Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
    ERPE’s accrued research funding in the REF2021 period is double that reported in 2014,
confirming the partnership’s added-value and the success of our funding strategy. All themes have
increased their awards by amounts ranging from 64-194%.
    Since 2014, while our academic staff cohort has increased by 37%, UKRI/Government funding
has increased by 125%, EU funding by 127% and industry/other funding by 47%.
    Table 3 summarises by funding source the external research income awarded to ERPE directly
or indirectly over this return period. Most of these awards are associated with large high-impact
longer-term collaborative projects that we have been selected to lead, with large components sub-
contracted to other UK and EU partners. Most of the remainder are collaborative projects where
we have been selected by the lead organisations to make significant contributions as a sub-
contractor. The others are direct awards to ERPE alone.

                                   Themes’ Awards (£)
               Energy       & Manufacturing Sensors,         Infrastructure
  Funding      Resource        &                Signals & &
  Source       Management      Materials        Systems      Environment          Totals
UKRI               23,519,850      30,394,351 37,683,905          7,869,966       99,468,071
UK Charities          978,467        2,749,649    1,159,647       3,850,746        8,738,509
UK Gov.             5,242,841        1,883,963    4,743,922       1,356,638       13,227,363
UK Ind.            15,745,487        1,733,417    3,586,659       1,010,126       22,075,688
Oseas Ind.             16,087          100,000       809,387        415,726        1,341,200
EU/other           14,241,582        8,830,848 12,080,142         3,373,049       38,525,620
Oseas/other        17,208,610        1,965,607    1,170,375       1,216,119       21,560,710
UK Other              237,000            78,000      156,000         35,000          506,000
Totals             77,189,923      47,735,834 61,390,035         19,127,370      205,443,161
2014               39,151,229      16,210,638 37,497,346         £9,063,776      101,922,989
Growth (%)                 97               194           64            111              102
             Table 3 – Research Awards by Organisational Theme and Funding Source
 3.1. Research funding strategy and income
Our research funding strategy is that:
     At the ERPE partnership level, we pursue major research and training grants (typically within
multi-institutional consortia) that will address key global RCAs 1-4;
     As staff groupings within UoE and HWU, we pursue joint funding that enables continuity and
long-term development of established activity or supports the creation of new core activity;
     As individuals, we act to win support for our research, but maximise opportunities for new
recruits to develop major new research topics, resulting in their eventual leadership of awards; and
     We pursue funding for major new research facilities, driven by and to support our rapid
expansion, which we can share and use to drive industrial and academic collaboration.
     To address contemporary challenges and deliver increased impact, we have invested in new
capacity specifically in bio-medical engineering; multi-scale thermofluids; composite materials &
digital manufacturing and fire safety engineering, and built funded relationships with major industry
partners, including Babcock International Group and Leonardo. We have invested in engineering
laboratory facilities embedded within a clinical research setting, including at the Queen’s Medical
Research Institute at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh teaching hospital.
     In 2014, we were aware that our external research funding intensity (income/FTE/annum) was a
little lower than we believed consistent with sustained international research excellence. We
                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
therefore agreed an additional strategic objective to increase it substantially and committed to an
explicit (rather than aspirational) annual running average target for the total of new awards per
ERPE academic staff member, which would be reviewed annually. That target progressively
increased from £200k to £230k/FTE/annum and was exceeded at fiscal year ends of 2016/17 and
2017/18. Focusing the target on awards (as opposed to consolidated research income) enabled
near-real-time monitoring and timely strategic response, as well as ensuring transparency for staff.
   There followed a period of rapid recruitment, particularly of new Lecturers and of academic staff
from outside the UK, with some staff joining ERPE to replace retiring and onward-moving staff who
held significant awards. This reduced our income/FTE/annum and we therefore invested time and
money to recover the volume and increase the competitiveness of proposals of all staff, particularly
those new to the UK funding arena and to increase their collaborative reach. We highlight below,
in each of the above categories, key awards exceeding £1M in value and others that are
strategically or otherwise significant.
                                                  ERPE income at partnership level by RCA
   The added value of our partnership in ERPE is evidenced by the growth of our significant
collaborative awards, with ERPE staff either leading/co-leading (CL) as shown in Tables 3.1.1–3.

 RCA1 – ERM staff have won over £77M in low-                                   ERPE leads /
                                                                      £M/
 carbon energy generation, storage, transmission    Funders                    Co-leads (CL)
                                                                       €M
 and end-use research
 UK Industrial Decarbonisation Research and         UKRI/           25.0/      Maroto-Valer
 Innovation Centre                                  Industry          10.0
 UK Centre for Marine Energy Research,              EPSRC              5.3     Jeffrey
 established in 2004 by ERPE
 Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy Hub             EPSRC.             9.1     Jeffrey(CL)
 Energy Revolution Research Consortium              EPS/NERC           8.2     Ingram(CL)
 Centre for Advanced Materials for Renewable        EPSRC              2.1     Kiprakis
 Energy Generation
 National Centre for Energy Systems Integration     EPSRC.             5.4     Harrison/Flynn(CL)
 UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research             EPSRC               24     Chalmers/
 Centre, established in 2010 by ERPE                                           Lucquiaud
 ORIGIN                                             EU FP7            €4.3     Owens
 ReFLEX - decarbonising Orkney energy system        Innovate UK       28.0     Owens
 International Centre for Carbonate Reservoirs      Industry           4.7     Geiger
 Petronas Technology Centre                         Industry           6.2     Sorbie/Mackay
 ADNOC CO2 injection and enhanced oil recovery Industry                3.0     Sohrahbi
 Shell - Exploration Geoscience/Energi Simulation   Industry           2.2     Underhill/Geiger
 - Carbonate Reservoir Simulation Chairs
 BP/Total FAST and ESEM Imaging Centres             Industry           3.9     Geiger
                              Table 3.1.1 - RCA1 Collaborative Awards




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
RCA2 – MM and ERM staff have won high-value                         £M/ ERPE leads /
                                                      Funders
awards totalling nearly £48M                                         €M Co-leads (CL)
SynthSys-Mammalian Biology Research Centre            BBSRC         11.4 Elfick/Rosser
                                                                         (Joint chair in Eng)
SynbiCITE Innovation and Knowledge Centre (IKC)       EPSRC          5.1 Elfick/Rosser(CL)
in Synthetic Biology
Multi-modal manufacturing of medical devices          EPSRC.           1.3 Hand
(4MD) Platform Grant
Medical Device Manufacturing Centre –                 ERDF/            3.2 Hand, Desmulliez,
Advancing Manufacturing Challenge Fund                City Deal            and Elfick(CL)
Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Laser-based    EPSRC            5.6 Hand
Production Processes – 40 companies
IMPACT Programme Grant - implantable                  EPSRC.           4.3 Murray/
microsystems for personalised anti-cancer therapy                          McLaughlin(CL)
QuantiC - UK Quantum Technology Hub                   EPSRC         21.0 McLaughlin(CL)
‘Touch and Tell’ and PROTEUS Healthcare               EPSRC         13.0 Thomson       (R)/
Technologies IRC projects                                                McLaughlin(CL)
U-Care: Deep ultraviolet light therapies -            EPSRC            6.1 Thomson (R)
Transformative Healthcare Programme Grant
(2021)
SonoPil, Programme Grant - minimally invasive         EPSRC            8.0 Desmulliez(CL)
capsule for gastrointestinal diagnosis and therapy
Advanced Care Research Centre in later-life care      Industry      20.0 Underwood(CL)
                            Table 3.1.2 – RCA2 Collaborative Awards
RCA3 – SSS and MM staff have won major                              £M/  ERPE leads /
research programmes totalling over £61M          Funders
                                                                    €M   Co-leads (CL)
National Robotarium - Edinburgh & SE Scotland    Scottish          36.0  Lane,Petillot,
City Region Deal                                 Government              Erden,Wang&
                                                                         Stokes(CL)
ORCA Hub - Robotic systems & AI for asset            EPSRC/         36.0 Lane, Petillot and
integrity management in offshore energy sector       Industry            Stokes(CL)
DANDIDRONE: A dandelion-inspired drone for           EU ERC         €2.0 Viola
swarm sensing                                        Consolidator
Connect-R - industrial-scale self-building modular   Innovate UK    £6.0 Stokes
robot for hazardous environments
TOUCAN Programme Grant - Towards Ultimate            EPSRC             5.8 McLaughlin
Convergence of All Networks
Cleansky2                                            EU H2020       €2.0 McCann
LITECS Programme Grant                               EPSRC           5.8 McCann/Liu
UDRC Programme Grants “Signal Processing 4           EPSRC/Dstl      7.9 Davis              (M)/
the Networked Battlespace” and “Signal                                   McLaughlin         and
                                                                         Mulgrew
Processing in the Information Age
SATCOM Research Centre                               EPSRC/ESA      10.0 Gousettis
REVOLVE and TESLA Innovative Training                EU/Airbus      €5.8 Gousettis
Networks                                             /Thales
DORADA Marie-Curie project                           EU             €1.5 Gousettis
                             Table 3.1.3 – RCA3 Collaborative Awards
                                                                                        Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                  Staff groupings level and Centres for Doctoral Training
   The volume of awards made to groups of ERPE staff collaborating across themes has
increased significantly since 2014. Tables 3.1.4 - 7 highlight, by Organisational Theme, some of
the more significant, including 13 CDTs of total value approaching £80M.

                                                                        £M/ ERPE leads /
 Energy and Resource Management                        Funders          €M Co-leads (CL)
 Supergen Marine Grand Challenge - FlowTurb;         EPSRC               3.5 Venugopal/Side/
 TeraWatt & EcoWatt2050; EDRIVE                                              Mueller
 INTEGRATE and RESTLESS projects on energy           EPSRC              2.8 Freidrich/
 storage using hydrogen in low carbon networks                              van der Weijde
 Wave Energy Scotland projects EMERGE and C-         Scottish           5.0 Jeffrey/
 GEN Neptune                                         Government             Mueller
 16 European Ocean Energy consortium projects        EU               €70.0 Jeffrey, Mueller,
                                                     FP7/H2020              Ingram, Forehand
                                                                            and Sellar(L)&(CL)
 Morphing-Blades: New-Concept Turbine Blades         EPSRC/             1.1 Viola/McCarthy(CL)
 for Unsteady Load Mitigation                        Industry
 DETECT, GWatt and 3D printing low-carbon sub- UKRI/EU                 2.0 Busch/den Hartog/
 surface energy technology projects                                        Geiger
                               Table 3.1.4 - ERM Collaborative Awards
 Manufacturing and Materials                                          £M/ ERPE leads /
                                                     Funders
                                                                       €M Co-leads (CL)
 FASTBLADE, MARINCOMP and                            EPSRC/EU          3.0 ÓBrádaigh/
 POWDERBLADE composite materials wind/tidal                                McCarthy/Roy
 turbine blade projects
 CO2 separation in industrial energy processes –     EPSRC             4.9 Brandani/
 six projects                                                              Ferrari
 ThermaSMART mart thermal management of              EU               €1.7 Valluri
 high-power microprocessors using phase-change
 Characterising transient wall heat transfer using   EU/ERC           €1.2 Peterson
 line-imaging
 Lattice-Boltzmann modelling of multiphase flows   EU/ERC           €1.5 Krueger
 at nano- and micro-scales
                              Table 3.1.5 - MM Collaborative Awards
 Sensors, Signals and Systems                                        £M ERPE leads /
                                                   Funders
                                                                         Co-leads (CL)
 Sensor Signal Processing Platform Grant           EPSRC             1.0 McLaughlin
 In-situ Chemical Measurement & Imaging            EPSRC             1.3 McCann
 Diagnostics for Energy Process Engineering
 Platform Grant
 INITIATE distributed test-bed for future Internet   EPSRC            1.7 Hass
 research
 Towards 100 Gigabit Wireless Networking by          EPSRC            1.1 Haas
 Light (Go-by-Light)’
                               Table 3.1.6 - SSS Collaborative Awards


                                                                                          Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                         EngD Industry ERPE leads /
 Centres for Doctoral Training         Funders       £M
                                                         /PhD  Partners Co-leads (CL)
 IDCORE Industrial Doctoral Centre     EPSRC/       12.7   100       30 Ingram
 for Offshore Renewable Energy         NERC/
                                       Industry
 (1)/(2)
 WAMSS Wind & Marine Energy            EPSRC        10.3     115          35 ÓBrádaigh/
 Systems (1)/Structures (2)                                                  Mueller(CL)
 Oil & Gas                             NERC/HEI/    13.6     128          16 Underhill
                                       Ind.
 Geoscience and Low Carbon             NEOEnergy     6.9       48          8 Underhill
 Energy Transition                     /HEI
 Embedded Intelligence                 EPSRC         3.6      62          19 Flynn(CL)
 Intelligent Sensing & Measurement     EPSRC         4.9      60          18 Underwood(CL)
 Robotics&Autonomous Systems           EPSRC        13.5     141          65 Lane/Hastie
 (1)/(2)
 Applied Photonics (1)/ Imaging,       EPSRC         9.6       61         32 Reid
 Sensing & Analysis (2)
 Soft Matter & Functional Interfaces   EPSRC         4.8       80         18 Koutsos(CL)
                                  Table 3.1.7 - ERPE CDT Awards
                                                                               Individual level
Individual academic staff across ERPE have won many prestigious awards helping to deliver our
research and impact strategies across RCAs1-4. Staff in the IE theme have secured over £19M of
funding from UK and EU Research Councils for both fundamental and applied research. As part of
their career development, ERPE has supported over 30 successful applications from young to mid-
career academic staff for prestigious chairs sponsored by the RAEng and Royal Society as well as
fellowships and advanced grants. Tables 3.1.8 – 11 highlight key awards by recipient:

 RAEng Chairs                                          Funders          £M ERPE recipient
 Emerging Technologies – Multi-scale design,         RAEng              1.3 Reese
 from molecules to machines                                                 (Now deceased)
 Emerging Technologies - Engineered cells for        RAEng              1.3 Rosser
 combined diagnostics and therapeutics                                      (Joint Eng Chair)
 Canon Medical Chair in Healthcare AI                RAEng              1.3 Tsaftaris
 Arup Chair in design of new buildings against       RAEng              1.7 Bisby
 catastrophic fires.
                                 Table 3.1.8 - ERPE RAEng Chairs
 ERC Advanced Grants                                   Funders          €M ERPE recipient
 MILEPOST- Microscale Processes Governing          EU                   2.0 Maroto-Valer
 Global Sustainability
 C-SENSE - developing new sensing,                 EU               2.2 Davies (M)
 computation, and machine learning algorithms,
 one of only 69 awarded to UK
 TotalPhoton – developing camera technology        EU               2.3 Henderson
 operating 10-100 thousand times faster than
 those using existing nano-scale technology
                             Table 3.1.9 - ERPE ERC Advanced Grants
                                                                                         Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellowships                                             Funders          £M/k ERPE recipient
 Bayesian methods for efficient low-energy            RAEng/Industry      0.6M Altmann
 imaging and sensing
 Advanced Computational Methods For Smart and RAEng/Industry              0.6M Halimi
 Extreme Imaging
 Molson Coors - Industrial Fellowship                RAEng/Industry        30k    Gerogiorgis
 Agilent Technologies - Industrial Fellowship        RAEng/Industry        30k    Hopgood
 C-Capture Ltd demonstrator CO2 absorbers            RAEng/Industry        42k    Lucquiaud
 New Paradigms for the Flow of Particulate           EPSRC                1.4M    Ocone
 Material
 Sandia National Labs (US)/AstraZeneca UK Ltd        EPSRC                1.2M Hanley
 LWEC Fellowship on ‘Water Resilient Cities’         EPSRC                1.1M Beevers
                                   Table 3.1.10 - ERPE Fellowships
 GCRF and Environmental Sustainability Awards            Funders            £M    ERPE recipient
 Improving Fire Resilience of Informal Settlements    EPSRC/ESRC            2.4   Rush
 Centre for Sustainable Road Freight                  EPSRC                 4.4   Walker(CL)
 Recycled bricks for sustainable construction         RAEng/Industry        1.7   Medero
 Discrete-element modelling of elongated              RAEng/Industry        2.0   Papanicolopulos
 cylindrical particles applied to geo-hazards
                  Table 3.1.11 - ERPE GCRF and Environmental Sustainability Awards


 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities supporting research & impact
   ERPE has a mature infrastructure within which we deliver, research, training, engagement, and
impact. To exploit and capitalise on opportunities for substantial growth in staff numbers and
facilities, we have invested over £100M since 2014 in major infrastructure and laboratories.
                                                                             Major Infrastructure
    The FloWave Ocean Energy Research Facility (Figure 1.2.1) was launched in 2014, to
emulate, at up to 1/20th scale, real sea conditions at candidate sites for wave, tidal, and offshore
wind energy converters. The facility is fully equipped with LA-VISION underwater Particle Imaging
Velocimetry (PIV) equipment, oceanographic equipment including acoustic Doppler current
profilers (ADCPs) and QUALISYS motion capture cameras. There is a fully equipped and staffed
workshop providing client support and rapid prototyping. ERPE is currently investing (with EPSRC
and Babcock International Group) a total of £4.1M to build FASTBLADE at Rosyth Dockyard (Fife)
(Figure 1.2.2) using regenerative hydraulic motors designed by Artemis Intelligent Power. These
facilities are available for external research use, both nationally and internationally, as dedicated
Small Research Facilities (SRFs). Other new co-investments include the £22M Lyell Centre,
supporting subsurface energy systems research and, in partnership with Orkney Islands Council,
an investment of £7.5M to create a new purpose-built innovation campus around our International
Centre for Island Technology, aiming to grow research capacity in renewable energy systems in
island locations.
                                                                                      Laboratories
    We have invested over £2M in a new Clean Combustion laboratory to underpin the expansion
of the new Institute for Multi-scale Thermofluids focusing on sprays, IC engines, and other
chemically reacting flows. An additional £1.8M has been invested in an optically accessible, high
                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
pressure and temperature spray research chamber and an optically accessible engine.
Consequent to this, Linne and Peterson won £2.2M from ERC and the EPSRC Strategic
Equipment program and established a Small Research Facility in Sprays which is the UK’s most
comprehensive laser diagnostics capability. We have also invested £0.75M in a new Agile
Tomography Laboratory to expand research on in-situ chemical and particulate measurement
and imaging diagnostics for energy process engineering and to pioneer in-situ chemical species
tomography in aero-engine exhausts.
   We have invested £0.75M in the Composites Testing and Processing Laboratories to
upgrade processing and test equipment (presses, ovens and resin transfer machines), a unique
platform for testing structural components from offshore renewable energy assets (Max Load
4MN), and a full-scale half-joining bridge which has delivered £0.33M of tests for Highways
England.
    We have established photonics laboratories at the QMRI Healthcare Technology Accelerator
Facility, with a new building hosting a state-of-the-art laser facility with dedicated biological and
tissue handling labs and are investing £3.2M funding (partly from the Advancing Manufacturing
Challenge Fund) to establish a translational Medical Device Manufacturing Centre.
    In 2016 we installed the UK’s largest cryostat
(donated by General Electric Co) into our High
Temperature Superconducting Laboratory, providing
a unique test facility for developing the next generation of
electrical machines for energy and transport applications.
ERM staff also developed Neptune, a 75 kW back-to-
back ocean energy, linear generator rig to test flooded
operation. A £3M investment, partly from EPSRC,
allowed us to install a Cryo-FIB SEM (capable of high-
resolution 3D imaging of soft matter systems) in a new
Nanomaterials and Catalysis Laboratory.
                                                                   Figure 3.2 – Basement fire
   The Rushbrook Fire Laboratory (Figure 3.2.1) is             simulation in Rushbrook Fire Lab
ERPE’s principal laboratory for fire experiments using
state-of-the art fire testing hardware, including a Cone, Bomb and Furniture Calorimeters and Fire
Propagation Apparatus. This facility has impacted design knowledge and construction practice of
new and re-clad urban buildings.
 3.3. Sharing of infrastructure and facilities
We highlight below five examples of shared infrastructure and facilities in ERPE.
   o   The UoE Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre has hosted the UK’s UKRI National
       Supercomputing Facility (ARCHER) since 2013 and, from 2020, has run the £82M
       Service Provision and Computational Science and Engineering services for the next
       national supercomputer (ARCHER2), making available to ERPE staff and the UK
       community one of the fastest fully general purpose (CPU only) systems in the world.
   o   ERPE was a partner in the establishment of the Edinburgh Centre for Robotics which
       includes the £36M ROBOTARIUM and MOBOTARIUM facilities. The ROBOTARIUM
       enables humans and robots to work together in physically separate indoor spaces, and
       accommodates field robotic systems (comprising humanoids and unmanned vehicles). The
       MOBOTARIUM comprises a human-driven sensorised and connected mobile vehicle
       equipped with LiDAR, RADAR, video, GPS and INS sensors for research on driver
       assistance and vehicle autonomy.
                                                                                          Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   The Edinburgh Genome Foundry (Figure 3.3.1) with
       Menolascina as Deputy Director, is a shared research
       facility located in the School of Biological Sciences that
       features robotic assembly of massive DNA fragments (for
       academic and industrial customers) in order to engineer
       cells; EGF is a founding member of the Global
       Biofoundries Alliance.
   o   Since 2014, FloWave has been shared to test about 60
       industrial and academic technologies for wave, tidal and
       offshore wind energy conversion, earning £1.85M for re-
       investment in ERPE. It has also enabled pre-commercial
       development of wave energy conversion technologies
       including EDRIVE-MEC, PolyWEC, and WEPTOS.                     Figure 3.3.1 - Genome foundry
   o   The Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions (CSEC) with Kamenev as Deputy
       Director is a shared initiative that brings together researchers from the UoE Schools of
       Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Engineering, GeoSciences, and Physics & Astronomy, with
       interests in materials and technology under extremes
       of pressure, magnetic fields, and temperature.
   o   The Edinburgh Climate Change Institute, (ECCI)
       was the world’s first centre dedicated to technology
       and policy innovation to reduce carbon. In 2013 it was
       rated by BRE as the most sustainable retrofitted
       building in the UK. It is an inter-disciplinary
       environment within which we support start-up
                                                                   Figure 3.3.2 – ECCI
       companies and drive carbon innovation.
 3.4. Benefits in kind
We highlight below five examples of software licensing, data sharing, partnering in CDTs and
examples of direct support for collaborative projects delivering shared impact at a greater scale.
   o   Simulation-based research in ERPE benefits from software licenses worth at least £100M
       per annum (at market value), donated by major industry vendors including Schlumberger,
       Computer Modelling Group Ltd., Weatherford, HIS Markit.
   o   Staff in ERM benefit by having access to datasets from producing geological reservoirs
       worth over £500M, at market value.
   o   In the IDCORE CDT, 45 Students have industrial placements with 22 companies for which
       the estimated total in-kind time and office cost contribution is around £0.9M. Our Phase 4
       CDT in Applied Photonics, with 40 students engages with 35 companies (including Thales,
       Leonardo, Canon Medical and many more) contributing a total of £1.4M of direct funding.
       The WAMSS CDT with Strathclyde and Oxford has an in-kind contribution from industry of
       over £5.7M. These are three cases selected from thirteen CDTs.
   o   Since 2017 ORCA Hub has leveraged industrial in-kind contributions of £0.8M including:
       donation of wind turbine blades; use of software; sharing best practice and lessons learned
       reports; ROV data; use of facilities and asset drawings and models.
   o   Lucquiaud’s EPSRC Impact Acceleration Award for pilot-scale demonstrations of a novel
       chemical analysis sensor received over £1M of in-kind contributions from Shell, Mitsubishi,
       Hitachi, and SaskPower. Experimental facilities worth £0.5M have been donated by Shell
       to Busch and den Hartog at the Lyell Centre to support carbon capture & storage research.

                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
    economy and society
  ERPE’s staff deliver interdisciplinary and cross-cutting research, innovation and education that
addresses our Research Challenge Areas with lasting positive impact on the research base, global
environment and society in a time of climate and health emergencies affecting an increasing and
ageing population.
   In the sections that follow we describe how our environment has enabled collaborative research
in ERPE and with other global universities, industries and policy and societal stakeholders. We
conclude by summarising briefly, indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by
the research base.
 4.1. Arrangements to support research and effective collaboration
                                                   Staff selection, development and training
    At the recruitment stage we look to our new Lecturers for evidence of potential to engage
externally and to more senior staff for demonstrated success in network building and collaboration.
All new academic staff participate in our bi-annual ERPE “Grant Writing Workshop”. A key element
is “Positive Partnerships & Collaborations” which shares best practice in interactions with academic
colleagues and industry at technical and managerial levels. Between 10 and 20 ERPE staff take
part in the annual Heriot-Watt Crucible to help broaden their networks and interdisciplinary
collaborations and deliver more impact. In colleague’s annual Career Development Reviews with
Line Managers there is a specific requirement to discuss networking strategies to agree research
and engagement-based objectives for the coming year.
   Staff of the Universities’ commercialisation arms, EI and GRID, and Research Support Services,
provide in-depth advice to ERPE researchers on the preparation, initiation, and execution of
projects (many of which require considerable expertise in financial and legal management).
                                                                              Funding initiatives
    A Fellowships College has been developed for ECRs seeking to apply for an independent
fellowship, providing evaluation, advice and training. Funding is available to pump-prime
collaborative activities through the use of EPSRC and other Impact Acceleration Accounts, and
discretionary funding is available to enable start-up and spin-out companies to utilise and benefit
from ERPE laboratory facilities. To help stimulate collaborative projects between ERPE, industry
and other institutions we run annual ‘Impact Festivals’ attended by researchers from ERPE, other
universities and external stakeholders. These measures and interventions, combined with the
enthusiasm of our ECRs and new fellows, has resulted in over 30 of them winning personal
support from ERC, EPSRC, RAEng, NERC, Turing, H2020 MSCA or New Investigator Awards.
                                                                Collaborative Advisory Boards
   ERPE has an Engineering Development Advisory Group (EDAC), composed of senior
industrialists and alumni, that advises at Head of School level on overall strategy, development
fundraising and industry engagement.
   Each engineering teaching discipline within ERPE has its own Industry Liaison Board
comprising industry and policy colleagues to offer insight and guidance to ERPE staff on key
issues and challenges.

                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   All major collaborative research projects have Industrial Advisory Groups, such as the
GeoEnergy Engineering Strategic Advisory Board that supports our activities through advice on
industrial needs and providing financial and in-kind support. This led to the award of the Queen's
Anniversary Prize, recognising its sustained excellence in sub-surface research.
   Each CDT has its own Industry Advisory Board comprising senior colleagues from sponsoring
companies and ERPE staff who review annually our direction of travel and assist with the
preparation of proposals, leading to the continuation of many CDTs into phase 2 (Table 3.3.4).
   Specifically, in the Dstl UDRC collaboration we have a project management team (trained to
PRINCE II) that provides full administrative and organisational support to the academics and
researchers. The success of this strategy for UDRC is shown by that, between phase 1 (2009)
and today’s phase 3, we have licenced technologies to Leonardo, MBDA and Thales.
   The above measures, building upon the diligence of our academic and research staff and
doctoral students and increased collaboration with companies, have resulted in a significant
increase in the volume and success rate in our proposal writing with consequent increases in
awards across organisational themes ranging from 64 to 194%.
 4.2. Collaboration beyond ERPE
   To address the global RCAs1-4 at meaningful scale, our national and international collaboration
beyond ERPE includes partnerships associated with specific projects and partnerships in research
and doctoral training. Through our leadership or participation in 13 CDTs (p.32), ERPE academic
and research staff and doctoral students engage in over 250 collaborations with UK, EU and global
industrial partners benefitting by extensive access to data, facilities and staff. We show below five
examples each of Global, European and National project-specific collaborations.
                                                                                             Global
   o   Borg, Zhang, Gibelli and Pillai lead a partnership grant with King Fahd University of
       Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) in Saudi Arabia that exploits our new modelling capability
       in collaboration with major oil/gas companies including Saudi Aramco.
   o   Linne leads a 4-year joint programme between UoE and Xi’an Jiaotong University funded
       by the K.C. Wong Foundation to exchange early career researchers. He and Peterson
       collaborate with Sandia National Laboratories on the application of hybrid femto/picosecond
       rotational coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering for time-resolved, line-images of
       temperature.
   o   ERM academics led the EPSRC UK Centre for Marine Energy Research from 2004 to 2018
       with collaboration across 15 UK and 8 global universities. Jeffrey and Ingram helped to
       establish mirror centres in Mexico (CEMIE-Oceano), Chile (MERIC), Canada (FORCE),
       USA (New England MREC), Ireland (MaREI), Taiwan and China. Strategically this
       consolidated UK academic capacity in every continent and established the UK as world-
       leaders in research, translation and deployment of wave and tidal energy technology.
   o   Corbett, Lewis, Mackay, Sohrabi, Macbeth, and Geiger have contributed to capacity
       building at several universities in Brazil through training more than 500 students and the
       employment of 20 researchers at different universities in Brazil, with direct impact on over
       £5M of industry investment in Brazil, and the establishment of the £15M state-of-the-art
       laboratory at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.
   o   Doster and colleagues are collaborating with Princeton University and Lawrence Berkeley
       Lab on a $1M joint project on CO2 storage working with ETH Zurich, University of
       Melbourne and Montan University of Leoben. Geiger is collaborating with the University of

                                                                                             Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Calgary in a joint research project focusing on software development that is used
      commercially by Shell, Petronas, Petrobras, Equinor, ExxonMobil, and IBM Research.
                                                                                       European
  o   To improve performance and efficiency of heat engines for reduced environmental impact
      from aviation and land-based generation, McCann has developed capacity and
      UK/international collaborations (Rolls-Royce, Siemens, Royal Dutch/Shell, INTA (Madrid)
      and 5 UK universities) in chemical species tomography with demonstrations in labs and in
      civil aerospace engines.
  o   Haas and colleagues, in collaboration with the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy
      Systems ISE (Freiburg/Germany) and St. Andrews University, have produced solar cells
      that can receive data at some of the highest rates in the world and partnered in 200
      projects in over 20 countries. They led the IEEE task group that developed and set global
      standard ISO802.11.
  o   Forehand and Ingram worked with Scuola Superiore Sant'anna, Italy, to develop and
      patent a dielectric elastomer wave energy converter.
  o   Through the EU Projects MARINCOMP and POWDERBLADE, Ó Brádaigh has developed
      novel carbon fibre reinforced powder epoxy composites for the marine renewables sector
      (Suzlon, ÉireComposites, Orbital Marine Power, Toray Carbon Fibres Europe, Swiss CMT)
      that reduce the lifetime cost of energy.
  o   Goussetis co-ordinates SATCOM related Research that has attracted over £10M of
      awards including €2M from the European Space Agency that supports 22 PhD studentships
      in collaboration with Airbus DS and Thales Alenia Space. He also co-ordinates the EU
      DORADA project that brought about Celestia’s investment in 18 new jobs in the HWU
      Research Park.
                                                                                         National
  o   ERPE staff in the ORCA Hub, led by Lane, are collaborating with the Offshore Renewable
      Energy Catapult and its industry partners to: translate UK-wide robotics research outcomes
      into products and services for the offshore renewables’ industry; jointly train doctoral and
      masters’ students and develop the UK strategy and roadmaps for offshore robotics
      technology.
  o   ERPE staff, led by Masterton, are members of the 15 university UK Collaboratorium for
      Research on Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC).
  o   Smith (Sean) worked with Scottish Enterprise, Scottish Funding Council and industry to
      establish the Construction Scotland Innovation Centre (CSIC). Since 2014 it has secured
      £7.5M with £2.2M investment to support academic buy-outs to work with industry, built a
      4,000m2 Innovation Factory, supported over 260 industry projects and leveraged £14M
      from industry.
  o   Davies leads the UDRC programme for knowledge transfer through licencing of algorithms
      and consultancy work in radar and sonar imaging, chemical detection, sensor networks,
      and electronic warfare; the stakeholders include BAE Systems, Leonardo, SEA Ltd,
      seebyte, Metrohm Raman, Cubica Technology Ltd, and Dstl.
  o   Sherlock and Ó Brádaigh are establishing an advanced manufacturing park in Rosyth,
      working with Babcock International, Fife Council and Fife College that will provide research,
      training and facilities in offshore robotics and composite materials.



                                                                                           Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3. Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries & audiences
  Our Impact Strategy (p.12) described how we ensure that our research meaningfully addresses
the real needs of contemporary global challenges. Since 2014 industry engagement has increased
by over 40% and consultancy funding by over 50%, aided by the appointments of Finney at UoE
as 0.4FTE Director of Industry Engagement, supported by Cameron as the Industry Engagement
Manager, both of whom have fostered participation in the Offshore Renewable Energy and Energy
Systems Catapults and partnerships with Canon Medical, Huawei, Toyota, Siemens Gamesa,
Renishaw, Leonardo, Shell, BP and Total. We show below, by each RCA, five selected
engagements with key stakeholders – beginning with Knowledge Transfer & Capacity Building and
leading on to Technology Translation & Commercial Growth.
                              RCA1 – Engineering the transition to a lower carbon future
    ERM staff engage with industry through CDTs, H2020 projects, and Innovate UK projects to
deliver impact addressing the needs of RCA1&2.
    o Jeffrey leads ERPE’s Policy and Innovation group that works with UK and overseas
        governments and industry to produce sectoral strategy and roadmaps for ocean energy,
        commercialisation strategies, and cost of energy models. They lead the European Energy
        Research Alliance Ocean Energy Joint Programme and chair the IEA Ocean Energy
        Systems initiative. As Wave Energy Scotland’s (WES) Head of Strategy and
        Internationalisation, Jeffrey works closely with companies funded by their Novel Wave
        Energy Converter, Power Take Off, Structural Materials and Manufacturing Processes
        initiatives.
    o Underhill provides advice and training to Shell employees, covering all aspects of
        exploration geoscience. Macbeth was seconded to TU Delft and Shell and Geiger to the
        new Aramco Research Centre in Houston.
    o Pender led the Scottish Oil and Gas Innovation Centre (OGIC), one of eight Scottish
        Government innovation centres, which aimed to create 500 jobs and £850M GVA by 2023.
    o Ingram and Sellar have worked with
        Alstom, Orbital Marine Power, Nova
        Innovations, Sabella, Nortek, and
        Ingeteam to develop a Convergent-
        beam Acoustic Doppler Profiler (p.7).
        Through a £3M Stage 2&3 PTO project
        funded by WES, Mueller developed two
        novel C-GEN generators for the Mocean
        Energy Blue Star Project (Figure 4.3)             Figure 4.3 – C-Gen Mocean Generators
    o Robinson and Mueller received funding
        from ICURe to commercialise Energy Storage and Generator Control technologies
        respectively. The latter led to a spin-out, ReOptimise Solutions Ltd, led by two former ERPE
        researchers, Echenique Subiabre and Crozier.
      RCA2 – Developing materials, processes and manufacturing for healthier living
   Medical discoveries, partnerships and impact are growing rapidly in RCA2, aligned with and
confirming our strategy to focus and concentrate activities in photonics and signal and image
processing for application to imaging in bio-medical engineering.
   o Hand, Desmulliez and Shephard are using their medical device manufacturing expertise
       to assist Scottish SMEs to translate medical device concepts to commercial products,
       supported by £3.2M from ERDF and the Edinburgh City Region Deal.
                                                                                            Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   Thomson (R), Henderson and McLaughlin worked with respiratory medicine clinician
       Dhaliwal to provide solutions for sensing deep in the lung disease diagnosis (PROTEUS),
       and are developing UV-light based treatment in EPSRC Transformational Healthcare grant
       U-Care.
   o   Shephard and Hand have ongoing collaboration with leading colorectal surgeon Jayne
       (Leeds) to develop systems for minimally-invasive early-stage cancer surgery. Desmulliez
       collaborated with oncologist surgeon Steele to develop a capsule-based ultrasound imaging
       system. Thomson worked with Renishaw to convert a ‘craft-built’ Raman probe system for
       oesophageal cancer diagnosis into a low-cost device manufactured using laser inscription.
   o   Brandani and Ferrari founded and direct the Adsorption Research Industrial Consortium of
       Air Liquide, Air Products, Exxon-Mobil, and Hitachi, all of which now use ERPE
       experimental protocols in their research laboratories.
   o   Kersaudy-Kerhoas has spun out Natantis (supported by Scottish Enterprise’s High Growth
       Spin-out Programme) to commercially develop a microfluidic device for faster, cheaper
       cancer diagnosis and treatment monitoring.
 RCA3 – Creating a smarter, safer world by innovation in data, comms, robotics & AI
    Collaborations in SSS to address RCA3 have expanded to align with our aims to create better
interactions between digital technologies and their environment, acting on the information to
increase safety and quality of life.
    o Mulgrew provided expert advice and technology transfer in radar signal processing to
        Leonardo, via his industry chair.
    o Davies (M) advised Dstl on its in-house Data Science research programme. This
        collaboration across Universities and with industry provided the synergy to grow our
        existing strength in defence signal processing and benefit by new collaborations with
        machine learning activity in Computer Science, specifically allowing us to invest in new
        capacity in SSS (Crowley & Qin).
    o Lane led the UK’s national robotics innovation strategy RAS2020, which has informed
        £400M of UK Government and £150M of industrial investments to date, and the new UK
        Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. He also leads a UK National Robotics Enterprise and
        Robotics Growth Partnership under the aegis of the Minister of State for Universities,
        Science, Research & Innovation and BEIS.
    o McLaughlin is on the Board of Scotland's Innovation Centre for Sensing, Imaging and IoT
        technologies (CENSIS) that works with private and public organisations to overcome
        technology barriers and drive business transformation.
    o Haas, his colleagues and Wang are engaging with industry in field trials of LiFi, including
        an in-flight demonstration with Airbus Germany and two 5GRuralFirst projects in Orkney.
              RCA4 - Engineering a safer and healthier infrastructure and environment
   To increase the health within and safety of the urban and rural infrastructure and environment,
IE and ERM staff engage with industry, society and policy-makers.
  o    Bisby, Law, Welch, and Rush have provided extensive and varied advice to UK
       Government on Fire Safety in high buildings and those built from new timber materials.
  o    Viola led a pioneering study at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic that was among
       the first to measure the effectiveness, inherent weaknesses and dangers of improper use of
       face coverings in reducing virus transmission, (IEEE J. of Eng in Med & Biol). This fed into
       the UK government’s national advice on wider spread and better-informed use. Signal AI

                                                                                            Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       estimated that, in the first month of availability, the results preprint had an estimated reach
       of 4B people.
  o    Beevers collaborates with SEPA, Scottish Water, and the Environment Agency to identify
       future catchment scale hydro-hazard (floods and droughts) hotspots to inform the UK’s
       medium-term response to climate change.
  o    Laghrouche worked with Tarmac on construction and testing of a slab track to assess the
       long term settlement of embankment design to high-speed standards necessary to support
       HS2.
  o    Ooi and Hanley worked with CPI, industrial users and software providers, and successfully
       applied their particle scale models to support industrial innovation in particulate processes.
 4.4. Engagement with diverse communities and public
  ERPE staff engage extensively with communities of all ages from global to local environments
applying or communicating the outcomes of our research. Five examples at each level follow.
                                                                                                Global
   o   Lucquiaud directly engaged with the general public
       on climate change technology via the world’s first
       MOOC on Carbon Capture and Storage, attracting
       6,800 learners from over 140 countries.
   o   Adeloye is working in an interdisciplinary research
       project on ‘Sustaining Himalayan Water Resources
       in a Changing Climate’ as part of an effort to help
       ensure water security for 40 million people facing
       climate change and anthropogenic impacts.
   o   Venugopal (Figure 4.4.1) led several UK India
       Education and Research Initiative knowledge               Figure 4.4.1 - Venugopal and
       transfer projects, including ‘Tidal Energy for            Sundarbans village elders
       Sustainable Village Electricity Supply in the Indian
       Sundarbans Biosphere’ that involved local village
       communities, government ministers and local
       development agencies.
   o   Funded by Innovate UK and the EPSRC Impact
       Acceleration scheme, Sen Gupta (Figure 4.4.2) is
       also working with local collaborators and
       communities in West Bengal, Bangladesh and
       Mexico, to install solar/diesel powered arsenic
                                                                  Figure 4.4.2 – Inauguration at
       removal systems in rural water supplies. The
                                                                     Comilla, Bangladesh
       process only uses atmospheric oxygen and no
       waste or sludge is produced during operation to produce up to 10,000 litres/day.
   o   FloWave was filmed by the SlowMo Guys in October 2018 for a YouTube video that has
       been viewed worldwide over 16 million times.
                                                                                              National
   o   In 2019, we celebrated our Year of Health and hosted events ranging from family fun days
       to industry conferences, and from exhibitions to schools’ competitions, all to showcase our
       innovations in healthcare, diagnosis and treatment. We engaged with over 18,000 people
       throughout the year in schools competitions and health technologies festivals.
                                                                                            Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   Haas and co-workers presented Li-Fi at the Royal Institution 2015 Faraday Lecture,
       broadcast by the BBC to an estimated 2 million viewers, and delivered the TED Global
       Talk, “Forget Wi-Fi: Meet the New Li-Fi Internet”, reaching 2.8 million views online.
   o   Bisby appeared as an expert presenter in 10 episodes of the engineering documentary
       series ‘Impossible Engineering’ which continues to air internationally; and also appeared
       the BBC2/PBS Nova documentary ‘Rebuilding Notre-Dame: Inside the Great Cathedral
       Rescue’.
   o   Welch was featured on BBC2 Newsnight in June 2017 in the context of the Grenfell Tower
       fire investigation, and has led to an insurance industry publication and training videos used
       by UK fire and rescue services.
   o   Bridle won the Royal Society of Edinburgh Innovators Prize for Public Engagement in
       2016, was appointed a Member of the STFC Advisory panel on public engagement and
       won an EPSRC Fellowship to co-create resources to showcase diversity of engineering
       careers to primary pupils and families.
                                                                                              Local
   At a local level, ERPE staff regularly organise and deliver outreach activities to disseminate
ERPE research and engage with the public. Platforms include: the Midlothian Science Festival,
the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas, Native Scientists, Scottish Energy Forum, and the Edinburgh
International Science Festival (EISF).
  o    As part of the National Museum of Scotland’s major exhibition on robots in 2019, Lane co-
       created a virtual interactive experience of the NASA Valkyrie robot that attracted 60,000
       visitors, receiving significant media coverage.
  o    In 2017, building on our lead role in the European Robotics Forum and the Edinburgh
       Centre for Robotics, in our Year of Robotics initiative Lane and colleagues reached directly
       more than 1,800 school pupils and 13,000 members of the public and had an estimated
       media reach of over 25M.
  o    ERPE, through Chalmers, Laurenson, Rush and others, deliver the Primary Engineer
       programme in Scottish schools. Over the last 12 years it has created an engineering
       curriculum that includes teacher STEM skill development and engineering classroom
       projects.
  o    Ingram hosts an annual Doors Open Day in FloWave that routinely attracts over 400
       visitors. He also hosts the Junior Saltire prize where Primary/Secondary school pupils are
       helped to build and test their own designs for marine energy converters.
  o    Erden delivered an interactive public exhibition on ‘Robot-assisted surgery’, reaching over
       2000 people at the EISF.
 4.5. Contributions to the research base and recognition
   We encourage and recognise service on high
                                                           Editors in Chief                     12
impact factor international journals. Around 50% of
ERPE academic staff, at all levels, lead or serve on       Associate Editors                    48
editorial boards of one or more key journals. These        Members of Editorial Boards          83
include: McLaughlin as Senior Area Editor for IEEE              Table 4.5.1 – ERPE Governorships
Transactions on Computational Imaging, Hopgood as                   and senior office bearers
Editor in Chief of the IET Proceedings on Signal
Processing, Forde as Editor of Construction & Building Materials, Elsevier Science, Bisby as
Editor of the Fire Safety Journal; Koutsos as Editor in Chief of the Proc. IMechE, Part N: Journal
of Nanomaterials, Nanoengineering & Nanosystems.
                                                                                              Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Around 50% of ERPE senior staff are elected Fellows          Fellowships of      Fellowships of
of one or more Royal societies or learned societies with     Royal Societies   Learned Societies
chartered status. We encourage and value this peer          FREng          15  FIStructE        2
and professional recognition and seek to ensure that        FRSE           28  FIESIS           2
our expanding numbers of new Lecturers, ECRs and            FRSA            5  FIEEE            8
doctoral students engage with the professional              FRSC            3  FIET           15
institutions and learned societies through student,         FRSB            2  FICivE           6
associate and full membership leading to chartered                             FIChemE          4
status. We encourage and recognise committee                                   FIMechE          8
membership and service as summarised below. We                                 FInstP           8
also show there the significant external responsibilities                      FGSoc            4
and recognition of ERPE staff.                                                 FIEnergy         2
                                                                               FIMM             2
                                                                               European         2
                                                                               Other          18
                                                              Table 4.5.2 – ERPE Fellowships
   We encourage, create and foster opportunities for leadership and external contribution, partly
for initial and continuing professional development, but more importantly to gather and share
strategic wisdom and consequent opportunities for industrial, research and academic impact.


                                                                        National      EU       Global
 Leadership of research consortia                                               37      24        17
 Leadership or membership of advisory boards (not editorial)                    53      19          8
 Committee membership of learned societies, professional                        50      12        14
 institutions, charities & trusts
 Membership of grant and fellowship awarding bodies                             18      20          3
 Honorary Chairs                                                                           4      18
 Invited Keynotes                                                                8      20        43
               Table 4.5.3 – ERPE Significant External Responsibilities and Recognition
    Jointly, ERPE in ERM staff were recognised with the 2015 Queen’s Anniversary Prize,
recognising sustained research and innovation in subsurface energy systems. Selected examples
of individual awards held include:
o   Commanders of the Order of the British Empire – Lane;
o   Officers of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire – Ocone, Sen Gupta;
o   RSE Dr Patrick Neill Medal for outstanding contributions to the field of biomaterials and tissue
    engineering - Melchels;
o   Gold Medal of the Institution of Civil Engineers – Borthwick;
o   Dr honoris causa from Budapest University of Technology and Economics – Borthwick;
o   Cavaliere dell’Ordine della Stella d’Italia, in recognition of contributions to scientific and
    technological research, conferred by the President of Italy – Brandani;
o   RAEng MacRobert Award – Rampen; RAEng Blavatnik Award – Medero;
o   Tucker-Hasegawa Award Int Assoc for Automation and Robotics in Construction – Bosche;
o   Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2016) – Davies;
o   IStructE Oscar Faber Medal – Law;
o   Hinshelwood Prize from Combustion Institute – Peterson;

                                                                                               Page 43
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
o   2020 WES Top 50 Women in Engineering for exceptional attainments made in sustainability
    and shaping the world – Maroto-Valer, Thompson
o   2019 FT Top 100 Influential Women in Engineering – Ocone;
o   2018 SRUK/CERU Merit Award - Maroto-Valer;
o   IET Global Innovation Awards – Transport, Maroto-Valer; Ambient wireless energy harvesting,
    Song; Intelligent Systems – Robu; Power Network Prediction and Control – Flynn;
o   Alfred Wegener Award of the European Association of Geoscientists – Geiger;
o   British Renewable Energy Agency Award for Decarbonisation of Transport 2018 – Flynn;
o   Society of Petroleum Engineers: Industry Grand Challenges – Laghrouche; Production and
    Operations – Sorbie;
o   National Instruments Global Engineering Impact Awards 2019 – SonoPil, Desmulliez; Remote
    Teaching – Drysdale.




                                                                                       Page 44
