Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The School of Modern Languages and Cultures (MLAC) has sought to establish itself as a
 leading international centre for the integrated study of modern languages and cultures. The
 School’s name expresses our reach from the long-established domains of modern languages
 research in textual and literary scholarship to the more recently developing areas of visual
 culture, performance, ethnography, ecologies and science studies. We believe that this breadth
 of engagement is crucial if modern languages is to challenge the cultural hegemony of
 Anglophone ideas and practices, and our integrated structure, already in place in the last REF
 cycle, supports this strategy. The School functions as one research culture encompassing eight
 language areas – Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hispanic Studies, Italian, Japanese and
 Russian – as well as Translation Studies. Our size enables us to embrace the pluricentric nature
 of the languages we study, and the integration of Arabic, Chinese and Japanese facilitates our
 move beyond modern languages departments’ conventional concentration on Europe.

 We seek to give our research unity by means of the School’s four key areas of research
 concentration (a-d below), each of which contributes distinctively to the redefinition of modern
 languages. These constitute strategic, long-term commitments and federate our interests into a
 global, transhistorical and interdisciplinary research community. They act as pivots linking
 interdisciplinary research centres and institutes beyond the School, in the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities and the wider University, to research groups within the School (research groups
 being short- to medium-term programmes of activity, described further below). The majority of
 colleagues participate in at least one of these areas, which represent key foci for the recruitment
 of postgraduates, areas of grant capture and public engagement, and act as conduits for our
 contributions to the disciplinary field.

 a) Visual and Performance Studies: The School played an essential role in founding the
 Centre for Visual Arts and Culture (CVAC), together with colleagues in History; its inaugural
 Director (Stewart), one of its two deputy directors (Roth), and several steering group members
 are MLAC staff (Beresford, Cracolici, Long, Schaefer). CVAC makes use of the University’s
 collections in visual culture, including the Oriental Museum, which houses two Arts Council
 Designated Collections (Egyptian and Chinese collections); and the holdings in Durham Castle
 and Ushaw College, the former Catholic seminary. In the absence of a department of Art History
 or of Film and Television Studies, MLAC provides university leadership in visual culture, drawing
 on expertise in visual artefacts, from medieval painting to contemporary digital media (MLAC
 also runs an MA programme in Visual Culture and has launched a BA). During this REF cycle,
 Long and Stewart were co-authors (with Jordanova in History) of a successful bid to the
 Leverhulme Trust for a Doctoral Training Centre in Visual Culture. The School was key to
 developing the Zurbarán Centre for Spanish and Latin American Art in Bishop Auckland (see our
 impact case study (ICS) ‘Spanish Art in County Durham’). County Durham contains the UK’s
 largest collection of Spanish art outside London, mainly housed in Auckland Castle and the
 Bowes Museum, with which the School also collaborates. Developing these relationships, we
 have made visual culture our principal route to public engagement and impact, with three of our
 ICS emerging from visual culture and the other two relating to performance. Performance is also
 the focus of a new research group.

 b) Medieval and Early Modern Studies: The School has been central to the success of the
 Institute for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS). Several recent directors and co-
 directors have been MLAC members (Cowling, O’Brien, Sunderland, Tessicini). This is a long-
 established disciplinary strength at Durham, and we are now contributing to its expansion via
 recent appointments who have broadened the focus of this area beyond Europe. Staff draw
 upon Durham’s collections in manuscripts and early printed books housed at Palace Green
 Library, Durham Cathedral and the World Heritage Site (for example O’Brien and Schachter’s
 work on early modern libraries), and at Ushaw College (whose collections were drawn on by

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cracolici for our ICS ‘Rome in the World’). This area has seen several externally funded
 fellowship successes (see (3) below).

 c) Science and Humanities: development of this area, through recruitment and strategic
 investment, allows us to make the best of Durham’s interdisciplinary research structures and
 external funding opportunities that favour new modes of interdisciplinarity. The School has won
 funding from the AHRC, the EU RISE fund and the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF),
 amongst others, for work in this area (see (3) below). MLAC staff (Oloff and Moore) lead the
 Centre for Culture and Ecology (CCE), which gathers researchers in the areas of emergence,
 cosmologies, cognitive literary studies, and the histories of science, medicine and technology.
 CCE grew out of our research groups in digital studies and ecologies. Colleagues frequently use
 and contribute to the interdisciplinary research opportunities afforded by Durham’s Institute of
 Advanced Study (IAS), where Saul is Director (Arts and Humanities).

 d) Translation and the Transnational: Translation in the expanded sense of intercultural
 mediation underpins our work across a broad geographical and historical span. The School runs
 the Centre for Intercultural Mediation (directed by Zheng) and co-hosts the AHRC-funded Open
 World Research Initiative (OWRI) project on ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ (joint with Manchester,
 and led by Byford for the Durham-based ‘Transnational Communities’ strand). The
 Bodies/Texts/Nations and Transnational Cinemas research groups formed important sets of
 activity in this area. Recent appointments have expanded our capacity in this area significantly
 as part of our commitment to developing Translation Studies and to appointing leaders in
 transnationalising the discipline (see further (2, Recruitment) below).




 Figure one: Relationship of MLAC area of research concentration to University research
 institutes and centres

 Within our areas of research concentration, the School supports smaller interdisciplinary
 research groups, which are incubators for emergent areas of intellectual exchange leading to
 publications, grant applications and impact-generating activity, and which function as hubs for
 the integration of staff and postgraduates. Groups cut across language boundaries, addressing
 research problems in experimental ways, developing new methodologies or creating
 interdisciplinary dialogue. They are short- to medium-term commitments, running from one to
 several years. Each group has an annual budget of £750; the School annually reviews the
 groups and seeks proposals for new groups in response to emerging fields of collective interest
 or urgent new research questions.

 In this cycle, the Bodies/Texts/Nations and Transnational Cinemas research groups helped
 colleagues to formulate projects that became part of OWRI and subsequently provided venues
 for its research activity. Transnational Cinemas also contributed to public engagement related to
 global cinemas and to Hernández Adrián’s and Radunović’s successful bids to the GCRF.

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Digital Studies was the basis for Senatore’s British Academy (BA) postdoctoral fellowship, and
 for successful bids to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie RISE scheme and the Northern Bridge
 Student Innovation Fund. It has also stimulated public engagement and postgraduate
 recruitment. Ecologies & the Arts provided the intellectual home for Allan during her
 Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship as well as generating external partnerships (on all these
 activities, see further 2, 3 and 4 below). The Living Texts research group, which explores the
 role of creativity in critical thinking, has helped develop Cipollone’s Dante exhibition, as well as
 hosting book launches, a ‘meet the authors’ workshop, readings by novelists and writing
 colloquia. Performance and Performativity, a new group, provides research leadership
 development opportunities for Innami and Wehling-Giorgi.

 In line with the strategic aims outlined above, research is managed at School level. The
 Director of Research, assisted by deputies for impact and grants, chairs the Research
 Committee, which gathers colleagues at varied career stages, chosen to represent the
 intellectual diversity of the School’s research. Research Committee develops the School’s
 research strategy and policies, research groups and events, and seeks to maximise income
 generation and external engagement. The committee also promotes participation in University-
 level initiatives, including research centres and institutes, and grant and impact seedcorn funds,
 by offering individualised advice to colleagues. The Director of Research reports to the School’s
 Strategy Group (comprising its chief officers) and to its Board of Studies (comprising all teaching
 and research staff).

 Research objectives
 In REF2014, we expressed the follow aims:
      to enhance the diversity of research across our language areas, addressing the
         developing ethical and political commitments of modern languages research (for
         example, in ecologies)
      to strengthen individual research through improved mentoring
      to increase external funding and to diversify our funding sources
      to extend connections with external academic partners
      to increase the number of doctoral students and to improve supervisory processes
      to identify further opportunities for public engagement and impact, building on emerging
     partnerships
      to extend interdisciplinary research by engaging with Durham’s research centres and
     institutes

 The following provides a snapshot of key indicators of progress:

                                             REF2014                 REF2021
 Language areas submitted                    7                       8
 Research-active staff submitted             34                      55 (54.3 FTE)
 Research grant income                       £924,000                £1,971,401
 Doctoral completions                        29.1                    59.68
 Table one: Key indicators of progress

 Movement towards our other aims has taken the following forms: increased diversity of research
 has been the key aim of our recruitment policy (see (2) below), as well as driving our research
 groups; our new mentoring and postgraduate supervisory systems are described in (2) below;
 and we have developed new external non-academic partnerships, notably via the Zurbarán
 Centre and activities related to our OWRI project (see ‘Impact’ below and (4)). Publications,
 internal and external partnerships have also emerged from our areas of research concentration,
 with their links to University research institutes and centres, which have provided our principal
 conduits for developing interdisciplinary research. In Translation and the Transnational, the
 Centre for Intercultural Mediation’s regular postgraduate conferences in translation studies have
 helped integrate an important postgraduate cohort. Medieval and Early Modern Studies has

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seen several successes in externally funded fellowships (see (3) below). In Visual and
 Performance Studies, CVAC has enabled the development of external partnerships, especially
 with the Bowes Museum and the Auckland Project (see further (4) below), and its Leverhulme
 Trust-funded Doctoral Training Centre has provided stimulus for postgraduate recruitment and
 new modes of training (see further (2) below). In Sciences and the Humanities, CCE has
 developed partnerships with the Real Junk Food Project and other initiatives challenging
 mainstream consumption paradigms.

 Our overarching aim is recognition as a leading centre for the study of European and non-
 European modern languages and cultures. Given the University’s recent reforms of recruitment,
 mentoring and promotion policies, and the School’s significant recent growth in terms of staff,
 research students and funding, the next REF cycle will involve building on our established
 strengths and mobilising our existing structures to foster intellectual renewal. We will pursue:
      maintaining our staff complement in all our language areas, expanding where possible,
        and rebalancing where necessary to ensure sustainable research capacity in all areas
      diversification of our routes to public engagement and impact, deploying the talents of
        recent recruits
      increased interdisciplinary engagement via University research centres and institutes,
        showing the centrality of modern languages research and of non-Anglophone ideas,
        creations and perspectives to research in other disciplines
      making best use of our flexible research groups structure to respond nimbly to new
        ethical and political commitments of the field and to facilitate the coalescence of staff
        interests around emerging research areas
      the organisation of further online research events to increase our reach, as exemplified
        by the CCE series of Zoom talks, and by our colleagues’ involvement in the online
        Durham Book Festival
      further diversification and renewal of the School’s research leadership capacity

 Engagement and Impact
 A key aim of MLAC is recognition of the value of modern languages research outside the
 academy. Since impact can arise in diverse and unforeseeable ways, all staff are encouraged to
 undertake varied types of public engagement activities with impact potential. Engagement is
 incentivised by dedicated funds and the flexibility to be absent from Durham during term time
 when required. In the Personal Research Plan process, staff develop a long-term programme of
 appropriate engagement activities. Potential for impact has informed our recruitment strategy, as
 reflected in recent appointments: Damlé, Innami and Talib have been recognised by the N8
 group of universities as ‘New Pioneers’, early-career researchers with high impact potential; at
 the professorial level, Burdett’s work on multilingualism and multilingual education, Scholar’s
 interest in outreach involving theatre and models of utopia, and Song’s research on culinary
 culture, all bring great potential for impact work.

 We have prioritised visual culture and performance as our key route to impact on cultural
 institutions and festivals, schools, and medical institutions and sufferers, because of our
 partnerships with the cultural sector, which provided key opportunities. Two of our case studies
 involve theatre (Hamdar, Thompson); two art (Beresford, Cracolici); and one cinema (Fouz
 Hernández). Hamdar wrote a play that has been vital to changing attitudes towards, and the
 experiences of, cancer patients in the Arab World; her work thus also draws on our cluster of
 expertise in Sciences and the Humanities. Thompson’s research on theatre censorship, which
 relates to our Translation and the Transnational cluster, led him to help shape the teaching and
 staging of Spanish-language plays in schools regionally and nationally. Cracolici and Beresford’s
 work grows out of Medieval and Early Modern Studies, and they, along with Fouz Hernández, all
 developed partnerships with the regional cultural sector, including Ushaw College, the Bowes
 Museum, the Auckland Project and the Tyneside Cinema, which subsequently provided a
 springboard for impact on cultural institutions and events internationally. Our public engagement
 in visual culture and performance extends beyond our case studies (see further (4) below).



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open research environment
 The University mandates deposit in Durham’s open access repository (Durham Research
 Online; DRO) for all publications as far as possible, beyond the requirements for REF, to allow
 wider engagement with our research (see further our REF5a/2.3). We expect that for promotion
 cases, external readers will access the colleague’s publications on DRO. Researchers on our
 OWRI project have consistently published in open access fora, such as blogs, including
 Yusupova and Zamyatin’s posts on minority language education policies in Russia. Researchers
 benefiting from UKRI funds (for example, Byford’s research on child science) have also received
 additional funding to make their publications full (Gold) open access. Several colleagues hold or
 held leading positions within learned societies including the MHRA and the Societies for French
 and Italian Studies, contributing to open access debates at the national level.

 Ethics and research integrity
 Research Committee ensures accordance with Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) (see
 further (2) below) and ethical policies. Ethical approval is required for research activities
 involving human participants and their data (such as interviews), including those by
 postgraduates. Staff and postgraduates have access to research ethics training, and the
 University’s online ethical toolkit guides colleagues through the process, which includes review
 of relevant questionnaires, consent forms and information sheets. For example, ethical review
 shaped the ethnographic research element of Kliuchnikova’s OWRI funded project on migrants’
 experiences of and views on Russian. The School’s ethics procedure is monitored by the Faculty
 Ethics Sub-Committee, which meets termly.

 2. People
 Recruitment
 Our recruitment strategy is shaped by three priorities: to maintain and build capacity to ensure
 the sustainability of our language units; to strengthen our four areas of research concentration;
 and to ensure an effective balance between research leadership and intellectual renewal by
 recruiting both senior and early-career academics. During the census period, we made 3
 appointments at Professorial level, 2 as Associate Professor and 9 as Assistant Professor. We:
      launched Japanese and Translation Studies with 2 new FTE each, as strategic growth in
          critical developmental areas
      increased the staff complement in Arabic (+2 FTE), Chinese (+2 FTE), French (+3 FTE),
          German (+2 FTE) and Hispanic Studies (+1 FTE)
      sustained our concentrations in Russian (4 FTE) and Italian (5 FTE)

 All colleagues who have left our language areas have been replaced, and we have
 converted several teaching-only posts into research-active posts. All our appointments in this
 cycle have significantly strengthened our areas of research concentration:
       Schachter, Scholar (both French), Leon Llerena (Hispanic Studies) and Talib (Arabic)
          specialise in medieval and early modern studies
       Schaefer (Chinese), Damlé, Roth (both French), Wehling-Giorgi (Italian), Innami
          (Japanese), Song (Hispanic Studies), Stewart, Almog, and Ward (all German) work in
          visual and performance studies
       Bootle (French), Burdett (Italian), Radisoglou (German), and Mac Carthy and Tyulenev
          (Translation Studies) have interests in translation and the transnational
       Hickmott (French), Hsiung (Japanese) and Pérez Trujillo (Hispanic Studies) work at the
          sciences and humanities interface

 The University launched its new recruitment process in 2017 (see our REF5a/3.1.2).
 Embedding this process, we have made recruitment the work of the whole School. Our EDI
 champion for recruitment promotes EDI issues, both in terms of who does the recruiting and who
 is recruited, before scrutiny of longlists and shortlists at University (Provost) level. The School’s
 Search Committee Chair works with subject specialists, contacting field leaders for advice,
 before bringing the opportunity to the attention of as many candidates as possible. Colleagues
 also help identify high-quality candidates via their own contacts.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our long- and shortlisting committees are selected for expertise rather than seniority. All
 longlisted candidates (c. 10) undergo a Skype interview with members of the shortlisting
 committee, with questions in English and the target language. The shortlisting committee reads
 the work of longlisted candidates, and all colleagues can feed into this process, producing
 reports on writing samples. Typically, 4 shortlisted candidates come to Durham to give a
 presentation to which all colleagues in the School are invited. Feedback, sought from all
 colleagues, is considered by a gender-balanced appointing panel.

 All research-active appointments, whether new or replacement posts, are made on a non-fixed-
 term basis. Fixed-term posts only provide cover teaching where a permanent academic hire
 cannot be made, or where research posts are funded externally (such as Leverhulme Early-
 Career Fellowships). A minimum term of 12 months is used for fixed-term posts, allowing
 temporary staff research time. Since many teaching fellows are developing research careers, we
 offer them research mentorship alongside teaching mentorship. For permanent appointments,
 we cover visa costs and offer extensive relocation assistance, including to dual-career families.
 Job share opportunities are promoted, and several colleagues have formally approved flexible
 working arrangements in place.

 Staff development
 The University operates a reduced probation period (of 1 year, rather than 3) in recognition of
 the robust nature of the staff recruitment process. During probation, colleagues have a ‘buddy’
 mentor, an experienced member of staff who explains the School’s day-to-day practices. Once
 colleagues have passed probation, they continue to benefit from the University’s academic
 mentoring scheme. All research-active members of staff (including mentors themselves) select
 a mentor from a pool of trained School staff. Mentoring is responsive to individual needs.
 Mentors advise colleagues on citizenship and help to translate skills from the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education into pedagogical application. They offer
 advice on the completion of Personal Research Plans and the Durham CV used for promotion
 and progression. Mentors read book proposals, draft publications and grant applications, and
 help identify possibilities for public engagement and postgraduate supervision. They may offer
 general guidance on intellectual development, or more specific advice in the context of
 promotion criteria, including research quality and leadership.

 Colleagues are encouraged to develop leadership skills at all levels. There is training at
 university level, covering EDI, coaching and mentoring, and practical matters such as data
 protection and grant management. The School has engaged with Durham’s Organisation
 Development and Research and Innovation Services to offer bespoke training in grant writing,
 EDI and ‘making your voice heard’. The School seeks to give colleagues research leadership
 experience, such as research group convenorship or deputy director roles, at the earliest
 opportunity, and we have supported colleagues taking on research centre or institute leadership
 roles at a relatively early career stage (such as Sunderland with IMEMS and Roth with CVAC).
 To enable colleagues to develop as research leaders, the School has nominated colleagues at
 Assistant Professor level for university training in Research Project Management (Roth, Innami),
 and at higher levels for the Aurora programme for women in academia (Nitschke, Barnet,
 Wehling-Giorgi) or the Academic Leaders Programme, developed for Durham and Newcastle
 Universities by Advance HE (Cowling, Long, Stewart, Sunderland).

 The University introduced a new progression and promotions process in 2017 (see our
 REF5a/3.1.2), reducing the number of ranks to three (Assistant, Associate and full Professor)
 and embedding promotions within a wider development framework. Rather than colleagues self-
 nominating, as previously, a panel at School level (the Departmental Progression and Promotion
 Committee, or DPPC) considers a standard CV from all colleagues annually. This process was
 established partly to correct the gender imbalance where male colleagues self-nominated and
 achieved promotion more rapidly than female colleagues. The CV enables DPPC to assess
 colleagues’ broad profile and to identify areas for development. Impact is fully recognised and
 rewarded in this process. Contextual factors such as parental leave are given consideration.

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Where promotion criteria are met, colleagues are nominated for consideration at Faculty (Arts
 and Humanities) level; colleagues can also self-nominate. All colleagues receive personalised
 DPPC feedback, which includes comments on their strongest research outputs, and can discuss
 their DPPC feedback with their mentor, the Head of School or other School officers.

 Early-career researchers
 Early-career researchers on the academic track have a mentor and a reduced teaching and
 administration load to allow them to develop their research while they settle into teaching. They
 frequently present work-in-progress in the School forum, and they have access to Durham’s
 Centre for Academic Development training programme (which offers courses on, for example,
 inclusive teaching and doctoral supervision). Postdoctoral researchers in MLAC have frequently
 organised supportive events, such as mock interview presentations, and they are normally
 offered the opportunity to undertake teaching relevant to their research. Postdoctoral
 researchers have developed their research leadership through event organisation in
 collaboration with research groups, centres or institutes. In this cycle, Senatore (BA Postdoctoral
 Fellow) has led workshops and conferences as part of the Digital Studies research group;
 Kliuchnikova, Yusupova and Zamyatin (postdoctoral scholars on our OWRI project) have led
 events on ‘Language and Identity in the Post-Soviet Space’, ‘Nationalism, Ethnicity and Cultural
 Diversity in the Digital Age’ and ‘National Minorities on the EU-Russia Border’. COFUND fellows
 Skelton and Venturi had IMEMS funding to host conferences on ‘Perceptions of Architecture in
 Early Modern Europe’ and ‘Self-Commentary in Early Modern European Literature’, respectively.
 Payne (Zurbarán Fellow) organised a conference on ‘Canons and Repertoires: Constructing the
 Visual Arts in the Hispanic World’, with CVAC funding.

 Research support
 Research-active staff have one day a week without teaching for research, and we seek to
 ensure that they are engaged in research-led education, notably through specialist final-year
 undergraduate modules. During the census period, the University increased its financial
 assistance for research, creating individual research funds for travel or preliminary work for grant
 applications or engagement activities. Staff receive £1,000 annually and unspent funds are
 rolled over. In addition, the University’s grant incentivisation scheme provides successful
 applicants to external funding schemes with 10% of the net contribution to overheads to
 augment their individual research fund. A further 10% of overheads comes to the School, and
 may be used for research events or replacement teaching. Consequently, both the individual
 researcher and the School benefit.

 The School also made a major investment in research by introducing a new research leave
 scheme. Colleagues now have 1 year’s leave in 5, which provides longer periods of leave
 conducive to the production of larger-scale works and significant engagement activity. This goes
 beyond the University’s provision of 1 term in 7, and brings the benefit of greater stability in
 teaching provision. (Colleagues can remain on the University rhythm if that better suits their
 research.) Additional leaves of 1 term were granted to allow colleagues affected by career
 breaks or major administrative roles to complete outputs for REF. As a University-level EDI
 initiative, colleagues may apply for additional research leave after a period of 26 weeks or more
 maternity, adoption or shared parental leave. Colleagues preparing impact case studies are
 granted workload relief from some teaching and administrative duties, and they can also apply
 for an impact research assistant.

 Research students
 We have had a substantial increase in doctoral completions, from 29.1 in REF2014 to 59.68 in
 this cycle. This improvement is attributable to more effective recruitment, allied to greater
 success in funding competitions; to enhanced support arrangements, including the agreement of
 milestones with supervisors and more effective annual reviews; and to improved integration of
 PGRs into our research environment, via our research groups, Faculty PG reading groups and a
 School PG forum.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment of PGRs has benefited from the availability of funding from the Northern Bridge
 Consortium (our AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership with Newcastle University, Northumbria
 University, Queen’s University Belfast, Sunderland University, Teesside University and Ulster
 University). While the national trend shows that modern languages have not fared well under the
 AHRC’s DTP model, MLAC has performed strongly, indicating the quality of our applicants and
 research environment. Two Northern Bridge students completed in this REF cycle and a further
 16 were recruited (6 other students, funded by the AHRC’s previous PG funding schemes,
 completed). In 2014, CVAC was awarded £1 million funding from the Leverhulme Trust to
 establish a Doctoral Training Centre with funding for 18 PhDs. The School was also awarded
 studentships from the University’s internal doctoral funding scheme (10 completions, 3 further
 recruitments), and from a wide range of international sources (including the Algerian, Norwegian,
 Saudi and Iraqi governments) and from philanthropic donations. Our areas of research
 concentration have been key conduits for recruitment:

                                    Doctoral students         Further doctoral students
                                    completed this cycle      recruited this cycle
 Medieval and early modern          12                        5
 studies
 Sciences and humanities           -                          6
 Translation and the               24                         15
 transnational
 Visual and performance            10                         9
 studies
 Table two: Doctoral completions by area

 The School’s own MAs in Visual Culture, Translation Studies, and Languages,
 Literatures and Cultures provide PGR recruitment pathways (the latter has a focus on world
 literatures and the digital and environmental humanities). The School also plays a leading role in
 the IMEMS MA in Medieval and Early Modern Studies.

 All PGR students have at least two supervisors, and interdisciplinary supervision is
 encouraged. The Leverhulme Doctoral Training Centre was particularly important in
 developing teams of supervisors from more than one department. The School offers workload
 compensation to supervisors and monitors PhD student numbers to prevent excessive
 supervisory loads. Secondary supervisors now take more active roles in supervision, to spread
 the workload and to increase intellectual diversity and resilience.

 Students have a compulsory annual review meeting, involving two reviewers outside the
 student’s supervisory team: an experienced review chair, and a second reviewer who, where
 practical, has expertise in the student’s research area. Reviews focus on disciplinary,
 theoretical or critical frames, the corpus, research questions and (where applicable) research
 ethics, as well as on the completion timetable. Reviewers make recommendations about the
 student’s research and about participation in the School’s research culture and training
 opportunities. Through this annual review process, as well as the Education Committee
 (Postgraduate) and the postgraduate staff-student committee, the School monitors its
 supervisory procedures.

 Training for PGRs is initially provided by supervisors, who help students complete an annual
 Training Needs Analysis questionnaire identifying specific requirements. The results are
 reviewed by the Deputy Director for Postgraduate Training. Subjects for bespoke training
 sessions have included the US academic job market and the final stages of thesis writing. PGRs
 can apply to the School’s Research Fund for funding for research events, such as
 conferences: for example, Tanzi Imbri, Crespi and Vignieri hosted a conference on textual
 editing in 2017, and Burin and Budasz hosted ‘The Return of the Author’ in 2019 with the
 support of the Society for French Studies.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Students make use of postgraduate training provision at the University’s Centre for Academic
 Development. In addition, Northern Bridge offers annual cohort development events (an autumn
 conference, a summer school on palaeography and a leadership workshop for students
 beginning the final year of their PhD), as well as organising placements (Ellis, for example,
 worked at the Erotic Review). Zheng led a cohort development event on corpus linguistics for the
 consortium. The CVAC DTC developed specialised training in visual arts and cultures, including
 a three-month placement with a non-HEI partner (Longden worked at the Beamish Museum, for
 example), and an annual conference. Students can also participate in Behind the Scenes at the
 Museum, a series of public lectures and PG masterclasses with leading museum professionals.
 IMEMS has a very active student group (the Medieval and Early Modern Student Association,
 MEMSA), to which postgraduates can give presentations; MEMSA also allows them to gain
 experience in committee work, community outreach and research event organisation. Faculty-
 wide PGR feedback sessions were hosted by the IAS, with MLAC staff, IAS fellows and other
 PGRs reading work circulated by students. Dickson (Leverhulme Early-Career Fellow) organised
 a training session for PGRs on converting the PhD thesis to a book.

 We recognise the importance of international collaboration in postgraduate training
 structures. The School’s Digital Studies research group functions as a PhD student seminar
 and as a node within the international Digital Studies Network. PGRs lead a reading group
 session in preparation for teaching responsibilities, and the group has offered funding for
 student-led events, organised several conferences pitched largely at PG student participation
 and run a doctoral training school for 30 students from Durham, Dublin and Paris. The Centre for
 Culture and Ecology reading group has an attendance composed primarily of PhD students,
 allowing concerted engagement with ecocritical and environmental humanities research. The
 Centre for Intercultural Mediation runs an annual PG conference in translation studies, with
 PGRs serving on the organising committee. The School has also put on training events on
 material culture in collaboration with Matariki Network partners: Long organised the
 ‘Discomforting Objects’ postgraduate summer school with colleagues from Tübingen, and with
 IMEMS funding, Tessicini developed a summer school on ‘Things That Matter’, with colleagues
 from the Universities of Uppsala and Groningen. Funded by the Matariki and U4 networks, the
 Summer School includes an online module under Groningen’s Enabling Virtual Online
 International Exchange scheme.

 Equality and diversity
 The School is committed to creating an inclusive research environment that allows all members
 of staff to reach their potential. Mentors help all individuals make use of opportunities for career
 development. One member of each School committee is designated responsible for EDI, and
 that individual ensures that the EDI implications of any decisions are considered, working with
 the Deputy Heads of School, with whom overall EDI responsibility sits, to share best practice.
 The School monitors the diversity of representation on Research Committee and other bodies
 (such as the REF reading group), as well as championing the transparency of committee work.
 The School distributes its research resources, such as leave and funding, in a fair and
 transparent manner. In all its processes, especially those involving recruitment and progression,
 the School undertakes to recognise diverse types of research success. To do so, the School
 draws on University-level EDI initiatives, such as the provision of training in leadership and
 unconscious bias. The latter is mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment, progression and
 promotion committees. As outlined above, DPPC considers contextual factors and additional
 research leave is available after parental leave.

 We have also adjusted working hours to assist staff with health issues and rescheduled research
 leaves interrupted due to conditions that would be recognised as constituting a disability, and
 extended leaves for time lost due to sickness. We assist staff with protected characteristics on a
 case-by-case basis to enable them to research productively, drawing on the guidance of
 colleagues in the University’s Occupational Health department where appropriate. We have a
 ‘buddy mentor’ system that provides additional mentoring outside the University’s principal
 scheme. Enhanced support post-recruitment helps the integration of international colleagues,
 and there is a dedicated network for BAME staff. It is recognised that research is often carried

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 out away from Durham. Off-site working is facilitated through the remote desktop system, a staff
 intranet that allows worldwide access to School documents, and, where appropriate, video
 conferencing facilitates remote committee work. The Covid-19 pandemic has caused us to test
 and refine these mechanisms and to confirm their effectiveness.

 There is equality of opportunity for full and reduced FTE staff on the academic track: all have the
 same opportunities for progression and access to the same forms of research support. The
 School appoints all fixed-term staff on the teaching track to 12-month contracts and provides
 them with research mentors, recognising that many are developing research careers. Travel for
 research purposes is facilitated for staff and research students with caring responsibilities
 through extra funding for childcare, and the inability to travel is taken into account at DPPC when
 considering outputs and engagement.

 EDI considerations have also been central to how we have prepared for REF2021. All REF-
 eligible staff have had equal access to funding, leave and mentoring to enable them to develop
 publications, and all have been encouraged to suggest up to seven outputs for consideration for
 REF. In line with Durham’s Code of Practice, all REF-suggested pieces have been graded
 anonymously by at least two internal readers, and all research-active MLAC colleagues have
 been invited to participate in grading. All outputs were read critically, with no presumption that
 any particular group (e.g. senior professors) would produce the best outputs. Relative
 distribution of outputs between staff is not a metric that impacts on progression, contractual
 status, or performance management. We have aimed to correct for unconscious bias by using
 the widest possible range of reviewers, including extensive use of external reviewers. The
 University provided REF-specific EDI training, taken by the Head of School, the Director of
 Research and the Deputy Director for Impact. When deciding on the inclusion / exclusion of
 outputs of comparable quality, representativeness was considered as a criterion for selection.
 Our output pool matches well the diversity of the School in terms of gender, ethnicity and career
 stage, suggesting that all colleagues have been enabled to produce and submit outputs.

 We have collected data and feedback in preparation for an application for Athena Swan, drawing
 on colleagues’ research on gender, race and ethnicity, and disability studies to develop our
 vision of equality, diversity and inclusion. In summer 2020, we set up a focus group to look at
 ‘decolonising’ the School; the group will feed recommendations for reform into the School’s
 committees. We recognise that EDI is a continuing process, and monitor our systems and
 consult colleagues in a spirit of continuous improvement.

 Wellbeing
 The University is committed to promoting positive mental wellbeing for its staff. We seek
 proactively to promote work-life balance by various means, for example, a transparent workload
 model and by restricting research events to core timetabled hours. The School’s email policy,
 which asks colleagues to restrict email correspondence to 7am-8pm and to use the ‘delay send’
 function if they write emails outwith those times, helps protect non-work time. Flexible working is
 facilitated: some staff have worked part-time for specific periods, often allowing for caring
 responsibilities. Reductions of 20-50% in workload have been approved in the framework of the
 University’s flexible working policy. The Head of School actively encourages colleagues to make
 use of their full entitlement to annual leave. During the Covid-19 lockdown, virtual coffee
 mornings helped provide a sense of community. Colleagues are invited to use the services for
 wellbeing, managing stress and mental health conditions available via Occupational Health,
 and/or to speak to their Head or Deputy Head of School regarding matters of mental wellbeing or
 stress. The University also provides a complete support network that offers expert advice and
 compassionate guidance 24/7, covering issues relating to personal and professional problems
 that could affect colleagues’ home or work life, health or general wellbeing.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 MLAC has more than doubled its research income since 2014: we reported £924k of research
 income for REF2014, and have spend of over £1.9M for REF2021. We have also increased our
 engagement activity (see further Section (4)). These increases are attributable to:
      enhanced School procedures and assistance (peer review, sharing of expertise, workload
       relief for impact work and grant writing)
      enhanced support for grant applications and impact at Faculty and University level
      diversification of our funding streams and involvement of more colleagues in grant
       applications and public engagement activity
      response to strategic funding initiatives, such as OWRI and the GCRF
      engagement with and development of university research institutes and centres

 School procedures and support
 All staff receive advice on funding applications from the Director of Research and the Deputy
 Director of Research (Grants). The School has initiated regular ‘Research
 Laboratories’, problem-based sessions which enable colleagues to test ideas and formulate
 research questions in the early stages of project development. The School hosts
 group workshops for colleagues applying for similar schemes, where colleagues share best
 practice and the sense of the benefits of funding. In the annual Personal Research Plan, staff
 detail their funding plans. The School then assists PIs on large grant
 applications through appropriate administrative assistance and workload relief that reduces their
 teaching and administrative load. All research-funding applications are peer-reviewed within the
 School; reviewers with shared interests (of period, theme or methodology) are chosen, as well
 as reviewers whose expertise lies outside the proposal’s focus. All colleagues have time for
 engagement activities as part of their 50% workload devoted to research, and the School
 offers further workload relief to colleagues working on an ICS. The School has a Deputy Director
 of Research (Impact), who oversees the development of case studies and connects colleagues
 to Faculty-level impact support.

 Faculty of Arts and Humanities support
 The School’s administrative assistance for research is located within the Faculty’s research hub,
 where a 0.5FTE senior research administrator has responsibility for MLAC. The hub provides
 organisational assistance for research events, impact, REF preparation, research leave and
 research ethics. Research centres including CCE and CVAC constitute strategic Faculty
 investments and benefit from administrative provision at Faculty level. The Faculty also offers
 strategic funding for attendance at major international conferences, such as the MLA, hosting
 major conferences in Durham, such as our modern languages conference of 2018, for project
 development, library and archive visits, and for research events likely to lead to significant
 outcomes (grant applications, impact, publications). In 2014-20 Faculty allocated just over £1.1M
 to support individual research and strategic research initiatives. Applications for external
 research grants above £30k are peer-reviewed at Faculty level; peer-review by colleagues in
 other arts and humanities disciplines has been key, for example, to our successes in
 Leverhulme Early-Career and Research Fellowships.

 Over this REF cycle, Faculty resources for impact have developed significantly, with the
 appointment of a Senior Impact and Engagement Manager with responsibility for arts and
 culture. There have been Faculty impact workshops (for example, on gathering evidence). The
 Faculty offers start-up funding for impact activities that may lead to an ICS (the Impact
 Development Fund), and colleagues working on a REF ICS can apply to the Faculty for funding
 for an Impact Assistant. Impact assistants are usually postgraduate researchers, who thereby
 acquire impact training in practices such as recording and storing evidence, helping to spread
 good practice to the new generation of researchers.

 University-level support
 The support available via Research and Innovation Services (RIS) has increased greatly since
 2014, with the School now benefiting from horizon scanning for new funding opportunities,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tailored guidance on preparing and costing applications, and dedicated post-award
 administration. The School works with the RIS development managers for the arts and
 humanities and for international (including GCRF) funding. In the case of research council
 applications, the University now has dedicated liaison groups gathering colleagues who have
 held significant funding from the council or served as peer reviewers. To generate more
 ambitious collaborative grant applications, colleagues can apply to the University’s grant
 seedcorn fund for preliminary workshops, archival visits and scoping discussions: funding was
 awarded to Burdett to develop a new project with the Italian curators of the exhibitions that
 formed part of the AHRC-funded ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’ project, with the aim of
 questioning the legacies of Italian colonialism, and to Radisoglou, Nitschke and Oloff to develop
 an application to the AHRC-DFG (German research council) scheme for a project on narrating
 planetary crisis. Colleagues have also made use of the University’s international engagement
 fund: Innami, for example, has developed partnerships in Japan with performance practitioners,
 which will potentially lead to impact work and grant applications. All our ICS have benefited from
 University research impact funding for the organisation of activities. University research
 equipment funding enabled the purchase of eye-tracking equipment and the provision of a
 dedicated room that has facilitated Beresford’s research into viewer engagement with art and
 Zheng’s work on translation and cognitive load. Both are expected to lead to new collaborations,
 with Zheng’s work opening up possibilities for work with scientists and Beresford’s with museum
 and gallery professionals (see ICS).

 Our participation in University research institutes and centres
 The School has contributed to the development of University research institutes and centres to
 create fora for interdisciplinary research that enables broader, overarching research questions to
 be tackled, to build capacity for grant applications (notably for interdisciplinary research funding),
 to attract applicants for fellowships, especially postdoctoral fellowships, to create postgraduate
 training initiatives, and to enable public engagement work. MLAC has a long-established
 relationship to the Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS), which has
 supported the Durham/Northumbria Colloquium on Medieval and Golden Age Studies, and
 provided administrative support for Sunderland’s launch of a biennial Durham conference on the
 History of the Book. The School has also jointly led the development of the Centre for Visual Arts
 and Culture (CVAC), which has been central to external partnerships (see further (4) and ICS).
 Colleagues from the School (Oloff and Moore) lead the Centre for Culture and Ecology (CCE),
 which continues lines of reflection developed in two School research groups – Digital Studies
 and Ecologies and the Arts – providing a forum for research at the interface between the
 sciences and the humanities. The Centre gathers colleagues with interests in biology, niche
 construction and technological milieus (Moore, Saul); ecocriticism, environmental humanities
 and the ‘Anthropocene’ (Oloff, Pérez Trujillo, Hernández Adrián); cultural aspects of energy
 transition (Oloff, Stewart); and evolution in philosophy and literature (Saul, Moore). It has
 developed links to non-academic organisations such as Transition Durham, Ars Industrialis and
 Plaine Commune, and other citizen initiatives and NGOs dedicated to troubling mainstream
 consumption paradigms, and aims to provide opportunities for activism at the intellectual,
 academic, theoretical and institutional levels, which positions the group well for future
 engagement work.

 Durham’s Institute of Advanced Study (IAS), which connects every subject area at Durham
 University, has Saul as its Director (Arts and Humanities). Saul’s Christopherson-Knott
 fellowship with the IAS led to workshops on emergence and to the interdisciplinary ‘Cultures of
 Contagionism’ project. Saul also organised lecture series on Scale and on the Future of the
 University, which led to his 6-month Morphomata Institute Fellowship at the Käte Hamburger
 Kolleg, University of Cologne. The IAS also hosts Marie Curie COFUND fellows and senior
 visiting fellows working with MLAC, bringing EU research funding into the School. The presence
 of COFUND fellows has, notably, enabled collaborative work on our OWRI project. In addition,
 Furci held a COFUND fellowship for work on literature and multisensory experiences, and
 Skelton, Venturi and Wood were COFUND fellows working on medieval and early modern topics
 in the School.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our funding successes
 Our largest funding success came through participation in the OWRI ‘Cross-Language
 Dynamics: Reshaping Community’ project, which grew out of our commitment to
 translation and the transnational. Our research groups on Transnational Cinemas and
 Bodies/Texts/Nations permitted the development of subprojects and thus our participation in the
 bid. The project incorporates the subprojects:
 - Kliuchnikova and Byford work on ‘Russian’ as a language of transnational inter-ethnic
 communication in the context of migration from the former USSR to the Russian Federation
       Yusupova and Zamyatin work on minority languages revival and policies in the Russian
        Federation and on the Russia-EU border
       Radunović investigates transnationalism in the cinemas of the Russian Federation and of
        Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan
       Hernández Adrián examines ‘ultra-peripheral’ insularity in the contemporary transnational,
        diasporic and postcolonial Atlantic, including the Canary Islands and the Hispanic
        Caribbean
       Hamdar studies cancer discourses across different cultural forms in Arab transnational
        contexts (see her ICS)
       Cao examines translations of Western political ideas in China at the turn of the twentieth
        century

 Many of our funding successes have been assisted by various forms of seedcorn funding and
 interdisciplinary research development opportunities offered by centres and institutes. In
 medieval and early modern studies, institute funding helped projects reach beyond their
 disciplinary parameters. Caruso’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for a project on Italian
 vernacular classics was enabled by IAS and IMEMS funding for a lecture series on ‘The Life of
 Texts’, involving specialists in ancient, medieval and modern works across several language
 traditions, and setting up an area of reflection that continues within our research group Living
 Texts. Clarke’s IAS fellowship on the interdisciplinary theme of light laid the intellectual
 groundwork for her Visiting Fellowship at the Université de Nantes. There, she became involved
 in VESPACE, a National Endowment for the Humanities-funded collaboration between Louisiana
 State University and Nantes using virtual reality-based video game technology to test
 hypotheses about performance and sociability in the eighteenth- and twenty-first- centuries and
 to reconceive the dissemination of research on cultural history, performance and philology in the
 digital age.

 An IAS fellowship allowed Banks to lead a seminar series on ‘Apocalypse’, preparing her
 successful application for a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for research into prophecy,
 literature and apocalypse in the Reformation. Banks subsequently drew on University seedcorn
 and IMEMS funding to develop work at the sciences and humanities interface, in the shape of a
 workshop on minds, bodies and intentions that helped prepare her successful application for a
 Philip Leverhulme Prize for cognitive science work on early modern literature. In the case of
 Beresford, University research impact, IAS, and CVAC funding helped with preparatory work for
 a Leverhulme Research Fellowship on Spanish hagiography, as well as supporting an
 interdisciplinary symposium on ‘Skin’ and a range of public-facing initiatives, including lectures at
 Auckland Castle and the Bowes Museum, which became part of his impact case study.
 Engagement with University institutes as modes of developing research also helped Sunderland
 shape his work on rebel barons, with IMEMS funding his attendance at major disciplinary
 conferences such as the Medieval Academy of America and the Kalamazoo International
 Congress on Medieval Studies, leading to his winning an External Faculty Fellowship at the
 Stanford Humanities Center for the project.

 In the sciences and humanities, Byford held a BA Mid-Career Fellowship for work on Russian
 child science, which resulted from University seedcorn funding, BA Small Grant funding and an
 AHRC Early-Career Fellowship, as well as Byford’s ICS project for REF2014. The Mid-Career
 Fellowship allowed Byford to work with the Institute for Historical and Theoretical Research into
 the Humanities at the Higher School of Economics in Moscow, the Institute of International

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Relations, History and Oriental Studies of Kazan Federal University and the Faculty of
 Anthropology of the European University at St Petersburg. Byford also won a Visiting
 Professorship at the Université de Grenoble for work on post-Soviet diaspora and migration,
 which positioned him to mentor a new generation of researchers, including the OWRI
 postdoctoral fellows (Kliuchnikova, Yusupova and Zamyatin), and Hearne, who joined the
 School as a Leverhulme Early-Career Fellow working on masculinities in the Russian military.

 University seedcorn funding, combined with School initiatives, opened doors for several other
 researchers in this field. It enabled Moore’s successful bid for European Regional Development
 Funding for his Real Smart Cities project, and Moore’s leadership of the Digital Studies research
 group positioned him to host Senatore, a BA Postdoctoral Fellow working on the postgenetic
 work of Henri Atlan, whereas Oloff’s leadership of the Ecologies research group helped attract
 Leverhulme funding to host Allan as a Leverhulme Early-Career Fellow working on energy
 conflict and resistance. University seedcorn funding also allowed Stewart to lead a workshop
 attended by Graeme MacDonald from Warwick, with whom she has since delivered a range of
 externally funded activities, including the RSE Low Carbon Scotland project. MacDonald is
 Stewart’s co-collaborator, along with scholars from Lund and Utrecht, in the Climaginaries
 project, funded by the Swedish Research Council (FORMAS), which explores ways in which
 cultural imaginaries help develop political, economic and social movements towards a post-fossil
 society.

 Noble’s Marie Curie International Fellowship for a project on tears in Mexico represented an
 early success of the School’s visual cultural research. The fellowship culminated in a
 symposium with academics and practitioners from Chile, Mexico and the US and a photographic
 exhibition at the Centro de la Imagen in Mexico City. The exhibition showcased specially
 commissioned photographical work alongside a project on movements of resistance against
 Latin American dictatorships. Our collective research in visual culture was then cemented by our
 participation in Durham’s successful application for a Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Training Centre
 in Visual Culture and in OWRI.

 Fruits of this research have included Dickson’s Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship for work on
 doodles in the margins of nineteenth-century literary works, and there is further potential in the
 work of Innami, who held an AHRC International Placement as a research fellow at the
 International Research Center for Japanese Studies in Kyoto in 2016, along with PhD student
 Dellacasa, forming a collaboration that enabled Japanese Studies to attract funding from the
 Getty Foundation, before Innami (in concert with Durham History department’s Bronson) gained
 further funding from the Sasakawa Foundation and the Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation.
 Innami also secured a BA Small Research Grant for archival research at the Ashiya City
 Museum of Art and History and the Kyoto Art Center, focussing on post-war avant-garde art
 movements. The partnerships with performance practitioners and museums thus established will
 position Innami strongly for collaborative project or fellowship applications, especially those
 involving forms of work with non-academic partners.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 We facilitate collaborations and contributions to the wider discipline and society through diverse
 streams of research funding (including research centre and institute assistance), research leave
 which includes time for public engagement and impact, and administrative assistance. Research
 with engagement potential is identified in personal research plans and assisted in terms of
 workload relief. The following examples indicate the range of engagements in the School. Many
 of these partnerships belong to the School and involve several of our researchers; other
 partnerships are more individual, but spread across the School’s language areas and across
 levels of staff seniority, demonstrating the sustainability and resilience of our contributions.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Challenges
 This area of work gathers our colleagues with interests in the sciences and humanities interface,
 and in translation and the transnational, and positions us to develop the social impact of modern
 languages research.

 Energy and Environment
 School research funding has allowed Stewart to participate in the Petrocultures Research
 Group, which includes academic and non-academic members from Canada, the US, the UK and
 the Netherlands. As visual culture lead, she shifted the group’s focus from fossil-fuel cultures to
 energy transitions and post-fossil futures, and from Europe to the Middle East, East Asia and
 Latin America. She co-organised the group’s 2018 conference in Glasgow, including a town hall-
 style meeting bringing together politicians, representatives of the renewables industry and third-
 sector groups. Stewart also participates in the Climaginaries project (see (3) above), leading to
 an exhibition on ‘Carbon Ruins’, currently touring Sweden, which transports the visitor into a
 future post-fossil society, and a climate fiction competition, ‘Anthropo-Scenes’, which will
 produce a collection of stories imagining a climate-changed world.

 Stewart’s work provides a model of ecologically-engaged modern languages research that links
 academia to campaigners, government bodies, industry and other stakeholders. Other
 colleagues have followed this lead, becoming involved in networks such as the World Ecologies
 project, a global community of scholars and activists analysing the role of organisations as
 producers and products of the web of life. Oloff hosted the group’s second annual conference,
 ‘World-Ecology, World-Culture, World-Economy’, as part of her work on the world-food-system.
 Hernández Adrián co-organised a conference on ‘Risking the Future: Vulnerability, Resistance’
 as part of the Matariki Network of Universities’s Risk Humanities network, and now brings his
 expertise in islands and archipelagos, post-creolising processes, and Global South
 environmental politics to the GCRF-funded Living Deltas Hub, a research project on river deltas.
 The hub aims to develop transdisciplinary socio-ecological frameworks to capture changing delta
 trajectories, quantify threats and derive co-produced solutions via a network of stakeholder
 partnerships with delta dwellers, NGOs, government departments, academics and businesses.

 Medicine
 Our ICS on ‘Performing Arab Cancer’ demonstrates the potential for the School to develop
 socially-engaged work in the field of medical humanities. Its lead, Hamdar, was invited to
 present on her work on theatrical explorations of cancer at DIPEx International, an association of
 health practitioners and charity organisations, and a documentary of her play ‘I Am Waiting for
 You’, based on ethnographic research, was screened at the Estonia World Film Festival in Tartu,
 the Pakistan International Film Festival, and the Film Festival of Zadar in Croatia. The project
 was shortlisted for an AHRC/Wellcome Medical Humanities Award, in the Best International
 Research Award category. Contributions by other MLAC colleagues marks this as a developing
 area for our collaboration and influence. Newman collaborates with Iolanda Ventura (Bologna)
 on ‘The Arrival of Arab Dietetics and Cooking in Europe: Translations of the Work of Ibn Jazla’.
 Moore is discussing a project on new approaches to addiction therapy with the Hôpital
 Marmottan, Paris, and was commissioned to write on addiction for Dépendances, the journal of
 the Swiss Groupe Romande d’Étude des Addictions. He also gave an interview to the Turkish
 popular science website, e-psykiatri.com, whereas Fouz Hernández is associate director of
 CinemAGEnder, an international research network for colleagues working on ageing in Spanish
 cinema. The medical humanities represent an emerging area of strength with potential for
 significant further development, drawing on these partnerships and working with Durham’s
 Institute for Medical Humanities.

 Digital Futures
 Moore is Co-I (with Noel Fitzpatrick, Dublin Institute of Technology, as P-I) on ‘Real Smart
 Cities’, a 3-year Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action funded research project, exploring how the
 digital technologies of the data city influence the epistemological construction and aesthetics of
 the built environment. The School’s Digital Studies research group, led by Moore, sits within the

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international Digital Studies Network, which originated in Bernard Stiegler’s Institiut de
 Recherche et d’Innovation, with outposts in Berkeley, Nijmegen, Nanjing, Dublin, Quito and
 Kerala. Moore’s research on digital culture was discussed in several episodes of Radio-
 Télévision Suisse's ‘Histoire vivante’ documentary series, and he has presented to the
 technology and policy-making sectors at the Centre Pompidou’s Entretiens du Nouveau Monde
 Industriel.

 Migrations, Minorities and Human Rights
 Migrations, minorities and human rights constitute an area where modern languages research at
 Durham can make a vital and distinctive contribution to political debate and social equality. The
 various strands of our OWRI work provide a model for politically-committed modern languages
 research. Kliuchnikova, Yusupova and Zamyatin have led a series of events on ‘Language and
 Identity in the Post-Soviet Space’ and ‘Nationalism, Ethnicity and Cultural Diversity in the Digital
 Age’ and ‘National Minorities on the EU-Russia Border’, whereas Bellem works with Janet
 Watson (Leeds) on the phonetics and phonology of Mehri, a language of Oman and Yemen, and
 is co-investigator on a Leverhulme-funded project documenting modern South Arabian
 languages. Bellem was also a Senior Visiting Fellow working on rural dialects at the British
 Institute, Amman, funded by the Council for British Research in the Levant. Nitschke worked with
 the Human Rights Centre Essex, contributing to a roundtable on justice which was rewritten and
 performed as a play at the Lakeside Theatre, Essex.

 There is new strength in the following networks. Roth, who held a BA Small Research Grant for
 work on transnational Jewish modernisms, has collaborated with Jonathan Freedman (Michigan)
 on the conference ‘The New Totalitarianism’ and with Cécile Bishop (NYU) on ‘Race and the
 Aesthetic in French and Francophone Culture’, a conference, publication and ongoing research
 network. Damlé was Research Associate at the Centre for Contemporary Women’s Writing at
 the IMLR, where she organised a symposium bringing together academics, activists and artists
 to discuss the putative ‘fourth wave’ and the future of feminism in the academy, media, online
 and on the street. Damlé’s recent work on philosophies of embodiment has led to collaboration
 with KAI 10 Arthena Foundation in Düsseldorf, including participation in catalogues and public-
 facing publications for the ‘The Body in Pieces’ exhibition.

 Local Cultures and the Global
 Visual Culture and Performance
 All of our impact case studies involve visual culture or performance. The Bigas Luna tribute (see
 ICS) represented our first collaboration with the Tyneside Cinema in Newcastle, a charitable
 trust that aims to broaden the historical and geographical range of cinema accessible to the
 public. This partnership allowed Byford, Hamdar, Hernández Adrián and Radunović to develop
 events at the Tyneside using visual culture about ‘revolution’ as a way to discuss major political
 turbulences. Two festivals, ‘What’s Left? A Century in Revolution’ and ‘Screening the Nation:
 Georgia 1918-2018’, composed of daily screenings, and audience discussions, enhanced
 programming at the Tyneside. Radunović also organised an international symposium at Durham
 on national cinemas, involving film historians, critics and film preservationists from Georgia and
 Hungary. Barnet has worked with the Tyneside to screen Agnès Varda films with public
 discussions, and Ward is co-supervising a PhD student working on a collaborative doctoral
 award with the Tyneside. Fouz Hernández organised exhibitions on the Bigas Luna ‘Barbaric
 Comedies’ at Vane Gallery in Newcastle and at Instituto Cervantes in Manchester, as part of the
 international series of events described in his ICS. In all these cases, our colleagues have
 shaped new public programming at major cultural venues.

 The School has been actively involved in designing and founding the Zurbarán Centre for
 Spanish and Latin American Art, as well as in securing Santander funding for the Centre (see
 ICS). The centre emerges from a University partnership with the Auckland Project, which aims to
 turn Auckland Castle into an internationally-significant destination and to reinvigorate the
 economy of Bishop Auckland through tourism, cultural events and income for local businesses.
 The Project has secured significant Heritage Lottery funding, and with the advice of Durham
 researchers, is building a Spanish Gallery to exhibit County Durham’s collections in Spanish art

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dating from the fifteenth to the twentieth centuries. MLAC and the Zurbarán Centre already run
 fellowship and doctoral scholarship programmes: MLAC hosted a Zurbarán Research Fellow
 (Payne); and visiting Zurbarán Fellows including Luis Vives-Ferrándiz Sánchez, working on
 Baroque and Neo-Baroque art and theory, and Santiago Garrido Rua, an activist filmmaker who
 uses new visual technologies to empower local communities. The ability of our local initiatives to
 expand to the national and international arenas is demonstrated by the Centre’s facilitation of
 exhibitions on ‘Ribera’s Art of Violence’ at the Dulwich Picture Gallery and on ‘Roma en Mexico /
 Mexico en Roma’ at the Museo nacional de San Carlos, Mexico City. Beresford and Payne were
 awarded University seedcorn funding to develop research on the visual culture of pain,
 martyrdom and asceticism, and to build an external funding application for exhibitions in London,
 Naples, Madrid and Dallas (building on the links to Dallas’s Meadows Museum featured in
 Beresford’s ICS).

 MLAC staff also regularly work with the Bowes Museum, which is recognised by the National
 Trust as one of the most important museums outside London and which houses significant
 collections, including paintings by El Greco and Goya, and ceramics, furniture and textiles.
 Beresford has provided consultancy on acquisition, funding and public engagement strategy at
 the Bowes (see ICS) and Cracolici sits on its Board of Trustees. A CVAC ‘Behind the Scenes’
 event at the Bowes allowed Durham postgraduates to learn about curatorial work, and Long
 organised a lecture series to accompany the Martin Parr/ Tony Ray-Jones exhibition ‘Only in
 England’, opening up a transnational perspective on ostensibly ‘parochial’ bodies of work.

 Elsewhere, Ivleva organised a conference on dress culture in Imperial Russia, involving scholars
 from Russia, the UK, and the USA, as well as art, dress and textile historians, leading to a
 special issue Dress Culture in Imperial Russia. Hernandez Adrián has developed a relationship
 with the Tenerife Espacio de las Artes contemporary art museum, participating in exhibition
 catalogues, film programming and public-facing activities, and with the Cinemateca Distrital de
 Bogotá (Colombia) on the organisation of seminars and workshops. These partnerships will
 have potential for further public engagement.

 Clarke’s work shows how academic leadership in performance studies can lead to public
 engagement at the international level. Clarke was secretary general of the International
 Federation for Theatre research, before becoming co-investigator on a project editing legislative
 documents relating to the Comédie-Française and on the Agence Nationale de Recherche-
 funded project ‘Contrainte et Intégration: pour une réévaluation des spectacles forains et italiens
 sous l’Ancien Régime’. Innami contributed to the Glyndebourne opera Madame Butterfly in 2016
 through a podcast and an article in the programme. Innami’s work on the body in post-war Japan
 has led to partnerships with film scholars and visual artists from the former avant-garde Gutai
 group, and with the Ashiya City Museum of Art and History, the Hyogo Prefectural Museum of
 Art and the preparation office of the Osaka City Museum of Modern Art (due to open in 2021), as
 well as with galleries such as Fergus McCaffrey (New York and Tokyo) and Hauser and Wirth
 (Somerset). Drawing on these various partnerships, the School will continue to prioritise visual
 arts and performance as our key path to engaging with civil society.

 Creative Writing and Translation
 Our work as practitioners of, and experts on, creative writing and translation, provides another
 path for bringing modern languages research to a broader audience and for our colleagues to
 help develop cultural programming. We have had several prize successes in this field.
 Dousteyssier-Khoze’s novel, La Logique de l’amanite, was published by the French publisher
 Grasset and in English translation by Snuggly Books. The novel won two literary prizes: the
 André Dubreuil prize (Société des Gens de Lettres) for a début novel and the Prix Fondation
 Prince de Monaco ‘coup de cœur des lycéens’. Wynn’s translation of Sade’s 120 Days of Sodom
 was published with Penguin and awarded the Scott Moncrieff Prize for French to English
 translation. Talib won the Arabic-to-English Sheikh Hamad Award for Translation and
 International Understanding, shared with Katharine Halls for their translation of Raja Alem’s The
 Dove’s Necklace, which was also shortlisted for the Saif Ghobash Banipal Prize for Arabic
 Literary Translation.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The fact that our academics have had recognition for their work as translators and creative
 writers shows that there is potential to further develop creative writing and translation as paths to
 public engagement, along the lines of the following events: Wehling-Giorgi gave an invited public
 lecture on Elena Ferrante for the Dante Alighieri Society in Bonn and co-organised the first
 international conference on Ferrante at Durham in 2019. Furci organised a series of research
 events commemorating the centenary of the birth of Primo Levi with funding from our Living
 Texts and Performance and Performativity research groups. Roberts organised a symposium on
 heteronymy with colleagues at the University of the Andes, Bogotá, bringing together scholars,
 poets and playwrights, and Harrington spoke on BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’ about the Russian
 poet Anna Akhmatova, addressing issues of censorship, resistance to political tyranny and the
 preservation of liberal values.

 Medieval and Early Modern Studies
 Durham is a UNESCO World Heritage site for medieval and early modern culture, and we wish
 to build on that status to create public engagement with our research. Beresford’s ICS is the
 most highly-developed example of such engagement. Beyond that, Cipollone organised ‘Hell,
 Heaven and Hope’, an exhibition on Dante, held at Durham’s Palace Green Library, which
 explored how Dante’s writings have shaped concepts of morality, politics, life, death and the
 afterlife and influenced beliefs today. Beresford, Schachter and Sunderland gave outreach talks
 in regional secondary schools, and Newman spoke on medieval Arabic science, medicine, food
 and sexuality at Durham’s Oriental Museum, Blackfriars Restaurant (Newcastle), King William’s
 College (Isle of Man) and the Bradford Literature Festival. Talib led Arabic-language workshops
 on masculinity and homosexuality in classical Arabic literature at Cairo Institute of Liberal Arts
 and Sciences and on gender and sexuality in classical Arabic literature at Ikhtiyār, Gender and
 Sexuality Knowledge Collective, Cairo.

 Medieval and early modern studies will continue to be a key area for our collaborations and
 broader social engagement. Mac Carthy and Scholar co-direct an international research project
 entitled ‘Early Modern Keywords’, involving a network of some twenty-five researchers from
 varied disciplinary backgrounds. Maintaining links with Oxford, Venice and other European
 centres, the project is now based in Durham, positioning us for a related funding application.
 Mac Carthy and Scholar have also established a collaboration with the Fondazione Giorgio Cini,
 a residential research library in Venice, which possesses important holdings literary and visual
 culture, medieval and early modern studies, and the history of science. They have involved the
 Cini in ‘Early Modern Keywords’ and are encouraging collaborative research projects in and
 beyond MLAC (including CVAC, IMEMS and the IAS), notably by launching a programme of Cini
 visiting fellowships that will benefit Durham scholars across the humanities.

 Modern Languages in/and the UK
 To help create a venue for a regular UK-based gathering of the Modern Languages and Cultures
 community, MLAC organised a major conference in 2018, bringing members of the UK modern
 languages community together to reflect on the discipline. ‘Our Uncommon Ground: Modern
 Languages and Cultures for the Twenty-First Century’ focussed on the shared territory between
 the many (sub-) disciplines that comprise modern languages, and featured a BA-sponsored
 roundtable on the question of disciplinary identity. A second conference, ‘Where Are We Now?
 The Location of Modern Languages and Cultures’, was planned for 2020, but postponed due to
 the outbreak of Covid-19. We will reorganise it as soon as possible. It will focus on questions of
 space, access and mobility; institutional factors determining perceptions of cultural difference
 and the visibility of modern languages research; social factors determining access to language
 learning; and a politically-sensitive perception of mobility. We intend to organise further
 conferences in future, to help address, collectively, issues facing the discipline.

 Burdett’s AHRC-funded ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’ project culminated in a policy
 report, ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages: Reframing Language Education for a Global
 Future’, presented at the BA. The report attacked the excessive identification of languages with
 individual nation states and the linguistic indifference of Anglophone societies in particular, which

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has led to the misperception that society can remain linguistically neutral and that public policy
 can ignore questions of language. The OWRI programme ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’, in which
 Durham participates, draws on a taxonomy of the ‘transnational’ versus the ‘translingual’ and
 ‘multilingual’, which grew out of ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’, and which also
 informed the BA’s ‘Languages and the UK’ policy framework.

 A further MLAC initiative was led by Stewart, who co-founded the UK Network of Heads of
 School of Modern Languages in 2017 as a forum for collaboration on matters of common
 concern, such as student mobility after Brexit. The network’s first meeting was attended by
 representatives from Universities UK International, and it amalgamated with UCML in 2019. As
 one of the largest bodies of its kind in the UK, with an ethos that targets greater integration of the
 modern languages community, the School aims to help provide disciplinary leadership by means
 of its conferences and by enabling its staff to take on national leadership roles.




                                                                                               Page 19
