Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: C14 – Geography and Environmental Studies


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1   Unit Context and Structure

 Our submission to UoA14 comprises geographers from the School of the Environment,
 Geography & Geosciences (SEGG: 15.4 FTE), as well as cognate researchers (3 FTE)
 associated with the University ‘Sustainability and the Environment’ Thematic Area (REF5a,
 paragraph (p.) 9), to which the Unit makes a leading contribution. Since 2014, we have grown
 our submission from 11 FTE (11 staff) to 18.4 FTE (22 staff, 8F:14M). This increase in research
 activity has enabled the Unit to broaden its research focus and societal benefit. We have grown
 our total research income by 320% and RCUK/UKRI income by 390% (to £862k), increased PhD
 awards by 150% and extended our partnerships, networks and leadership roles involving our
 staff. Our research is structured across two Groups that provide intellectual and organisational
 focus, with extensive collaboration and synergy between them, particularly at the interface of
 society and the environment (Group Leads underlined).

  Environmental Processes and Impacts (EPI) has established critical mass in climate
   science, with particular expertise in paleo-environmental reconstruction, and climate change
   in alpine and glacial environments (Barrows, Boston, Hardiman, Lovell, Pepin, Wulf). During
   the assessment period, we have extended expertise on urban environments (Rumble,
   Inkpen) and expanded the focus of EPI to include fluvial and coastal environments (Soar,
   Watson).
  Culture, Society and Governance (CSG) has established strengths in geographies of
   health and wellbeing (Ekinsmyth, Twigg (Cat B), Woodyer) and historical geography (Healey,
   Southall). We have extended our wellbeing focus, adding expertise on children and young
   people in Sub-Saharan Africa (Day), securing succession in health geography (Pallikadavath)
   and extending expertise in economic development (Houston). We have proactively
   anticipated retirements in historical geography by developing expertise in the sustainable use
   and management of water and ocean resources (Brown, Fletcher, Phang, Potts).

 The merging of the Department of Geography with the School of Earth and Environmental
 Sciences (SEES) into SEGG in 2019 has provided opportunities for further growth around
 sustainable environmental management. The Unit is now in an enhanced position to produce
 research that influences Geography as a discipline, advances areas of interdisciplinarity and
 addresses global environmental and societal challenges.




                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2     Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Throughout the REF period, we have evaluated and updated our strategic aims, notably in
 Departmental and SEGG Vision Statements in 2017 and 2019, respectively. Our growth in
 research performance is underpinned by the achievement of four strategic objectives:

 1.2.1    To increase the international recognition of our research

 We have developed collaborations with researchers in over 60 countries in Africa, Asia, Europe,
 and North and South America. Our top collaborating institutions (by publication) include:
 Helmholtz Centre, Potsdam (39); Chinese Academy of Sciences (23); Nanjing University of
 Information Science and Technology (16). Many of our staff have held visiting positions,
 including: University of Malta (Inkpen); Chinese Academy of Sciences (Pepin, President’s
 International Fellowship); St Louis University, USA (Soar); University of Pittsburgh, USA and
 Polish Academy of Sciences (Southall); Tampere University, Finland, (Woodyer, Visiting
 Scholar). We have also hosted visiting scientists funded by competitive international exchange
 grants (e.g. China Council, Royal Society) and from prestigious institutions (e.g. St Louis
 University, USA; Tokai University, Japan). This enhanced international profile supports a growth
 in research vitality, evidenced by a >300% increase in the number of peer reviewed outputs
 (from 80 to 322), with approximately 60% involving international authors. Our research is cited
 nearly twice (FWCI = 1.76) as often as the field average, with ~60% of our articles in the top
 10% of journals (by CiteScore) and ~30% of our articles in the top 10% of articles ranked by
 view/interest online since 2014 (SciVal). Non-UK sources of research funding have increased
 from 4.7% to 19.6% of our income portfolio and we contribute to a range of influential
 international networks and fora (3.1; 4.3).

 1.2.2    To enhance the integration of impact within our research culture

 REF 2014 sub panel feedback noted that the Unit was at an early stage of embedding impact
 within its research culture. Over the census period, we have addressed this by ensuring greater
 alignment of our research with global challenges (1.1), incorporating impact throughout the
 research lifecycle, and supporting direct engagement with end-users and stakeholder groups.
 These approaches underpin our two Impact Case Studies (UoP14Migration, UoP14Places), as
 well as wider impact across the Unit (4.2).

 We have employed a variety of mechanisms to support impact. These include introducing an
 explicit recognition of impact activities within workload allocation, appointing dedicated Impact
 Leads (0.1 FTE) in each Research Group to provide one-to-one guidance and raise awareness
 of the impact agenda, and awarding impact-focussed sabbaticals. We have also co-developed
 and co-funded postgraduate research student (PGRS) projects with members of our Unit’s
 Professional Advisory Group, comprised of key regional beneficiaries. Examples include:
 mapping land use in the Rother Valley to inform river management strategies (Soar, the National
 Trust and South Downs National Park Authority); data collection to inform landscape recovery
 practices following heathland burning (Hardiman, Dorset Wildlife Trust); and surveying marine
 litter in Langstone Harbour (Watson, South West Water).




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit has also provided “impact acceleration” funding (up to £10k per award) to support
 activities that directly engage with beneficiaries. This has included funding for research
 assistance to conduct participatory research and draft local language policy briefings on projects
 to improve access to water supplies in rural Uganda (Brown), empower women in Zambia (Day)
 and improve the social and economic well-being of ‘left behind’ families in Indonesia as a result
 of female worker migration (UoP14Migration). Closer to home, the Unit has supported the
 employment of a software specialist and a Research Fellow to create and maintain ‘A Vision of
 Britain’ and ‘GB 1900’ open access historical gazetteers that have been used to improve access
 to libraries’ collections and preserve cultural heritage in England and Wales (UoP14Places).
 Additional funding (total £50k) has supported stakeholder engagement events, including the
 launch of ‘GB1900’ attended by national libraries, archives, charities and the public (London,
 2018: UoP14Places); policy-influencing workshops with regional and national government
 (Indonesia, 2017; Philippines, 2018: UoP14Migration); the River Restoration Northwest
 Symposium (Soar: Washington, 2015); and the ‘Playability’ Knowledge Exchange workshop with
 toymakers, digital games designers and play practitioners (Woodyer: London, 2016).

 1.2.3   To exploit our unique expertise in data linkage and analysis to improve
         understanding of socio-economic and environmental change

 We have long-standing expertise in creating and analysing unique, high-quality datasets and in
 making them publicly accessible. We also design database infrastructure to store, and
 interrogate, such datasets and link secondary datasets to enable new analyses; ~25% of our
 submitted outputs depend on such data. Data linkage techniques and longitudinal analyses have
 enabled construction of enhanced datasets that have produced new insights on the evaluation of
 major health trends, policies and interventions, in both the UK and the Global South. These have
 underpinned research on place effects on individual and community well-being
 (REF2/10543383) related to, for instance, deprivation and social media use on young people’s
 mental health, smoking prevalence, community-based treatment of psychiatric patients in the UK
 (REF2/25178090), post-transitional fertility (REF2/11696342), access to health care systems
 (REF2/18806998) and female migration in India, Bangladesh and Indonesia (Pallikadavath,
 Twigg). Houston’s research examines gender differences in commuting, the role of home-based
 businesses in incubating growth, and changing pathways into homeownership, whilst Healey’s
 encoding of employment/migration data from the 1860 USA Census has challenged Krugman’s
 theory on the role of railroads in 19th Century industrialisation (REF2/10556071). Importantly, our
 unique expertise is delivering societal benefits. For example, Pepin’s >50 million climate records
 (primary sensor networks) collected from mountains stretching from the Arctic to the tropics (e.g.
 REF2/10295523) highlighted the severity of mountain climate change. Local authorities have
 used Southall’s datasets of historical population, health and employment (REF2/11265495) to
 inform resource planning and Twigg’s estimates of youth smoking prevalence and military
 Reserves’ mental health have informed Local Authority smoking reduction targets and Ministry of
 Defence service provision, respectively.

 1.2.4   To support and increase interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 Our research strengths underpin a record of accomplishment in interdisciplinary working
 addressing, for example, the increasing challenges of environmental change, urban


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 development and management of natural resources. We have extended this through investment
 in broader collaborations to support IDR, aligned with the University’s Thematic Areas.

 We have used seed corn funding (up to £25k per project) to support promising interdisciplinary
 collaborations. These include Pallikadavath working with social anthropologists on the
 relationship between dowry, reproductive health and domestic violence in India, and Inkpen
 working with microbiologists and bioinformaticians on innovative biofilms for heritage
 conservation, and with criminal justice researchers and Hampshire Constabulary to investigate
 geographic and socioeconomic disparities in public perception of policing. Recent ESRC funding
 has extended this latter project to include perceptions of policing during the Covid-19 pandemic.

 Members of our Unit also play significant roles in University interdisciplinary Thematic Areas and
 Centres, linked to international networks. Established in 2015 and led by Pallikadavath, the
 Portsmouth-Brawijaya Centre for Global Health, Population and Policy (PB Centre) brings
 together our expertise in health and social inequalities (Brown, Day, Pallikadavath and Twigg)
 with that in the University of Brawijaya, Indonesia, and across South-East Asia, on gender and
 migration policies. PB Centre research on the impacts of female migration on the “left-behind”
 family has contributed to changes in international policies and reintegration programmes
 (UoP14Migration); the team has recently been awarded funding (£180k, EPSRC) to extend this
 work to incorporate the impacts of Covid-19.

 In 2018, we recruited Fletcher who, as former Chief Strategy Officer and current Head of the
 Marine Programme at the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) World Conservation Monitoring
 Centre, brought networks that are enabling the Unit to contribute to global debates on marine
 policy. Fletcher is the Director of the ‘Sustainability and Environment’ Thematic Area and leads
 the University’s ‘Revolution Plastics’ initiative (REF5a, p.6) that is supporting research by
 Fletcher (PI), Houston and Potts with researchers from UoAs 7, 17, 20 and 33 on urban plastic
 pollution in Kenya and Bangladesh. Through the Centre for Blue Governance (CBG) (REF5a,
 p.7), which connects expertise across UoP in aquatic resources, management of coastal
 environment processes, human and marine ecology, Fletcher and Phang are members of an
 international team awarded NERC funding to develop innovative microbial solutions to combat
 marine plastic pollution.

 1.3   Future Research and Impact Strategy

 Our Unit has engaged with the University’s new Vision 2030 and Strategy 2025 (REF5a2.0)
 through consultation in our Research Groups. Beginning with articulation of Groups’ research
 ambitions, we have identified four objectives to build our global reach and reputation and deliver
 environmental and societal impact. These are underpinned by our commitment to staff
 development, equality, diversity and inclusivity, and to support for PGRS.

  We will continue to grow the vitality of our research, particularly where we have established a
   leading position and our research positively impacts society. Examples of such areas include
   paleo-environmental reconstruction and climate science, and tackling inequality and
   supporting well-being. We will develop our emerging expertise in sustainable urban/rural
   development, especially linked to plastic pollution and ocean governance.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Continue to embed IDR within our Unit by building on the opportunities offered by the
   formation of the multidisciplinary SEGG and through the PB Centre, CBG and University
   Thematic Areas. We will access cross-Unit expertise to extend our engagement with science-
   led policy development in our research on climate and environmental change, sustainable
   development and natural resource management.
  Continue to support staff at all career-stages to realise their ambitions. As some of our
   Professors retire, we will have a higher proportion of mid-career staff and will support them to
   become recognised leaders in their field through targeted mentorship, peer support for bid
   writing, investment and training. We will prioritise support for female leadership programmes,
   moving towards an improved gender-balance at all grades.
  Maximise the benefits of our research to develop ‘case studies’ of impact in our Research
   Groups. We will enhance engagement with stakeholders beyond HE through research
   consortia, the PB Centre and CBG. We will support staff to identify potential links with
   beneficiaries through mentoring and networking, and will financially support high quality
   engagement opportunities, such as secondments, exchanges and events.

 1.4   Open research, ethics and integrity

 The University Strategy commits us to the highest standards of academic, professional and
 research integrity. At School level, this is supported through quality assurance processes, which
 ensure sound research design, participant safety and adherence to ethical codes, openness and
 transparency. The Faculty Ethics Committee oversees a mandatory ethical review process in
 line with the University’s commitments under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the
 UKRIO Code of Practice for Research, and DORA (REF5a, p.22); consideration includes ethics,
 integrity and due diligence in environmental and human-participatory research.

 We are committed to an open research environment: 98% of our outputs have been published
 under open-access licences since 01/04/2016, 100% of our in-scope REF2 outputs meet
 Research England’s Open Access requirements and all submitted staff are ORCID registered.
 Datasets are routinely deposited on University and national open-source repositories, (e.g.
 CEDA, UK Data Service). Since 2018, 85% of the Unit's outputs have been assessed as
 compliant with the University’s Research Data Management policy (REF5a, p.24). The Unit also
 facilitates primary research that supports open data (1.2.3).


 2     People

 Category A staff (FTE) in this submission comprise 3.6 Professors, 6 Readers / Principal
 Lecturers, 7.8 Senior Lecturers and 1 Research Fellow.

 2.1   Staffing strategy

 Our Category A staff submission has increased from 11 to 18.4 FTE (7F:11.4M) since REF
 2014; allowing for personnel changes, this includes 7.2 FTE (3F:4.2M) new staff. Our staffing
 strategy has focussed on: (i) investment in senior positions to extend our expertise in




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 environmental change research; (ii) succession planning around retirements in human
 geography; (iii) increasing capacity and capability in IDR and sustainable development.

 Strengths of the EPI group ‘in the application of geochemical techniques in environmental
 sciences’ were noted in REF2014 and have been further enhanced by recruitment of Wulf
 (Reader) and Barrows (Professor) who provide new expertise in geo-chemical proxies (including
 tephrochronology) and senior support to other group members. Wulf and Hardiman have since
 demonstrated how tephra in sediment /ice-cores can date and synchronize past environmental
 records to reveal spatial patterns of climate change (REF2/10517459/15594192). Lovell’s
 expertise in glaciology supports the strategic expansion of our climate and cryospheric research
 whilst Rumble (green infrastructure) supports research at the interface of EPI and CSG in
 sustainable urban development. CSG has benefited from staff investment that reflects
 succession planning around professorial retirements (Healey, Southall, Twigg) and the
 refocussing of our strategic priorities towards sustainable development. Professorial
 appointments maintain leadership and expertise in quantitative human geography (Houston) and
 provide new expertise in ocean governance and policy (Fletcher). Research at the science-
 policy interface is also supported by Phang (governance of aquatic resources), whilst Day
 extends strengths in health and wellbeing to children and young people.

 2.2   Staff development

 The University has held an HR Excellence in Research Award since 2013 and is a signatory to
 the Researcher Development Concordat (REF5a, p.41). Our staff development strategy aims to
 grow the capability and profile of our researchers through resourcing their time and providing a
 portfolio of support at all career stages. Since REF2014, we have introduced a workload model,
 streamlining administration and teaching activities to enhance staff efficiency and giving
 research goals greater priority. Research-active staff (those regularly publishing research
 articles) are allocated a minimum of 0.2 FTE for research, with additional time for grant-writing,
 externally-funded research and impact activities, and as awarded through research leave and
 sabbatical schemes.

 Research Group leads contribute to annual Performance and Development Reviews (PDR) that
 link individual and Unit-wide research objectives and identify development needs. New staff are
 allocated an experienced mentor, receive a 0.2 FTE additional research workload (Year 1) and
 are eligible for research ‘start-up funds’. Early-career academic researchers (ECRs) continue to
 receive enhanced research workload in Year 2 (0.1 FTE), are preferentially considered for
 internally-funded PhD studentships as first supervisor (with additional supervisors to provide
 mentorship), and have access to ring-fenced ECR funding to support pilot data collection and
 the development of collaborations.

 All early- and mid-career staff have an experienced mentor from within the Unit and workload
 hours are allocated to both mentor and mentee; senior staff are mentored from outside the Unit.
 All staff have equal access to funding for staff development (study leave, sabbaticals,
 conference attendance) and to a variety of internal funding opportunities (up to £20k per award)
 that support pump-priming of pilot projects, providing impetus for new ideas, grant applications
 and external collaboration. Project examples include studies of aspirations of youth in Zambia
 (Day), glacial retreat in Kazakhstan (Lovell), effects of deforestation on Kilimanjaro (Pepin) and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 water management in Uganda (Brown). Field data have contributed to research outputs
 (REF2/10295523/Pepin) and grant applications (e.g. Lovell, Royal Society; Day, UKRI GCRF).

 Eight staff (6F:2M) have benefitted from research leave or sabbaticals in this census period. This
 support enabled Boston to quantify the contribution of small glaciers and ice caps in Greenland
 to sea-level rise (REF2/13876992) and facilitated successful grant applications by Ekinsmyth
 (Urban Studies Foundation award to reconceptualise the urban landscape of work) and Rumble
 (INTERACT funding for work on Arctic soil ecology). Pepin’s sabbatical at the Institute of Tibetan
 Plateau Research, Beijing, facilitated novel research on Tibetan Plateau temperature change
 (REF2/14709508), which was subsequently supported by Royal Society International Exchange
 funding. Sabbaticals have also supported researchers to develop impact, including Brown
 working with community organisations and NGOs in Uganda implementing schemes to improve
 rural water access (REF2/20741917) and Inkpen to incorporate non-destructive methods into
 stone heritage conservation with Heritage Malta.

 Workshops on funding, publishing, open research and dissemination are offered via the
 Research and Innovation (RIS) Staff Development Programme (RISDP: REF5a, p.33); this is
 supplemented by Research Group activities, e.g. discussion groups, paper writing workshops,
 grant “hothouses”, impact away-days and “Dragon’s Den” style pitching sessions to
 stakeholders. The Unit runs a unified research seminar series that includes external speakers
 (e.g. Sir Nigel Thrift and Professor Iain Stewart), presentations from visiting scholars, and
 provides staff and PGRS with opportunities for external collaboration and networking.

 Postdoctoral research staff are integral to our Unit; in this assessment period, we have
 supported 3.5 FTE research positions. Although usually supported by external grants, we have
 provided bridging funding to retain individuals with specialist skills and on projects of strategic
 priority, e.g. ‘Vision of Britain’ and ‘GB1900’. Research staff are mentored by permanent
 researchers, have an annual PDR and are supported to publish, apply for funding and present at
 conferences. They can access career development training and coaching via RISDP and are
 represented through a Research Staff Forum (REF5a, p.42). As a result of this support, Phang
 has developed an independent research programme and publications.

 The principal mechanism for recognising and enabling research and impact activities is workload
 allocation, which includes dedicated time for external networking, public and user engagement.
 Staff are recognised and rewarded for research and impact leadership through promotion; the
 University’s Policy on Promotion and Appointment to Reader and Professor includes a broad
 range of relevant activities and recognises co-authorship of publications and income generation
 as PI or Co-I. All staff are encouraged to attend annual promotion workshops; those applying are
 offered mentoring and peer review of applications. In this census period, 67% of staff in the Unit
 have been promoted, including Inkpen, Pepin and Watson to Reader.

 2.3   Equality and Diversity

 The University is a signatory to the Race Equality Charter, a Stonewall Diversity Champion,
 Disability Confident employer, and holds an Institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award. All staff
 undertake mandatory training including Bullying & Harassment, Unconscious Bias, and Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI). SEGG has an Equality and Diversity Group and an EDI lead (0.1

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 FTE) who oversees promotion of equality and diversity within the Unit, from staff recruitment
 onwards. Prior to merging with SEES, the Department of Geography held an Athena Swan
 Bronze award; reapplication as SEGG is underway (for 2021). We are committed to foster an
 inclusive environment for all; 82% of eligible Category A staff are included in this submission and
 the overall profile of our Unit broadly reflects that of academic and research staff in the discipline
 (Table 1). No staff in our submission declared a disability although the Head of School manages
 teams inclusively to give people the confidence to disclose a disability. The age profile of our
 Unit is slightly older than the sector average, reflecting recruitment of more senior staff to
 provide succession for Professorial retirements. 19% of our Unit are on part-time, and 7% on
 fixed-term, employment contracts.

 Table 1: Unit profile and demographics

                                      Proportion of Cat A staff
                                                                         Doctoral degrees
               Indicator
                                                                            awarded
                                      Sector              Unit

           Gender (Female)            40%1                38%                    47%

          Ethnicity (BAME2)            5%1                12%                    20%

          Declared disability          5%1                 0%                    7%

              Age (36-55)             52%1                61%                     n/a
       1-Geography, environmental studies Advance HE, 2020; 2-Reported as Black,
       Asian and Minority Ethnic

 We are committed to supporting female staff into senior research leadership positions; currently,
 women are well-represented at Senior Lecturer/Research Fellow (60%F) levels but there is
 underrepresentation at senior grades (33%F Reader / Principal Lecturer; 0%F Professorial). We
 will address this as a priority going forward. This will include renewing our Athena Swan Award,
 continuing our sabbatical leave programme, providing funding for external female mentorship
 and supporting more of our female staff to participate in the HE Aurora Leadership Programme.

 Research seminars and essential meetings are scheduled within core hours and staff with caring
 responsibilities have access to flexible teaching arrangements where practical (REF5a, p.46). All
 staff are able to conduct research from home and remote and flexible work patterns were the
 norm, even before Covid-19. The University has guidance for staff and managers on maternity,
 paternity, shared parental and adoption leave and funding is available to support research re-
 engagement after periods of extended absence. Over the assessment period, one member of
 staff has taken adoption leave and the Unit has supported four staff through difficult
 circumstances (details confidential) by altering fieldwork requirements, reducing workloads,
 purchasing specific equipment and providing additional research assistance for laboratory
 analyses.

 REF submission: All staff involved in Unit REF decision-making attended specialist EDI training
 (REF5a, p.50). Outputs were reviewed and selected according to the UoP Code of Practice and
 the gender balance of our output reviewing committee (2F:3.6M FTE) was representative of the


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit. An EIA has confirmed that our REF2 outputs reflect the profile of submitted staff for
 ethnicity (13% BAME), contract (7% fixed term, 17% part-time) and career stage (7% ECR).
 Outputs by female staff (14/50; 28%) constitute a slightly lower proportion of the overall
 submission, reflecting the higher proportion of female staff in the CSG group and publication
 practice in human geography (predominantly fewer, and single-author, outputs).

 2.4   Recruitment, training and supervision of research students

 Our PGRS completions (7F:8M) have more than doubled relative to REF 2014 and have been
 supported by external sponsorships, internal bursaries and self-funding.

 Table 2: Annual PGRS completions

                      13-14      14-15       15-16      16-17      17-18      18-19      19-20

         PhD             3          3          1          1          4          1          1

       Prof Doc          0          0          0          0          0          0          1


 PGRS selection procedures differ according to funding stream but all selection panels are
 gender-balanced, supported by trained interviewers and all members complete the UoP “Best
 practice in the Selection & Admissions of PGRS” training. Where appropriate, online interviews
 are offered. PGRS supervisory teams typically consist of three staff, including external
 supervisors where they bring additional expertise. All PGRS undertake a major review after one
 year (full-time) that assesses progress and enables early identification of outstanding
 development requirements. In addition, there is an annual review of progress, irrespective of full-
 time/part-time pathway, and students are offered a mock viva with their supervisory team to help
 prepare for their viva voce. Supervisory team meetings typically occur at least monthly with the
 primary supervisor, and quarterly for full-team meetings; records of these meetings are recorded
 on an online platform (SkillsForge). These processes enable our PGRS to enjoy exceptional
 supervision; satisfaction scores for supervision in the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES) have been in the top quartile since 2014 (95%, 2019). Satisfaction in many other
 PRES categories, including overall satisfaction, has also consistently attained the top quartile.
 We attribute this to our open-door policy and staff accessibility.

 The School Research Degrees Coordinator is responsible for the monitoring and development of
 PGRS and there are PGRS representatives on the School Equality and Diversity and Research
 and Innovation Committees, as well as the Faculty Research Degrees Committee. In line with
 Vitae recommendations, PGRS attend at least 10 days of researcher development training each
 year. The University Graduate School Development Programme provides professional and
 generic skills training (REF5a, p.38) whilst the Unit provides specialist subject training, for
 example, on software (e.g. ArcGIS), climate/glacier interactions, tephrochronology and Bayesian
 age-modelling, and the philosophy of research. All PGRS are active members of our research
 groups, through which they participate in ‘Journal Clubs’, discussions on thesis and grant-
 writing, and peer support for developing research projects. As well as presenting within research
 groups, our PGRS organise an annual Geography summer conference, which includes oral and
 poster sessions and invited keynote speakers, and take part in the SEGG seminar series, the


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 annual University Festival of Doctoral Research and 3-minute thesis presentations. A bursary is
 available for all PGRS to attend at least one conference over the course of their studies.

 Our PGRS engage in a range of additional development activities to improve their employability.
 External networking is facilitated by supervisors’ extensive collaborations and the Unit’s
 engagement with key stakeholders. A PGRS placement scheme has supported students to
 spend time at academic and non-academic institutions e.g. Geological Survey of Ireland,
 Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate, Dutch WASH Alliance and GGD
 Amsterdam, where they learn techniques and methods to support their research and develop
 their networks. PGRS have also secured external funding, for example from INQUA, Prix du
 Quebec Award and British Geological Survey (BGS), to support additional placements and
 fieldwork. Our PGRS contribute to impact activities (4.2) and public engagement (4.5) and all
 students involved in teaching are enrolled on the University Graduate Students Professional
 Development programme that is aligned to accreditation by the UK HEA. Our training and
 development portfolio prepares our PGRS to progress to a range of successful careers.
 Example first destinations include academia (Plymouth, Goteborg); local/national government
 (Environment Agency, West Sussex County Council, Maltese Government, Nigerian Boundaries
 Commission); NGOs (PRACTICA Foundation) and industry (Ricardo EE). One of our PGRS is
 now Chair of the Responsible Whale Watching Working Group of the World Cetacean Alliance.
 Links with our PGRS continue into their subsequent employment, contributing to the wider
 vitality of research in the Unit and growing pathways to impact. For example, Brown’s research
 on the application of WaterTime (a method for water pre-payment and governance in Uganda) is
 conducted with PRACTICA, where a former student is Head of Drinking Water.

 Members of our Unit also contribute to national and international research training. Twigg and
 Houston have been deputy directors for the ESRC South Coast DTP (Southampton, Portsmouth
 and Brighton). In 2018, Boston secured €6000 to support a European Geosciences Unit
 workshop on ‘Glaciers, Moraines and Climate’; attended by 19 participants from 12 countries,
 this workshop trained PGRS and postdoctoral researchers to integrate different lines of paleo-
 glaciological evidence.


 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 During this assessment period, our income strategy has focused on developing the expertise
 and profile of our researchers to support successful funding applications (2.2), extending our
 national and international collaborations (4.1), and capitalising on the extended scope of our
 research (1.1). This strategy has been extremely successful; our total research income has
 grown from £515k to £2.16M (an equivalent increase from £47k/FTE to £117k/FTE). We have
 secured funding from increasingly diverse sources including: UK Research Councils (e.g. AHRC,
 ESRC, MRC and NERC); trusts and charities, such as the Heritage Lottery Fund, MQ Data
 science and River Trusts; the European Commission; UK government bodies, such as National
 Institute for Health Research, Public Health England, British Council and Natural England; local
 authorities and industry. Significantly, our income portfolio sourced from outside the UK has



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 risen from £24k to £423k (from 4.7% to 19.6% of our portfolio), reflecting the growth in our
 international profile.

 We have adopted a mixed approach to income generation that reflects individual staff
 circumstances. This has included:

  facilitating earlier-career staff to target seed-corn funding for the generation of pilot data to
   underpin publications and grant applications (2.2). For example, a BSG ECR grant supported
   field modelling of plateau icefield stability (Boston) and INTERACT-supported access to
   Arctic field stations enabled Rumble to investigate soil community response to climate
   change;
  using small/medium projects to demonstrate success and secure larger grants. For example,
   Soar conducted a scoping study for the US Army Engineering Corps that underpinned a
   subsequent award (>£300k) to develop river management tools to mitigate against flooding
   on the Mississippi;
  supporting collaborations with researchers in other institutions. For example, Unit funding
   enabled Hardiman to develop novel proxy data on paleo-wildfires that led to funding as part
   of a consortium (NERC, £2M), led by Manchester University, developing a UK fire danger-
   rating system. Similarly, Pallikadavath and Twigg were supported by the Unit to conduct
   primary research in India that consolidated collaborations with the Centre for Development
   Studies and forged new collaborations with the Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences,
   which subsequently underpinned a project to investigate financial incentives to access health
   services in India and Bangladesh;
  strategically targeting European funding to reflect the collaborative nature of the Unit’s
   activities. Notable successes include programmes on: open data archiving standards and
   infrastructure (Healey, E-ARK); water quality in coastal basin catchments (Watson, 3C) and
   management of inter-tidal habitats on the South coast of England (Watson, TEMITH,
   European Space Agency); and on gender and entrepreneurship (Ekinsmyth, Accelerating
   Women’s Enterprise; Rumble, PONToon);
  seeking funding from UKRI and equivalent sources to support areas of established strength.
   This includes, for example: examining the impacts of alternative health services financing
   systems on maternal and child health in India and Bangladesh (£560k, MRC) and of female
   worker migration on the “left behind family” in Indonesia (£81k, British Council), both to
   Pallikadavath and the latter underpinning UoP14Migration; modelling complex data to
   investigate place effects on rates of mental health compulsory admission (Twigg, NIHR) and
   subsequently undertaking novel analyses of administrative data to uncover differential use of
   Community Treatment Orders (ENCORE, Twigg, £241k, NIHR); and exploring the links
   between productivity, underemployment and other local labour market conditions (Houston,
   £35k, ESRC Productivity Insights Network).

 These mechanisms have enabled us to support a wider group of staff to submit to a broader
 range of funders; 62% of submitted staff have contributed to income generation as PI and we
 have received support from 40 different funders, indicating the vitality of our funding base. This




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 growth in volume and diversity of funding also demonstrates the increased relevance of our
 research to national and international strategic priorities.

 3.2   Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Research and impact are supported across the Unit at School level. In 2016, designated (0.3
 FTE) Associate Heads (AH) for Research and for Innovation were appointed, the latter to
 support non-academic collaboration and knowledge exchange. The School Research and
 Innovation Committee (SRIC) identifies research priorities, agrees the priorities for the strategic
 distribution of internal investment (e.g. in studentships and small grants), considers EDI issues,
 manages research integrity and monitors delivery against KPIs and the Research Concordat.
 Current membership includes the AH Research / Innovation (retained and consolidated since the
 SEGG merger), Research Group leads (Houston, Inkpen), Head of School, the Research
 Degrees Coordinator and representatives of ECRs and research staff. The SRIC reports to the
 School Management Group and Faculty RIC. The REF Unit Coordinator (Pepin) is a member of
 the Faculty and the University REF Steering Committees.

 Our Research Groups operate a peer-support system at the early stages of research design to
 improve project rigour and bid quality. Competitive external bid applications are reviewed
 through the University’s peer-review college. In addition to Unit-specific support, staff in the
 Faculty and central RIS teams (REF5a, p.56-57) provide support for bid development (including
 finances and co-ordinating internal reviews), developing pathways to, and evidencing, impact,
 research ethics applications, post-award administration of externally funded research projects
 and commercialisation (Intellectual Property, patenting and contracts).

 3.3   Facilities

 Our Earth Surface Materials Laboratory contains extensive analytical equipment, including an
 atomic absorption spectrometer, laser particle size analyser, flume, rainfall simulator, and ion
 chromatograph. Aligned with our strategic priorities, we have targeted investment to support
 work in environmental reconstruction, including techniques for tephra analysis (muffle furnaces,
 centrifuge, polishing machine, micro-manipulator); coring equipment (Russian peat corer, gravity
 corer (lake sediments)), Gouge auger and Glue corer microscopes, sediment traps, and metal
 detectors. Within SEGG, we have access to scanning electron microscopes with energy
 dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, an inductively-coupled plasma mass spectrometer, and an X-ray
 fluorescence spectrometer. These investments have expanded our capabilities in
 tephrochronological analysis and palaeo-environmental reconstructions (e.g. REF2/10573656).

 We have invested >£250k in field equipment to support our work in climate change and in glacial
 and fluvial systems. This includes two differential GPS (Leica), a 20 micron 3D laser scanner (for
 non-invasive field measurement of earth surfaces), a new ground penetrating radar, new drone
 technology (UAV), two automatic weather stations (Campbell), and expanding our pool of >400
 logging sensors. These have enabled projects spanning the monitoring of cloud patterns and
 microclimate on Kilimanjaro (REF2/10295523) to surging glaciers in Svalbard, and RFID-
 technology for monitoring boulder movement on the Isle of Wight. Our growth in fluvial science
 research is supported by an Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler, which has been used to identify
 habitats critical for ecological conservation. Photogrammetric software includes BAE Systems

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Socet Set, the Leica Suite, and we have extensive GIS and imaging tools
 (REF2/18845046/11861359/13876992/13877088).

 We have invested >£50k in database infrastructure, in particular servers and data protocols, to
 support our work on large scale secondary datasets (1.2.3) and public use web databases. This
 includes a high performance back-end Big Data Server with optimized RAID storage and front-
 end network security hardware. Servers run the latest Oracle 19c enterprise and data analytics
 software, and one server has the Oracle Data Integrator suite to support data warehousing
 applications (REF2/10556071/10556095/10555622).

 Our coastal and marine research is enabled by the Institute of Marine Sciences (IMS), a marine
 research station situated at the mouth of Langstone Harbour, Portsmouth that provides direct
 access to the Solent European Marine Site and coastal habitats across the Solent. The IMS
 supports extensive public engagement (4.5) and facilitates IDR by bringing together research
 expertise in marine ecology (Watson) with that in molecular biology, gene regulation and
 ecotoxicology to underpin research on the impact of climate change and environmental
 contaminants on aquatic ecosystems (REF2/18845046).

 Our extensive field equipment and laboratory resources are supported by 2.0 FTE technical
 staff, with specialisms in GIS and IT support, and 4.5 FTE laboratory staff (27%F) who support
 research and impact across SEGG. All staff and PGRS have equal access to infrastructure,
 irrespective of seniority, Research Group or availability of external income. Our facilities and
 instrumentation are accessible to wider academia and industry via the University Research
 Portal and equipment sharing databases, such as Equipment.data and Konfer. We will continue
 to invest in infrastructure, ensuring that future enhancement is driven by our strategic priorities
 and maximises the opportunities for shared resource use.

 Our researchers also access research facilities that complement those in the Unit. For instance,
 in collaboration with Heidelberg University and the University of Oxford, Hardiman has secured
 NERC in-kind resources (£42k) for C-dating of tephra deposits from Tenaghi Phillipon in Greece.
 As Office for National Statistics Approved Researchers, Houston and Twigg have access to
 secure social, economic and population datasets (REF2/25178090).


 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our increased strategic focus on supporting collaborations to enhance the quality and profile of
 our research is evidenced by 83% of our publications in this assessment period being with
 international (59%) or national (24%) co-authors (SciVal). Collaboration with academic partners
 is facilitated by mentoring, financial and workload support for visiting positions, providing office
 and research facilities to host researchers (1.2.1) and establishing PGRS supervisory teams with
 external members. Unit policy influencing activities (4.3) also consolidate partnerships and
 extend our networks. Our participation in funded research consortia promotes open science,
 produces rigorous research outputs and contributes to international reach. Examples include;
 Pallikavadath’s research with Padjadjaran, Gadiah Mada and Hanoi Medical Universities


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 evaluating financial incentives to health services use in India and Bangladesh; Soar working with
 the University of Nottingham and the University of St Louis (USA) on river channel stability;
 Hardiman with Manchester University, Royal Holloway and the Wildfire Forum to develop a UK
 fire danger rating system; and Twigg with the Universities of Southampton, Sheffield, Newcastle,
 Warwick and UCL to produce small area health indicators for service planning and evaluation.

 4.2   Relationships with key research users and contributions to the economy and
       society

 Linked to our strategic objectives for impact (1.2.2) and IDR (1.2.4), we have focused support to
 increase the breadth and depth of engagement with users of our research. This has led to
 collaborations with over 100 national and international companies, public sector organisations
 and agencies, and charities. The proportion of our research income from projects with at least
 one named non-academic partner has grown from 3% in 2013/14 to 30% in 2019/20, evidencing
 a step change in partnership development as part of our impact strategy.

 Notable examples include projects enhancing social and economic inclusion and equality
 through working with: clinicians from medical schools and the Mental Health Foundation to
 develop and evaluate interventions to reduce rates of mental health compulsory admission
 (Twigg: acknowledged in the Wessely Review of the Mental Health Act); economists to
 investigate the impacts of under-employment (Houston); human resource specialists, creative
 technologists, training organisations and local authorities in France and England to promote
 skills development and accelerate women’s enterprise (Ekinsmyth, Rumble); local theatre and
 arts organisations on issues facing the creative economy sector (Ekinsmyth); and local
 communities, regional and government agencies in the Global South to explore alternative
 systems for access to health services (India and Bangladesh) and implement policy changes to
 support female migrants and their families in Indonesia (Pallikadavath).

 We have also supported sustainable urban and rural development by working with: ecologists,
 town planners and architects in the UK and Brazil on Renaturing Cities (Rumble); planners,
 councils, and social scientists in the UK, US, Scandinavia and Taiwan to improve urban climate
 resilience (Brown, CRUNCH); local authorities, environment and conservation agencies on
 management and governance of natural freshwater and marine resources in the UK (Watson);
 and with international agencies (UN International Organisation for Migration, UNHCR), charities
 (Action Against Hunger), NGOs (PRACTICA Foundation, WASH Alliance), and community
 organisations to develop a sustainable management model for rural water infrastructure in
 villages, town and refugee settlements that has been adopted into the National Operation and
 Maintenance Framework for Rural Water Infrastructure in Uganda (2019) (Brown).

 Engagement, collaboration and dissemination with non-academic organisations are also
 embedded in the activities of our PGRS, promoting impact and enhancing their training and
 employability. For example, a work-based PGRS placement with Forest Research resulted in the
 publication of a new guidance note on managing UK wildfires, since shared with DEFRA,
 Forestry Commission, Met Office and National Fire Chiefs Council. Other PGRS have worked
 with local councils to report on youth tobacco and cannabis smoking and develop a school
 smoking survey across Southern England, with the South Downs National Park Authority to



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 improve management schemes for the River Rother, and with NGOs in Africa to help implement
 water management policy.

 4.3   Contributions to the sustainability of our disciplines and responsiveness to national
       and international priorities

 Alongside research-focussed papers submitted in REF2, the Unit supports the development of
 review and position papers in order to develop scholarship and the evolution of policy/practice. A
 Nature Climate Change review paper on elevation-dependent warming (EDW) (Pepin, 791
 citations, SciVal) placed rapid mountain warming on the international research agenda. EDW
 was subsequently highlighted in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2019) Special
 Report on Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate (Pepin contributing author). Pepin
 also contributed to the Hindu-Kush Himalaya Assessment (Bolch et al. 2018), amongst the most
 highly cited climate publications. Fletcher co-authored the UNEP report Land Restoration for
 Achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (2019) and led on a forthcoming report on
 governance of coastal resources for the UN Environment Assembly that highlights the impact of
 land-based management on our oceans. Healey has made a significant contribution to the
 published EC standard for archiving of electronic databases, E-ARK, at the forefront of
 European e-data storage and internet policy development. Other substantial outputs include
 Southall’s co-edited book on ‘Data in Society’ and Twigg’s co-authored book on ‘Smoking
 Geographies’ (the first monograph using a geographical approach and based on over a decade
 of international research and collaboration).

 Our staff also contribute to science-led practice and policy development on the national and
 international stage. Fletcher is Ocean Lead on the invitation-only UN International Resource
 Panel that provides independent scientific advice on sustainable coastal and ocean
 management to G7, G20, and UNEP. He is an invited member of the UNEP Sustainable Blue
 Economy Working Group and hosted a two-day UNEP-sponsored workshop on ocean plastic
 (March 2020). Pepin leads the elevation-dependent climate change working group of the
 Mountain Research Initiative, an NGO connecting the global mountain research community with
 stakeholders. In 2018, he co-organised an international workshop of the GEO-GNOME network
 to identify Essential Climate Variables for mountains for development and incorporation into
 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Potts is a member of the Education and
 Training Steering Committee of the Society for Underwater Technology, which acts as an
 interface between industry, academia, government and the UN to promote “Ocean Literacy”
 towards the 2030 SDGs, and is an invited member of the East Head Coastal Issues Advisory
 Group, Solent Forum and Standing Conference on Problems Associated with the Coastline,
 advising on coastal management schemes in the south of England; Rumble was on the panel
 that developed the British Green Roof Substrates standard (BS 8616:2019) and is a member of
 the team that is updating the Green Roof Code. She is also on the review panel for the British
 Ecological Society’s Nature Based Solutions report, informing government biodiversity strategy.

 4.4   Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Staff have provided expert review for UKRI Councils (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC and the
 MRC) and for funding bodies outside the UK (US National Science Foundation, Chinese
 Academy of Sciences, Netherlands Space Office and the Norwegian Research Council). In

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2018, Southall received an AHRC Gold Standard Letter for his ‘outstanding contributions…made
 to the Peer Review College’. Staff have also been members of grant assessment panels e.g.
 UKRI ‘Constructing a Digital Environment’ Strategic Priorities Fund (Healey), ESRC (Houston,
 2015-2017) and NERC Discovery Science Panel B (Pepin), and contribute to forums making
 recommendations on strategic funding priorities, e.g. ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ Advisory Group
 (Houston).

 Our reviewing (>50 journals) and editing of journals is extensive and is recognised as an
 important contribution through workload allocation. Editorship board positions include
 International Small Business Journal (Ekinsmyth), Geomorphology (Inkpen), Journal of
 Population Research (Pallikadavath), Arctic, Antarctic and Alpine Research (Pepin), Marine
 Policy (Potts), Health and Place (Twigg), Quaternary Science Reviews (Wulf). Staff have also
 guest edited journal special issues, such as Frontiers in Ocean Science (Fletcher), Geopolitics
 (Woodyer), Journal of Biosocial Sciences (Pallikadavath).

 Our staff contribute to the RGS-IBG including Chair of the Social and Cultural Geography
 Research Group (Woodyer), Membership Secretary of the Children, Youth and Families
 Research Group (Day) and Committee Member of the Coastal and Marine Research Group
 (Potts). Staff have convened sessions at international conferences, e.g. EGU, AGU, INQUA,
 RGS-IBG and AAAG, and organised conferences at UoP. CSG co-hosted the 2014 RGS-IBG
 Geography of Health Research Group young researchers ‘ENRGHI’ meeting, and we will host
 the Quaternary Research Association (QRA) 2021 meeting (online) for the first time, highlighting
 the increasing reputation of our paleo-environmental research. Staff regularly convene sessions
 within broader meetings, including a session on inclusive growth at the European Regional
 Science Association in Cork, Ireland (Houston, 2018).

 Recognition for contributions to research include the QRA Lewis Penny Medal (2019) to Boston
 for her contribution to understanding the Quaternary stratigraphy of the British Isles, Honorary
 Professorship to Pepin (Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research, Beijing, 2017) and Visiting
 Professorships to Fletcher (World Maritime University in Malmo, Sweden, and Greenwich
 Maritime Centre, London).

 4.5   Engagement with diverse communities and the public

 We are passionate about engaging the public with our research and employ several
 mechanisms to do this. Researchers in both our Research Groups have led on national “citizen
 science” projects. Building on his expertise with creating accessible digital databases, such as
 the ‘Great Britain Historical GIS’, ‘A Vision of Britain with Time’ and ‘Old Maps Online’ projects,
 Southall led the ‘GB1900’ project (2016-2018) that involved over 1,000 online volunteers in the
 digital recording of place names in Great Britain. Since launch in July 2018, there have been
 1,044 data downloads from the ‘GB1900’ site by local historians, researchers, libraries, archives
 and organisations across the public, private and voluntary sectors. ‘GB1900’ data was
 incorporated into the ‘Ramblers’ “citizen geography” ‘Don’t Lose Your Way’ campaign that has
 identified more than 49,000 miles of potentially missing rights of way (UoP14Places). Between
 2015 and 2018, Watson led a regional hub of the marine citizen science programme, ‘Capturing
 our Coast’ from the IMS. Funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund, Watson and his team delivered
 training, field days, laboratory sessions, social events and beach events to over 300 citizen

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 scientists who conducted transect surveys of marine species on UK rocky shores to monitor
 responses to environmental change. This team also partnered with the charity One Ocean on
 the ‘Sea Bin, Sea Change’ campaign to tackle marine plastic pollution. Between December 2017
 and September 2019, the team held four public events, each attracting over 200 people, as well
 as a series of beach cleaning days on the south coast and the Isle of Wight and a ‘Problem with
 Plastic’ fringe event at the King’s Theatre, Portsmouth, attended by 100 visitors.

 Staff also take part in international festivals and exhibitions: Healey was adviser on 19th century
 industrial photography for the ‘East of Mississippi’ exhibition in the National Gallery of Art,
 Washington DC, reaching over 60,000 people. Brown is a member of the Advisory Panel for the
 Venice Biennale 2021 (postponed from 2020 due to Covid-19) that will feature Rumble and
 Brown’s work on how we view urban nature and resilient communities, respectively.

 Unit staff and their PGRS have participated in regional outreach activities that include public
 talks and visits to schools and colleges. We offer a “G2U” programme that provides research-
 oriented lectures in local schools. Sessions cover aspects of geography ranging from glacial
 retreat (Lovell), to culture and urban regeneration in Los Angeles (Ekinsmyth). We also “teach
 the teachers” with a highly successful programme across Hampshire in which staff use their
 research to inform the school curriculum (e.g. measuring microclimate on the South Downs:
 Pepin). Houston and Ekinsmyth co-wrote two educational documentaries produced by Time for
 Geography for schools, drawing on their research expertise on cities and identity. Staff and
 PGRS also present at public events (e.g. Pint of Science, Portsmouth Victorious Festival,
 Science in the Pub) and meetings with local community groups (Uo3A, Havant Rotary Club and
 Friends of Langstone Harbour).

 Our research also features in national and international media. Examples include: opinion pieces
 on children, play and violence (Woodyer, 2016); Brexit and the fishing industry (Potts, 2018) and
 Greta Thunberg’s carbon neutral travel to the USA (Fletcher, 2019)); interviews e.g. with
 Pallikadavath on health in Indonesia (CNN, 2018) and Pepin in the Arrow-Media Channel 5
 documentary on Kilimanjaro (2018); and Inkpen’s contribution to research on the D-Day map at
 Southwick House (Reuters, BBC Breakfast, June 2019). Four staff (Fletcher, Houston, Woodyer,
 Potts) have published in The Conversation; Houston’s critical review of ‘Five Maps That Will
 Change How You See the World’, has been read by over 500,000 people since 2017.




                                                                                             Page 17
