Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 30 – Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a) Context

Philosophy at Kingston is a Subject Group within the Department of Humanities, in the School of
Art, Culture and Communication (ArCC), part of the faculty Kingston School of Art (KSA). All staff
in the Subject Group are members of the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy
(CRMEP), a university-level research ‘centre of excellence’. During the cycle, the University
invested in the reorganization of research support, at both faculty and university levels, as outlined
in the Institutional Statement. This included the introduction of centrally funded, competitive
university PhD Studentships, in October 2015, from which the unit has benefited to the total value
of £566,607. The university is a member of the TECHNE consortium AHRC Doctoral Training
Partnership, from which the unit also regularly received PhD Studentships, to the value £791,107
(including matched funding and fees) in the REF cycle and £162,690 committed for 2020/21. At
any one time, staff in CRMEP supervise a community of around 25–30 PhD students. They also
teach on three research-based MA programmes – in Modern European Philosophy, Aesthetics and
Art Theory, and Philosophy and Contemporary Critical Theory; along with a two-year taught
MPhilStud. An 18-month joint MA with the University of Paris-8, Saint-Denis, which included a
member of CRMEP teaching in one semester each year at Paris-8, ran 2014-2019. Overall, there
are usually about 80 postgraduate students (PGT + PGR) studying in CRMEP, making it a major
centre for the postgraduate study and research in modern European or continental philosophy in
the UK. Along with staff, PhD students attend and participate in a regular, intensive research
events programme, which is also open to the wider academic community in London. CRMEP is a
member of the London Post-Kantian Seminar (along with Birkbeck, King’s London, Roehampton,
Royal Holloway and UCL) and a group of its PhD students founded the London Historiography of
Philosophy Group, in collaboration with Royal Holloway London.


b) Structure of the Unit

The Philosophy Unit of Assessment at Kingston contains all the staff in the Philosophy Subject
Group and research centre (currently 8 at 6.6 FTE, comprised of 7 Professors and 1 Lecturer –
Woodford). The CRMEP maintains its founding mission to pursue philosophical inquiry informed
by the European or continental tradition from Kant to the present and to explore the relations of this
tradition to other fields in the arts and humanities, especially visual arts, politics and
psychoanalysis. Individual staff research has also recently extended into some areas of the history
and philosophy of science: neuropsychoanalysis and natural history, in particular. CRMEP
continues to encourage inter- and transdisciplinary work in philosophy, along with the ‘emphasis on
broad cultural and intellectual contexts and a distinctive sense of social and political engagement’
included in its mission. Osborne is Director of the CRMEP and coordinator of PGR students in
Philosophy. He is a member of the Faculty Research Business and Innovation (RBI) committee,
and during the cycle was on the University RBI committee as a representative of senior
researchers. As a small unit, CRMEP manages its business through regular staff meetings, to
which all Philosophy staff are invited. There are also regular staff-PhD students meetings, which
contribute ideas for the events programme. The Centre hosts regular Visiting Researchers from
universities in Europe and elsewhere (see below).


c) Research Strategy

Research within the CRMEP is directed towards philosophical inquiry informed by the European
tradition from Kant to the present, including reflection on the historical constitution of philosophy as

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a discipline and its relations to other disciplinary knowledges. It takes the forms of individual staff
research and collaborative research, both within the Centre itself and with other, national and
international, institutional partners – including the Groupe Européen de recherches philosophiques
transdisciplinaires (GERPT), University of Paris 8 (ongoing) and the Royal Institute of Art,
Stockholm (2015–17).

       CRMEP aims to integrate the activities of staff research, research-degree students, taught
postgraduate students and visiting speakers and researchers from elsewhere in UK and overseas,
to build a distinctive philosophical community. To this effect, the Centre organizes regular
conferences and workshops (25 in the cycle) including some within externally funded research
projects. Its October 2017 conference marking the 150th anniversary of the publication of Volume 1
of Marx’s Capital: A Critique of Political Economy, ‘Capitalism: Concept and Idea’, for example, had
over 420 registered attendees; the December 2017 workshop on Hegel’s logic, over 90
participants; the conference ‘Thinking Art’ in February 2020, 120 registrations. During this cycle,
CRMEP collaborated in the organization of research events with the Institute of Contemporary Arts
(ICA) London (2014 & 2019), Royal Institute of Art, Stockholm (2016 & 2017) and the University of
Paris-8 (2014–16, 2018). Its regular Research Seminar series (58 events in the cycle) attracts an
audience of 60+ postgraduate students and staff. CRMEP has presented four series of public
lectures by its staff about their work in progress, on ‘Philosophy, Politics and the Arts’, at the
University of the Arts London (2013/4, 2014/5, 2016/7) and Westminster University (2018/19).
These series encourage staff to discuss the relationship between their individual ongoing research
in a public forum, within the broad thematic framework of connections between philosophy, politics
and the arts.

      All research events planned from 16 March to 31 July 2020 were postponed due to COVID-
19 restrictions and rescheduled to take place, in an outline mode, during 2020–21; alongside the
enhanced online presence provided by a series of regular podcasts, which will also be broadcast
on Cashmore Radio, Berlin.

     Current strategy is a development of that set out in the plan in REF2014. It builds on three
elements outlined there:

1. a focus on thematic areas of research representing overlaps between current fields of individual
   staff research, within our acknowledged area of expertise in modern European or ‘continental’
   Philosophy;

2. an emphasis on collaborations in organizing research events and in seeking funding for project-
   based research;

3. consolidation of the research-degree student community by seeking regular fully-funded, full-
   time PhD Studentships. In this latter respect, we have increased our focus on the PhD student-
   led organization of one-day research workshops (to one or two each year), including those
   within the collaborative support structure of the AHRC TECHNE doctoral training partnership.
   There is also a graduate conference, organized by a PhD-student steering committee, every
   two years (June 2015, 2017, 2019).

       Interdisciplinary – and in particular transdisciplinary – research is encouraged within CRMEP
for both staff and PhD students. Since Osborne’s AHRC project on Transdisciplinarity in the
Humanities (2011–13), we have taught transdisciplinarity (in its distinction from inter- and multi-
disciplinarity) as an approach to research in our regular seminars on Philosophical Methods, for
MPhilStud and PhD students, and it is a frequent topic of discussion at research events, and
between staff. This is reflected in the character of the research events we organize (for example,
the conference on the 150th anniversary of Marx’s Capital, involved sociologists, political
economists, literary theorists and political scientists, as well as philosophers), the wide range of the
topics of the PhDs we supervise, and the unit’s publications (over 50% of outputs submitted here
are flagged as ‘interdisciplinary’).



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       An open research environment is part of the ethos of the CRMEP. This extends from the
advertising and opening of our research events to the public to our recent founding of an open
access book series, with the electronic versions of the books licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-Non-Commercial No Derivatives 4.0 International Licence (CC-BYNC-ND)
https://www.kingston.ac.uk/faculties/kingston-school-of-art/research-and-innovation/crmep/crmep-
books/. The books are also available as paperbacks. The series publishes annual collections of
essays derived from our larger international conferences, alongside a series of pamphlets of the
annual Gillian Rose Memorial Lectures (2019 onwards, funded by private donation from the Tom
Vaswani Education Family Trust). The first volume, Capitalism: Concept, Idea, Image - Aspects of
Marx's Capital Today, edited by Osborne, Alliez and Eric-John Russell (a PhD student) was
published in 2019; the second book, Thinking Art: materialisms, labours, forms, edited by Osborne,
appeared in 2020. Most of the CRMEP research events 2014-2019 were professionally recorded
and are freely available as audio downloads via Backdoorbroadcasting
(https://backdoorbroadcasting.net/tag/centre-for-research-in-modern-european-philosophy-crmep/).
The openness of our research environment is a central part of our public engagement strategy, for
which, see Impact Strategy, below.

       Regarding our strategy of focussing research themes on the areas of overlap between
individual staff research, there have been five thematic areas over this cycle:

(i) Kant and critical history of philosophy (Caygill, Malabou and Sandford)

Having completed his book on Kafka (output 30-04-1314), which reads Kafka’s double-life as a
novelist and insurance company employee through Kant’s philosophical category of the ‘accident’,
Caygill has returned to a longstanding project on ‘Kant’s Late Philosophy: Science and
Metaphysics in the Opus Postumum (OP)’ that interprets the OP as a post-critical metaphysics, for
which he will seek joint DFG-AHRC funding in collaboration with colleagues at Leuphana
University of Lüneberg, including to stage events during the 300th anniversary of Kant’s birth. In her
modified defence of transcendental philosophy against the arguments of ‘speculative realism’,
Malabou has published a book on Kant focusing on the themes of epigenesis and rationality
(output 30-09-2081). Following on from her publications on Kant’s writings on race (in relation to
the Critique of Pure Reason) and anthropology (in the context of Freud’s psychoanalysis) – outputs
30-13-1318 and 30-15-1320 – Sandford has broadened the scope of her inquiry to include the
contemporary philosophical significance of classification in 18th-century biology and its relationship
to Aristotle (output 30-14-1319), with a philosophical study of ‘Sex Division in Natural History’, for
which she was awarded a three-year Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (2018–21).

(ii) French philosophy (Alliez, Balibar, Hallward)

The CRMEP is a major centre for the practice and study of French philosophy in the UK.
Hallward’s long-term project, ‘The Will of the People’, investigates the contemporary philosophical
and political possibilities of a renewal of the Rousseauean tradition in French political philosophy,
in the wake of the post-Althusserian political philosophies of the 1970s and 80s. As part of this, he
was awarded an 18-month AHRC Research Leadership Fellowship for the project ‘Blanqui and
Political Will’ (2015–17) to deliver a new, archive-based assessment of Blanqui's political thought:
https://blanqui.kingston.ac.uk/. In addition to the archive, the project also produced the first
collection of translations of Blanqui’s political writings to be published in English, Blanqui Reader
(2018). Hallward is contracted to publish a series of books on political will, commencing in 2021.

      Alliez and Balibar each published on the contribution of French philosophers to the
distinctive structuralist/poststucturalist line of thought on transdisciplinarity in the 2015 special
issue of Theory, Culture and Society that was the main output of Osborne’s 2011–13 AHRC
project Trandisciplinarity and the Humanities (output 30-02-1271). Alliez, Balibar and Malabou
are major figures within the contemporary French philosophical scene, and all three have
published books intervening in the field during the cycle. In addition, Balibar’s selected writings,
Écrits, have begun to appear with Editions La découverte, Paris: Vol. I: Histoire interminable: D’un
siècle l’autre (303 pp., 2020); Vol. II: Passions du concept: Epistémologie, théologie et politique


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(271 pp., 2020). Volumes III (Cosmopolitique : Nations, guerres et frontiers) and IV (L’avenir des
racismes) are in press for publication in 2021.

(iii) European Philosophy of Art (Alliez, Osborne)

Alliez and Osborne have continued their critical dialogue at the interface of European philosophy
of art and Anglo-American art theory, with specific reference to the idea of postconceptual art.
Three CRMEP symposia were held on the topic in Paris (2014, 2015, 2016) in collaboration with
the University of Paris-8, where Alliez also teaches. Each continues to publish in the area (output
30-11-1311). Alliez and Osborne pursue much of their research in this area in art-institutional
contexts, internationally, exemplified here in the Impact Case Study by Osborne, which details
pedagogical collaborations with the Royal Institute of Art, Stockholm, and Yale University School of
Art, as well as engagements with the projects of major museums and other international art
institutions. Osborne is currently developing a grant project in the area of ‘Historical Ontology of
Contemporary Art’. Alliez’s book on Duchamp and Lacan will appear in French in 2021.

(iv) Philosophy, Critical Theory and Sciences (Caygill, Osborne, Sandford, Malabou, Woodford)

Caygill’s research approach is a distinctive blend of critical theory and the history of ideas (output
30-04-1314). Osborne continues to explore the methodological heritage of Frankfurt Critical
Theory in transdisciplinary research (output 30-12-1312). Sandford has extended her work in the
philosophy of sex and gender into philosophical debates within psychoanalysis (output 30-15-1320,
on the one hand, and historically based investigation into categories from the Critical Philosophy of
Race (output 30-13-1318), on the other). In her 2015 Wellek Library Lectures (output 30-08-2072)
Malabou has extended her research on the philosophy of neurobiological plasticity into the
domains of neuropsychoanalysis and the symbolic. Woodford is contracted to write a volume in
the Cambridge University Press series in Philosophy of Biology, on Nietzsche and Biology.

(v) Political Philosophy (Alliez, Balibar, Caygill, Hallward)

This body of work includes Alliez’s Wars and Capital (output 30-01-1268), Hallward’s research on
political will, and its role in the philosophical underpinnings of French Maoism (output 30-07-1315),
Balibar’s research into citizenship, borders and cosmopolitanism, in the context of the European
Union, and Caygill’s continuing work on the philosophy of resistance – a 400-page collection of
which, from the last thirty years (Force and Understanding: Writings on Philosophy and
Resistance) was published in autumn 2020. Notwithstanding the expiry of the agreement
governing the CRMEP Visiting chair at the University of Paris-8 (in Dec. 2019), CRMEP continues
its research collaboration with the Groupe Européen de recherches philosophiqes
transdisciplinaires (GERPT) there, with an international conference on ‘Critique of Strategic
Reason’, initially scheduled for April 2020 in Paris, now Covid-postponed to 2021.

      External research funding was awarded within the cycle to Hallward (an eighteen-month
AHRC Leadership Fellowship, ‘Blanqui and Political Will’) and Sandford (a three-year Major
Leverhulme Research Fellowship for a project on ‘Sex Division in Natural History’). Unsuccessful
bids for larger projects (from ERC and AHRC, respectively – on ‘Transdisciplinarity in
Contemporary Art’ and ‘Kant’s Late Philosophy’) are currently being restructured and further
developed in order to seek funds from alternative sources.

      Future strategy of the unit will be reviewed in 2021–22 in the light of staff changes following
the upcoming retirements of Balibar and Malabou (autumn 2021), at which point we hope to
appoint a new junior member of staff (perhaps as a joint appointment with Fine Art), helping to
rebalance the age profile of the unit, and introducing new research interests within the broad
established trajectory of its work. However, it is anticipated that the broad outlines of the current
strategy, comprising longstanding activities of the CRMEP including an extensive events
programme, will continue, within the context of a more integrated research structure at School and
Faculty levels. Despite Brexit, CRMEP will continue to seek research collaborations with relevant
groups in European universities, which are in alignment with its mission: for example, Caygill ‘s

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
joint bid to the AHRC-DFG programme with the Leuphana University of Lüneberg, in connection
with the Kant extension of the East Prussian Museum and the commemorations of the 300th
anniversary of Kant’s birth in 2024. Osborne is in discussion with the Philosophy Faculty at the
Free University Berlin about collaboration in the philosophy of art; Sandford is pursuing ideas for a
project on philosophy and psychoanalysis with the Center for Contemporary European Philosophy,
Radboud University, Nijmegen; and projects in feminist philosophy with researchers in Helsinki and
Berlin.


d) Impact Strategy

The Unit’s approach to impact is centred on public engagement and institutional
collaborations. Given the emphasis in its mission on ‘broad cultural and intellectual contexts and
a distinctive sense of social and political engagement’, and the interdisciplinary character of much
of the research itself, public engagement is a central part of the CRMEP’s activities. Its research
has academic beneficiaries beyond Philosophy, in a range of disciplines in the arts and social
sciences (see Google Scholar Citations lists for staff – Osborne, for example, had nearly 2,800
citations of his writings, 1 Jan. 2014–31 Dec. 2019). The non-academic beneficiaries of our
research are mainly: therapeutic practitioners (ICSUoA30Malabou2); public art institutions and the
professionals, audiences and individuals served by them (ICSUoA30Osborne1 &
ICSUoA30Malabou2); political activists and non-academic members of the audiences at CRMEP
public events and the numerous public speaking engagements undertaken by its members.

       The main types of impact that the Unit achieves are in civil society (political and educational
activism), cultural life (curation), education (art schools and adult programming in public art
institutions), public discourse (about art, education and politics – in the traditions of the New Left
and the feminist movement) and the provision of expert advice to research councils.

Public engagement

CRMEP targets its public engagement activities at non-academic communities that are politically
and intellectually engaged and eager to use insights drawn from philosophy in cultural, political and
intellectual debate. The aim is to foster the dissemination of individual philosophical research
beyond the academy through speaking at public events and a broad-based publishing strategy,
including in the media, and from February 2020, podcasts. The open access series of electronic
CRMEP Books and Pamphlets, launched in early 2019 (344 downloads June 2019–July 2020:
Google Analytics), further contributes to the dissemination of the research in the Centre.

        One element of this strategy involves CRMEP staff contributions to the independent,
collectively edited and produced UK journal Radical Philosophy. Originally in hardcopy (1972 until
the end of 2016) selling over 1,000 copies bimonthly, the journal was relaunched in February 2018
as an open access online journal. Three members of staff (Hallward, Osborne, Sandford) were
active members of the editorial committee and regular contributors to the journal up to the end of
its first series in Dec. 2016. (Osborne played a leading role, 1982–2016.) Hallward continues as
an editorial member of the new, 2nd series, and two recent CRMEP PhD alumni (Nemenyi and
Mercier) have joined its board. As a subscriber service (up to Jan. 2017), the website received over
330,000 unique page views per annum with over 10,000 individual items being downloaded as
pdfs. In 2018 the journal’s previous website, containing the first 40-year archive as pdfs, was
relaunched as radicalphilosophyarchive.com, with all material on open access. In December 2019,
the archive launched a publication series (edited by Osborne) of themed volumes of Essays from
the Radical Philosophy Archive, as free e-books and commercial paperbacks. The first two
volumes, Critique and Betrayal and Philosophy & Nations, are each edited by 3 current CRMEP
PhD students (Gross, Hare, Krogh).

      The CRMEP advertises its events on its Facebook page, which had 6,200 followers by 31
July 2020. It often holds public events in central London venues. The audience for the audio
downloads of the recordings of events continue to grow. The 9 public lectures by CRMEP staff on

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Philosophy, Politics and the Arts at Chelsea School of Art, University of the Arts, London, in 2016–
17, for example, had total audio downloads by March 2019 of 23,000 (numbers for 2020 not
available). The six audio files from the workshop on Simondon at CRMEP in Kingston in 2017 had
a download average of over 2,300 each; while Malabou’s plenary at our annual graduate
conference in 2017 had over 5,000 downloads. The 13 audio files from the 2-day international
conference on ‘Capitalism: Concept and Idea’ of autumn 2017 had an average of over 8,000
downloads each; while the average number of downloads from the 5 audio files from the Workshop
on Hegel’s Logic is around 7,000 for each.

       The number of invitations received by CRMEP staff to speak in non-academic and especially
art-institutional contexts, internationally (see ‘contribution to the research base, economy and
society’, in section 4, below) is an indicator of the uptake of ideas and the success of the
dissemination involved in the public engagement strategy. A sample of Osborne’s and Malabou’s
public engagements are listed as part of the ICSs. Sandford recently contributed to Radio 3’s
Freethinking programme, ‘Philosophy in a time of Covid-19’ (July 2020) and has produced
podcasts for the Linnean Society, as part her collaboration with them in the context of her
Leverhulme grant project.

      As part of the planning for autumn 2020, undertaken in June 2020, in the light of the Covid-
19 restrictions, a commitment was made to a podcast series by CRMEP staff, February–April
2021.

Institutional engagement

The CRMEP pursues engagement through collaborative research-related events with both art-
educational and non-academic cultural institutions, directed towards shaping the practices of these
institutions. For example, there were events at the following institutions for books by Alliez:
Fondation Ricard, Paris (2014), Institut Culturel Français, Istanbul (2015), Fundacio Tapies,
Barcelona and Museo La Tertulia Cali, Columbia (2016), Blaffer Art Museum, Houston (2017).
Osborne’s and Malabou’s engagements with institutional projects are listed as part of the ICSs.
CRMEP has revived its longstanding relationship with the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA),
London with conferences in 2014 and 2019.

       The impact strategy of the unit for 2021 onwards is to further develop current practices of
extended dissemination and public and institutional engagement as pathways to impact within its
main research areas, at national, European and wider international levels, focusing on the areas of
cultural change in public institutions, public education and public discourse. Given the small size of
the unit, plans depend on the developing research plans of individual members of staff, and also
their success in obtaining external funding for projects.


 2. People

Staff

CRMEP has retained 7 (@5.7 FTE) of the 8 staff (@6.2 FTE) entered into REF2014 (Benjamin
retired in autumn 2019); five of whom have held Visiting Chairs abroad (in Paris, Stockholm, New
Haven, New York and California) during the cycle – 4 as part of institutional collaborations in
postgraduate teaching and research. The Centre has employed 3 Early Career Researchers on
temporary contracts since autumn 2015 (Verkerk, Le Goff and Mercier) and one Lecturer
(Woodford, 0.9 FTE) who is entered here as part of the overall total of 6.6 FTE. It has hosted 14
Visiting Researchers – 7 doctoral, 7 postdoctoral – from 11 countries, 2014–July 2020, for periods
of 3–12 months each. 100% of staff are research active.

      Staffing strategy is formulated within the financial parameters of a small specialist unit,
currently made up predominantly of senior permanent staff, teaching MA & MPhilStud programmes
and supervising PhDs. This involves staff taking regular visiting chairs abroad and making regular

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
applications for external research funding, both to support research time and to bring ECRs into
the Centre. The unit has 5 full-time professors (Caygill, Hallward, Malabou, Osborne, Sandford).
Of these, 3 (Caygill, Hallward, Osborne) circulated annually through the position of International
Visiting Professor for Problématisations du réel historique et de la pensée sociale (2014–2019) in
the Philosophy Department, University of Paris 8, for the first half of each calendar year. Since
2017, Malabou has held a visiting position as Professor of Comparative Literature at the University
of California, Irvine, during the third quarter of their academic year. She also held the Spinoza
Chair at University of Amsterdam, February-March 2019. Caygill has been Visiting Research
Fellow and Visiting Professor at the Institute for Research in Digital Cultures, University of
Luneburg (July 2016) and in the Department of Philosophy, University of Rome ‘La Sapienza’ (April
2019). Alliez, whose main position is at the University of Paris 8, is employed 0.2 FTE at Kingston
as the coordinator and co-organizer of the CRMEP–Paris-8 research relationship, as well as a
researcher in the Centre.

      In addition, a 0.5 FTE Anniversary Chair in the Humanities, associated with the CRMEP, is
held by Balibar, who teaches on our MAs and contributes to PGR supervisions. He holds a Visiting
Chair in the French Department at Columbia University, New York, for semester 1, each year.

      Dr Willow Verkerk (currently teaching at University of British Columbia in the Department of
Philosophy) held a 21-month fixed-term Lecturership in Philosophy (2016–17) as teaching
replacement for Hallward during his Blanqui AHRC grant, on which Dr Philippe Le Goff was
employed as a 12-month postdoctoral fellow (2015–16). Le Goff has subsequently taken up a
permanent position in French Studies at the University of Warwick. Dr Lucie Kim-Chi Mercier held
an Early Career Research Fellowship in Modern European Philosophy, supported by the
university’s Research Transformation Fund (2016–18) and a Lectureship (2018-19) as
replacement for Sandford at the start of her Leverhulme Major Fellowship. She left to take up a
Swiss Research Foundation international postdoctoral fellowship, at Berkeley and Paris-8. She
was mentored within the CRMEP, with respect to postgraduate teaching and supervision, as well
as her research career. Her temporary lectureship was taken over by Peter Woodford, who held a
postdoctoral position at Cambridge in the philosophy of biology (2014–2017), prior to teaching at
Union College, NY. Sandford became a Senior Fellow of HEA in 2017 and has attended
Leadership Foundation seminars in her role as a staff governor of the University and member of
Senate and the Academic Governance Committee.

      Strategies for staff development are informed by the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, of which KU is a signatory. The Concordat Action Plan specifies
systematic research mentorship structures, open contracts for research staff, and an increased
allocation of staff development time for researchers. Kingston University’s commitment to research
was recognised with an EU HR Excellence in Research award (2016, renewed 2020). Staff benefit
from courses offered by the University’s Graduate Research School (with a focus on ECRs) on
subject matters such as ethics, PGR supervision, impact, research integrity, open access research,
preparation of outputs, attracting research funding and managing research grants. New staff
further benefit by 1:1 support from School Directors of RBI (SDRBI), who advise on research plans,
and are invited to join Research Centres and Groups as part of their introduction to the unit.
Development needs and opportunities are discussed at appraisal. These processes feed into
collective development of research priorities, identification of shared research needs and judicious
allocation of administrative roles and other aspects of workload. Supporting the career
development of ECRs is central to the unit’s staffing strategy, as described above. Particular
attention is paid to ensuring ECRs set clear research targets with mentors and receive detailed
guidance on achieving their goals.

      Staff strategy

      Two members of staff (1.5 FTE) are expected to retire in autumn 2021: Balibar and
Malabou. At that point, we will propose appointment of a junior member of staff, rebalancing the
age profile of the unit, and introducing new research interests within the broad established
trajectory of its work. This may involve a further research specialization in philosophy of art, now

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that the Department of Humanities is located in the same Faculty as the Departments of Fine Art
and Critical & Historical Studies, since collaborations at the level of postgraduate teaching are
already planned. A cross-departmental appointment between Philosophy and Fine Art is thus one
possibility.


Postgraduate research students

Maintaining a culture supportive of research degree students is a major objective of the CRMEP
and supervision of research degree students is taken to be an important part of the staff research
environment. The main mechanisms for the integration of research degree students into the
research culture are: (i) participation in the CRMEP programme of research events (seminars,
workshops and conferences); (ii) the two-day Philosophy Annual Progress Seminar, at which they
must present the state of their research to staff and their peers; (iii) a Postgraduate Conference
every two years, run by the PhD students, with financial support from the unit and advice from
staff; (iv) one-day Workshops with an international visiting speaker, organized by small groups of
PhD students on topics of common interest to their research; (v) PhD reading groups, and other
informal groups in which PhD students read each other’s work. There is also an annual Faculty
PGR conference at which students can present aspects of their research to a wider academic
audience. All permanent members of the unit supervise PhD students.

      PhD Recruitment The unit has maintained the size and diversity of its research degree
student community while increasing the proportion of full-time students from two-thirds to three
quarters, making it a major UK provider of PhD research in Philosophy. At 31 July 2020, there
were 30 PhD students in Philosophy registered for PhD at 24.5 FTE, of whom one third were
women (broadly in line with the last-reported national average).

     Studentships PhD students in Philosophy have been recipients of 11 competitive Kingston
University Studentships (@ £566,607) and 15 Studentships from the TECHNE AHRC consortium
(@ £791,107), making a total of 26 grant-funded students in the cycle (@ £1,357,714). 3 more
students were awarded TECHNE funding in May 2020 for the September 2020 start. In addition,
several overseas students received funding from state institutions or foundations in their home
countries (Costa Rica, Mexico, Portugal, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland).

     PhD awards 28 PhDs and 1 MPhil were awarded within the cycle; an average of 6 PhDs
each for the 5 full-time members of staff who act as main supervisors.

       Support, Skills and Monitoring Identification of individual training needs is the
responsibility of the supervisory team. PhD Research Skills Seminars are provided at Subject,
Faculty and University level. CRMEP runs Philosophical Methods seminars for its MPhilStud and
PhD students. Monitoring takes place through the ‘Supervision Meeting Record’ forms that the
student and supervisor complete after each meeting, the Annual Monitoring Report, and (at the
end of the first year) a MPhil to PhD Progression Transfer Report and Panel. Students are
encouraged to present papers to postgraduate conferences and on panels at national and
international philosophical events such as the annual conference of the Society for European
Philosophy (at which our students give papers regularly). Financial support is provided for
individual students for these events via the university Graduate Research School through
competitive application. CRMEP encourages its best students to go on to apply for postdoctoral
fellowships and teaching positions (see below).

       Collaborations A group of CRMEP PhD students (Gross, Hare, Krogh), along with Mercier
(an ECR), instigated the collaboration with Philosophy at Royal Holloway London that founded the
London Historiography of Philosophy Working Group, which is supported in its events by The
British Society for the History of Philosophy, as well as by the two universities.

     Publications Revised versions of the PhDs by Tomlinson (PhD, 2014), Saenz de Sicilia
(2016), Chehonadskih (2017), Garcia (2017) and Russell (2019) have been contracted for


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
publication as books, and those by Aldouri and Campbell (2015), Mercier and Pippa (2016),
Howard and Chehonadskih (2017) and Russell (2019) have all been the source of published
articles. Dahms (2019) co-edited Thinking Catherine Malabou (Rowman & Littlefield, 2018), to
which Bevan (2017) and Washington (2018) also contributed. Howard (2017) is co-editing The
Edinburgh Critical History of Early Modern and Enlightenment Philosophy (forthcoming, Edinburgh
UP, 2022).

     Academic posts The following 10 PhD students, awarded doctorates within this cycle, have
subsequently held full-time academic posts:

Caló (PhD 2016: Visiting Research Fellow, Centre for Humanities and Health, King’s College
London, 2019-20); Campbell (2016: Postdoctoral Research Assistant on the project The Future of
Indeterminacy: Datification, Memory, Biopolitics at Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art and
Design, Dundee University); Mercier (2016: Postdoctoral Fellow, then Lecturer, at CRMEP, 2017–
19, now International Postdoctoral Fellow, Swiss National Science Foundation, Paris-8 and
Berkeley, 2019–21); Pippa (2016: Lecturer, Philosophy, University of Wolverhampton, now
postdoctoral fellow, Milan); Saenz de Sicilia (2016: Lecturer, Newcastle, 2018–19; due to take up a
postdoctoral position UNAM, Mexico City in autumn 2020); Wikström (2017: Senior Lecturer,
Dance, University of the Arts, Stockholm); Howard (2017: Postdoc, Centre for Metaphysics,
Philosophy of Religion and Philosophy of Culture, Catholic University of Leuven); Chehonadskih
(2017: Fellowship in Slavic Studies, University of Oxford, 2019–20); Hernandez (2018: Lecturer in
Visual Cultures, Goldsmiths); Nemenyi (2018: Lecturer in Big Data Methodologies and
Technologies Education, Digital Humanities, King’s College London).

     The following 9 CRMEP PhDs have taught part-time or held fractional academic positions:

Nogues (autumn 2013; Associate Lecturer in Fine Art, CCW, University of the Arts London [UAL]);
Blechman (autumn 2013: Social Foundations, NYU-in-Paris); Aldouri (2015: Adjunct, Temple
University & Moore College of Art & Design, Philadelphia); Tomlinson (2015, Government, Brunel
University; Adjunct at SUNY-Old Westbury, 2019-20); Kennedy (2017: Visiting Teaching Fellow in
French, Trinity College Dublin, 2018-20); Palmussari (2017, 0.5 FTE Lecturer in French, King’s
College London); Fletcher (2018: CSM–UAL; Royal College of Art; Bournemouth); Washington
(2018: Adjunct, San Francisco Art Institute, California College of the Arts, 2019–20); Russell (2019:
University of Sussex, Political Theory).


Equality and Diversity

The Unit promotes equality and diversity through our selection and interview practices (such as
ensuring diverse selection panels) and adheres to the University’s ‘One Kingston’ strategy for
equality, diversity and inclusion (http://tiny.cc/ezz7dz). Kingston University holds a Race Equality
Charter Award and an Athena Swan bronze award, and the Faculty is in the process of developing
an Athena SWAN award. The University’s Beyond Barriers mentoring scheme ensures all staff and
students have the best possible chance to succeed and progress against equality objectives. Staff
involved in recruitment, management and peer review of research undertake unconscious bias
training.

      Women represent 35% of the 5.7 FTE permanent staff entered here (against a national
average of c. 25% for the discipline (source: British Philosophical Association Report on Women in
Philosophy in the UK, 2017). In addition, two of the three fixed-term ECR appointments made
during the cycle were women. Recently we have made diversifying the curriculum around the
question of race a particular concern, as evidenced in changes to some of our postgraduate
teaching syllabuses (Kant and his Legacy and Recent French Philosophy, in particular) and some
recent staff- and student-organised research events (a workshop of ‘Fanon and Philosophy’, 2015;
a graduate conference on ‘Kanthropology’, 2016; and a conference on ‘Geopolitics of Philosophy’,
2018). A CRMEP workshop for MA students on ‘Decolonizing the Curriculum’ was held in



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
November 2017 in conjunction with the MFA at Chelsea College of Art, University of the Arts
London.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

External grants awarded within the cycle totalled £339,120. This is comprised of Hallward’s AHRC
Research Leadership Fellowship, ‘Blanqui and Political Will’ (£197,636, 2015–17) and Sandford’s
Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (£141,484, 2018–21). This is equivalent to over £50,000
per FTE of the 6.6 FTE entered here. £289,248 of the awards were realised as mainstream
research income during this cycle (£43, 825 per FTE). The unit’s ability to attract research funding
has stayed broadly the same since the REF2014 cycle. Research income for the unit between
2008-2014 was £330,000, £163,232 of which was submitted under Kingston University in
REF2014 (from 2010, when the Centre moved to the University). Mainstream income this cycle
was also supplemented by £617,566 academic, administration and central services research
income, related to AHRC doctoral training partnership (TECHNE) and student training.

      Internal income from the University’s Research Transformation Fund, for a Postdoctoral
Fellow (2015–18) was £100,000. This was used to appoint Lucie Kim Mercier to develop research
on geophilosophy in the context of the significance of postcolonial studies for contemporary
philosophy; and to introduce issues of decolonization into our MA teaching on Recent French
Philosophy. CRMEP has maintained an activities budget of £15–23,000 per annum during this
cycle. Postgraduate Research Students are supported at both faculty level and centrally, with
various skills and other training programmes.

       The Unit benefits from a supportive and well-resourced environment for research including
Faculty-facing Research, Business and Impact Development Managers from within the University
Research, Business and Innovation Office (RBI). They assist staff in identifying opportunities for
external funding, developing grant applications, identifying external partners, designing pathways
to impact, as well as evidencing and evaluating impact. RBI coordinates a structured process of
internal peer review of applications. Internal support ranges from research group and departmental
mentoring, peer review and faculty-level training, such as grant-writing workshops which enable
staff to devote concentrated effort toward completing funding applications. The University
Research, Business and Innovation Office assists staff in preparing the budgetary aspects of
research funding applications, with dedicated support for staff at Faculty level. The Faculty has an
operational infrastructure designed to support research activity and develop an integrated
approach to research, learning and teaching, enterprise and business, directed by the Associate
Dean for Research, Business and Innovation, working closely with the Dean of KSA, Pro-Vice
Chancellor for Research Business and Innovation (RBI), the University’s Head of Research and
Head of Impact. The Director of CRMEP is part of the Faculty Research, Business and Innovation
Committee, and attends all Faculty research meetings. Research infrastructure includes a KSA
College of Research Ethics, which reports to the University Research Ethics Committee, whose
members undertake mandatory ethics training. From 2020 Epigeum research ethics training was
made available to all staff in the unit.

      CRMEP is located in a single communal office on the Penrhyn Road campus. The campus
has a study space for research degree students and a meeting room in the Learning Resources
Centre available to them. Proximity to London gives staff and students access to the British
Library, Senate House library and other London libraries.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations

In line with the Institutional Agreement between Kingston University and the University of Paris-8,
Osborne, Hallward and Caygill rotated through the International Visiting Chair, ‘Problématisations
du réel historique de la pensée sociale’, in the Department of Philosophy, University of Paris 8,
for the first 6 months of each calendar year 2014–2019; while Alliez came from Paris-8 to Kingston
to teach one semester each year for the same period. This staff-exchange was accompanied by an
annual co-organized research event in Paris, also attended by Kingston PhD students. From
2015–17 this was focused on the philosophy of art. From 2019 it concentrates on problems in
political philosophy and the critical philosophy of race.

       In 2015, Osborne initiated a two-year research-based postgraduate teaching and
supervision project with the Royal Institute of Art (RIA), Stockholm, ‘Philosophy in the Context of
Art’, whereby Osborne and Malabou were deployed on secondment to a 6-month International
Visiting Chair 1 Aug–31 Jan, 2015/16 & 2016/17, respectively. This had four components: (i) twice-
yearly Workshops for a group of 6 PhD students from each institution (Philosophy and Fine Art
Practice, respectively) – one in Stockholm, one in London – in which they discussed new ways of
thinking about the relations between their different disciplinary projects; (ii) an annual ‘freestanding’
research-based Masters-level course, both text- and project-based, ‘Philosophy in the Context of
Art’, attracting artists and art students from other European countries to the Institute, as well as
from Sweden, culminating in; (iii) an end-of-semester-exhibition of the project artwork produced by
the art students; (iv) an international conference, ‘Useless Uses: Use and Uselessness in
Contemporary Art’ – supported by a grant of €20,000 to RIA from the Riksbankens Jubileumsfond.
This initiative was subsequently carried forward by Osborne in the context of the Yale University
School of Art (2017–19), where he advised the Dean on the establishment of their first Critical
Studies course within the MFA in the School, and made a series of visits to give lectures and
undertake studio visits on the course (see ICSUoA30Osborne1). Alliez attends the annual Artists
Research Laboratory, Fondazione Antonio Ratti, Como (2014–19) where he conducts a public
dialogue with each year’s artist-in-residence. Balibar and Malabou collaborate with staff in the
French and Comparative Literature departments at the universities of Irvine (CA) and Columbia
(NY) during their annual visiting professorships. Balibar is a central figure in the ‘Political
Concepts’ network and online dictionary established between Brown, Columbia, NYU, and The
New School for Social Research. Sandford has collaborated with the Linnean Society, as part of
her Leverhulme grant project, giving a public lecture, making podcasts (Feb. and June 2020) for
their site, and co-organizing a conference there for 2021 on ‘Linneaus, Sex and Race’.

Commissions of trust

Osborne was a member of the European Research Council (ERC), ‘Cultures and Cultural
Production’, Ideas Specific Programme, Start-Up Grants Panel (2014–17) and the EU Executive
Research Agency (REA), Horizon 2020, Transformation Programme 17, panel for Social Change
and the Arts, 2019. He also acted as a Panel Evaluator for ERC Advanced and Synergy Grants
programmes (2018). He acts as an External Referee for Postdocs in Contemporary Art for the
Hong Kong Research Council (2014–) and in Philosophy for the IRCHSS (Ireland, 2019). He was
project advisor on the Danish Council for Independent Research project ‘The Contemporary
Condition’, Aarhus University, Denmark (2016–18). He is a sub-panel Member & Interdisciplinary
Advisor for UOA30 REF 2021.
      Sandford is a member of the Academy of Finland Research Funding Panel for Philosophy
(Dec. 2019 onwards).

Scholarly societies and editorial and advisory boards

     Balibar is Président de l’Association Jan Hus pour la coopération universitaire entre la
France, la Tchéquie et la Slovaquie and a Founding Member of Faculty for Israeli-Palestinian
Peace (FFIPP). He is a member of the Centre International d’Étude de la Philosophie Française

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Contemporaine, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris. He is on the Editorial Committee of revue
Transeuropéennes, Paris and the Advisory Boards of The Journal of Political Philosophy, Canberra
(Blackwell), Rethinking Marxism: A Journal of Economics, Culture and Society, Amherst, and
Actuel Marx, Presses Universitaires de France, Paris. In 2016 the annual ‘Political Concepts’
conference in the USA (at Brown that year) was dedicated to Balibar’s work (published as Ann-
Laura Stoler, Stathis Gourgouris, and Jacques Lezra, eds, Thinking with Balibar: A Lexicon of
Conceptual Practice, Fordham University Press 2020) and in 2018 the Australasian Philosophical
Review, published a special issue entitled ‘Balibar and Transindividuality’.

      Hallward is a member of the Centre International d'Étude de la Philosophie Française
Contemporaine (based at the Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris), a contributing editor of Angelaki:
Journal of the Theoretical Humanities, and a member of the Editorial Collective of the new 2nd
series of the journal Radical Philosophy (2018– ) and of the Advisory Board of New Formations.

       Malabou is an editor of the philosophy series ‘Non et Non’, Editions Léo Scheer, Paris. She
is a member of the Editorial Boards of the journals: Revue philosophique de la France et de
l’étranger, PUF, Paris, Retour d’y voir, Museum of Contemporary Art Journal, Geneva, Derrida
Today, Edinburgh University Press and The Southern Journal of Philosophy, Memphis.

     Osborne is on the Advisory Boards of Philosophy of Photography, Nordic Journal of
Aesthetics, Time and Society and Journal of Visual Culture.

      Sandford joined the Executive Committee of the British Philosophical Association (BPA) in
2016, and acts as Treasurer. She is the lead on their Diversity and Inclusion Working Group
(established June 2020). In 2017 she was elected Chairperson of the Society for European
Philosophy (SEP) and joined the advisory board of Simone de Beauvoir Studies.

Invited conference keynote and research-based public lectures

All members of the unit regularly accept invitations to present outcomes of their research at
academic conferences and in broader public forums, often abroad, including:

     Alliez gave keynotes at the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy (SPEP,
New Orleans, 2014) and international conferences in Germany and Brazil (2014), Turkey and the
Netherlands (2015), Universidad Javiana, Bogota, (2016), University of Padova and University
Eötvös Loránd, Budapest (2017).

      Balibar gave the annual Mark Sacks Lecture of the European Journal of Philosophy in 2018
at Birkbeck, among many other conference keynotes.

     Caygill gave keynotes at the Canadian Society for Continental Philosophy (2014) and
conferences in Nijmegan (2015), Istanbul (2016) and Oporto (2017).

      Hallward’s talks abroad included trips to the USA (Cornell, 2014), Japan (Hitotsubashi
University Tokyo, Ritsumeikan University Kyoto, Société franco-japonaise de la philosophie,
Osaka, 2015) Australia (University of New South Wales, Melbourne School of Continental
Philosophy, and the Australian National University, Canberra, 2016), Pakistan (Habib University
Karachi, Government College Lahore and University of Punjab Lahore, 2017) and the ‘Conference
on Democracy’, Athens 2019.

      Malabou has given two prestigious lecture series in the USA: the 2015 Wellek Lectures at
Irvine, UC and the 2018 Gauss Seminars in Critical Theory at Princeton. She also gave public
lectures in Rio de Janiero, Sao Paulo, Ontario and at University of Chicago (2016), the Djavad
Mowafaghian Centre for Brain Health and the Liu Institute for Global Issues, University of British
Columbia (2017) and the University of Chile, Santiago (2018).

       Osborne gave research-based lectures abroad (2014–19) at 15 universities and 19 art
institutions, including: the Städelschule Frankfurt, National Centre for Contemporary Art Moscow

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and the 2nd World Biennale Forum Sao Paulo (2014); Free University of Berlin and Moderna
Museet Stockholm (2015); Academy of the Arts, Düsseldorf & Heinrich-Heine-University
Düsseldorf and the Rio Art Museum (2016); Yale University School of Art (2016 & 2017–19), the
Pushkin State Museum of Fine Art, Moscow (2018) and the 21st International Congress of
Aesthetics (University of Belgrade, 2019).

      Sandford gave the Annual Women in the History of Philosophy Lecture, Sheffield University
(2015), and keynotes at the Sussex ‘Feminism and Political Theory’ conference (2015), the Society
for European Philosophy/Forum for European Philosophy Annual Conference, London (2016); the
annual Animal Studies network conference (2018) and the SWIP Ireland ‘Philosophy and Political
Theory’ conference (2019). Her keynote at the Warwick Continental Philosophy Conference
scheduled for June 2020 is now Covid-19-postponed to 2021.

Translations

All permanent staff in the Unit had publications translated into languages other than English during
the cycle. For example, in 2018–19, three of Malabou’s books were translated into Spanish by
South American publishers, and in 2019 two were translated into Swedish. Osborne had work
translated into Chinese, French, German, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish.
Alliez’s co-authored Guerre & Capital appeared in English (2017) and Japanese (2019).

External examinations

All professorial staff acted as external examiners for PhDs in European universities as well as in
the UK.




                                                                                            Page 13
