Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cumbria

 Unit of Assessment: UOA32: Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 How is Research Structured across the UOA

 1.1.1 University of Cumbria: Institute of the Arts

 The University of Cumbria (UoC) draws a significant amount of its legacy from the Cumbria
 Institute of the Arts, which itself traces its origins to the formation of the Society for the
 Encouragement of Fine Arts in 1822, and the Carlisle College of Art, from 1950. The Carlisle
 campus of the Cumbria Institute of the Arts, joined with St Martin’s College and the Cumbrian
 campuses of UCLAN to become UoC in 2007.

 All Unit staff with signficant responsibility for research (SRR) are members of the ‘Institute of the
 Arts’ (IoA), one of UoC’s five academic institutes. The Unit draws heavily on a common thread of
 ‘place’, rooted in the distinctivenessness of Cumbria and the North West, but reaching to, and
 informing connected discourses on an international context.

 The REF2014 UOA34 submission included 4.28FTE, with 90% of impacts, and 50% of outputs
 scored at 3* and above. Across the assessment period, this Unit has built on this success
 (principally in fine art and photography), and added additional strengths in English Literature and
 Creative Writing, reflected in this unit’s research themes.

 Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
 see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
 UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
 including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
 Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
 honorary/retired staff. Names followed by a number (e.g. Williams1) cross reference to REF2
 outputs.

 1.1.2 Research Themes

 Between 2014-2020, research within the Unit has been facilitated via the Arts Research Initiative
 (ARI) established to “develop the profile, awareness and the understanding of arts, media and
 humanities scholarship, practice and research within the IoA, the University and beyond”. ARI’s
 aims and objectives are aligned to UoCs broader strategy for Research, Innovation and Enterprise
 2018-2022 (REF5a, 2). ARI has four research themes:

       Environments (E) – including planetary environmental matters, as well as issues of
        different places and spaces.
       Encultured and Political Landscapes (EPL) - Human mediated spaces and places -
        political dimensions in terms of economics, ideologies, ethics and authority; institutional
        critique and examination of cultural hegemonies (Museums, art, education, the market,
        the nuclear etc.), ways of being and living ideologically: identity and self.
       Speculative Mythologies of Spaces and Places (SMSP) - Projects which consider
        alien and otherworld narratives, the speculative historic, folkloric, the psychogeographic
        and hauntologic.
       Human Non-Human Interactions (H/NHI) - Animal studies and the interaction with ‘other
        beings’; interaction with non-human phenomena.
       Aximoatic Practice and Performance - Individual practice e.g. graphic design or media
        which is for a client and not considered research.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Since 2019, ARI has been enhanced by cross-institutional links with the Centre for National
 Parks and Protected Areas (CNNPA, part of the Institute of Science, Natural Resources and
 Outdoor Studies [ISNROS]), and specifically the ‘Cultural Landscapes’ (CL) theme, led by
 Bradshaw. The theme engages with the “combined works of nature and humankind” (UNESCO)
 and explores interpretations of, and creative responses to, the complex and dynamic relationship
 between human inhabitants and their natural environment.

 Fig 1. illustrates the depth of activity and the interaction between ARI/CNPPA research themes. It
 highlights the affiliations of Category A/SRR and ERR staff and visiting staff. Axiomatic Practice &
 Performance underpins the unit’s research, referring to individual practice e.g. graphic design or
 media which is for a client and not considered research. The IoA, as a community, engages in
 practice as research, as well as practice as practice – including theatre, singing, dancing,
 illustration, games design and other applied arts.

 Fig. 1: Structures for facilitating research in the Institute of the Arts and thematic
 alignment of Category A/SRR and ERR staff, and visiting/honorary staff.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Performance against REF2014 Objectives and Objectives 2021-2028

 1.2.1 - SO1 To develop the practice-based route for PhD

 The unit has developed a clear articulation of the PhD by Arts Practice, allowing assessment of a
 body of work comprising a negotiated set of research outcomes mediated by individual art practice.
 The presented outcomes typically comprise material (an exhibition for instance), made available
 for public engagement, including a theoretical analysis and critical contextualisation in written form
 or an equivalent vehicle for discourse and dissemination. Potentially, the IoA admits any model of
 practice - negotiated with the candidate, and this represents an innovative approach within the
 discipline. In EPL and SMSP, two practice-based staff PhD s were submitted in 2020, with one
 awarded, with three PGR completions. Eight further PhDs at varying stages of completion are
 underway across the unit’s research themes.

 1.2.2 - SO2 To more widely develop our doctoral offering

 The unit’s doctoral offering and supervisor capacity across the research themes has also grown
 from 5 doctoral candidates (2014) to 13 in 2020. Four MA Contemporary Fine Art students and
 one MA Photography student have progressed to PhD, and supervisors are attracting students
 internationally. This unit now has six supervisors, and the inclusion of the CL theme has increased
 the doctoral offering. Investment of QR funding has provided two further studentships related to
 the work of Kurt Schwitters (Environments), and to Li Yuan Chan (LYC) (EPL); two historically
 significant artists closely associated with Cumbria. This investment has facilitated further
 collaboration with the Merz Barn/Littoral Arts Trust, LYC Foundation and John Rylands Library,
 Manchester University.

 1.2.3 - SO3 Implementation of the Arts Research Initiative (ARI), as a means to coordinate and
 promote research activity

 ARI provides opportunities and advice for staff CPD activity, including PhD and other higher-level
 qualifications, engagement in research and knowledge exchange projects and in developing
 activities such as conferences, master-classes, workshops and training. The ARI themes have
 been promoted via two major interventions:

       An Arts Research Field Station (ARFS) located at the IoA specialised Arts Library.
        Opened in January 2019 and is delivered in partnership with Leeds Beckett University
        (LBU). The ARFS takes the form of a series of exhibition vitrines, plinths and cases, within
        which elements of research projects from LBU arts researchers is presented; mirrored at
        LBU for IoA researchers.

       The IoA-hosted National Association for Fine Art Education (NAFAE) conference, (July
        2016), titled ‘Research Practice: Practice Research’. NAFAE members – post-graduate,
        pre-doc, PhD, supervisors and post-doc researchers presented research, with a particular
        emphasis on research-led and research-based arts practice. Over 60 individuals attended
        with a keynote presentation from Professor Anne Douglas (Gray’s School of Art) and 32
        presented papers; promoting collaborative and interdisciplinary research relationships with
        a focus on practice-led arts research.

 1.2.4 - SO4 The establishment of Photography in Research & Education (PhiRE) initiative

 Joost, Darwell and Bonner utilised the PhiRE initiative, and platform, to devise and deliver three
 biennial academic conferences, entitled ‘Visualising…’ ‘the Rural, ‘the Animal and ‘the Home. The
 series explored the practice and theory of photography, bringing academics and practitioners
 together to explore common research interests, develop networks and further the field of
 photographic study.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ‘Visualising… the Rural’ (July 2013) was followed by ‘Visualising... the Animal’ (June 2015), which
 explored the meaning of rurality and animals within contemporary culture through the medium of
 photography (within H/NHI). In addition to international independent artists, speakers represented
 the Universities of Middlesex, Lund (Sweden), Plymouth, Leeds, Birkbeck, the Edinburgh College
 of Art, and RCA. ‘Visualising… the Home’ (July 2017, EPL theme) centred on the meaning of
 home within contemporary society. The conference included speakers from Universities including
 Texas San Antonio (USA), Bergen (Norway). Brighton, Ulster, Norwich University of the Arts, and
 Goldsmiths College.

 Each two-day conference featured an exhibition curated with Carlisle Photo Festival. This adds
 another dimension to the conference reach, particularly ‘Visualising the Animal’ exhibition that
 toured the North West, and Visualising the Home, exhibited at UoC’s Vallum Gallery, and featuring
 work from 29 artists (£3,550 of earned income). Bonner intends to build on the success of
 Visualising to establish a series of biennial conferences that included photography and visual arts
 more broadly and engages with the other ARI themes.

 1.2.5 - SO5 Regenerating the Centre for Land, Environment and Research (CLEAR)

 Across the assessment period, the aims and objectives of CLEAR have been accommodated as
 part of the H/NHI and Environment themes within ARI, including REF2 outputs such as Wilson1
 (environmentalism, ecocriticism and human/animal studies), Darwell1 (photography and social
 issues), and Williams2 (nuclear cultures). CLEAR has also emerged more explicitly via the
 ‘Cultural landscapes’ theme of the CNPPA including Bradshaw1 & 2 on romanticism (especially
 women’s writing of the Romantic period,); nineteenth-century poetry; and regional writing and
 Ferguson1 on ecocriticism and contemporary literature.

 1.2.6 - SO6 The deployment of newly appointed research leaders to support and further develop
 research activity

 See 2.1 for development of research leaders and research activity amongst staff.

 ARI deploys PGRs as future research staff and potential leaders; awarding a Post-Graduate
 Residency to a Masters graduate each year, providing free studio space and access to resources.
 Awardees also have a supportive role within the Fine Art programmes, mentor existing PGR
 students and engage in the ARI steering group. The current recipient is working on his PhD
 proposal and is developing a small research group for performance art using the aegis of UoC
 within his residency to do so. Mirroring the arrangements for other Graduate Residents, PGR
 candidate Haynes has been invited to the Postdoc Residency Award following successful
 completion of her PhD in 2021.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research Strategy 2021-2028

 This Unit’s strategy into the next assessment cycle will:
       Refocus the work of the IoA and transition to a new identity as the Institute of Arts and
        Creative Economies; developing a hub of creative and digital arts practice in order to co-
        create arts research with our local area.
       Research and develop digital strategies for the local Creative Economy, specifically in
        relation to virtual and enhanced reality and camera-based technologies that connect to and
        articulate existing ARI themes.
       Articulate and support the arts pedagogy that crosses the IoA, specifically working in
        partnership with educators across the region and internationally looking for opportunities
        to extend collaboration.
       Extend and support the theme of applied and social arts research, specifically in relation
        to a growing theme of Arts and Health and to accommodate concepts of non-human and
        environmental health/well-being.
       Continue to work cross institutionally via the CL theme of the CNPPA.
       The continuing development and impact of ARI, with the addition of an initiative on Creative
        Economy to act as a generator of digital research and engagement.

 1.4 Enabling Impact

 Impact is integral to Unit research; ensuring that research delivers benefits beyond academia with
 a reach extending to international scales. ‘Arts Research Clinics’ (ARCs) formally support staff to
 consider how their research affects wider audiences. Unit staff completed the Impact Case Study
 (ICS) template for their projects as a means to facilitate discussion about impact, supplemented
 by 1-2-1 research mentoring from the Professoriate on strategies and funding. Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Office staff (see REF5a, 4) deliver impact training at ARI events and a
 centralised committee structure, in addition to the ARI programme of activity, provides impact
 frameworks.

 Below are examples (further details in Section 4.3) of Unit structures enabling staff to reach and
 engage with diverse communities, the public and cultural institutions:

       Bradshaw and Ferguson (CL) have delivered public lectures and talks on literary and
        artistic topics at Ambleside and contributed to major events, such as ‘Words By The Water’
        literary festival. Bradshaw’s ‘Literary Lancaster – City of Stories’ a pamphlet for guided
        tours, was curated with Lancaster City Council to take reader around eight key city
        locations with associated key texts.
       Wilson (Environments) led an Arts Council funded residency programme with the Old
        Fire Station, Carlisle, in relation to environmental trauma from the 2015 City flood, and
        Williams (H/NHI) secured Arts Council funding for an engagement and exhibition
        programme related to nuclear discourses.
       Topping1 (SMSP) was presented at numerous public book fairs including: NY Art Book
        Fair, and INK (Marseille) and at international film festivals, including ANTIPHON (India).
       The Carlisle Cultural Consortium (EPL) facilitated a visit by the Arts Council Director and
        is leading to cultural collaborations (initially led by Hunter, now Conroy)
       Unit staff are engaging in a National Lottery Heritage Fund community engagement
        programme, and an Arts Council funded ‘Changing Culture Programme’ (Section 3).




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ARI/CNPPA provides a structure that supports staff to access internal/external funding and
 generate impact, for example:

       The Negotiating a Cultural Landscape series of public talks (Bradshaw and Ferguson,
        CL) received internal funding from the Ambleside vibrancy fund.
       The publication of Snæbjörnsdóttir/Wilson’s (Environments) You Must Carry Me Now
        (Wilson1, Impact3202), with contributors from Iceland, USA and Canada, received internal
        research funding.
       Williams’ (SMSP) Arts Council grant for ‘Cumbrian Alchemy’ (Impact3201) resulted in
        contribution to nuclear policy and practice via the OECD and in debate and dialogue in
        Cumbria on long-term nuclear repositories.
       Internal research funding supported design and production costs for 250 copies of
        Topping1 (SMSP), with the wider work the subject of a reserve ICS.

 Staff still in the process of demonstrating and evidencing the impact of their research have
 additionally been supported with dissemination and impact pathway activity:

       The Visualising… conference series (Section 1.2.4), received internal funding in 2015 to
        establish the series, with the subsequent event in 2017 being self-funding, with elements
        of public exhibition and engagement.
       Fowler (EPL) was provided with funding to take a sabbatical to do his PhD, which included
        presentation of his research through an art intervention in Carlisle Market Hall.

 1.5 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 The Unit’s approach to research embraces interdisciplinary approaches and is part of the
 research philosophy, approach to practice, and structures. For example:

       Williams1 combines folklore, artwork & exhibitions, and Cumbria Alchemy (H/NHI and
        SMSP), features both subject and realisation (an archival repository as analogue of
        geologic repository; similarly, in terms of performance, sculpture, photography, and
        scholarship).
       Topping’s (SMSP) interdisciplinary work was selected by Nicole Yip, Lux Scotland
        Director, and the artist Stephen Sutcliffe to attend the interdisciplinary ‘Hospitalfield House’
        summer residency in 2017.
       Wilson (Environment) has facilitated residential interdisciplinary workshops involving
        researchers at the Merz Barn in Langdale, the last home and studio of Kurt Schwitters.
       Williams (SMSP) serves on the board of advisors for Mildred’s Lane Projects,
        Pennsylvania USA; a vehicle for interdisciplinary arts residencies. He has delivered
        workshops for US PG candidates and consequently, the film maker and artist, Sandy
        Williams (Virginia Community University) visited UoC, was provided with studio space, and
        presented to PGRs.
       Bradshaw (CL) is theme lead for a Research Centre aligned to a different Institute, and
        Wilson and Williams supervise six PhDs outside of the IoA.

 1.6 Supporting an Open Access Environment

 Since implementation of our repository (Insight) in 2009, library staff have regularly been invited
 to advocate for open access in this Unit. However, prior to 2016, whilst effective for managing text-
 based research outputs, Insight was not satisfactory for art-based outputs. In November 2015 a
 project was initiated to work with Southampton University to implement the Kultur plugin (JISC-
 funded project). Kultur has enabled us to showcase a wider range of our arts outputs, from digital
 versions of painting, photography, film, graphics, to records of performances and installations.
 Prior to this, the total downloads for art outputs from Insight was 2,601, with 36% of the outputs
 open access, rising to 14,046, with 80% now open access.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are committed to building on Kultur to further enhance the arts repository. Outputs act as
 ‘digital representations’, with functionality for providing contextualisation of practice-based
 research outputs. This makes them meaningful to a viewer unfamiliar with the work. In August
 2019 our arts subject librarian (Stewart) engaged with the ARLIS UK ‘Arts research in Open
 Access repositories: sharing practice about practice’ event hosted at Chelsea College of Arts. This
 Unit is now connected to a network of repository staff across the sector who are committed to
 exploring issues and finding solutions for best practice in arts-research repository deposits.

 1.7 Supporting Research Integrity

 In addition to the Unit structures (ARI, ARCs and CNPPA), a ‘Research Skills Development
 Programme’ (REF5a, 3.1) is open to PGRs as well as staff. This includes sessions delivered by
 three Unit staff on ‘Approaches to Reflective Practice: Making the Most of Failed Strategies’ and
 ‘Confidence in Conferences’. Three Unit staff delivered sessions as part of the PGR Summer
 School to explore the ‘journey’ of Practice-led PGR and reflective practices. Ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards are centrally via the Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Office, the Research Ethics Panel of which Wilson is a long-standing member, and
 informally through the Professoriate, ARI and ARC (REF5a, 3.1). Williams as REF Development
 Group Lead supports mentoring around shaping of arts practice approaches.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 This units staffing strategy has focused on the four areas below; creating opportunities for staff
 development.
 2.1.1 Engage new staff in research activity

 As part of induction, new starters are informed of ARI, Unit research themes, the programme of
 events and opportunities on offer via ARCs and the Arts Research Field Stations, and are invited
 to join the REF Development Group. Williams serves on the IoA Management Group and is
 appraised of new staff and potential for engaging them in research activity. EPL has been
 strengthened by the following appointments:
       Burnett (2016), previously director at the Arvon Foundation Lumb Bank Writing Centre,
        contributed ‘Tripping over Clouds’, to this Unit’s output pool (though as former staff on the
        census date, has not been submitted).
       Hunter (2016) from Middlesex, achieving Associate Professor in 2017, and PhD in 2019.
       Woodward (2019) from University of East Anglia as Lecturer in Creative Writing. ARI has
        supported her to join a supervisory panel, achieve SRR, and build research capacity within
        creative writing.
       Myers joined UoC in 2016 as Lecturer in Photography and is being supported (via an ECR
        grant) to undertake a collaborative project with prisoners in Scotland. ARI will continue to
        support her development to grow photography research.
       Conroy becoming IoA Director in 2019, joining from the University of Hull, with publications
        and research interest in connections between politics, bodies and performance and in
        Applied and Social theatre. She is Joint Editor of RiDE: The Journal of Applied Theatre
        and Performance (Routledge).

 2.1.2 Develop capacity, capability and experience of existing staff.

 ARI/CNPPA support staff to contribute to the research environment and culture, to engage in PGR
 supervision, in research skills and to apply for internal or external funding, publish or engage in
 arts practice. Staff are encouraged to sign up to research mentorship (REF5a, 3.1), which ensures
 adherence to the Concordat principles. A centralised PPDR system identifies opportunities for
 training and development and ARI supports staff to consider applying for Professorial title at the
 bi-annual round. As examples of effectiveness:

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Wilson was appointed Associate Professor, and subsequently Professor (2016).
       Bonner became a Programme Lead in 2015 and Principal Lecturer in 2020, and has been
        supported by ARI and the REF Development Group to organise conferences and submit
        research to this Unit.
       Topping became Programme Leader for BA Fine Art in 2014 and MA Fine Art in 2019 and
        has led ARI events.

 2.1.3 Focusing on skills development for staff PGRs, ECRs and Postdocs to support secession
 planning

 There is an expectation that all staff work towards achieving a PhD, and this Unit ensures that
 proposals align with existing activity and programmes to demonstrate critical mass. At UoC,
 academics have been defined as ECRs for three years after attaining a PhD, and this unit’s staff
 have been supported to research alongside this:
       Topping’s (SMSP) PhD viva was postponed due to Covid-19 (submitted February 2020),
        rescheduled for February 2021, but has been supported to produce work prior to this,
        evidenced in Topping1 and through wider contributions (see Section 4).
       Fowler (EPL) joined his first supervisory team in 2020 and delivered sessions at the
        Research Skills Development Programme alongside Williams.
       Issit (EPL, staff PGR) achieved PhD in 2020 and has been supported with internal funding
        to disseminate research with the ‘The Magic Circle’.
       Myers (EPL, staff PGR) is a PhD candidate at Glasgow School of Art and Photography
        Lecturer, shortlisted for the Jerwood Photoworks Award 2018.
       Dodds (SMSP, staff PGR) is a PhD candidate at Northumbria and has been supported to
        engage with the Lakes International Comic Art Festival; inviting Junko Mizuno to give a
        lecture, workshop, and free exhibition at the Vallum Gallery (October 2019).
       Issit, Dodds, and Myers are being supported to achieve SRR across the next REF cycle.

 2.1.4 Utilising Research Fellows, Honorary Professors, Researchers and Professors of Practice
 to support the research environment and skills development

 As an example, Dr Ele Carpenter (Honorary Research Fellow) has guest lectured on Nuclear
 Cultures; Professor Bryndis Snæbjörnsdóttir (Honorary Professor) and Ron Broglio have
 collaborated with Wilson on multiple outputs. Woodman (Honorary Researcher) supports PGRs
 with regular talks and tutorials and Keith Partridge (Professor of Practice, co-creator of ‘Touching
 the Void’) has delivered public lecturers. Prof Conrad Atkinson (Honorary Fellow) opened the
 Vallum Gallery (2015).

 2.1.5 Utilising Committee Structures and ARI events to support the staffing strategy, staff
 development and increase in active researchers

 Category A/SRR staff from this Unit have full representation on UoCs Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Committee, and the retaining (and in many cases promotion) of Williams, Wilson,
 Darwell, and Topping (two thirds of the 2014 submitted staff) from 2014, to 2021 demonstrates
 the sustained emphasis on researcher development.

 Furthermore, the much-enlarged FTE in the submission (4.28 FTE in 2014 to 7.3FTE in 2021)
 evidences the Unit’s increasing vitality and scope of research outcomes and impact, as well as
 sustainability through increased capacity and more formalised structures, such as ARCs and ARI.
 100% of staff within this UOA are on Permanent Contracts, and this is indicative of the Unit’s
 sustainability and commitment to ensuring continuity of staff and of individual research areas. The
 programme of ARI events, including visiting lectures, workshops, and staff presentations, are open
 to level 6 and level 7 students, in addition to doctoral students and staff; thereby creating a growing
 community of researchers.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Research Students

 The Unit provides high quality training and supervision for PGR students. Three of the unit’s
 PhD students have progressed from the IoA MA in Contemporary Fine Art, to PhD, evidencing
 this quality. Doctoral students are able to deliver 30 hours of teaching each year and are provided
 with formal training to enable and optimise this contribution for all parties; delivering undergraduate
 tutorials and mentoring student projects.

 PGRs have been integrated into the research culture and prepared for further research
 activity. As an example, ARI:022, was due to host a residency for ‘Proximity’ in Carlisle on June
 4th 2020 with Mike Inglis (Edinburgh) as keynote. Proximity is a collective of six artists and one
 curator based across the North of England, and the residency involves using Crit groups, writing,
 discussion and making, to consider how diverse research interests and art practices are altered
 by shared space. IoA also hosted a research residency with the Royal College of Art, titled ‘The
 Object of Research’ (2018), involving 20 PGRs from both institutions, and a keynote by Visiting
 Professor Dean Hughes. IoA also hosted a number of student residencies including Sandy
 Williams (US), and Alice Wang (Canada), and Wilson, as part of his role on the selection panel
 for artist’s residency at National Trust property Acorn Bank, invited winner, Karen Guthrie, to
 deliver a lecture and tutorials to PGR students (2017).

 PGRs are supported with skills development and career preparation. This includes provision
 of campus studio spaces, access to physical and online resources and to artist run spaces,
 including contemporary arts space - The Pharmacy, Carlisle. PGRs are supported to develop skills
 and prepare for their future career, and have attended the ASLE Biennial Conference (University
 Davis California) and presented research at the Hepworth, Wakefield. PGRs presented research
 at NAFAE (see Section 1.2.3) and supported organisation of the Proximity residency. PGRs have
 curated exhibitions at UoCs Vallum Gallery, including ‘Wanderers & other Nomads,’ (2018) which
 tackled common themes of ecology, community & the environment. PGR Yngström was invited to
 study Embodied Imagination dreamwork at Artisten, Gothenburg University, with teaching by
 Robert Bosnak, Ingrid Blidberg, Per Nordin och and Anna Söderling. She was also involved in
 organising ‘Dream Masks at Midsummer Fest 2014’ - a participatory mask performance for 100
 guests and ‘Psychic Volcano’ (2014, Nacka forest, Sweden), a series of mask workshops and a
 ten-hour collective participation performance.

 All PGRs are supported to contribute to the vitality of the unit. ARI provides the opportunity
 for annual reviews for PGR where research in progress is presented – and that is formalised within
 PGR students as part of the end of year review process. All candidates are expected to present
 research at Research Summer School, and in some cases, specific feedback has been requested
 from the group on PhD development. This Unit has achieved six PhD completions across the
 assessment period (0 for REF2014). A high-level commentary on EDI data for this Unit’s PGRs
 has been provided below.
  Table 1. EDI Data for UOA32 PGRs
  Key consideration           Unit Considerations/Actions
  40% <39; 50% 40-49; 10% Important to maintain skills training and opportunities for younger
  50-59.                      researchers whilst integrating the experiences of older PGRs.
  60% female and 40% male     Broadly similar composition against staff pool (see Table 2).
                              Supervisors have completed unconscious bias training (UBT)
  10% BAME                    Positive figure in relation to staff pool, all supervisors have
                              completed UBT.
  40% declared disability     High % compared to staff pool. Unit staff made aware of
                              institutional structures to support health and wellbeing, including
                              signposting to Disability Officers.
  0% LGB                      30% refused information (similar to staff pool). PGRs
                              encouraged to engage in institutional networks.
  50% part-time               Ensure that part-time PGRs engage with Unit activities, and if in
                              practice, their experiences contribute to Unit vitality.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 Unit staff proactively promote EDI as part of academic life. IoA programmes have within their
 curricula, specific strands that challenge the status quo in the reframing of socio-political, gender
 and queer discourses, and de-colonising subjects. In Fine Art for example, these issues are raised
 within the context of global art practice and art-markets to consider aspects of sexuality/gender,
 identity, race, post-colonialism, and institutional critique as practice, both formally (in module
 descriptors) and informally (within individual art practices). Similarly, in English and Photography,
 these themes intertwine within the curriculum and inform the subject and individual discourses.

 This is mirrored in the research of PGRs, including art practice as feminist resistance and critique
 (Yngström, Topping), nomadic practice and refugees (Lean, Haynes, Tan), and disability & health
 (Walton, Willenfeld). Presentations at ARI have included a number of important keynotes and
 discussions dealing with issues such as disability (Jacqueline Donachie ARI003, and Dr. Tony
 Heaton OBE ARI019; social inequality and the role of the arts (Prof. Paul Haywood ARI004, Tessa
 Bunney ARI008). IoA staff engage in centralised structures such as EDI steering group (Hunter
 was member to 2019, now Conroy) and Athena Swan (Talbot).

 Unit staff undertake research related to EDI. Bradshaw’s work draws on a number of themes
 in relation to marginalised women’s writing in the romantic era, and since 2019 has worked with
 the F= feminist art collective (Leeds Beckett), writing on inclusion as part of their The Erotic Power
 of F= Conduit Tour. In a review for Woodward1, Rebecca Tamas states that “In Woodward’s
 work, humour, environmentalism, politics and gender rip each other to shreds.”

 This unit has engaged with the Equality Impact Assessment exercises for identification of staff and
 output selection (see REF Code of Practice, 1.8 for schedule). The REF Development Group
 Leads have undertaken review meetings with the Research Manager and EDI Officer to analyse
 data and make recommendations to the Institute Director; also forming part of our institutional
 approach to responding to EDI data (REF5a, 3.3). Within this unit, this has included looking at the
 following protected characteristics, and identifying actions (Prefer Not to Say=PNS). See Table 2,
 overleaf.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 2. EDI Data for Unit Staffing and Output Selection
  Category       %     Considerations            Proposed Actions
  Age
  30-39          12    One IoA member of staff *Ensure all staff understand how research
  40-49          44    (not Category A) under informs       their teaching     and     career
                       the age of 30, three over development and prioritise younger staff.
  50-59          11
                       60. Higher number of *Highlight existing research and identify
  >=60           33    outputs for staff >60 in actions to improve take-up of research time.
                       output pool (56%).        *IoA Director aims to submit an additional
                                                 UOA for next REF.
  Sex
  F               44   Reasonable balance but *Maintain awareness over next assessment
  M               56   expectation, sector wide cycle as part of growth ambitions for research
                       (and institutionally), of active staff.
                       higher female %. Higher
                       number of outputs for
                       males in output pool
                       (67%).
  Orientation
  LGB+            0    No LGB+ but high % of * Promotion of networks available to staff and
  Heterosexual    56   PNTS.                 encouragement of input into working groups.
                                             *Reminders to staff to update details.
  PNTS            44

  Religion
  Religious       11   No specific               *Promote existing faith networks and external
  Non-Religious   67   considerations            bodies.
  PNTS            22
  Ethnicity
  White           100 Currently less sector      *Positive action statements for BME
                      engagement         from    recruitment.
  BAME            0   individuals with  BME      *Continue to broaden remit to include non-
  PNTS            0   backgrounds, Carlisle is   Western artistic expressions and practice.
                      98% white.
  Disability
  Disability    0   Institutionally   10.2%      *Promote guidance on disability and staff
  Declared          with declared disability.    resources available.
  No Disability 100                              *IoA Director to continue engagement in
  Declared                                       Disability           History              Month
  PNTS          0                                *Invest internal funding in disability arts (this
                                                 has now occurred from QR Strategic
                                                 Priorities Fund allocation).
  Contract
  Full Time       33   High numbers of PT, *Positive numbers of PT colleagues,
  Part Time       67   mirrored in output pool. evidencing how all staff are supported to
  (PT)                                          research productively.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 This unit has developed a coherent & supportive research nexus with a focus on building capacity,
 as evidenced by the increase in submitted staff and range of work submitted. Looking forward,
 specific focus on generating research income is planned, and Conroy as Director has brought her
 experience in this area to this Unit as previous Director of Research in the School of Arts, Hull
 University.

 This UOA has returned (to HESA) modest research income of £18,969, representing Arts Council
 England funding for ‘Cumbrian Alchemy’, directly supporting Williams’ Impact3201. In-kind
 funding from Perpetual Uncertainty/Nuclear Cultures (an Arts Catalyst Initiative) enabled Williams
 to go to Umeå in Northern Sweden to run an exhibition, with funding for attendance, transport,
 insurance, and installation at other venues. In 2019, Wilson and Snæbjörnsdóttir received a 42
 million ISK (268,000GBP) grant from Rannís, the Icelandic Research Fund for their three-year
 research project Visitations: Polar Bears out of Place (administered by the Iceland University of
 the Arts).

 Due to the nature of the work within the IoA, there were a number of additional income streams
 reported via HESA as ‘other income’, presented in the table below. Projects with asterisks relate
 to wider contributions to economy and society and are expanded in Section 4.

  Table 3. Unit Income (not returned to HESA as research income)

  Project              Funding/        Contribution to research environment.
                       Source
  ‘Immersion/          £15,000 (Arts   In 2016/17, the IoA (PI Wilson), in partnership with Carlisle
  Emergence’-          Council         City Council, delivered the Immersion/Emergence, artist
  Contemporary         England)        residency project at The Old Fire Station. This project
  Arts Residencies                     provided opportunities for PGRs and brought national
  in Carlisle*                         artists to Carlisle in support of this unit’s research culture.
  Augmented            £21,000 (via BOOM aims to reintroduce ten threatened species of
  Reality Project at   National       Cumbrian flora and fauna, and to provide natural
  Barrow as part of    Lottery        conservation training and experiences for some of the UKs
  the ‘Back On Our     Heritage       most deprived communities. The IoA has been
  Map’ (BOOM)          Fund)          commissioned to create a short Augmented Reality Project
  species                             as a form of community engagement. This project supports
  restoration                         opportunities for research in this field to enable future
  project*                            impact.
  Changing Culture     £148,468       UoC is a delivery partner in the Changing Culture
  Programme with       total contract Programme which provides a Diploma of Higher Education
  Brathay Trust and    value,         (DipHE) in Social Enterprise Leadership for young adults
  Theatre By The       £36,750        who are potential creative sector leaders in Cumbria and
  Lake*                received    to North Lancashire. This project supports Unit impact by
                       date     (Arts training and upskilling the creative workforce in Cumbria,
                       Council)       and through knowledge exchange with cultural partners.
  Zhejiang             £18,470 (fee) In 2018, IoA hosted 5 visiting scholars from ZUMC, who
  University of                       were funded through the Chinese Government. The IoA
  Media and                           delivered CPD sessions on research teaching and
  Communications                      learning, received PGR presentations, and visited key
  (ZUMC) Visiting                     cultural/museum sites in Cumbria. The visit involved
  Scholars                            Bradshaw, Fowler, Topping, and Bonner and provided
                                      opportunities for PGRs to network with visiting scholars
                                      and present their research.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Project              Funding/        Contribution to research environment.
                       Source
  Shanghai             £24,366 (fee)   In 2018, UoC delivered a 2-week summer school in
  University of                        Carlisle and London for 10 delegates from Shanghai
  Engineering                          University of Engineering Science. This project provided
  Science Summer                       opportunities for PGRs to network with visiting scholars
  School                               and present their research to new audiences.
  Jiaxing University   £14,000 (fee)   In 2018, UoC hosted a funded delegation of students from
  - Arts Delegation                    the Jiaxing Arts Society (9 students and 1 member of staff)
                                       to collaborate with performing arts students. This project
                                       supported development of joint academic and research
                                       platforms.
  Stanwix Arts         £104,628        The Stanwix Arts Theatre (main house and studio theatre,
  Theatre Income       (earned         seating 262) is both an infrastructure resource for this unit,
                       income)         and a driver of externally generated income.

 The University Archive and Special Collections is a resource for all. It includes papers relating to
 Francis Carr, who founded the Landscape and Arts Network in 1993 to bring together landscape
 architects, architects, artists, educationalists and ecologists in collaboration on environmental
 projects. These archives supported the work of Environment and Cultural Landscapes themes
 and serve as testament to the legacy of research activity. Future collaboration with IoA researchers
 and potential digitisation of key artefacts from the archives will enable wider access to the
 materials. The Vallum Gallery was substantially renovated in 2016 and has a full programme of
 in-house and external exhibitions each year. The Gallery and its Degree Show was a Finalist for
 Art or Cultural Initiative of the Year at the Carlisle Living Award.

 The Unit also has partnerships with the Cumbrian and Westmorland Antiquarian and
 Archaeological Society, and houses the collection for access by members. The Armitt Museum
 is hosted on the Ambleside campus, and it’s Charlotte Mason collections are utilised regularly by
 representatives of the Charlotte Mason Institute in the US, with a bi-centenary international
 conference planned in 2023. Staff have used the arcive to inform their work, such as Bradshaw
 who consulted Harriet Martineau Guides for an ‘F=’ piece on women writers in Ambleside (see
 2.3). Postgraduate students and staff also utilise the Wordsworth Trust’s archive and research
 centre.

 Academic colleagues within this unit are additionally supported by 11 technical staff. This
 includes Stewart, the subject librarian, who supports PG & PGR candidates. The IoA has specialist
 resources in 3D Wood, Metal, Ceramics & sheet materials (Wardlow & Waters); Fine Printmaking
 (Shaw), Photography, conventional and digital (Coombs & Hurn), AV & video/sound editing
 (Drude); as well as ICT (CAD/Games Design) from the central Institute IT resource. The Institute
 theatre is managed by Bridgewater & technicians are Brooks and Sharp and the Vallum Gallery
 by Baxter. PG and PGR students have the opportunity to use studio spaces within the Fine Art
 programme, and access to the Fine Art MacLab for specific imaging packages (AV/Photography)
 and design platforms.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Staff within this unit are encouraged to engage in a range of research collaborations, and to
 develop networks and partners which help to promote, disseminate and present their work.

       In Environments, Wilson1 and Impact3202 involve international collaboration with
        Arizona State University, and Wilson3 with the University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Wilson
        was Artist in residence at Brown University, Rhode Island, USA (2017-19) and at
        Anchorage Museum, Alaska (2016 -22), where a number of related exhibitions have taken
        place.
       In SMSP, Topping collaborated with Tahani Nadim, Junior Professor of Socio-Cultural
        Anthropology at the Department for European Ethnology in a joint appointment between
        the Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and the Museum für Naturkunde (Museum for Natural
        History), Berlin. Together, they jointly curated ‘Rabbit Cotton Tooth Cotton Rabbit’ into the
        group exhibition ‘The Influencing Machine’, nGbK, Berlin (2018). Topping also
        collaborated with sound designer Mark Vernon (http://meagreresource.com/) and the
        production of the film ‘Disaggregated Industries AKA The Man Who Fell to Millom’ (2018).
        Bonner has collaborated with a number of Universities as part of the ‘Visualising…’
        conferences, (Section 1.2.4).
       In EPL, Fowler was selected to exhibit in the 117th Annual Exhibition of the Society of
        Scottish Artists at the Royal Scottish Academy, Edinburgh (2014) and presented research
        at the University of Iceland (2018).
       In CL, and at Ambleside, Bradshaw collaborated with Dr Elizabeth Fisher (Northumbria)
        on a Schwitters symposium and curated a monthly public talk series - ‘Negotiating a
        Cultural Landscape: Writers and Artists in the Lakes’ (2019-2020), including contributions
        from the Universities of Lancaster, Northumbria, and Royal Holloway. Ferguson was an
        invited speaker for the Scottish Universities International Summer School at Edinburgh
        University (2016). Bradshaw collaborated with Professor of Practice, Terry Abraham on
        a monthly public talk series on ‘Changing Perceptions of a Cultural Landscape’, moving
        online due to Covid-19 (July 2021).
       In H/NHI, Darwell presented work at Aalto University, Helsinki, including ‘A Black Dog
        Came Calling’ (2014) and ‘Sharks in my Bathroom’ (2018). Williams delivered keynotes
        to the Museum of Morbid Anatomy, Brooklyn, New York; The Horse Hospital, London; The
        Whitechapel Gallery, London Centre for Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and
        Humanities, Cambridge University, the Aesthetics of Alchemy, Birkbeck College & the
        Wellcome Trust, and an invited paper at the University of Sorbonne, Paris.

 4.2 Relationships with Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences

 Unit staff have engaged extensively with international audiences.
       In Environments, Williams exhibited extensively as part of Cumbria Alchemy
        (Impact3201). Wilson exhibited at the Anthropocene Campus, Haus der Kulturen der Welt
        (HKW), Berlin; Arizona State University Art Museum; Mensch-Tier-Kontakte in Kunst,
        Erlangen, Nuremburg; Bell Gallery, Brown University, USA; Listasafn ASI, Reykjavík,
        Iceland; United Nations Building, New York; Reykjavík Art Museum; The Living Art
        Museum), Reykjavík; Anchorage Museum, Alaska; Botancial Gardens (Botaniska) in
        Gothenburg, Sweden; Audrey Love Gallery, Miami, Florida; Scandinavian House, New
        York; Gallerie Hnjotur, Iceland; and Hnjótur, Museum of Egill Ólafsson, Hnjótum.
       In SMSP, Topping’s work has been exhibited/screened at The Fifth Annual Philip K. Dick
        Science Fiction Film Festival, New York (2017); Kochi-Muziris Biennale, Kerala, India
        (with Lux Scotland, 2017); Glasgow Short Film Festival (2016); FILM OPEN (Spike Island,
        Bristol); Castlefield Gallery, Manchester (2015); 31st International Short Film Festival,

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Hamburg (2015); LUX Scotland‘s Artists Moving Image Festival, Tramway, Glasgow
        (2015); and 12th International Festival Singes de Nuit, Institute Finlandais, Paris (2015).
       In EPL, Fowler exhibited at the Whitespace Gallery, Edinburgh and St Andrews Museum
        and Gallery. He has engaged with policy makers through exhibition at the Scottish
        Parliament (Fowler1).
       In CL, Bradshaw appears annually at Words by the Water, Chairing several sessions and
        presenting her research on Ann Radcliffe. She has been invited keynote speaker on
        Michael Roberts and the Poetry of Mountaineering at Mountain Legacies Event (Newcastle
        2014), invited speaker at Bronte Parsonage as part of Bronte200 event, and invited to
        speak at the Ruskin Bicentenary Lecture series.
       In H/NHI, Darwell republished a series of works with Café Royal Books, including The
        Dark River series and Sheffield in Transition 1988–89, featuring in the Observer (2019).

 4.3 Wider Contributions to Economy and Society and development of this Unit’s ICS’s
       UOA staff supported the development of ‘Carlisle Cultural Consortium’ - working to
        harness the rich arts, heritage and culture of the city of Carlisle for future sustainability and
        growth. The consortium is being developed by an interim steering group of Carlisle City
        Council, Prism Arts, Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery Trust and UoC.
       In 2016/17, the IoA (Wilson as PI), in partnership with Carlisle City Council, delivered the
        Immersion/Emergence (I/E), a new artist residency project at The Old Fire Station,
        Carlisle, supported by Arts Council England. I/E invited artists to take up residence in
        Carlisle and develop work in response to the post-flooding urban and rural landscape. Two
        artists each received a £5,000 award, had access to exhibition space (Old Fire Station) to
        undertake research, production and exposition. An open call generated 28 responses with
        7 artists selected and funded to develop proposals. Following a proposal exhibition and
        presentation to a panel of judges, two artists, Harrison (a current PhD candidate) and
        Dummett, were awarded the six-month residency. Artists had access to specialist
        resources at the Brampton Road campus and delivered lectures and tutorials to students
        to stimulate and extend discourse across the project. In addition, each artist hosted a
        public lecture/discussion event at the Tullie House Museum and Art Gallery.
       UoC (Baxter as IoA lead) is a delivery partner in the Changing Culture Programme which
        provides a Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE) in Social Enterprise Leadership for young
        adults who are potential creative sector leaders in Cumbria and North Lancashire. The
        programme delivers Goal 4 of the Arts Council’s strategy “The leadership and workforce
        in the arts, museums and libraries are diverse and appropriately skilled”, by developing 20-
        24 new leaders in geographical areas of low engagement, investment and opportunity. The
        DipHE is a 2-year programme delivered by Brathay, UoC, and a consortium of arts sector
        organisations co-ordinated and led by Theatre by the Lake. It combines academic study
        with personal development opportunities through leadership residentials, work experience
        placements, action learning sets and mentors.
       IoA is delivering an Augmented Reality (AR) Project in Barrow as part of the ‘Back On
        Our Map’ (BOOM) species restoration project. BOOM (led by UoC) is a species restoration
        and community engagement project and the IoA has been commissioned to a create a
        short AR project that reflects the changing landscape of Barrow, working with a young
        school group and older group (65+) looking forward and looking back on the change.
        Delivery of this programme was anticipated in summer 2020, delayed due to Covid to 2021.
       This units Impact3201 (Williams, SMSP) has facilitated awareness of the contribution of
        arts practices to nuclear sites and changed understanding around nuclearity, place and
        land amongst artists, curators, nuclear practitioners, members of the public, and across
        cultural and industrial sectors. As a pathway to impact, the underpinning research has
        been cited on BBC Futures and the Financial Times, with evidence of impact provided by
        individuals in the nuclear industry.

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Impact3202 (Wilson) encapsulates the H/NHI theme, focusing on the plight of two
        indigenous, endangered species in the Grand Canyon, Arizona. The research has
        generated new, co-produced films, exhibitions, and artworks to facilitate policy debate and
        dialogue amongst international decision makers at the UN; influenced creative practice on
        issues of environmental concern and increased public awareness.
 Unit staff have contributed to economy and society more widely:
       Bradshaw supported an Arts Council project at Brantwood, Coniston to develop a series
        of ‘Natural Connections’ workshops for museum employees around the region.
       Bonner’s engagement in the Carlisle Photo Festival has contributed to cultural
        developments in the City.
       Topping’s recognition for ‘Peter’ at the Fifth Annual Philip K. Dick Science Fiction Film
        Festival, New York, 2017, as well as her associated works, contributed to a reserve ICS
        exploring ‘Fictioning’, Feminist writing practice and altered states.

 4.4 Engagement with Communities and Publics
       In Environments, Wilson has delivered invited artists’ talks and public lectures at the
        University of Gothenburg and on site at Botaniska, Gothenburg (2018), Gallery, Brown
        University, Providence, US, and at Vísindavaka (Science Week) Laugardalshöll, Iceland
        (2019). Snæbjörnsdóttir/Wilson gave a keynote at the ‘Art + Environment Conference’,
        Nevada Museum of Art. October (2014).
       In EPL, Fowler was invited speaker at the Nairn Book and Arts Festival (2015) and Wigton
        Book Festival (2015), presenting Fowler1, and presented at the Portobello Book Festival
        (2017). Fowler’s ‘Supermarket’ was exhibited at the Market Hall, Carlisle.
       In SMSP, Bonner contributes to the selection process for Source's annual showcase for
        Photographers graduating from University and Art College based photography courses –
        ‘Graduate Photography Online’, and served as judge for the Carlisle Photo Festival.
        Topping was on the jury for the ‘No Budget Competition’, at the 32nd Hamburg
        International Short Film Festival, 2016 – with filmmakers Siegfried A. Fruhauf and
        Christoph Girardet. ‘Eye Eye’ was screened at FOMO#3, The Dancehall at The Rum
        Shack, Glasgow, 2016 – working with musicians and DJs, and Topping1 was presented
        at ‘The Old Hairdressers’, Glasgow International 2018.
       In H/NHI, Williams has delivered public lectures and seminars at Arts, Letters & Numbers,
        Albany, New York; Mildred's Lane Projects, Pennsylvania, USA; Gracefields Arts Centre
        (Dumfries); Gallery of Modern Art (Glasgow); The Morbid Anatomy Museum and Library
        (Brooklyn, New York); Malmo Kontsmuseum (Sweden); and Whitechapel Gallery
        (London). Darwell has presented his work at the Atkinson Gallery, Southport; Signal Arts
        and Media, Barrow; and Bolton Art Gallery.
       In CL, Bradshaw and Ferguson have given public lectures as part of a series of monthly
        free talks on literary and artistic topics at Ambleside. Bradshaw was interviewed by BBC
        Radio Lancashire for a programme on the WW1 poet Laurence Binyon (2015) and as part
        of her contributions to the ‘Literary Lancaster’. Bradshaw recorded a podcast on Children's
        Literature in the Lakes for www.countryside.co.uk.
       Bradshaw also gave a public lecture on Wordsworth at Rydal Mount as part of 250th
        anniversary event (September 2020) and a keynote for the Norman Nicholson Society
        (March 2020) and organised a sell-out public event with the BBC broadcaster, journalist
        and author, Lord Melvyn Bragg, talking on his experiences of ‘Writing Cumbria’.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions to the Research Base
       In Environments, Wilson was a Member of the Advisory Board of the peer reviewed
        Antennae Journal of Nature in Visual Culture. Wilson is also a member of the AHRC
        Academic Peer Review College and an organising member of Merz North Network.
       In EPL, Woodward’s poems have been published in The White Review, Butcher's Dog,
        Hotel, Blackbox Manifold, Datableed, And Other Poems, Adjacent Pineapple, Lighthouse,
        The Literateur and others. Woodward won the Ivan Juritz Prize for a collection of short
        lyrics (2018).
       In SMSP, Topping’s ‘Peter’ won Best PKD Short at The Fifth Annual Philip K. Dick Science
        Fiction Film Festival, New York, 2017. Topping is a Member of the Board, Glasgow
        Independent Studio, and a Member (ex-committee member) of Transmission, Glasgow.
       In H/NHI, Williams is a Reviewer for Journal of Visual Arts Practice (Routledge) and a
        member of the AHRC Academic Peer Review College. He serves on the board of advisors
        for Mildred’s Lane Projects, Pennsylvania USA and as a member of the NAFAE steering
        group. Darwell was a judge for a photo essay competition for the International Journal of
        Epidemiology (2016).
       In CL, Bradshaw reviews for Green letters, Romanticism and Modern Language Review.
        Her Radcliffe edition was runner up for ‘Lakeland Book of the Year’ in 2015. Bradshaw
        is on the Editorial Board of Romanticism: Life, Literature and Landscape, and also sits on
        the Board of Directors of the Norman Nicholson House Community Company which seeks
        to develop the Cumbrian poet’s home as a literary and cultural heritage centre in Millom.

 Conclusion: This Unit’s active and vibrant research culture reflects the commitment of its
 researchers to develop the profile, awareness and the understanding of arts, media and
 humanities scholarship, practice and research within the IoA, the University and beyond. It’s
 positioning across five research themes spanning the Arts Research Initiative and the Centre for
 National Parks and Protected Areas, enables interdisciplinary work, research excellence and
 tangible impacts for society. The Unit’s infrastructure within a cohesive and expanding institutional
 environment, ensures security of research endeavour and the sustainability and development of
 further high quality research in research concerned with arts, media and humanities.




                                                                                              Page 17
