Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Overview
Research in UoA20 is increasingly interdisciplinary and international, evidenced throughout this
statement by our strong partnerships and collaborations. Established partnerships with research
users and service users have enabled us to achieve extensive policy and practice impact as well
as changing lives. We have built on REF2014 to grow a community of highly experienced
researchers with exceptional expertise, delivering an excellent level of grant capture from
increasingly diverse sources and high impact. Our vital and enabling research culture has
supported research career progressions, including advancement from Early Career Researcher
(ECR) to Professor, providing the continuity that has enabled local projects to be grown into large-
scale impactful studies.
Since 2014, strategic actions have included further development of seven existing centres (see
Figure 1) and establishment of new interdisciplinary collaborations. UoA20 also includes: the
interdisciplinary Institute of Citizenship, Society and Change (ICSC) and the UCLan Criminal
Justice Partnership (CJP). Most staff are located in the School of Social Work, Care and
Community (SWCC) which sits in the Faculty of Allied Health and Wellbeing. ICSC and CJP also
provide wider environments for interdisciplinary research collaboration and their staff are included
in this UoA. The Policing Research Unit collaborates with SWCC’s Connect Centre; researchers
from Healthy and Sustainable Settings collaborate with the Psychosocial Research Unit; McKeown
works closely with Manley, Spandler and Roy; Bhimji from Humanities and Social Sciences works
with ICSC; Cunningham from Social Policy and Whitton and Charnley-Parry from the Centre for
Sustainable Transitions (CST) collaborate with the Centre for Children and Young People’s
Participation.
Key research groupings are shown in Figure 1 and briefly described below.

Figure 1 – UoA Structure

          Unit of Assessment 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

                                   School of Social Work, Care & Community
                                          Connect Centre for International
                                            Research on Interpersonal
          Institute for                        Violence and Harm
          Citizenship,                     Centre for Children and Young           Criminal
                                               People’s Participation
          Society &                                                                  Justice
          Change                             Psychosocial Research Unit         Partnership
                                             Centre for Citizenship and
          Involved Schools:                         Community                       Involved schools:
          Architecture, Business                                                   Forensic & Applied
          Education, Humanities           Healthy and Sustainable Settings           Sciences, Design,
          Languages & Law                                                     Computing, Psychology,
                                                       Unit                  Law, Criminology, Health
                                              Faculty of Health               & Management Science

        Centre for Sustainable
             Transitions                      Policing Research Unit




                                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Researchers in UoA20 successfully bid for University funding to establish the new Institute for
Citizenship, Society and Change (ICSC) in 2017. This was a competitive bid with ICSC one of
two Institutes funded from 37 applications. The initial investment (£340,000 over 3 years) funded
three new posts and initiatives aimed at building a critical mass of interdisciplinary work across four
UCLan Faculties. Led by Co-Directors from social work, psychosocial studies, public health,
linguistics and engineering - Professors Stanley, Froggett, Dooris, Zeshan and Whitton - and
managed by a co-ordinator (Adams), the Institute fosters collaborations to address complex
questions concerning sustainable futures, relationships among individuals and communities, arts,
culture, civic life, and public institutions. It has over 40 members drawn from 15 schools across
UCLan and partners with a range of organisations nationally and internationally.
The UCLan Criminal Justice Partnership (CJP) was established in 2017 with £147,000 of
funding from sources including HEIF, resulting in four new posts. CJP responds to the diverse
challenges of the criminal justice sector and membership includes researchers from a range of
disciplines, structured into five project groups: prisons (led by Baybutt), youth and justice (led by
Wainwright), policing (led by Kingston), mental health and criminal justice (led by McKeown),
violence and aggression.
These large interdisciplinary research groupings have been built on the success of existing
research centres shown in Figure 2:

Figure 2 – UoA20 Research Centres

      Research Centre                   Dates Established & Focus of Work                                    Staff (*ECR)

   Centre for Children and Young     Est 2007, research, teaching and networking hub in which         Larkins, N.Thomas, Wainwright,
       People’s Participation        children and young people are directly involved in managing,     Cunningham, Worsley,
                                     planning and carrying out action research.                       *D.Thomas,

     Centre for Citizenship and      Est 2013 in partnership with the Royal Society of Arts, co-      Morris, McKeown, Ridley, Bhimji
            Community                produces research on community capacity and assets.

       Centre for Sustainable        Est 2013 in partnership with the Royal Society of Arts, co-      Whitton, *Charnley-Parry
            Transitions              produces research on community capacity and assets.

  Connect Centre for International   Est 2013, national and international research to prevent and     Stanley, Westwood, Chantler,
    Research on Interpersonal        reduce all forms of sexual, gender based and interpersonal       Radford, Barter, Robbins, Cooper,
       Violence and Harm             violence against adults, children and young people.              *Richardson-Foster, *Martin

  Healthy and Sustainable Settings   Est 2001, research on socio-ecological approaches to health      Dooris, Baybutt, Farrier
               Unit                  and wellbeing across settings and organisations.

       Policing Research Unit        Est 2015, research and consultancy on criminal and deviant       Kingston, Kirby, Cooper,
                                     behaviour, victimology, and the criminal justice system.         *Phythian

    Psychosocial Research Unit       Est 2004, research on welfare, health and the cultural sector,   Froggett, Roy, Spandler, Manley,
                                     which supports cultural citizenship and participation society.   Farrier




Unit Aims and Strategy
Our seven research centres have grown substantially since 2014 with 12 new staff appointed,
representing an increase in real terms (4 members of staff retired; 3 promoted elsewhere since
2014); this growth has enabled expertise and reputation to be consolidated and has promoted
strategic bidding.
Our 2014 research strategy comprised four broad aims: (1) to produce world-class research,
building strengths in interdisciplinary and international research; (2) sustain resources and funding,
harnessing seedcorn funding to support bidding; (3) maximise impact by extending engagement
with external stakeholders; and (4) grow a vibrant research environment increasing the numbers of
PGRs. ICSC and CJP have provided the platform and impetus for interdisciplinary research and
grant capture from funders such as ESRC, Open Society Foundation and the Wellcome Trust.



                                                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Spandler’s work demonstrates the fruits of this strategy. ICSC seedcorn funding supported the
development of a sustained interdisciplinary focus on mental health, working collaboratively with
scholars in sports studies, arts and humanities, history, social science and cultural studies. Her
programme of research on the history of critical and creative approaches to mental health has
been built through three Wellcome Trust grants.
Since 2014, funding sources have diversified as evidenced in Section 3. Funded research includes
a number of European studies, a Canadian study on interpersonal violence and studies undertaken
in Japan on ageing and disabled children. In Australia, we have collaborated on studies on
children’s wellbeing, domestic abuse and international museums. We have deepened and
extended our external partnerships and below we discuss the mechanisms enabling service users
to contribute to the development of our research (see Section 4).
UoA20 has benefited from UCLan’s Home Grown Talent Initiative that prioritises nurturing and
retaining talent, including offering permanent posts wherever possible. Sustainably growing our
research community, we have successfully implemented a ‘grow your own’ policy for developing
research careers. PGR completions (see Table 1) have increased by 65% since REF2014 and this
achievement has been underpinned by funding from the University, Faculty and School and
external funding from the EU, the ARC and other research commissioners (see Section 2).
The establishment of the ICSC and CJP was part of a newly designed UoA20 research strategy in
2019 in line with the University Strategy. This followed consultation with staff, students, partners
and Comensus, a pan-University organisation consisting of service users, carers and
representatives of community organisations which embeds user/carer expertise in research and
teaching. This targeted strategy has high ownership emphasising shared values and a culture
based on research integrity and equity of opportunity. The strategy has four broad objectives: (1)
significantly enhance our research standing; (2) develop cross-cutting interdisciplinary research
and partnerships; (3) collaborate with citizens, service users and research beneficiaries to build
research integrity and impact and (4) support the research of all academic groups. Below, we
outline achievement against these goals.

Enhancing Our Research Standing
Our international profile and reach have been extended through collaborations (see Section 4) and
regular international visitors supported by both SWCC and UCLan’s Distinguished Visitor
programme including visitors from the Universities of: Jyväskylä (2015); Carleton, Canada (2017);
Istanbul Arel (2017); Urban Justice Center, New York (2019), Auckland (2019), North Carolina at
Chapel Hill (2020). These have resulted in joint publications, international keynote presentations
and invitations to affiliate with international centres, enhancing our international reputation.
Staff are supported to deliver papers at international and national conferences by the Faculty and
by SWCC’s annual £30,000 Staff Development Fund, administered by a panel to provide
transparency of decision-making. Dooris has been supported to participate in international forums
and networks described in the impact case study on Healthy Universities. University and ICSC
funding has assisted PGRs and PhD students to deliver papers at national and international
conferences. ICSC and Centres have been given financial backing and administrative support to
run conferences that showcase research and influence national and international practice and
policy. Examples include the biennial Connect Centre Conference (2016, 2018 and 2020) which
has a national profile and contributed to developing one of the Impact Case Studies.
ICSC, the CJP and all Centres deliver regular seminar series which attract audiences from
practice, policy and research sectors including strong representation from regional organisations,
so contributing to community partnerships. In the context of Covid-19, seminars have moved online
increasing participation from international speakers and audiences. From 2014-19, SWCC
Research Centres delivered 98 seminars and the CJP hosted 44 knowledge exchange events from
2017-2020, attended by representatives from over 200 organisations. ICSC delivered ten
interdisciplinary seminars from 2019-20, with an additional series of online events in 2020 to
examine the implications of Covid-19. An ICSC round table event in 2019 resulted in UCLan
agreeing to declare a climate emergency and co-ordinate action on climate change. Presentations
are available online, increasing the reach and sustainability of our research.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Developing interdisciplinary themes and partnerships
ICSC and the CJP have strengthened links between researchers across the University to promote
new forms of interdisciplinary research. ICSC has 52 academic members from 15 schools across
UCLan, including nine ECRs and 40 PhD students. Training events, writing workshops, away days
and seedcorn funding have developed bids around ICSC’s core themes of social justice and
sustainability, relationships, risks and safety and community and the public realm.
The CJP has built external partnerships with prisons, constabularies, probation, third sector and
community rehabilitation companies and has signed a Memorandum of Understanding for research
with regional Youth Offending Services.
ICSC seedcorn funding supported Manley and McKeown’s research on the Preston Model
undertaken in partnership with Preston City Council with specific strategies for linking the local with
the global. The international dimension of this research is supported by partnerships with the US
organisation 1Worker1Vote and with Mondragon Cooperative corporation, Spain.
The creation of the ICSC has fostered creative alliances such as social work researchers
collaborating with Deaf Studies researchers and geographers to research community capacity in
India. New partnerships have opened up pathways to original research such as the Centre for
Children and Young People’s Participation’s work in partnership with Media and Innovation
colleagues to develop films, websites, apps and phygitals (physical objects with digital
components) that enable children and adults to interact with research findings.

Research in collaboration with citizens, service users and research beneficiaries to achieve
research integrity and impact
Our REF2014 strategy sought to deepen our strategic engagement with non-academic networks
and a wide range of partnerships have been built (see Section 4), supporting involvement in all
aspects of our research. The Centre for Children’s and Young People’s Participation (CCYP)
receives funding from SWCC and the University to work with 18 young researchers (UCan) who
initiate research studies focused on identifying and challenging discrimination. They have recruited
disabled young people as researchers in Japan and conducted research which has contributed to
scrutiny of the Japanese government’s record on children’s rights (see Impact Case Study). UCan
is now supported by a dedicated half-time research fellow.
This partnership approach also informed the STIR study on young people’s experiences of intimate
violence, led by Barter, with Stanley and Larkins. Funded by the EU’s Daphne Programme, this
research involved young people’s advisory groups across five European countries, exploring the
prevalence of different forms of abuse in teenage relationships. The findings informed the UK
Government’s Sexual Harassment and Sexual Violence in Schools Inquiry, where Barter sat as a
special advisor (see Impact Case Study) and the Swedish National Action Plan on Violence
Against Women cited these findings.
The Centre for Citizenship and Community (CCC) facilitates an online forum of twenty local
community researchers involved in the design, implementation and analysis of each CCC research
project. The CCC maintains close links with key national bodies such as INVOLVE regarding good
practice in public engagement in research.
At the international and national levels, contributions to reviews, guidance and inquiries by
organisations including UNICEF, the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse (IICSA), the
Centre for Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation and the NSPCC have brought our work to the
attention of commissioners and other influencers, resulting in further commissions and policy
impact (see Impact Case Study).
UoA20 staff have collaborated in developing NICE guidelines in England and Wales. Stanley was
a member of the NICE Quality Standard Group and Programme Development Group contributing
to the development and implementation of the Guideline on the NHS and Social Care Response to
Domestic Violence and Abuse 2014. Larkins, with Stanley, leads participatory research to develop
NICE Guidelines for working with looked after children and young people (2019-20) (see Impact
Case Studies).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
At the regional level, the ICSC and the CJP have strengthened partnerships with a range of
organisations and commissioners. The ICSC has promoted UCLan’s civic university role.
Collaboration with the city’s Harris Museum included four public seminars in 2018-2019 and a
research partnership addressing cultural citizenship through the joint creation of a Centre for Civic
Renewal, led by Froggett. The Healthy & Sustainable Settings Unit (HSSU) has cemented links
with regional providers through the appointment of visiting professors from public health
departments in Blackburn with Darwen and Dudley as well as from Prisons North.
The Psychosocial Research Unit (PRU) has worked in partnership with four Creative People and
Places programmes (Arts Council England funded). Projects have addressed intercultural practice
and industrial heritage, housing and community capacity, and cultural citizenship. One partnership
has co-produced four international conferences and evidence that enabled Heart of Glass, St
Helens to be appointed by Arts Council England as a National Portfolio Organisation in 2019,
accessing £1.4 million in additional funding. PRU has also partnered with Odd Arts and Company
Chameleon to research Forum theatre in Prisons and Secure Accommodation leading to the
development of a new model of Dance Theatre practice.
The Policing Research Unit’s secondment arrangement with Lancashire Police has, since 2015,
provided the basis for an ongoing partnership focused on evidence-based policing enabling
research findings to be translated directly into practice and policy. Projects have included studies
of repeat missing from home incidents in children and Return to Home Interviews with missing
children; both projects were undertaken in collaboration with Lancashire Constabulary, University
College London and Lancaster University. Impacts include the creation of a ‘pilot task force’ within
Lancashire Constabulary to conduct debriefs of exploited children and repeat missing children as
well as a national review into the return to home interview process by the charity, Missing People.
As a long-term member of the national Making Research Count (MRC) network of social work
departments, we partner with regional social care organisations (Bolton LA, Barnardo’s North-
West, Blackpool Adult Services, Lancashire CC) to embed research in their policy and practice
through research-informed events. 34 MRC seminars/conferences events have been delivered in
this REF period.
UCLan’s Connected Curriculum initiative ensures that staff research informs teaching and all
research centres draw on their research to contribute to teaching.
We have 24.75 research student completions in this REF period (up from 15 in 2014). The ICSC
has attracted funding for two international PhD students through the University Alliance’s
successful bid to the Horizon2020 CoFund scheme. The University has supported other PhD
students through studentships and support monies. In June 2020, the University confirmed funding
for five full-time fully funded PhD studentships for BAME students to examine ethnicity in higher
education; four will be supervised by staff in UoA20. This followed a paper by Wainwright and
Worsley, based on interviews with BAME staff, highlighting strategies for the University’s response
to challenges faced by BAME academics.
Staff workloads are managed to ensure time is allocated for scholarship and research. Study leave
and sabbaticals have been provided in line with School policies to support research, develop
proposals and allow staff studying for PhDs extended time for fieldwork. Workload management
has facilitated participation in national and international practice and policy forums supporting
impact (see Impact Case Studies).
University support for research bidding is detailed in Section 2. UCLan’s Research Services
provide training and support including the Impact Tracker software which has enabled UOA20
researchers to increase understanding, achievement and articulation of research impact.
Public awareness of our research has been enhanced through media coverage and UoA staff have
benefited from the networks and advice from UCLan’s Communications Team. Media training has
helped staff develop skills to communicate across a range of media. For example, evidence
provided to the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse by Connect Centre researchers was
widely disseminated via You-Tube (see Impact Case Study).




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open and Ethical Research
UCLan’s Scholarly Communications Unit (SCU) advises researchers on open access requirements
and maintains the university’s repository. Unit staff contribute to PhD induction days, staff research
events and provide training sessions. The Research Administrator deposits all staff outputs in
CLoK, the university’s repository, where they are checked for accessibility. UCLan’s green Open
Access policy was introduced in 2014 and revised in 2020 in line with the emerging Open
Research landscape. UoA20 researchers have benefited from central university funding aimed at
ensuring ‘gold’ open access for high quality papers in addition to drawing on the OA Block grant
from RCUK. All researchers in this UoA have ORCID signifiers.
The University is a signatory to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and this
Concordat underpins our approach to ethical research. All research bids are scrutinised by the
University’s Ethics Committee and UoA members contribute to the work of this committee as
Chairs and reviewers.

  2. People

Attracting and Retaining Staff
The vibrant research environment within UoA20 is designed to nurture, develop and retain highly
skilled research staff, ECRs and research students. Our REF2014 strategy aimed to support and
strengthen our ECR and mid-career (MCR) researchers, below we identify the approaches
adopted. We ensure a balance between professors who lead centres engaged in internationally
excellent research, MCRs who contribute to the capture and management of research projects and
produce high quality publications, and ECRs whose careers we support with a view to developing
and retaining them. The UoA currently includes 12 professors of whom seven are based in SWCC.
We have 11 MCRs (5-10 years from PhD or equivalent), and five ECRs (as defined by REF2021
guidance).
In the last three years, the University and UoA20’s ‘grow your own’ strategy for producing
internationally excellent researchers has come to fruition. Staff who joined SWCC as PhD students
(Larkins, Westwood), lecturers (McKeown, Roy) or Post-Doctoral Research Fellows (Spandler)
have been appointed to Chairs. Baybutt completed a Professional Doctorate at UCLan in 2013 and
was appointed to a Readership in 2020. UCLan’s commitment to employing staff on permanent
contracts wherever possible has assisted this growth. Career progression has been supported by
mentoring and collaboration with senior professors such as Froggett and Stanley and mentoring
through UCLan’s central mentoring scheme. SWCC’s policy offers MCRs workload space to work
on large bids to support career progression. Promotions in this REF period reflect the UoA’s
commitment to equal opportunities with a 50:50 gender balance amongst those promoted. The
University holds a Bronze Athena Swan Award and the Faculty has held a Bronze Athena Swan
since 2018 and is working towards the Silver Award.
As staff have retired (N.Thomas, Radford) or been promoted internally, new staff have been
recruited at Senior Research Fellow (SRF) or Research Fellow (RF) levels with a view to ensuring
sustainability of Centres and research teams. Five ECRs have been appointed to permanent RF
posts in the last three years with three of these having completed PhDs at UCLan. The
establishment of ICSC involved the creation of three new posts: two RAs and an Institute Co-
ordinator.
We have also made external appointments to fill vacant positions. Robbins was recruited in 2014
from Manchester Metropolitan University and Barter moved from University of Bristol to take up a
Readership in the Connect Centre in 2016. Kingston moved from Lancaster University to a Chair in
the Policing Research Unit in 2019.
The SWCC and the ICSC benefit from administrative support provided by a dedicated full-time
Research Administrator (QR funded) and CJP is supported by a part-time administrator.
Researchers also have access to the Faculty’s Research Support Team (QR funded) which offers
specialist support and skills in respect of data collection and entry, statistical analysis and


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systematic reviewing. This Team employs 13.3 FTE academic and 7.4 administrative staff working
across a range of disciplines including social sciences and public health.
Research induction is provided for all new staff and all academic staff receive training on Ethics
and Research Integrity and have access to the Epigeum range of on-line research training. SWCC
funds regular research training for all staff including training on systematic reviews, writing retreats
and specialist training courses, for example on Social Network Analysis.
SWCC has a designated Research Lead who chairs a regular Research Strategy Group meeting
attended by research staff at all levels. This group provides a forum to share new initiatives,
identify training needs and develop strategy and is particularly valuable for MCRs and ECRs. All
Centres are led by professorial level staff who supervise and mentor Centre members.

Staff Support and Development
Staff development is informed by the principles of the 2019 Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers and we aim to create a research environment that is inclusive,
healthy and transparent. Annual staff appraisal is strength-based and used to set appropriate
research targets and appraise workload. Flexible working patterns are utilised and time spent on
staff development is monitored, particularly in respect of ECRs, to ensure equal access. All staff
undertaking appraisals participate in Unconscious Bias training.
Funding has been provided for staff to attend Women’s Leadership programmes and to receive
individual leadership coaching. Where staff with substantial teaching responsibilities wish to grow
their research profile, it has been possible to create protected time for this, including the provision
of sabbaticals. Staff who have returned to work following a period of sickness have been offered
flexible work patterns and opportunities to reduce their hours if they choose. UCLan has funded the
Aurora Women in Education leadership programme for MCRs in UoA20 and Baybutt was
promoted following her participation in this programme.

Early Career Researchers
Following a consultation exercise with ECRs in 2016, SWCC has developed and implemented an
ECR strategy which includes: a mentorship programme; an increased focus on research in annual
appraisals and a reassessment of ECR workloads; promotion of Vitae and research plans in self-
monitoring; and increasing involvement of ECRs on research bids. For example, ECRs
Richardson-Foster and D.Thomas have been co-applicants on major bids.
In 2014-20, SWCC allocated £50,000 towards the fees of lecturers studying for PhDs. ECRs have
been able to draw on ICSC seedcorn funding to develop small-scale studies which have fed into
larger bids.
Five ECRs are currently included on PGR supervision teams alongside senior staff and supported
by central university training for research supervisors. They also contribute to the University’s PGR
training programme.
Mentoring partnerships have been developed and used to build the publication profile and wider
portfolio of ECRs. For example, D.Thomas has been supported by Larkins to publish papers and
Manley received mentoring from Froggett that contributed to his high-profile work on the Preston
Model. All ECRs are supported to publish by senior colleagues and have been resourced via the
Staff Development Fund to deliver papers at international conferences. ECRs have opportunities to
network at the Faculty’s ECR Forum and training events and the University organises seminars
and events on skills and career development tailored for ECRs.

Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs)
Mid-Career researchers are supported by a Faculty MCR development programme and a series of
support meetings. Membership of ISCS has proved valuable for MCRs: the two ICSC RAs have
supported MCRs by providing assistance with systematic reviews and pilot studies. MCR Farrier,
for example, used Institute seedcorn funding to develop three bids and attended ISCS writing
retreats, resulting in a published paper with two further papers underway.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR Students
Our 24.75 PhD completions in this REF period represents an improvement on the 15 reported for
REF2014, reflecting objectives set at that time. UoA20 currently has 58 PGR students registered
including 36 PhD students and 22 undertaking Professional Doctorates. Of these, 71% are female
and 17% are from BAME groups. A range of funding streams support PGR study. Two full-time
international Research Fellows (2019-22) are funded through the University Alliance’s Cofund
programme, with UCLan a partner in this alliance providing funding to match that provided by the
Horizon DTA3 programme. Funding from the School, Faculty and University has supported six
PhDs with some allocated to international students. Other significant PGR funding sources include
Lancashire Constabulary who have part-funded three PGRs in the REF period and the regional
NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC). PGR funding has also been built into research
grants from the Big Lottery, the Wellcome Trust and the Social Science and Humanities Research
Council of Canada.

Table 1: PGR student completions
              2013/   2014/    2015/    2016/   2017/    2018/    2019/    TOTAL     STAFF    PER
              2014    2015     2016     2017    2018     2019     2020               FTE      FTE
  PhD         1       2.5      3        2.75    3        2        4.75     19
  Prof Doc    0       1        0        1.25    1.25     0.5      1.25     5.25
  Total       1       3.5      3        4       4.25     2.5      6        24.25     27.20    0.89

All supervisory teams include two/three members of staff who meet the University’s training
requirements. Three Research Degree Tutors support PGRs throughout their study. All PGR
students complete the University’s PGR teaching programme which includes a compulsory
induction and offers skills and knowledge in research methods, research governance, work
management and impact. SWCC also provides a research-informed PGR training programme and
support workshops which contribute to a collegiate and supportive learning environment. Students
enjoy membership of ICSC and have been able to access ICSC training events and writing
retreats. Other training and networking events include the Connect Centre’s annual PGR seminar
and the Faculty’s annual PGR conference. Students’ progress, supervision and training needs are
monitored via annual progression reports and PhD students submit a progress report at the point
of transition from MPhil to PhD status. All students are offered the opportunity of a mock viva with
an independent member of staff.
All PGR students are supported by supervisors to publish peer-reviewed papers. PGR career
progression is supported through teaching opportunities and consideration for Research Associate
(RA) and Research Fellow (RF) posts. Currently, four former PhD students are employed as
RAs/RFs within the UoA and RA posts have also been taken up by part-time PGR students who
wish to work alongside their studies.
Within SWCC, 14 members of staff have been supported to enrol and study on PhDs or
Professional Doctorates with time allocated within workloads for this. Undergraduates are able to
obtain research experience via university research internships and both our students and research
centres have benefited from this scheme.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Generation of Research Income
In response to feedback from REF2014, UoA20 has substantially broadened sources of research
funding to include national and international grants from the ESRC (4 grants), AHRC (3 grants),
Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, NIHR, Medical Research Council,
European Union, Council of Europe, European Commission, Department of Health, Cabinet Office,
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills, NHS England, Office of Children’s Commissioner,
NICE, SCIE, Scottish Government, Welsh Government, Nature England, major charities and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
foundations such as Wellcome Trust, Open Society Foundations, UNICEF, NSPCC, the Big
Lottery, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the Premier League, and Children in Need as well as
regional and local commissioners. The development of new Institutes and partnerships has built on
existing track records, boosted research reputation and credibility, and developed new
opportunities. Total income in the REF period has amounted to £4,239,742.
Major grants have built on the strength of existing Centres. For example, five permanent staff from
the Connect Centre work on the Roadmap Evaluation of Domestic Violence Services (2017-21,
total value: £390,000) and Connect Centre teams worked on two systematic reviews for the
Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse and for the Scottish Government Inquiry into Child
Abuse. Reputation and expertise have led to Stanley partnering with King’s College London and
University of Bristol on two large-scale NIHR programme grants (total value: £4.5 million) and on
four other NIHR awards. Similarly, Robbins was co-applicant on a major UK ESRC study exploring
social care responses to children and families affected by domestic abuse (2019-22, total value c.
£2 million); and Barter was a partner on a major NIHR study on domestic abuse prevention with
the Institute of Tropical Health and Medicine (2017-19, total value £450,000) and a MRC-funded
study on domestic abuse with the University of Bristol (2018-21, total value £550,000).
International studies include Larkins’ EU funded PEER project, (2014-2016, €0.8 million, with 13
partners in nine countries) on the participation and empowerment of Roma Youth; two projects
applying this methodology in other countries (Daiwa funded, 2017-2019, with a partner university
and NGOs in Japan, and Open Society Foundations funded, 2019-2021, with partner NGOs in
Bulgaria). The Odessa Project (Morris, 2016-19, ESRC, ANR, NSFC, total value: €1million) on
ageing-in-place is undertaken with partners in Beijing and Paris. The EU Daphne Programme has
funded three projects on interpersonal violence: the STIR study (2013-15, Stanley and Larkins with
Barter then at Bristol and four European partners); Radford’s PIECES study with the European
Child Safety Network and five European partners and Radford’s Preventing Intergenerational
Domestic Violence collaboration with Verwey Jonker Institute, Netherlands.
A stable senior staff group has enabled the acquisition of new research funding to build on the
foundation provided by earlier studies. The PRU have undertaken a series of projects for Paul
Hamlyn, Wellcome Trust, Big Lottery, Australia Research Council (total value c £370k) on the arts-
health-citizenship interface. Stanley et al’s (2018-20) national evaluation of the NSPCC’s Speak
Out Stay Safe programme (total value £660,000) draws on the systematic review undertaken for
the NIHR-funded PEACH study (2013-15, £161,000) built on her track record in research on
domestic abuse and children. Likewise, the CCC has extended two small grants from the People’s
Health Trust to capture further research (£220,000) on community control in 21 sites. The CCC’s
evaluation of mental health and adult learning programme with IPSOS Mori (£300k in total,
Department of Business, Innovation and Skills) built on earlier work on social inclusion for the
National Institute of Mental Health.
ICSC seedcorn funding for kickstarting interdisciplinary research resulted in pilot studies for
successful large-scale bids such as the ESRC study on Domestic Homicide Reviews (2019-21,
total value £545,000) and Larkins’ arts-based work in NW England and Wales which led to capture
of research income from Nature England, the AHRC (total value £100,000) and the Arts Councils
of England and Wales.
The ICSC’s partnership with the City of Preston has resulted in research focused on the city’s
institutions and innovations with Manley and McKeown awarded $300,000 (Open Society
Foundations, 2019-21) to develop and study Preston’s co-operative network. This work has been
developed further with NIHR funding (total value £598,242) in partnership with Liverpool and
Lancaster universities and the North West Coast Applied Research Collaboration (ARC), in a study
to identify the public health benefits of Preston’s community wealth building model.
The work of the Policing Research Unit has been supported by Lancashire Police who have part-
funded unit staff from 2015-20 (£50,000 per annum). This has resulted in ongoing consultation on
evidence-based policing and a series of local studies undertaken by staff seconded to Lancashire
Police addressing trauma-informed practice; adverse childhood experiences; domestic abuse;
victim satisfaction; public perceptions of police; ‘sextortion’ and mental health demand. Findings


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have generated direct changes in policy, procedures and practice and have promoted evidence-
based policing through web pages and a policing award conference.

Research Infrastructure and Technical Support
The University’s Grants and Funding Unit (GFU) supports grant capture through bid preparation
and the post-award period. Their services include assistance with funder guidelines, submission
rules, calculating grant budgets, advice on intellectual property and data protection and legal
services.
UoA20 has financially supported the production of a monthly funding opportunity report for SWCC
researchers and has provided staff training in the use of Research Professional. Since 2013, all
bids over £100,000 are subject to internal peer review to ensure quality. All research staff and
students have access to research tools such as bibliographic management systems, electronic
databases, inter-library loans and data analysis software for both quantitative and qualitative
analysis. PGR students have benefitted from the University’s commitment to keep the library open
during the pandemic in line with Covid-19 safety procedures.
Criminal justice researchers use UCLan’s Hydra Minerva Suite, one of the most sophisticated
university installations in the country, to explore decision-making and victims’ journeys. This facility
comprises syndicate rooms where participants are provided with information about an unfolding
incident through a large-screen monitor and a ‘control room’ where researchers can assess
decision making.
The university supports and trains staff in the use of research tools such as SPSS and NVivo and
digital technology such as the Remerge polling package. SWCC subscribes to Qualtrics which is
used for large-scale surveys and has been used by CCYP to develop tools which enable tracking
of child participation (see Impact Case Study). In collaboration with UCLan’s Media Innovation
Studio, funded by Open Society Foundation, the tools are being developed further to inform a
bespoke multi-lingual library on child participation.
All SWCC staff have dedicated office space with the majority having their own rooms in the same
newly refurbished building. PhD students share a dedicated space with other Faculty research
students and Research Fellows each have their own rooms.


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our collaborations and networks are core to our research strategy and fundamental to the
innovation and impact we achieve. We have extended and strengthened partnerships with service
users, external colleagues, associates and research users since REF2014, with a sustained focus
on increasing interdisciplinary and international collaborations.

Interdisciplinary Collaborations
Effective social work and social policy research increasingly addresses complex and intersecting
problems. In response, we have built a strong culture of interdisciplinary research with ICSC and
CJP providing environments that foster internal and external collaborations and networks.
Stanley has a long-standing partnership with the University of Bristol Medical School, collaborating
on four major interdisciplinary projects on interventions in domestic violence and abuse (DVA),
including primary care responses. These collaborations have produced new tools and training for
strengthening the response to DVA in primary care settings (disseminated online and through the
IRIS programme of training). She led the Public Health Research Programme NIHR funded
evidence review, Preventing Domestic Abuse for All Children (2013-2015) collaborating with health
researchers with findings submitted as evidence to the Government’s Sexual Harassment and
Sexual Violence in Schools Inquiry (see Impact Case Study).
Barter is co-applicant with Bristol Medical School on an MRC/ESRC funded study which identifies
the determinants and health sequelae of DVA among young adults to inform service responses
(2019-2021). In partnership with The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and Bristol

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Medical School, she completed the first UK pilot randomised trial of a school-based violence
prevention intervention for young people (NIHR PHR); this will inform statutory provision of
relationships and sex education.
The integration of intradisciplinary collaborations and participatory research is central to the work of
the CYPP. In collaboration with Dialogue Matters, an environmental science consultancy firm,
Larkins developed the ‘England Coastal Path Initiative’ and Nature England’s ‘Strategy for Child
and Youth Participation’ with repeat commissions for co-production work as the project developed.

Collaborations with Citizens and Service Users
A strong emphasis on ‘co-production’ through sustained engagement with citizens and service
users characterises much of our research. These collaborations alert us to new fields of inquiry,
shape our research priorities and ensure our research has maximum impact across different
sectors.
A fundamental principle of the CCYPP is to support co-produced research with young service
users. Larkins has co-produced evaluations of support services for children in and leaving care
with local authority partners, funded by local authorities, Family Action and the Cabinet Office.
These utilise a distinctive approach to co-producing a theory of change with children and young
people through action research groups and have led to impact on care leaver services and
informed the development of a new National Youth Advocacy service which is piloting the
approach. The CCYPP hosts UCan Young Researchers Group which also advised Ridley on
development of the successful YOUCount Horizon 2020 bid.
Whitton co-produced research with young researchers exploring young people’s engagement with
Climate Change and Community Resilience, using participatory photography and deliberative
workshop methods.
Similarly, the CCC co-produces research with community members across age spans and with
diverse groups in Preston, supported by local authority and community organisation partners,
developing sustained mechanisms to build community capacity, improve wellbeing and reduce
loneliness.
The PRU’s research has brought together socially engaged art and addiction services, undertaken
in collaboration with people in recovery. In partnership with Fallen Angel Dance Theatre (FADT),
Roy developed dance and movement workshops to support people recovering from substance
misuse. A collaboration with people in recovery led to a public engagement programme at Tate
Liverpool involving 1,200 members of the public. This resulted in a new collaboration between
FADT and international artists funded by Liverpool Biennial, building on previous work developed
with Roy funded by the Wellcome Trust.
Spandler and McKeown’s research also includes mental health service users as co-researchers
and co-authors, such as Spandler’s Hidden from History study on the psychiatric mistreatment of
lesbians.

International Collaborations
Our international collaborations and networks have grown considerably since REF2014. These
partnerships provide a continuous challenge to our research practices and theory, strengthening
our research culture, relevance and reach of our impact. Through them, we maintain a sustained
focus on comparative perspectives across a range of international issues.
The Connect Centre has led/contributed to several European Collaborations funded under the
Daphne programme. Including Barter’s STIR study, discussed in section 1.
The CCYP’s major European collaboration, PEER: Participation and Empowerment for European
young Roma, involved co-designing and delivering action research training to 270 professionals
and young Roma across Europe and subsequent work with young Roma across Europe,
involving 550 children in 33 projects across 19 European countries. These studies brought about
change in Roma young people’s lives, communities and in public policy (see Impact Case Study).
Building on this research, Larkins was awarded an Open Society Foundation grant in 2019 to


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support NGOs in Bulgaria to roll out the PEER methodology to four European NGOs. This grant
also funded research across 20 countries assessing marginalized children’s involvement in
shaping responses to Covid-19, which has informed NGO practice across Europe (see Impact
Case Study). Through its partnership with Eurochild, which has 900-member organisations in 43
countries, the Centre models innovative practice in co-creating knowledge exchange with children
and young people. For example, the Centre supported child participation in the Council of Europe
Child Rights Strategy Review and associated 2019 conference.

In Germany, Bhimji has worked closely with refugee and migration NGOs such as Schlafplatzorga
which supports homeless refugees in Berlin. She has also collaborated with and contributed to
shows on We!Radio, an independent radio project developed by German refugees and aimed at
African diaspora in Germany and family in East and West Africa.
UoA20 has expanded its global networks to include partnerships in Southeast Asian Nations,
Australia, New Zealand, Japan, China and Canada. All research in low to middle income (LMIC)
countries is compliant with the Global Code of Conduct for Research in Resource-Poor Settings,
developed by Professor Doris Schroeder (UCLan).
‘Optimising Care Delivery Models to Support Ageing-in-Place’ (Odessa) is an ongoing global
collaborative venture between the Centre for Citizenship and Community, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, University Paris Dauphine and University of Paris 1. The study involves older people in
finding innovative ways of adapting homes for independent living.
Froggett was the UK lead on ‘Curating Third Space’ co-funded by the Australian Research Council.
A direct outcome was ‘The Big Anxiety’ Arts and public Mental Health Festival (Sydney 2017,
2019) and ongoing partnerships with the Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences, Sydney, and the
ArtScience Museum, Singapore.
The Healthy & Sustainable Settings Unit’s research has been instrumental in the adoption of the
‘whole system’ approach to promoting health and wellbeing within higher education. The model,
developed by Dooris, has been implemented in over 70 higher education institutions within the UK
and globally, across Southeast Asian Nations, Canada, Ibero-America and New Zealand (see
Impact Case Study).
Whitton and Charnley-Parry were partners on the Horizon 2020 study on the History of Nuclear
Energy and Society (HoNESt) study involving researchers from 22 EU countries, the US and
Russia. This study influenced UK Nuclear New Build public engagement practice and is included in
UCLan’s UoA17 impact statements.
The Connect Centre collaborated on research to explore fathering and domestic violence with the
University of Melbourne, Curtin University and University of South Australia. The study contributed
to changes in both policy and practice in different states in Australia with a shift to the recognition
of the value of interventions for abusive fathers. The Connect Centre also collaborates with McGill
University, Canada, on IMPACTS, a 7-year global partnership on sexual violence on campus, with
22 international educational institutions and nine community partners.
Members of the Connect Centre are co-founders of the International Domestic Homicide Research
Network (established 2018). The network exchanges new research on domestic homicide and is
establishing a research agenda that incorporates a range of data sources and methodologies.
Network members involved in the development of government strategy on homicide review in
Scotland and Ireland have drawn on members’ research to inform new policy initiatives.

National and Regional Collaborations
The Centre for Citizenship and Community has developed national projects in public service
sectors including housing (for Orbit, a national housing provider) and police (Cumbria) around
mental wellbeing and communities. Led by Morris and Ridley, with funding from the Big Lottery, the
Connected Communities programme involves collaboration with the Royal Society of Arts and the
London School of Economics (£500,000). The findings show the value of ‘dividends’ relating to
wellbeing, economic, citizenship and capacity.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Stories to Connect’ AHRC is a collaboration led by CCYPP with Barnardo’s to produce stories with
marginalised children, sharing these in fictionalised forms in order to challenge exclusion and
stigma (£505,000). This is used in training for social workers and education professionals across
the UK and Finland. Building on this work, Larkins currently co-leads Stories of Landscapes which,
with Rusland Horizons Trust, Art Gene and Blackpool Council, uses an innovative participatory
fiction methodology to engage children in environmental planning.
Connect Centre members have delivered a range of national research studies since REF2014.
Barter worked with the Premier League Charitable Fund and Children in Need to develop the
Premier League’s ‘Breaking the Cycle of Youth Violence’ programme in partnership with the
University of Bedfordshire. Findings from the independent evaluation, led by Barter, supported
Children in Need’s decision to move to a full programme at a cost of £5 million. Ongoing studies
led by Stanley include the TESSE national evaluation of the NSPCC’s Speak Out Stay Safe
programme for primary schools in partnership with the Universities of Edinburgh, Greenwich,
Bangor and Queen’s University Belfast; and the Roadmap evaluation of innovative domestic
abuse interventions (2017-21, Big Lottery, £369,000) with the Universities of East London and
Bangor. Both studies will inform future development, commissioning and roll-out of these large-
scale programmes as well as shaping understandings of change mechanisms for intervention in
interpersonal violence; interim findings have been used to redesign and refocus existing
programmes.
The Policing Research Unit’s research collaborations with Lancashire Police have supported best
practice policing on violent crime; a process evaluation of a pilot intervention for women at risk of
serious and organised crime with Lancashire Women’s Centre and Lancashire Constabulary; a
progress review of Operation Genga, a multi-agency approach to serious and organised crime with
Blackburn and Darwen Council and Lancashire Constabulary. Other partnership projects have
included Engage 1, an evaluation of interventions for young people at risk of crime involvement,
with Greater Manchester Police, and an evaluation of the Cumbria multi-agency assessment and
crisis service with Cumbria Partnership NHS Trust and Cumbria Police.
Phythian has led collaborations with the National Police Chiefs Council and CGI Inc to examine the
use and limitations of the Police National Database and, with Oscar Kilo, Lancashire Constabulary
and College of Policing, to analyse National Blue Light Wellbeing Frameworks and to conduct a
landscape review of police wellbeing. Her work on the Police National Database (PND) has
informed training events in the US and the UK.
Roy’s ESRC funded Knowledge Transfer Partnership with drug treatment commissioners and a
Lancashire drug and alcohol treatment service, developed a research-informed recovery model of
treatment which has been applied regionally and has directly increased CRI’s budget by £1.5
million and supported a three-fold increase in its staff team.
Adams has developed a partnership with The Larder, a local food co-operative, that hosts two PhD
studies. GOOP (Greener on the Outside for Prisons) is an environmental programme led by
Baybutt in collaboration with HMPPS, NOMS and NHS Gateways that aims to improve the
wellbeing of prisoners, reducing health inequalities and re-offending. GOOP has been adopted by
all state-run prisons in the region and has produced evidence of impact on prisoners’ mental health
and behaviour.
The Centre for Citizenship and Community developed an action research programme for Preston
City Council (PCC) in partnership with community and statutory organisations and in collaboration
with local residents. Consequently, a Community Connectors Group formed with funding from
Lancashire CC and PCC has implemented community initiatives including intergenerational food
and gardening projects to reduce social isolation.

Contributions to the wider research base

International Conferences and Associations:
Stanley was UK PI on a British Council Researcher Links Workshop with the University of the
Witwatersrand, South Africa (2014-15) which involved 30 MCRs from the UK and South Africa, in a
4-day workshop on Violence Against Women and Children in Diverse Contexts. This led to a jointly

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
edited special issue of the journal, Families, Relationships and Society. Stanley had a key role in
inaugurating and developing the European Conference on Domestic Violence which has been
convened in Belfast (2015), Porto (2017) and Oslo (2019). Delegate numbers have grown from
500 to 800 in this period. She is a founding member of the Organising Committee and Connect
Centre staff have served as members of the Scientific Committees.
Larkins is the current Convenor of the ‘European Sociological Association RN04 Sociology of
Children and Childhood’, following on from N.Thomas who held this role previously. They have led
the scientific committee for two international conferences and four international symposia for the
association.
Froggett is Director of The Association for Psychosocial Studies, an Academy of Social Sciences
Learned Society which brings together researchers, teachers, practitioners and students interested
in the development of inter/trans-disciplinary fields of study.

Keynotes:
UoA20 researchers are frequently invited to deliver keynote addresses at international and national
conferences. Examples of these keynotes include: 9th Nordic Conference on Child Abuse and
Neglect, Stockholm; City of Culture Conference, Hull; Connected Communities Conferences,
China; Critical Voices Conference, Ireland; Eurochild Conference, Croatia; European Conferences
on Domestic Violence, Belfast and Oslo; Madrid; Finding Common Ground Conference, Canada;
Institute of Psychiatrists, London; Spanish Mental Health Association Conference; Madrid.

Toolkits and Training Packages:
UoA20 staff have produced a series of research-based toolkits and training packages. Barter
developed a toolkit on Violence in Young People’s Relationships (2016, updated 2020) which was
widely distributed by Research in Practice. Stanley and Larkins’ collaboration with University of
Bristol on GPs’ responses to children who have experienced domestic abuse, contributed to the
IRIS primary care training intervention which has been rolled out nationally.
Larkins has co-written a training manual on participatory research which is translated into seven
languages and used to train professionals and young Roma in nine countries. She also produced a
practitioners’ guide on fiction writing with community groups and led the creation of the Council of
Europe’s Handbook on Children’s Participation.
Spandler was funded by the Wellcome Trust to produce a booklet for sports organisations (2020)
providing guidance on including non-binary people in sport.

Journal Editorial Boards:
Spandler is the Managing Editor of Asylum, the radical mental health magazine and Baybutt is
Editor of the International Journal of Health Promotion and Education. Researchers in UoA20 have
contributed to a variety of Editorial Boards including: Critical and Radical Social Work; The
International Journal of Therapeutic Communities; Critical Public Health, Journal of Gender Based
Violence; Child Abuse Review; Journal of Social Work Practice Psychosocial Studies Qualitative
Social Work; London Journal of Primary Health Care and Ageing and Society; SAGE Open;
Community Living; International Journal of Mental Health Nursing; and Journal of Forensic
Practice.

Board and Panel Memberships:
UoA20 researchers have contributed to prestigious international and national boards and wider
associations.
Stanley was a member of NICE Quality Standard Group and Programme Development Group on
NHS and Social Care Response to Domestic Violence and Abuse. She is also a Trustee of
Paladin, the National Stalking Organisation. Barter is an advisor to the Home Office on abuse in
young people’s relationships and was a special advisor on the Government’s Sexual Harassment
and Sexual Violence in Schools Inquiry. Richardson-Foster is a Board Member of the Association
of Child Protection Professionals. Radford participated in the global expert meeting on regulating

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
demand for child sexual exploitation, Geneva Switzerland, 2015, which informed the Special
Rapporteur’s strategy paper for the UN.
Larkins is an Advisor to Home Office on development of child friendly information on Brexit. She is
a Board member and now host of ICYRNet, the leading international network of academics and
practitioners which has links participants in the Global North and South. She sits as an expert
advisor to European Union and Council of Europe Social Affairs Parliamentary Committee and is
Chair of Eurochild Reference Group on Participation Methods for the Inclusion of All Children.
Worsley is a member of both the Implementation Group and the Professional Expert Group for
‘Social Work England’. He was seconded to the DfE where his work shaped the regulatory regime
for qualifying education for all social work programmes in England. He delivered a report to the
governing body of Social Work England on education and training with recommendations
subsequently adopted into national regulatory standards, such as those relating to approval
processes, reapproval arrangements and each social work course in England having a ‘Lead
Social Worker’.
Ridley and Morris are members of the Coalition for Collaborative Care developing national work on
Universal Personalised Care for the NHS England and the Royal Society for Public Health. Ridley
is a member of the Local Government Association’s Reference Group that is formulating a national
framework on integrated health and social care and community wellbeing. Morris contributed to the
Royal College of Psychiatrists’ Special Committee on Professional Practice and Ethics Report on
Person–Centred Care Training and Curriculum (2018).
Dooris is Chair of the International Health Promoting Universities and Colleges Steering Group and
Co-Chair of the UK Healthy Universities Network. Baybutt is a member of the National Board for
Rehabilitative Culture of Prisons Board and the National Research Group for Care Experience in
Prisons. Between 2012 and 2019, Whitton was a Director of Local Trust which oversees Big Local,
the £220m, resident-led community regeneration National Lottery programme.
All UoA20 senior researchers and many MCRs are members of international, national and regional
research advisory boards. Our researchers sit on reviewing panels for a wide range of national and
international funding bodies, with Stanley, Radford and N.Thomas being members of ESRC’s
College of Reviewers and Larkins, McKeown, Ridley, Roy, Spandler and Stanley regular reviewers
for the NIHR and/or the Wellcome Trust.
Stanley is Deputy Chair of Sub-Panel 20 for REF2021.

Prizes
Spandler and McKeown and Ridley were awarded Emerald Literati prizes for two separate peer-
reviewed papers. McKeown was chosen to deliver the annual Eileen Skellern memorial lecture in
2019.
Larkins’ ‘Stories to Connect’ project was the 2019 Winner of Educate North - Research Project of
the Year and was shortlisted for the AHRC Wellcome Health Humanities medal. Larkins’ study of
the ‘England Coastal Path Initiative’ and Nature England’s ‘Strategy for Child and Youth
Participation’ received a ‘Highly Commended’ prize for ‘Best Stakeholder Engagement’ from the
Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management.

Summary
UoA20 has benefited from strong and consistent leadership and institutional support which
together have promoted sustained growth. This growth is demonstrated by research that is
increasingly interdisciplinary and global and also enriched by local partnerships with research
beneficiaries and service users. The interdisciplinarity and enhanced reputation of our work have
broadened our impact and diversified our funding sources. Growth is also evidenced by increased
PGR numbers and research careers that have been nurtured and borne fruit in this UoA. The
achievements of this REF period provide a strong basis for meeting future national and
international challenges and ensuring that we continue to make a significant difference to the lives
of vulnerable groups in society.


                                                                                            Page 15
