Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction

 The School of Mathematics and Computer Science is an interdisciplinary School, within the
 Faculty of Science & Engineering (FSE). It includes researchers with a range of backgrounds
 including computer science, mathematics, optics, communication systems and electronic
 engineering. The University of Wolverhampton (UoW) has a long history in delivering Computer
 Science degree programmes. From the late 50s to early 70s, the Wolverhampton Instrument for
 Teaching Computation (WITCH) from Harwell was used for teaching computing. However, this
 was not the case for research in computing and the majority of the academics in computing were
 not submitted within the UoW REF2014 submission. In recent years, there has been a targeted
 significant shift towards Computer Science research and clear objectives set to facilitate and
 encourage high quality research and capacity building in this area, which is reflected in our
 submission to UoA11 for the first time since 2001.

 With the recruitment of a new Head of School of Mathematics and Computer Science towards the
 end of 2016, a strategy was set up based on employability of graduates and interdisciplinary
 research. As a consequence, a significant push was made on research-informed teaching (RIT).
 To achieve its overall strategic vision, it was important for the School to increase its research
 capacity and capability. This informed the creation of the Digital Innovations and Solutions Centre
 (DISC) in 2017, as home for all research conducted in computer science and responsible for the
 development of UoA11. Of the three academic staff from the computer science subject submitted
 to REF2014, only one is still at UoW. Our UoA11 submission comprises 12 academic staff with
 significant responsibility for research (12 FTEs), of whom 11 are new to the Unit since 2016 (with
 10 of these joining UoW from 2018 onwards). Strategic new appointments have been made to
 replace those who have left, and include researchers submitting for the first time. Furthermore,
 since the creation of DISC in 2017 the external income generated by computer science as a Unit
 has grown from approximately GBP 75,000 per annum to approximately GBP 1m per annum (in
 terms of income secured).

 1.2 Research Objectives and Performance

 Figure 1 shows the overall strategic aim and objectives of DISC. DISC will serve to expand the
 range and reach of engagement of UoW within the field of Digital Technologies as it evolves to
 become a key underpinning discipline. It will allow UoW to position its assets and capability to
 respond to both the size of local and national digital opportunities as well as the scale of the
 challenge facing the digital economy. Consequently, conducting interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research, which forms a significant element of the grand challenges within the UK Government’s
 Industrial Strategy, aligns with our key objectives. This alignment has informed the research
 structure of DISC and the formation of the four research themes as illustrated in Figure 2. To that
 effect, DISC research will impact on many sectors across the economy to create emerging fields.
 These include Architecture, Mobility, Creative Industries, Health Care and Wellbeing, Business
 and Finance, Human Dimension of Digital Technologies and Education.

 The boundaries between the four research themes are porous, and positively encourage inter-
 disciplinary research, as well as the collaborative supervision of our postgraduate research (PGR)
 students. Subsequently, staff may be members of more than one theme. Key academics and
 researchers at different career stages have been recruited to build capacity within these themes,
 supported by funding from the University’s Research Investment Fund 3 (RIF3). Several support
 mechanisms were put in place to enhance research outputs, income generation and to generate
 societal and economic impact. To that effect, over the REF period and more precisely since 2017,
 a concerted effort has been placed on increasing research capacity and shifting the centre of

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gravity towards a grade point average (GPA) of 3*. Since REF2014, an improved research
 infrastructure and PGR working environment promoting interdisciplinary collaboration has been
 engendered with the formation of DISC. Strategically, this supports the growth in digital
 technologies through targeted high quality impactful research and knowledge exchange,
 enhancing links with industry and businesses. In addition to underpinning the curriculum, the DISC
 research strategy has focused activities towards the nationally recognised grand challenges and
 our research is strategically aligned with the UKRI/UK Industrial Strategy, whilst meeting the needs
 of our local place.




                              Figure 1: DISC research strategic aims




                              Figure 2: Research themes within DISC



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support the overall DISC vision and strategy to transform lives and places, a concerted effort
 began by investigating the local regional needs for digital skills, support and innovation. As a
 consequence, DISC benefited from initial funding in 2017 from the Marches Local Enterprise
 Partnership (LEP) of GBP 20k to conduct a feasibility study to identify the needs and volume of
 digital businesses in the Marches region. This was followed by funding from the European
 Research Development Fund (ERDF) in the Marches of GBP 1.29M for a Digital Enterprise project
 (under the name SOLVD) that is being delivered in partnership between UoW and the local
 authority. The funding from the ERDF with contributions from UoW of GBP 708k and the Telford
 & Wrekin Council of GBP 73k is targeted to increase the research capacity of UoW in the digital
 technology field by recruiting specialist staff in digital technology as well as business co-ordinators
 and advisors to ensure effective business support and knowledge exchange between companies
 and the UoW (https://www.wlv.ac.uk/business-services/funding-and-support/solvd/). As such,
 SOLVD has supported DISC, and shall continue into the next REF cycle, in achieving 2 of its key
 objectives: i) collaborative research and; ii) enhancing our regional engagements.

 DISC as a centre will serve to expand the range and reach of engagement of UoW within the field
 of Digital Technologies as it evolves to become a key underpinning subject for multiple projects.
 Through the establishment of DISC, UoW will position itself to respond to the opportunities and
 challenges of the digital economy. Consequently, this strategic plan will continue to underpin the
 next REF cycle.

 The 4 research themes are now described:

 1.2.1 Cybersecurity

 The cybersecurity research theme looks to respond to the continued growth and importance of the
 digital economy, which have large potential benefits to society but at the same time create new
 risks and challenges. The fast-changing nature of the risks and opportunities means that future
 policy and practice must be informed by excellent research. Through collaboration with businesses
 and the public sector, DISC will ensure that new ideas are rapidly translated into new products
 and services that benefit society as part of its main strategic aim (see Figure 1). Furthermore, and
 in response to national policy and opportunities emerging as part of the Midlands Engine, UoW
 has made since 2016, in this REF cycle and continuing into the next cycle, a major investment in
 Research, Development and Innovation engagement in academic areas related to cybersecurity.
 For example, in partnership with the Herefordshire County Council, UoW has set up the Cyber
 Quarter - the Midlands Centre for Cyber Security based on the Skylon Park, Enterprise Zone in
 Hereford. This is a GBP 9M project which forms an industry facing arm to support business and
 the public sector against the continued threat of cyber-attacks to enhance their resilience and also
 to encourage collaboration through our research and development activities.

 An important part of the DISC strategic objective is the commercialisation and exploitation of R&D.
 To that effect, members of DISC have been active in exploiting opportunities which led to funding
 from Innovate UK, as part of the Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport’s (DCMS) Cyber
 Security Academic Start-ups Accelerator Programme, to develop University spin-offs in the area
 of cybersecurity. One such spin-off is engaged in the development of an intelligent decentralised
 data management platform based on a patented algorithm that utilises smart ledgers for
 electronically regulating data sharing within a supply-chain. The technology reduces incident
 response times and time to access data, avoids single points of attacks by securely distributing
 data across different nodes, and provides immutable logs and audit trail with “always-on” chain of
 custody.

 All of the above activities have set the base for the cybersecurity theme to grow its research and
 business engagement as well as supporting RIT to reduce the skills shortages in cybersecurity.
 Our aim is to enhance the standing and ability of DISC to support cyber research and subsequently
 to develop and sustain a leading world class cybersecurity research theme that produces research
 activities and outputs to influence cybersecurity policy and decision making to ensure the
 protection and resilience of businesses and individuals in cyberspace.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2. Future Networks & Autonomous Systems

 Our vision within the Future Networks & Autonomous Systems theme is to be one of the major
 contributors towards the evolution of next generation communication networks in terms of both
 fundamental and applied research. Network autonomy as well as reliability and ultra-low-latency
 are the major foci of the developing research and the members within this theme aim to provide
 world-leading research contributions to the future generations of telecommunication networks.

 Considering DISC’s objectives to conduct collaborative research and enhance its regional
 engagement, members have worked with O2/Telefonica to secure funding to launch the UK's first
 5G accelerators in Birmingham, Coventry and Wolverhampton. The project is delivering the UK’s
 first region-wide 5G testbed, backed by the DCMS and the West Midlands Combined Authority
 (WMCA). As part of the bid, the 3 5G accelerator facilities will comprise a centrally-located office
 and demonstration spaces with access to cutting-edge 5G technology, both indoors and outdoors,
 extending several kilometres.

 The true potential for 5G has not been fully exploited and this project will allow us to conduct
 research in this field to enhance the 5G technology and its applications. The technology will enable
 the realisation of the smart and sustainable cities concept by developing transport products and
 services to combat road congestion, reduce emissions, highlight parking space availability,
 maintain infrastructure, and improve traveller experience.

 1.2.3 Immersive Technologies

 Immersive technologies such as Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR)
 and Haptics have been growing at a fast pace in recent years and are transforming lives by
 bringing virtual environments with users’ sight, sound and touch. DISC members have been active
 in developing applications of immersive technologies in various sectors such as creative
 industries, healthcare and training. One of these applications involves the use of VR and AR
 technologies to improving the sight capabilities of persons with severe visual disabilities. Our
 research, which is partly funded by the Beacon Centre for the Blind, looks to identify the features
 and characteristics of VR devices that enable improved visual acuity, the vision conditions where
 improvement is most profound, and how a VR device can be modified to enhance the benefits.
 Some of the future work is looking at using OLED displays to develop a curved screen to increase
 the field of view.

 The other application is to address training where our research team has developed a real-time
 immersive and natural hand-based interaction system using optical sensors and motion
 controllers. In this research, we explored how hand-based input mechanisms might offer more
 natural approaches to VR interaction that are more intuitive and immersive than traditional motion
 controller approaches. One of the applications of the system that has been tested is a Virtual
 Laboratory which enables students to conduct chemical experimentations in a safe environment.

 However, the main drawback of current VR systems is that they are based on stereoscopic
 imaging technology which is known to cause eye fatigue/strain and motion sickness. This has
 been known for many years and there are reports now calling for more research on the long-term
 effects of VR use. To remedy these shortcomings, our research is focused on the next generation
 of more sophisticated depth-illusion technologies. The ReCreate3D (Redefining Creativity through
 Enhanced Immersive 3D Experiences and Tools) project is working towards the development of
 a fully immersive augmented reality system based on the light field imaging principles that offer
 multi-user realistic and fatigue-free immersive experience without the need of wearing specific
 eyewear. ReCreate3D has the potential to provide a significant impact into healthcare such as
 surgical simulation training, minimally invasive surgeries and diagnostic imaging, and into creative
 industries such as cultural heritage and audiences of the future.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.4 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science

 Members of DISC are pioneering conscious multisensory integration (CMI) research. The CMI
 research sheds light on a completely new perspective on how the brain integrates the multisensory
 information at the cellular level, and the basic processes driving different conscious states. It
 creates a paradigm shift in our understanding of the fundamental intracellular mechanisms
 responsible for producing coherent thoughts, perceptions, and actions, which are well-adapted to
 different situations and long-term goals. The CMI lab in DISC is exploring and exploiting the
 potential of CMI theory to bring evidenced positive change to a number of areas of economic and
 social importance, including multisensory human-computer interface, neurological disorders,
 emotion-sensitive robots, and context-aware 5G-IoT. The CMI research has the potential to deliver
 a step-change in how ‘healthcare’ and ‘automation’ could be delivered in future. The CMI theory/
 research has led to the following 2 projects:

       For the first time, attempts to explore the development of a truly cognitively-inspired and
        personalised, privacy-preserving 5G IoT-enabled multimodal (MM) hearing aids (HAs) has
        led to AV-COGMHEAR. The aim of this project is to address the low uptake of existing
        audio-only (A-only) HAs, which remain largely ineffective in restoring intelligibility in
        environments where overwhelming noise is present. The proposed MM HA research is
        providing the UK with a timely opportunity to improve HA uptake, reduce NHS hearing-loss
        cost (~GBP 450M/ year), and gain a leading position in the future MM HA industry. The
        work is conducted in collaboration with University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow,
        Edinburgh Napier University, University of Manchester and University of Nottingham.

       Mindful, Energy-Efficient Computing and Electronic Systems (MEECES), for the first time,
        attempts to seamlessly mimic the fundamental structure and function of the pyramidal cell
        (using low-power fault-tolerant microelectronics digital/analogue circuits) to acquire
        energy-efficient cooperative computing. MEECES promises to provide the research
        community with a new mindful processing architecture (MPA) for high-performance
        massively parallel computing, addressing the key research challenges in brain inspired
        HPC. The proposed project provides a timely and unique opportunity for the UK to gain a
        leading position in exploiting the cellular level contextual MM signal processing for highly
        energy-efficient computing platforms. This work is conducted in collaboration with
        University of Edinburgh, NASA, and University of Plymouth.

 In collaboration with the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, members of DISC are investigating the
 use of machine learning in the diagnosis of anaemia in pregnancy. This takes into account
 interacting biological variables, such as haematological measurements and the characteristics of
 the woman’s physiological changes associated with pregnancy and gestation, and is based upon
 function outcomes. Risk assessment and assignment made with the diagnosis, is required to be
 updated throughout pregnancy and adjusted in line with the dynamic changes taking place during
 the pregnancy.

 DISC is also a member of the Exercise in Disease manaGement and rEhabilitation (EDGE) project
 funded by the UoW’s Research Investment Fund (RIF4). The project aims to develop a
 multidisciplinary prehabilitation/rehabilitation service within UoW, informed by end-users and
 governed by a robust World Health Organisation (WHO) implementation framework. DISC’s input
 to the EDGE project is around developing AI based clinical-decision making algorithms.

 Furthermore, members of DISC are working on multimodal access and retrieval of heterogeneous
 data to aid users in discovering relevant information. The aim is to create future search engine
 technologies by means of artificial intelligence and machine learning to be applied in a variety of
 domains such as scholarly search, enterprise search, digital humanities, healthcare and
 cyberstalking.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Impact

 The aim of DISC is to enhance the capacity for impactful research through its strategic objectives
 (see Figure 1) by engaging with industry and the public sector to:

    (i)       drive commercialisation, exploitation and generation of R&D
    (ii)      support local SMEs to implement digital technologies to improve productivity leading
              to increased profitability and growth.

 Although DISC has been in existence since 2017, in a very short period our Unit has successfully
 developed 2 impact case studies which align to our strategic vision, themed under ‘Cybersecurity’
 and ‘Digital Innovations’.

 Fundamental to our research strategy are real world applications of our research with societal and
 economic impact. This has enabled us to deliver the outputs associated with the funding received
 from the Marches LEP and ERDF. These projects allowed us to support numerous businesses to
 implement Digital Technologies through business assists. In addition, the drive towards RIT has
 played a significant role in developing both impact case studies. These include development of
 research informed training programmes in Cybersecurity through the initiation in 2017 of the Cyber
 Industry Curriculum (CIC) project supported by funding from both the Office for Students (OfS)
 and industry. This allowed us to provide support to businesses and the public sector, both
 nationally and internationally, through bespoke training delivered to practitioners. Furthermore,
 one other key objective in our research strategy is to enhance commercialisation, exploitation and
 generation of R&D as areas of research impact. This has led to creation of three spin-out
 companies, which form part of the impact case studies.

 DISC will continue to provide industry and businesses access to cutting edge digital technologies
 to generate economic growth by facilitating interaction between stakeholders supporting
 enterprise, new businesses and job creation. As a result, the economic and social impact of DISC
 will continue beyond this REF reporting period.

 1.4 Open Research

 We aim to make research available on UoW’s open access repository (WIRE), above and beyond
 compliance requirements for REF. This includes support for Gold Open Access (OA), for example
 we have supported GOLD OA for publications in IEEE Access, Frontiers in Computational
 Neuroscience, International Journal of Computer Vision, Scientific Reports by Nature Research,
 IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics. We use Quality-Related (QR) funding to that end,
 and focus support for OA on early career researchers (ECRs) who have limited external income
 from research grants.

 Furthermore, to drive an open research environment we have made software tools derived from
 our research available as open source applications to researchers, developers, beginners and the
 wider community to experiment and to enable further advances and applications of the technology.
 An example of these is the PlenoptiSign software app which has been developed as an open-
 source software tool for geometry estimation of a light field captured by a Standard Plenoptic
 Camera. PlenoptiSign is implemented as a Python software package to assist a growing
 community of users in an experimental or prototyping stage of a plenoptic imaging system. The
 underpinning research was published in an open source journal and the software is hosted on an
 open access repository on GitHub.

 1.5 Research Integrity

 The research conducted within DISC has impact on the lives of people whether through the use
 of artificial intelligence and data analytics in health, the online protection of vulnerable adults and
 children or the use of immersive technologies to help visually impaired people. Consequently, it is
 important that DISC operates within a framework of research integrity, and ensures that research

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal, and professional frameworks, obligations and
 standards, including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The four themes in our research
 structure are led by experienced academics, providing leadership in both research integrity and
 research management and promote the principles of the research integrity Concordat.

 Within DISC, research proposals are submitted for ethical approval and scrutinised by the School
 of Mathematics and Computer Science Ethics Panel. A report is then submitted to the Faculty of
 Science and Engineering (FSE) Ethics Committee for monitoring and final approval. All student
 research projects are subject to scrutiny in the same way as staff projects, thus exposing students
 to the principles of ethics at an early stage of their career through constructive feedback.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 The Unit is made of 12 academics, and all but one (Buckley) were recruited in this REF period.
 The recruitment strategy focused on building the subject’s research and teaching capacity and to
 that end we prioritised recruitment of senior research staff. This was followed by recruitments of
 early and mid-career staff who had the potential for moving into leadership positions. To be
 competitive in the labour market and support career development, we recruited to permanent
 posts only. Aggoun was appointed at the end of 2016 as Head of School, followed by appointments
 of a further 10 academics with significant responsibility for research: Pillai as professor in
 Cybersecurity, Patwary as professor in Telecommunications, Al-Khateeb as senior lecturer (SL
 promoted to reader in Cybersecurity in 2020), Ahsan as lecturer in Artificial Intelligence (AI)
 (promoted to reader in AI in 2020), Kbaier and Al-Shakarchi appointed as SLs. Early stage
 researchers that we recruited include Gascoyne, Cabukoglu, Bottarelli and Ersotelos. The
 academic staff are supported by several project managers and technical support staff.

 2.1.1 Staff Development Strategy

 Fully aligned with UoW policy, DISC implements the Concordat for Supporting the Career
 Development of Researchers at all stages. Being a new Unit, we had to recruit a range of staff at
 different levels of their academic careers but also to encourage existing staff who do not have
 significant responsibility for research to engage in research as part of strategic staff development
 and progression framework.

 A priority is given to support the development of early career researchers (ECR), by providing
 protected research time in their workload allowance and assigning a mentor to support their
 publications strategy, funding bids, and developing an impact profile. Since 2006, the UoW has
 operated an Early Career Award Scheme (ERAS) which annually awards 10 grants of up to GBP
 5,000 alongside a tailored mentoring and action learning programme to facilitate the research
 career development of ECRs. Over this REF reporting period, our Unit benefited from two ERAS
 awards. In line with our commitment to career progression and development of academics with
 significant responsibility for research, 3 members of academic staff are now registered to pursue
 a PhD in Immersive Technologies, Artificial Intelligence and Cybersecurity respectively. Following
 support with leadership development, in 2020 two academics were promoted to readership
 positions.

 While ECRs receive special focus, DISC administers a Research Mentoring Scheme for
 researchers at all stages of their careers. Mentoring is designed to be a supportive approach to
 furthering individual career ambitions, helping staff set annual and longer-term objectives for
 enhancing the quality of publications, public engagement and impact projects, and developing
 individual and group bidding strategies for external funding. Mentoring meetings follow a bi-annual
 self-audit of individual research activity, and mentors continue to provide support at other times.
 Agreed individual research plans feed back into strategic planning for research support, including
 protected research time.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff benefit from a Faculty-wide mentoring scheme and from rigorous Faculty-level annual
 appraisal. The research activities of all staff in DISC are captured by Symplectic Elements, a
 research information management system. Records include new external funding awards,
 outputs, postgraduate supervision and internal service, which in turn inform the annual appraisal.

 2.1.1 Recruitment Strategy

 In the last 4 years, emphasis has been placed on bringing our research and educational provision
 more closely together, so that all our all students benefit from RIT for greater societal benefit. To
 deliver this objective it was important that we increase our research capacity/capability both in
 terms of human resource and research activities at the 3*/4* levels. Our recruitment strategy has
 been to balance senior with early stage research appointments, while carefully considering fit with
 our research themes and subject disciplinary coverage. Senior appointments develop depth and
 provide continuity in research and subject leadership. The increase of academic staff with
 significant responsibility for research is being achieved through staff development and recruitment
 of high calibre academic staff through replacement posts and the University’s research investment
 fund (RIF). RIF is an initiative which competitively allocates GBP 6M over a 3-year period to
 support research infrastructure and staff. Over this REF period, DISC used the RIF funding to
 recruit of a professor and a reader in Cybersecurity, and funded academic staff’s research time to
 accelerate and enhance their research activities. As mentioned in the introduction 11 of 12
 academic staff in the Unit joined UoW from 2016 (and 10 of the staff in the Unit joined from 2018).
 More recently, 2 new readers in Data Science have been recruited but joined after the 31 July
 2020.

 2.2 Research Students

 2.2.1 Recruitment and Studentships

 Data show that 30% of our 2019/20 postgraduate taught students have previously studied at
 undergraduate level at the UoW, illustrating that our students return to us for further study. Data
 also show that 42.9% of our 2017/18 and 2018/19 full-time undergraduate students came from a
 Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) background compared to 17.7% for the sector, with
 63.4% female compared to a sector average of 53.9%. Hence, an important part of our strategy
 for increasing PhD recruitment is to encourage our undergraduate and postgraduate taught
 students to progress to research degree programmes. All our students are offered a 20% student
 discount towards their PhD fees, and are encouraged to take an active part in DISC research
 seminars, workshops, public lectures, and conferences alongside their PGR student compeers.

 It is important to widen our recruitment reach for PhD students and to support this, the Faculty
 offers annually 20 fee-waived studentships for home students wishing to pursue a PhD
 programme. The Faculty also provides PhD studentships match-funding for externally funded
 projects. We also operate 50/50 funding of PhD studentships with industry partners.

 Since 2014, 6 PhD students have graduated from DISC in computer science and as of December
 2020, DISC has 22 PGR students registered to study towards a PhD degree. All recruited PhD
 students will pursue research in one of the 4 research themes identified in Figure 2. To increase
 the PGR students’ employability, this year we introduced the Student Transition Teachers (STT)
 scheme enabling students to work as assistant teachers on 0.6FTE while reading for PhD for the
 remaining 0.4FTE. DISC is the beneficiary of 2 STTs, who are pursuing a PhD in AI and Data
 Science.

 2.2.2 Research Skills Training

 All PGR students in DISC have membership of the UoW’s Doctoral College (DC). The DC provides
 a comprehensive and holistic generic Postgraduate Researchers’ Development Programme and
 works in collaboration with other UoW services, including Careers and Employability, Learning
 Information Services (both of which have dedicated PGR Advisors) and the Students Union to

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhance the postgraduate experience and encourage a vibrant research student community at
 UoW.

 The Postgraduate Researchers’ Development Programme, which is delivered throughout the
 academic year, provides face-to-face and online workshops (fully online since March 2020). It is
 mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. The PGRs Development Programme
 is supported and enhanced by additional initiatives that include Start Right (focusing on early
 stages of doctoral study), Writing-up and Accessing Professions (focusing on doctoral completion
 and transition to the world of work), and Prepare to Teach sessions.

 The DC research skills training is supplemented by subject-related training within DISC, as
 outlined below.

 2.2.3 Monitoring and Support

 All PGRs in DISC are supervised by a team of researchers who are specifically chosen for their
 differing complementary supervisory expertise and sets of research skills in order to optimise
 support for PGRs. The 12 submitted academics to the UoA are all involved in PGR supervision.
 The Director of Studies (DoS) is the primary supervisor and is supported by additional members
 of staff with appropriate subject knowledge and supervisory experience. New members of staff
 undergo a programme of research supervisor training and all supervisors are required to undergo
 periodic refresher sessions. The supervisory team provides an opportunity for less experienced
 members of staff to develop and hone their supervisory skills. The supervisory team meets with
 PGR students at least once a month (FT) or bi-monthly (PT). Each student participates in the
 Annual Progress Review process in which two independent academics assess their progress in
 data gathering and primary research; personal skills development; and research dissemination
 and impact over the preceding 12 months.

 We support our students by engaging them in industry partnerships directly, by building their
 confidence via professional networks, and showcasing their talent at conferences, seminars and
 workshops, and inspiring the next generation of researchers by PGRs’ involvement in teaching. In
 July 2018, a group of PGR students attended a daylong conference at Barclays Bank Radbroke
 Hall Technology Centre. In both 2018 and 2019 our students took part in the three-day Guide
 SHARE Europe (GSE) conference, sponsored by the hosts. DISC was also an academic partner
 for the CodeMesh 2018 conference in London, and students attended the conference via
 sponsored places. The number of students from all levels of study attending the CodeMesh 2019
 has increased significantly and DISC contributed GBP6,000 towards the conference fees. In
 October 2018, the UoW hosted an IBM workshop on Blockchain Technology where our students
 and industry professionals developed practical demonstrations of this new technology. In
 December, 2018 we joined the Linux Foundation and the Open Mainframe Project enabling
 collaboration with industry partners and access to leading edge technologies for our students.
 Furthermore, in order to improve the experience and raise the profile of our female students, we
 actively supported participation in the British Computer Society Lovelace Colloquium.

 More recently a group of our students took part in the IBM Developer 2020 Call for Code University
 Edition Finalists (https://developer.ibm.com/blogs/call-for-code-university-finalists/). The team of
 UoW students finished runners up in this international developer initiative focused on applying
 technology to solve the world’s biggest challenges including climate change and COVID-19
 (https://www.wlv.ac.uk/news-and-events/latest-news/2020/october-2020/student-foodbank-idea-
 bags-second-place-in-global-technology-competition.php). Their project LUPE (Lockdown Use
 Purchasing Environment) used the IBM Blockchain and Kybernetes Cluster technologies to
 provide a straightforward way for small businesses to continue to find customers digitally in the
 local community — and where there is unsold food, offer a way for that food to be distributed to
 local charities and food banks.

 PGR students are accommodated in the Faculty’s postgraduate space, with desks, networked
 PCs, and informal meeting spaces. All PGRs have access to specialist workshop areas for

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experimental work. Further, the Mathematics Support Centre administered by staff from the
 School is highly valued by the Computer Science students at all levels where individual or small
 group support is available. As well as physical library resources, the UoW Learning Centre also
 provides PGRs with academic skills support via the Skills for Learning programme. PGR students
 on campus can attend workshops or ask for 1-to-1 help on a range of skills such as academic
 writing and referencing. PGR students can also access a range of online skills material at:
 www.wlv.ac.uk/lib/skills. The UoW Student Support website offers advice on a variety of matters
 (careers, counselling, student union advice). PGR students themselves have set up a Doctoral
 Student Society, which organises research-related events such as writing retreats as well as social
 engagements.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 DISC is a firm supporter of the University of Wolverhampton strategy which aims to cement our
 position as the University of Opportunity and demonstrates our purpose of developing people and
 place. As such, we offer students, including PGRs, from a wide range of backgrounds the chance
 to benefit from Higher Education, and the success of all of those who choose to work, study and
 research with us is our priority.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are taken into account at all stages of staffing processes.
 Recruitment panels for staff and PGR students aim for gender and ethnic diversity, but all
 consisted of at least one female and one member from the Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
 (BAME) community. DISC has 12 staff with significant responsibility for research (12FTEs), and
 75% (9FTEs) of staff are from the BAME community, of whom two are female. All senior research
 staff (professors and readers) identify as BAME.

 However, only 17% of submitted staff are female, and there are no women at professoriate level
 in DISC. In order to address this, the School of Mathematics and Computer Science appointed an
 Athena SWAN Lead with the target of achieving gender parity in readers and a ratio of 30:70 in
 the DISC professoriate by 2025. As part of the Faculty’s Gender Equality Action plan, workload
 allocation, supervisory team compositions and participation in research funding bid teams are
 monitored for gender diversity, to support ‘growing our own talent’. In the last three years, DISC
 recruited three female academics with significant responsibility for research, two of whom at SL
 and L levels are participating in the REF 2021 submission. The third is a reader who joined DISC
 after the REF staff census date of 31st July 2020 and is not included in this REF cycle.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 The DISC core strategy of disseminating research expertise through collaboration with local
 communities and with public, private and third sector bodies has also informed its strategy for
 grant capture – a focus on mutually-beneficial, collaborative projects which has proven to be
 successful in the current cycle. Prior to 2017, most of the research funding was from Knowledge
 Transfer Partnership (KTP) programmes. Since 2017, the emphasis is to widen the sources of
 research funding to improve sustainability.

 DISC has benefitted from the ERDF funding of GBP 1.29M plus GBP 73k from the Telford &
 Wrekin council to setup SOLVD, which is a new initiative between UoW and Telford & Wrekin
 Council to improve knowledge and skills for the digital economy in the region, to improve
 productivity and profitability of local companies. SOLVD also provides opportunities for project
 collaboration from which to launch funding bids.

 DISC is co-leading a GBP 3.2M EPSRC research project that aims to develop multimodal hearing
 aids designed to autonomously adapt to their surroundings. DISC received GBP 394k for its share
 of project from EPSRC as part of the Transformative Healthcare Technologies for 2050
 programme. The project will provide the UK with a timely opportunity to improve hearing aid

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 uptake, reduce NHS costs, and gain a leading position in the future multimodal hearing aid
 industry.

 DISC were also beneficiaries of Innovate UK funding as part of the DCMS (Department of Digital,
 Culture, Media and Sport) Cyber Security Academic Start-ups Accelerator Programme to develop
 university spin-offs in the area of cyber security. Under this scheme, DISC was awarded a total of
 GBP 309k for 3 separate projects to setup spin-off companies. DISC has been successful in
 securing funding in 3 consecutive rounds of the programme and setup 3 spin outs: Cydon Ltd
 (https://www.cydon.co.uk/), an intelligent data management system; OnlynShield Ltd
 (https://www.onlynshield.co.uk/), which provides a safer internet surfing for children through the
 development of an intelligent safeguarding software platform and a child-centred shield against
 harmful      content      and     communications;       and      CyberMIND     Technology      Ltd
 (https://cybermindtech.com/), which provides an Artificial Intelligence-based platform helping
 Cyber Security professionals detect, predict and manage stress.

 DISC is a member of the consortium led by O2/Telfonica which is setting up the UK's first 5G
 accelerators in Birmingham, Coventry and Wolverhampton. The project is funded by WM5G,
 which is the organisation responsible for delivering the UK’s first region-wide 5G testbed, backed
 by DCMS and the West Midlands Combined Authority (WMCA). In addition to receiving state-of-
 the-art 5G infrastructure, DISC will receive GBP 60k per annum to be reinvested to fund PhD
 studentships in the area of 5G technology.

 As part of its research informed learning strategy, DISC has been the beneficiary of 2 separate
 sets of funding by OfS to provide MSc programmes and hence increase the potential of recruiting
 PhD students to DISC. These projects are,
     (i)     Cybersecurity Industry Curriculum (CIC) which received GBP 192k funding from OfS
             and GBP 480k in-kind funding from partners to train the next generation of
             cybersecurity professionals.
     (ii)    Intelligent Data (iData) which received GBP 720k funding from OfS and over GBP 1M
             in-kind support from partners to respond to this surge in demand for skilled individuals
             in AI and Data Science, but also to address the lack of diversity in these subject areas.

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure and Research Facilities Supporting Research and Impact

 The UoW has a strong research infrastructure including a Project Support Office (PSO) that
 provides pre- and post-award management support. All projects emanating from DISC are first
 discussed with PSO to seek advice and guidance, including support with the development of the
 project application and support through the submission process. The team in DISC has been
 engaged extensively with the UoW Impact Officers who provided guidance and advice around the
 development of the impact case studies, but also the wider impact strategy for DISC and
 associated researcher development, including IP protection.

 UoW has invested significant resources on research infrastructure to support research growth in
 Computer Science. In addition to the RIF3 funding which enabled support for the cybersecurity
 theme, UoW is investing close to GBP 200k to refurbish the space in the University of
 Wolverhampton’s Science Park as the home of DISC (see Figure 3). This involves the creation of
 4 state of the art laboratories, one for each theme on the ground floor, as well as a space for PhD
 students and postdoctoral research assistants on the second floor. This will provide a vibrant
 space for exchange of ideas, development of research bids and showcase research projects.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                Figure 3: Space earmarked for DISC

 Furthermore, the Science Park will be the base for the 5G accelerator led by O2/Telefonica and
 as a result DISC will have access to the state of the art 5G technology, enabling DISC members
 to conduct high quality research in the field of wireless communication technologies and
 applications.

 The Cyber Quarter - Midlands Centre for Cyber Security (see Figure 4) will provide a step change
 in the research capability of UoW in the field of cybersecurity. It provides an opportunity to
 significantly reshape the computing education, including PGR and research-informed professional
 training, and provides employment opportunities for UoW graduates and a fertile ground for
 knowledge exchange. It will differentiate UoW from other universities operating in the field of cyber
 and will bring about growth in research, impact, income generation. It addresses the decline in
 demand witnessed in recent years in computer science by providing a specialist focus.




     Figure 4: Snapshots of the new Cyber Quarter - the Midlands Centre for Cyber Security

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The material in this section is evidence of the work of DISC regionally, nationally and
 internationally. The activity discussed shows clearly how vital and lively the work of the DISC is
 and how it evidences our collaborative ethos. We value our commitment to societal and economic
 impact and contribution to the successes and sustainability of the digital economy, both in the UK
 and worldwide. The themes’ leaders work with all staff in DISC and across UoW to maximise
 synergies and interdisciplinary reach of our research activities to increase impact.

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Conducting high quality research in partnership with the public and private sectors to develop
 and advance digital technologies with high societal and economic impacts is a key objective of
 our overall strategy. Cyber Quarter and SOLVD projects are providing opportunities to build
 partnerships with regional businesses and local authorities.

 The SOLVD project is working with regional businesses and helping them to develop novel digital
 solutions. Our intent beyond this REF period is to deliver a number of grand challenges (defined

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the help of large organisations) and bring SMEs together alongside the UoW research base
 to develop new and innovative digital solutions. The Cyber Quarter project offers business
 engagement facilities and is catering to industry needs of cyber R&D, testing and training. Both
 projects have engaged with over 150 businesses in Shropshire, highlighting the skills needs of the
 employers and hence tailoring the programmes to increase the skill set and meet the employers’
 demand. We see these collaborations and partnerships as a platform from which to launch future
 research funding bids to further our contributions to the success of the digital economy.

 As part of our co-pioneering world’s first audio-visual hearing-aid technology, we have strong
 relationship with the hearing aid (HA) industry and end-users, including clinical and wider industrial
 application. For example:
        (i)    Global HA manufacturer Sonova is acting as lead liaison for planned engagements
               with the wider HA industry and future stakeholders, including standardisation bodies.
               Sonova is also providing access to end users and focus groups, through their
               subsidiary, Bruckoff Smart Hearing Glass (Germany).
        (ii)   Digital Health & Care Institute (DHI) (a Scottish innovation centre) provides access
               to a world-class network of health and social care providers, and clinical prototype
               demonstration environments.
        (iii)  Deaf Scotland (DS) and Action on Hearing Loss (AoHL [the leading, charity-run
               organisations for deaf issues in Scotland] help to define end-user engagement,
               needs, and expectations, and also facilitate future engagement with new
               stakeholders (iv) Nokia/Bell Labs, Alpha Data, and the Data Lab (Scottish innovation
               centre) facilitate new industrial engagements to exploit step advances in real-time
               AV processing, privacy-preserving AI, self-organising 5G (and beyond), chip design,
               flexible electronics and smart care home applications.

 Similarly, as part of our pioneering pyramidal cell driven high performance computing (HPC)
 mindful processing architecture (MPA) technology - Mindful, Energy-Efficient Computing and
 Electronic Systems (MEECES), we are working closely with:
       (i)     NASA-JPL to apply MEECES technology for the development of the next-generation
               of autonomous Mars Rovers.
       (ii)    Brain Research and Imagining Centre (BRIC) to develop an artificial brain for
               alternative cost-effective behavioural and cognitive testing procedures.
       (iii)   Alpha Data for the (proof-of-concept) exploratory configurable-circuit implementation
               of the proposed MPA.
       (iv)    Scottish Microelectronics Centre (SMC) for integration and microfabrication of MPA.

 We are collaborating with the Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust to develop innovative technology
 solutions for healthcare needs. For example, in collaboration with the diabetic centre at the trust,
 the DISC team has developed a non-invasive device for continuous monitoring of glucose level in
 the blood. Further collaborative work with the trust involves the development of new AI algorithms
 to assist in the diagnosis of anaemia in pregnancy by taking into account various interacting
 biological variables.

 In order to develop future immersive technologies enabling fatigue free viewing by many
 independently of the viewer’s position and without the need for head gear, we are collaborating
 with national and international institutions and businesses. We have been working towards
 advance light field imaging as the enabling technology allowing capture and replay of full 3D
 scenes in live outdoor events and settings. Some of this work is conducted in collaboration with
 ARRI Cine Technik GmbH & Co KG, Munich, Germany, a leading motion picture manufacturer to
 develop the first single aperture 3D camera based on light field imaging. Another advantage of
 light field imaging is the possibility it offers to refocus in post-production, hence removing the need
 for retakes of the scenes and subsequently reducing the cost of visual content production.
 Collaboration with Washington University allowed the design and implementation of real-time
 refocusing technology. Collaboration with Royal Holloway University and Southampton University
 focusses on the development of metamaterial-based optical elements to provide a wide viewing
 angle of the light field vision system.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Indicators of Wider Influence

 Staff within DISC play important roles in national and international networks reflecting our research
 interests.

 4.2.1 Editorial Roles

 A number of academic staff in DISC have editorship roles. For example, Pillai has acted as guest
 editor of the IEEE Transaction on Aerospace and Electronic Systems (2015-2018) and Aggoun
 acted as guest editor of IEEE/OSA Journal of Display Technology. Other editorships/guest
 editorships include Springer Cognitive Computation, Frontiers in Blockchain, Fourth Industrial
 Revolution, Blockchain in Industry, Sensors Journal as well as area editor of KSII Transactions on
 Internet and Information Systems.

 4.2.2 Prizes

 Aggoun has received the 2017 Premium Award for Best Paper in the Institute of Engineering and
 Technology (IET) Biometrics and the best paper at the IEEE Broadcast Symposium (2013). Al-
 Khateeb is working with RMIT University Australia, in joint research supervision which led to a
 Best Paper Award at the 2018 Cyber Forensic and Security International Conference.

 4.2.3 Fellowships and Memberships

 Ahsan holds fellowships with Howard Brain Sciences Foundation, MIT Synthetic Intelligence Lab
 and Oxford Computational Neuroscience Lab. Al-Khateeb is a jury member for the Cybersecurity
 category, within the Startup Europe Awards (SEUA). This European Commission initiative is
 supported by the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Committee of the
 Regions in 2019. Patwary is the academic research lead for a DCMS funded 5G Testbed to
 accelerate the visitor economy in the East Midlands and the principal data architect for DCMS
 funded 5G project that facilitate capacity to test and validate attainable productivity enhancement
 with 5G wireless connectivity within the West Midlands. Aggoun acted as member of the European
 Commission Future Media Internet task force and the 3D Immersive, Interactive Media cluster with
 the remit to develop future strategies and hence provide a vision of future challenges that face the
 Networked Media technologies. Pillai is acting as a peer reviewer for EPSRC (standard calls) and
 British council (Newton Fund calls).

 4.2.4 Invited Keynotes, Lectures and/or Performances, or Conference Chair Roles

 Pillai is the Co-Chair of the IEEE 5G Roadmap Satellite working group (2018 - present) and a
 Founding member of the IEEE Special Interest Group (SIG) on Big Data for Cyber Security and
 Privacy (2017). Ahsan is the local organising committee chair, IEEE World Congress on
 Computational Intelligence (IEEE WCCI) 2020, 19 - 24th July, 2020, Glasgow (UK). Al-Khateeb‘s
 work with RMIT includes a study in collaboration with Oman and approved by the Omani NDFL
 (National Digital Forensic Laboratory) to collect primary data. Furthermore, Al-Khateeb is
 registered as a Proficient PhD Supervisor for Higher Degree Research (HDR) students at RMIT.
 Al-Shakarchi acted as publication Co-Chair of the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Fog and
 Mobile Edge Computing (FMEC 2017), he was a member the technical program committee in
 IEEE International Conference on Communications 2017, Paris, France as well as program
 committee member of Multimedia Wireless ad-hoc Networks 2014 Conference in Benidorm
 (Spain). Patwary acted as Co-Chair for IEEE International Network Generation Roadmap (Future
 Network Initiative).

 Members of DISC have been invited as keynote/invited speakers at many events including, IEEE
 5G Summit 2019, Tangier, Morocco; IEEE WINCOM 2019 Morocco; IEEE FNI Workshop 2019,
 Milpitas USA; International Multidisciplinary Conference: Sustainable Development & Smart
 Planning 2020, 1st 6G Summit 2019, Levi Finland; IEEE Globecom 2019, Hawaii, USA; IET 5G
 Workshop, 2020; “The impact of COVID-19 on the global cyber security landscape”, 30th October

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020; Westminster eForum policy conference on Cyber Security and Resilience across the UK
 economy - policy priorities for supporting businesses of all scales, securing consumer devices,
 and responding to COVID-19, the “AI and cybersecurity – challenges and opportunities for your
 business”, IoD West Midlands Spring Dinner, 28th March 2019; the “The changing landscape of
 cybersecurity: All businesses need to be aware”; Keynote address, Cyber Security: Business
 insight conference, Birmingham, 17th October 2018. These showcase the high esteem of our
 research in academic and practitioner fora.




                                                                                        Page 15
