Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 UoA11 is a vibrant research unit with a clear upward growth trajectory, having tripled in size
 since REF2014 to a headcount of 30 (27.9 FTE). A strong recruitment-drive over the census
 period has built on our areas of strength (Machine Learning, Evolutionary Computing and High-
 Performance Computing) and added new groups in Cybersecurity and Urban and Environmental
 Data Science. These research areas, together with interdisciplinary initiatives in the University
 and beyond, tackle some of the most compelling questions that our society faces around the
 development and application of AI to address challenges in transportation, urban living and the
 environment, the transformative capability of 5G systems, the rise of social networks mediated
 by technology and methods to keep our systems and data secure.

 Current Unit Structure
 The unit currently consists of 30 staff (current positions: P=Professor, AP=Associate Prof.,
 SL=Senior Lecturer, L=Lecturer) across the research groups described below:

       Machine Learning and Computer Vision: Everson (P), Arribas (AP), Christmas (SL),
        Danon (SL), Ruan (SL), Costa (L), Dutta (L), Livi (L), Rowlands (née Shirazi) (L),
        Wahlstrom (L)
       Evolutionary Computing and Optimisation: Fieldsend (P), Keedwell (P), Li (SL),
        Moraglio (SL), Vaughan (SL), Alyahya (L), Chugh (L)
       High Performance Computing & Networking: Min (P), Wu (SL), Hu (SL), Luo (SL)
       Cybersecurity; Brucker (P), Marmsoler (L)
       Urban and Environmental Data Science: Menezes (P), Williams (AP), Arthur (L),
        Barbosa (L), Botta (L), Di Clemente (L), Oliveira (L).

 Leadership and Decision Making
 The unit is led by Head of Department (HoD) Professor Ronaldo Menezes, supported by
 Directors of Research (DoR) (Keedwell), Education (DoE, Wakeling – Education Only Contract),
                                                Impact (DoI, Christmas) and Global
                                                Development (DoGD, Oliveira). Computer
                                                Science sits within the College of Engineering
                                                Mathematics and Physical Sciences, led by a
                                                Pro-Vice Chancellor. The Discipline Executive
                                                Committee (membership above) leads decision
                                                making at the departmental level and reports to
                                                the College Executive Group through the HoD.
                                                The DoR attends three-weekly, College-level
                                                Research and Impact Committee meetings
                                                chaired by the College Associate Dean for
                                                Research (ADR). This provides a forum for the
                                                sharing of information and best practice among
                                                departments. The ADR reports to the
         Figure 1 - Research organogram         institutional-level Research and Impact
                                                Executive Group chaired by the Deputy-Vice-
 Chancellor for Research. The DoR is supported by the Academic Leads for each research group
 and the Directors of Postgraduate Research and Impact. This structure is summarised in Figure
 1.

 Vision
 Our strategic goal is to become a global leader in applied computer science research,
 particularly in the development of novel Data Science, AI and advanced analytics methods for

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 application to complex social, urban, environmental, health, economic, and technological
 challenges. The growth in this REF cycle focused on broadening our research base resulting in
 a 180% increase in FTE and two new research groups. We now aim to achieve further growth to
 35-40 FTE in the medium term, a size commensurate with the top-10 UoAs for Computer
 Science, with a focus on adding further depth to our current research profile. This growth will
 enable us to tackle interdisciplinary challenges at the boundary between machine learning and
 optimisation (e.g., hyper-heuristics), human-in-the-loop and explainable AI systems, software-
 defined networking in 5 and 6G networks, the changing patterns of human mobility, reduction of
 inequalities, and the development of data science methods to address climate change and
 environmental sustainability. The rigorous exploration of new methods in these areas will
 underpin the development of high performance, sustainable and explainable systems and will
 increase our understanding of the interactions between humans and their environment. These
 areas strongly align with institutional, national and international goals (e.g., the University’s
 Declaration of a Climate Emergency, UN Sustainable Development Goals) and represent some
 of the most challenging computational research areas of our times.

 We will accomplish the above through consistent and targeted growth throughout the next REF
 cycle, consolidating our current research groups adding depth to the broad portfolio that we have
 achieved in this REF cycle. The current profile of our UoA puts us in a strong position for
 targeted growth in the areas of Artificial Intelligence, Urban Systems, and Environmental Data
 Science. To achieve this, we will recruit staff to complement current research, leading to new
 ‘spin out’ groups from the current set once they achieve critical mass (e.g., Computer Vision
 from Machine Learning, Urban Analytics from the Urban and Environmental Group). This will
 allow us to take advantage of the many new strategic development opportunities (see Strategic
 Developments since 2014, below), and to create a larger-scale, vibrant research community, co-
 located in the newly refurbished building on the Streatham Campus that is now the dedicated
 home for Computer Science at Exeter.

 Progress Against REF2014 Strategy
 We have achieved our aim from 2014 to build new capability in HPC and Scientific Computing,
 predominantly through the creation of the HPC and Networking group under the leadership of
 Min. It consists of 4 core staff and 2 affiliates, 4 postdoctoral researchers and a growing number
 of PhD researchers, many of whom are industrially funded. With colleagues in Mathematics and
 the GW4 group of Universities, we (Fieldsend) received funding for Isambard, a novel
 architecture 10,000 core ARM-based HPC system based at the Met Office
 (https://gw4.ac.uk/isambard/), the first of its kind in the UK. This Tier 2 service has fostered
 collaborations with Mathematics (Wingate, Akman) on the development of new parallel-in-time
 codes for weather and climate modelling and models for systems biology. A University-level
 HPC governance group, led by Everson, has been established and oversees the procurement
 and management of the University supercomputer, Isca and the new research computing
 service (http://www.exeter.ac.uk/researchcomputing/). More recently, Everson has overseen the
 creation and recruitment of a Research Software Engineering group, part of a £975K University
 investment to provide support to researchers in the development of effective and efficient codes
 on the increasing array of architectures available to them.

 We further aimed to build new capability in bioinformatics and systems biology, leveraging
 the University’s £52M investment in the Living Systems Institute (see 1.3 & 4.16 Institutional
 Level Environment Statement (ILES)) and building on collaborations between Computer
 Science, Mathematics, Biology and the Medical School; this aim has also been met. The
 strategy has generated fruitful collaborations between computer scientists and mathematicians
 in the field of computational biology through EPSRC-funded research and joint publications
 (Fieldsend and Akman); work with the College of Medicine and Health (CMH) to explore AI in
 genomics (Keedwell); and COVID-19 research funded by the AFR (Keedwell) and MRC
 (Danon). Computer Science staff have also collaborated with colleagues in Biosciences and the
 CMH in pilot projects with the EPSRC Centre for Predictive Modelling in Healthcare (Keedwell,
 Fieldsend, Everson), resulting in interdisciplinary publications and research funding. Keedwell


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is also a panel member of the MRC Skills Development Fellowship Host Leadership team to
 evaluate projects that develop the computational skills of early-career biomedical researchers.

 Strategic Developments Since 2014
 Through a dedicated, flexible approach to management, the unit has been able to make the
 most of the following new opportunities to build capacity and engage in interdisciplinary research
 underpinned by University, national and European investment:

         The creation of the University’s Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
 (IDSAI, see 1.3 & 4.18 ILES). This interdisciplinary institute has a large core representation from
 the unit (Everson – Director, Barbosa, Botta, Costa, Danon, Di Clemente, Fieldsend, Keedwell,
 Livi, Luo, Menezes, Moraglio, Oliveira, Williams) and academic membership from across all
 University Colleges and campuses. It has provided access to new seed-corn funding streams
 (e.g., IDSAI research awards and Exeter-Turing pilot grants) and is a catalyst for interdisciplinary
 research across departments. IDSAI was founded in 2018 to develop innovative approaches to
 the use of data science and artificial intelligence in modern society and has rapidly grown to over
 80 affiliated members of academic staff, and a wider membership of over 300 research staff.
 The Institute is the focus for the University’s membership of the Alan Turing Institute (ATI),
 hosting 25 Turing Fellows and enabling in excess of £3.4M of research income from Turing.
 IDSAI has instigated interdisciplinary MSc programmes, such as Data Science, Data Science
 with Artificial Intelligence, and Data Science for Health.

        The creation of the Environmental Futures and Big Data Impact Lab (Impact Lab)
 (£1.3M to the unit, see 1.11 ILES). This ERDF-funded initiative aims to stimulate impactful
 research and innovation through support from a team of industrial research fellows to enable
 local (Devon-registered) SMEs to leverage their data using research and knowledge transfer
 from the University, primarily from this UoA, supplemented by expertise and data from the Met
 Office. Researchers in the unit (Christmas, Costa, Everson, Keedwell) contribute their expertise
 to the planning and strategic direction of these projects, providing an excellent pathway to
 realising impact for the region. This activity has created 12 new businesses, developed 10 new-
 to-market products and assisted the development of 10 new-to-firm products. It has also created
 12 new jobs, has laid the foundations for follow-on Innovate UK funding worth over £2.5M to
 local business, and has supported product developments that have formed the basis of £1M+
 funding cycles. For example, Everson and Costa’s work with Applegate began in the Impact Lab
 and has led to the development of a COVID-19 PPE supply hub. This facilitated the delivery of
 over 100 million items of PPE to businesses during the first lockdown and won a Tech South
 West ‘Hero Award’ in 2020.

        Work on climate change and the environment has been identified as a strategic priority
 for the University and its regional collaborators through longstanding research collaborations
 with the Met Office. Computer Science has made a significant contribution to this through the
 award of the UKRI CDT in Environmental Intelligence (EI) in 2018. This £5.3M investment will
 train 50 PhD students over 8 years in the computational and data science methods required to
 allow informed decision-making by stakeholders for sustainable futures. An interdisciplinary
 CDT, it spans Mathematics, Management, Geography, Psychology, Philosophy and Medicine,
 with significant Computer Science involvement (Arribas, Everson, Williams (co-Director)). It
 benefits from strong industry involvement from partners AWS, Deepmind, IBM, Microsoft, ONS,
 Ordnance Survey, UKHO, the ATI, WHO, the Met Office and Exeter City Futures.

       Computer Science will also have significant involvement in the new, flagship, Joint
 Centre for Excellence in Environmental Intelligence (JCEEI), see 1.7 ILES, which cements
 Exeter’s pivotal strategic partnership with the Met Office through a pool of 20 new and
 repurposed research appointments drawn from both the Met Office and University.

       Membership of the Alan Turing Institute (ATI). Exeter was invited to join the ATI, the
 national institute for data science and AI, in 2018. Six members of the unit have been awarded
 Turing Fellowships (see Section 4) and Everson is the Turing University Lead. Through the

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Turing Institute we have engaged in new machine learning and data science projects and co-
 lead the "Data Science for Sustainable Development: Environment, Climate, and Health" project
 (Arribas, Everson) with Mathematics and the Medical School. Our membership has been
 instrumental in developing a new Operational Alliance between the ATI and the Met Office. On
 behalf of Turing, in a partnership with Alzheimer’s Research UK, Everson leads the analytics
 hub of the Early Detection of Neurodegenerative Disease initiative (EDoN). We have also
 benefited from participation in new interdisciplinary communities across the Turing network and
 have forged new connections with industry and the third sector. Collaboration with the Turing
 Research Engineering Group has been important in establishing the University’s centralised
 Research Software Engineering group. Finally, Turing membership has been critical for
 attracting new staff and many of our recent appointments have indicated their interest in Exeter
 due to our membership of the ATI.

        Participation in large national schemes including the £20M Institute of Coding.
 Although primarily an education initiative, Exeter has secured research funding for machine
 learning and networks research into visualising the changing jobs landscape; and for research
 into effective pedagogical methods for delivering Computer Science skills to non-Computer
 Science students. This venture is enhanced by the building of the South West Institute for
 Technology, located adjacent to the Computer Science building on Streatham campus, as part
 of a large national effort to provide the technical skills required by employers.

 Our involvement in the initiatives described above, strengthens our ability to engage in
 internationally excellent, interdisciplinary research, linked with the national Computer Science
 research and policy landscape, and demonstrates the growing influence of Exeter computer
 scientists. Through the above, it is clear that Computer Science at Exeter is embedded in the
 fabric of the South West, collaborating with local organisations (e.g., industry, catapults and
 LEPs) and delivering research, impact, skills development and education opportunities for
 people within the region. Our work often reflects the region’s unique economy, geography and
 demographics by:

       Working with businesses that rely on the natural environment, through the EI CDT and
        UKRI-funded research with local water companies (Keedwell, Everson).
       Developing novel processing of photogrammetry images to bring new insight into local
        historical artefacts (Christmas).
       Working with local SMEs to increase the sustainability of buildings and transportation
        systems across the region (Everson, Fieldsend and Keedwell).
       Helping to develop the local economy through impactful research and knowledge
        exchange with local SMEs and startups (Impact Lab).

 Strategy Beyond 2021
 We aim to build on recent successes to increase our world-leading research in 5G/6G and
 cybersecurity; and to become a global centre of excellence in the development of data science
 and AI methods to address environmental and urban issues, underpinned by high quality
 infrastructure and world-class computing facilities. To accomplish this, we will continue to grow
 to create critical mass with commensurate increases in research indicators such as PGR
 students and research income. Further hires will strengthen our existing research groups and
 enable us to ‘spin-out’ groups in our areas of strength aligned with national strategic priorities in
 Computer Vision, Urban Analytics and Environmental Data Science; we also plan to expand
 capacity in the critical issue of detection of misinformation and disinformation, and further our AI
 portfolio towards human-AI systems. We aim to establish a new research group in Software
 Engineering, which will enable us to create new interdisciplinary partnerships with the AI (e.g.,
 in search-based software engineering) and cybersecurity (e.g., in engineering safe and secure
 software systems, software testing) groups.
 We will continue to extend our research support and management structures to accommodate
 these new groups and provide support for new staff and early career researchers. Each new
 group will have an academic lead to support all aspects of the research process including grant


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 writing and management, publication and impact activities, and to provide guidance on career
 progression through our performance development review process.

 Research Management

 Research Integrity and Open Access: 100% of Computer Science staff are ORCID-registered
 and researchers are expected to uphold the institutional principles of the Research Integrity
 Concordat (see 2.8 ILES) of honesty, rigour, transparency and open communication, care and
 respect, and accountability in their work. Colleagues are supported in this by the department’s
 academic lead and mentoring initiatives, the ethics committee and the DoR. New guidelines and
 information are disseminated through the regular staff meetings and annual research awaydays.
 Researchers are encouraged to publish their work as open access and non-compliant
 publications are identified and remedied quickly through staff consultation. Staff are signposted
 to University resources to cover article processing charges and in 2019, 10 such requests were
 made, up from 3 in the previous year. Support is provided centrally through the library, who
 proactively manage journal copyright requirements and deposits to our institutional repository,
 ORE. In 2019, the department exceeded 10,000 publication downloads through ORE and in the
 first six months of 2020, regularly exceeded 1,000 downloads per month. Open access
 principles are therefore embedded in the department as ‘business as usual’ and our work is
 clearly in demand through this channel.

 Impact: Researchers are encouraged to consider the potential impact from their research
 throughout the development of a project, from conception of an idea to the final stages of project
 delivery and beyond. This is facilitated through close collaboration with our Innovation, Impact
 and Business (IIB) service at the University, which provides support for all aspects of impact
 generation and business engagement. Staff are encouraged to engage industrial and other non-
 academic partners in funding applications as a matter of course, ensuring that even fundamental
 research has a route through to impactful application. The success of this approach is evidenced
 through the award of 8 KTPs, 2 Innovate UK grants and 15 industrially-funded studentships and
 consultancy projects during the census period totalling £943,000 of industrial funding into the
 unit (see Section 4).

 Impact case studies were developed throughout the census period in partnership with IIB and
 the DoI, starting with a wide pool of potential studies and eventually focussing on the 3 strongest
 cases. The nominated 3 have arisen through distinct routes: from UKRI-funded research,
 Innovate UK funded research and from an industrial partnership, illustrating the diversity
 embedded in the selection process and in our mechanisms for generating impactful research.

 Interdisciplinarity: Computer Science has a strong history of collaboration with other
 disciplines, supported through activities at the departmental, College and University level,
 including the strategic developments described above. Researchers are encouraged to pursue
 interdisciplinary collaborations through the promotion of opportunities via e-mail, staff meetings
 and awaydays. The DoGD encourages multidisciplinary initiatives with international partners as
 part of the development of strategic partnerships (e.g., in China, Brazil, India - formalised
 through MoUs), in line with the institutional Global Strategy. The University’s College structure
 encourages interdisciplinarity as shown through particularly strong relationships with the Centre
 for Water Systems (Engineering) through the EPSRC WISE CDT (http://wisecdt.org.uk/)
 (Keedwell, Everson) and Computational Fluid Dynamics groups (Everson, Fieldsend); and with
 Mathematics colleagues in Systems Biology (Fieldsend) and Environmental Science (Everson).
 Figure 2 demonstrates the breadth of these collaborations across 14 separate University
 disciplines.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                    Computer Science Interdisciplinary Collaborations
  80
  70
  60
  50
  40
  30
  20
  10
   0




                                   Awards   PGR Students   Publications

 Figure 2 - Collaborations by research awards, PGRs co-supervision and publication co-authorship

 Research Events: Research activities at the departmental level are underpinned by a weekly
 seminar series, fortnightly staff meetings, termly department meetings and an annual research
 awayday.

 Seminars/Lectures
 Departmental seminars provide opportunities for researchers to discover the latest research
 findings from national and international researchers. All staff, postgraduate research students,
 and undergraduate students are encouraged to attend and to engage with the internal and
 external networking this provides. Seminars include an additional hour for coffee and discussion
 with the external speaker to promote networking and new idea incubation. During the COVID
 period, we have hosted live events on YouTube with leading international researchers on topics
 such as ‘Industry 4.0’, and the effect of the pandemic on female researchers. In recent years, we
 have also hosted a department-wide Christmas Lecture from an inspiring speaker on a topical
 Computer Science subject, including speakers from DeepMind, the Met Office, and most
 recently, an historian illuminating the work of Lovelace and Babbage. These events have proven
 popular with both staff and students, typically attracting over a hundred participants. IDSAI runs
 a parallel programme of seminars and a Christmas Lecture on data science topics, providing
 further engagement with researchers from around the University.

 Meetings/Awaydays
 The fortnightly staff meetings provide an opportunity to disseminate relevant research calls and
 to discuss operational items. Termly departmental meetings focus on strategic planning and
 consolidation of material. A termly College meeting disseminates College/University-level
 research strategies and targets within an interdisciplinary setting and provides an opportunity for
 researchers from the unit to meet with colleagues from the College and to celebrate collective
 research successes.

 Annual research awaydays provide an opportunity to reflect on progress during the year, to
 develop future research strategies, and involve workshop presentations on specific topical
 research items e.g., impact or open access.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Workshops
 Where an area of particular need is identified, workshops are arranged to provide additional
 support on particular topics throughout the year. One such example is our early-career grant
 writing workshop, which is run in conjunction with Research Services to provide guidance on
 developing ideas and applying for research funding for the first time. Other workshop series
 include ‘IIB Essentials’, a bi-annual event run by the IIB service that covers the development of
 impactful research through a set of themes: Supporting Research, Commercialisation, Spinouts
 and Start-ups, Intellectual Property and Commercialisation and Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships.

 Conferences
 Since 2014, the department has hosted national and international conferences including the UK
 Computational Intelligence Conference in 2015, the 9th EAI International Conference on Big
 Data Technologies and Applications in 2018, the Environmental Intelligence Summit (170
 delegates) in 2019 and the 11th International conference on Complex Networks in 2020
 (CompleNet) (online due to COVID-19). The University supports academics in the organisation
 of conferences through professional services and events team support and the Support and
 Scholarship (S&S) time described below.

 2. People

 Strategy
 The overarching aim for the department is to grow staff numbers to build research capacity in
 strategically important areas, encourage impactful activity and provide effective leadership to
 support world class research. We recognise the importance of aiming for a balanced portfolio of
 staff, both in terms of research area and seniority, and our recruitment since 2014 reflects that.
 We have successfully built on our research strengths and through our appointment and
 promotion strategy, have increased the number of senior staff in the department significantly.
 This has seen the number of Chairs increase to 6 (from 2 in 2014), APs from 1 to 4 (2 of whom
 subsequently became Chairs) and SLs from 2 to 5 during this REF cycle. As part of this process,
 a new, experienced HoD (Menezes) was recruited from the USA. He replaced Everson, who
 was appointed as Director of the IDSAI and University Turing Lead. Our strategy provides a
 pipeline for succession planning and future leadership to provide strategic direction to the unit
 and involves earlier career academics, who are encouraged to take on administrative roles at an
 appropriate career stage, providing departmental resilience and evidence for personal
 progression.

 Appointments
 Appointments are made according to the departmental strategy, which considers existing
 research strengths of the unit, the wider University and the national and international research
 landscape. They are made at the appropriate level, appointing at the professorial level where
 this leadership and vision is required, for example to establish new research groups. Examples
 of this are Min (HPC & Networking), Menezes (Urban and Environmental Data Science) and
 Brucker (Cybersecurity). Further appointments at Lecturer or SL (e.g., HPC & Networking - Hu,
 Luo, Wu; Urban and Environmental Data Science - Barbosa, Botta, Di Clemente, Oliveira;
 Cybersecurity - Marmsoler) are then used to build capacity and to support the internationally-
 excellent research of the chairs, in addition to other appointments that strengthen existing
 research groups.

 Staff Promotion and Career Support
 The unit supports applications for promotion from staff and encourages all to apply as soon as
 they are considered to be at the appropriate level. Staff are encouraged to discuss their
 promotion case initially with their academic lead and subsequently with the head of department.
 Support is provided through the Exeter Academic scheme (see 3.3 ILES), which provides
 guidance on expectations for promotion for all career levels and academic job roles. This
 combination of local departmental support aligned with the University-level process has led to
 promotions at all levels throughout the department during this REF cycle:

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AP->P – 2 (Keedwell, Fieldsend)
 SL->AP – 3 (Keedwell, Fieldsend, Williams)
 L->SL – 5 (Christmas, Li, Moraglio, Wu, Luo)

 General
 Staff within a research group are supported by an academic lead (AL), a senior academic within
 a similar research field, who supports and mentors members of staff in their research and career
 development. The AL role is an important way in which we democratise leadership roles and
 provide academics with a strategically important first point of contact for research mentoring. In
 addition to regular informal meetings, staff review performance annually with their AL through
 the performance development review process. This encompasses performance across the
 academic job role, identifies areas to be addressed and opportunities for the year ahead. These
 meetings, supported by performance metrics (e.g., research funding applications/awards),
 provide an important stock-check of performance, an opportunity to discuss progression and to
 develop research strategies for the coming year. In recognition of our increase in size and
 research diversity, our number of ALs has increased from 2 to 5 in order to provide appropriate
 and tailored mentorship to our academics. ALs will be allocated to each of the additional
 research groups described in our future strategic expansion.

 Through our workload planning system, staff are allocated 20% S&S time to devote to activities
 that enhance their research. This is in addition to time allocated to funded research, student
 supervision, education and administration activities and so provides valuable space for
 researchers to write funding applications and to contribute to the life of the discipline (see
 Section 4).

 Early Career Academics
 On appointment as lecturers, staff undergo an 18-month Academic Professional Programme
 (see 3.5 ILES), culminating in HEA membership, and receive specific support through ‘ramped’
 teaching loads providing staged relief from education in the first three years. During this period,
 staff are encouraged to develop their collaborations within and beyond the University with
 academic and industrial partners and to develop applications for funding, such as for EPSRC
 First Grant/New Investigator Awards (NIA). To further facilitate this, ECRs are encouraged to
 engage in training mapped against the Researcher Development Concordat and the HR
 Excellence in Research charter (see 2.9 & 3.8 ILES). We also provide bespoke Computer
 Science training, explaining the research funding landscape and best practice in writing effective
 research proposals. Where an interview features as part of the assessment for a funding
 scheme, mock panels are convened with senior staff to provide applicants with experience of
 these challenging events. These initiatives have led to some notable ECR successes including
 EPSRC NIA awards for Pugeault (now at Glasgow) and Wu, and a prestigious £1M UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship award for Li.

 Postdoctoral Researchers
 We recognise that postdoctoral researchers (PDR) experience specific challenges in terms of
 the typically fixed-term contracts on which they are employed. Staff are encouraged to discuss
 these issues with their supervisors and we support PDRs in applying for appropriate funding
 (e.g. EPSRC and ERC Postdoctoral Fellowships) through ECR initiatives. Opportunities for
 training and gaining teaching experience are signposted to researchers through the induction
 process and supervisory channels. This has led to a significant proportion of our PDRs going on
 to become early-career academics, e.g., Chugh, Alyahya, Maxwell (Exeter), Walker (Plymouth),
 Rahat (Plymouth & Swansea), Kheiri (Cardiff & Lancaster).

 Staff Voice
 Staff (including PDRs) have the opportunity to co-develop departmental strategies though
 education and research awaydays and staff meetings. The leadership team actively encourage
 staff to challenge norms and contribute their ideas to departmental strategies. Each senior role
 has a 3-year term, providing opportunities for a range of individuals to contribute to the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of the department and to enhance their leadership skills. Staff have multiple
 channels through which to voice any concerns, including staff meetings, performance
 development reviews, academic lead meetings, the institutional Staff Survey and annual ‘Pulse
 Checks’. In the most recent (2018) Staff Survey, 91% of Computer Science staff reported that
 they believe that the work they do makes a difference and that they have good relationships with
 their colleagues, underlining the collegiate culture that we have developed in the department.
 Early career staff also engage with the ECR Liaison Forums, through which they have formal
 strategic representation across the University. Issues arising from these channels are discussed
 and addressed at Executive Group Meetings, with new initiatives disseminated via staff
 meetings. Issues with harassment or bullying can be raised through an institution-wide network
 of Dignity and Respect Advisors and Speak Out Guardians (see 3.15 ILES), who work with the
 Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group to identify trends or themes that arise from these cases.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Computer science has become a significantly more diverse department in this REF cycle, both in
 terms of ethnicity where the percentage of BAME staff has doubled from 24% in 2014/15 to 48%
 in 2019/20, and background where the proportion of staff from non-UK nations has increased
 from 35% to 55% over the same period. These figures justify our commitment to embed
 institutional EDI practices into our recruitment, training and promotion processes, adopting
 University procedure and best practice wherever appropriate. All staff involved in recruitment
 undertake recruitment and selection training, including on the avoidance of conscious and
 unconscious bias against those with protected characteristics.
 We align our research assessment processes with DORA (Declaration on Research
 Assessment), to which Exeter is a signatory (see 2.8 & 3.3 ILES), and outputs were selected for
 REF2021 through review by expert panel. All staff involved in the selection of outputs for the
 REF have undergone additional EDI training to ensure no bias is introduced into this process.
 In 2020, as the department achieved greater critical mass, we established an Inclusion and
 Diversity Committee responsible for establishing an EDI strategy for the unit together with the
 academic leads and is comprised of our Athena Swan Submission Author (Barbosa), Equality
 and Diversity Officer (Rowlands), Widening Participation Officer (Alyahya), and Ethics Officer
 (Arthur). They report quarterly to the unit Executive Group.

 Gender Balance
 Staff gender balance has traditionally been a challenge for the department and our submission
 was 100% male in REF2014. However, ongoing appointments have addressed this to a degree
 and we now have 3 female staff (Alyahya, Rowlands, Christmas) representing over 10% of
 research-active academic FTE. However, the proportion of REF submissions by female staff is
 lower than expected as two are very recent lecturer appointments (2020). Christmas achieved
 promotion to Senior Lecturer during the census period and now occupies a senior management
 role as our DoI, providing a role model for more junior female staff. Improved gender balance is
 evident in other areas of the department including teaching-only staff and in our PGR cohort,
 where almost 24% of applications and 30% of enrolments are female. However, we are
 continuing to develop measures to address our gender imbalance and we work with more
 balanced disciplines (e.g., Mathematics) to exchange ideas and best practice. This work has
 included two successful applications for Athena Swan Awards, where we became the first
 departments in the University to receive silver awards in 2016 and have recently been awarded
 a further bronze. We also engage with the College’s Workplace, Inclusivity, Diversity, Equality
 and Respect (WIDER) committee, which develops strategic direction and monitors progress
 against EDI goals (Barbosa, Keedwell, Christmas).

 Parental Leave
 Eligible staff are encouraged to apply for parental leave in line with University procedures (see
 3.16 ILES). We are strongly supportive of staff who have parental and caring responsibilities.
 Staff are permitted to work flexibly and can apply to have specific hours in the week removed
 from consideration for teaching. A significant number of our staff make use of this, and 3 staff
 work 0.8 or 0.7 FTE to accommodate childcare responsibilities. These reduced hours are


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 incorporated in our workload modelling and subsequently into individual workloads through the
 Executive Committee.

 Study Leave
 Academic staff are encouraged to apply for study leave (sabbatical) at the ratio of 1 year in
 every 7 (pro-rata for shorter periods) to expand their research, collaborations and impact. Due to
 our rapid growth, relatively few members of staff have become eligible for a full year but
 Fieldsend (2013-2014) and Keedwell (2015 & 2019) have taken a year, and Danon completed 6
 months leave in December 2020, in part to assist SAGE on COVID-19 modelling through
 membership of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Modelling (SPI-M). Williams has
 approved leave for 2020-21, currently postponed due to COVID.

 Research Students
 PGR numbers have increased substantially over the census period, increasing 50-60% year on
 year from 11 in 2014 to 40.5 in 2018/19, resulting in a PGR/FTE ratio of 2.13. A PGR cohort of
 this size enables a vibrant research-led culture within the department with students contributing
 to and benefitting from departmental seminars and meetings and events organised by the
 department’s PGR coordinator.
 The supervisor-weighted completion rate for students in Computer Science during the census
 period was 20.3, with 26 students completing during this time. This might seem low in
 comparison with our FTE, but is a function of our growth: mean PGR registrations during the
 census period were 28.2 and mean staff FTE was 15.8, indicating a healthy ratio over the REF
 cycle.

 Recruitment, Support and Facilities
 We adopt similar processes, norms and expectations to the recruitment of postgraduate
 students as to the recruitment of staff. The unit has successfully recruited students using a
 range of funding sources including College, DTP, CDT and industrial funding, indicating that this
 growth is sustainable in the long term. For most new appointments, a College-funded PGR
 student is included in the start-up package. The unit aims to provide an inclusive, stimulating and
 impactful research environment for our postgraduate students, which includes access to
 excellent facilities and high-quality supervision. At the University level, students are supported by
 the Doctoral College, which stimulates and supports a vibrant research and intellectual
 environment across disciplines for postgraduate and early career researchers and PGR liaison
 groups provide the students with a voice to express concerns that cannot be resolved at the
 departmental level. Students are largely homed in a bespoke refurbished space in the new
 Computer Science building, close to academic staff, and are provided with funds for equipment,
 travel and consumables. Skills training is provided through central researcher development
 network modules and a Masters-level Research Methodology module. Students are encouraged
 to ‘audit’ (attend without compulsory assessment) taught modules specific to their studies at the
 supervisor’s discretion.

 Assessment
 Students are assessed via report and mini-viva by two academics, one external to the
 supervision team, at 6-months, and then annually throughout their studies to receive external
 feedback and ensure consistent progress. This provides the student with experience of a viva-
 like setting, feedback on their progress and ideas to take forward. This external assessment also
 provides opportunities to raise any concerns regarding supervision and we encourage
 postgraduates to voice their concerns through this channel, through their supervisor if
 appropriate and via the PRES (The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey). Arising issues
 are either addressed locally or elevated to the Executive Group where a departmental-wide
 response is merited.

 In addition, students are required to present their work, at least annually, to their research group,
 a requirement that is supplemented in the unit by a postgraduate research event co-located with
 research awaydays and/or the College postgraduate conference. These two events provide a


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 valuable forum for the dissemination and exchange of research ideas and outcomes among
 PGRs.

 An exciting development for the unit was the award of an AI Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Environmental Intelligence, which commenced in September 2019. It promises to provide
 significant numbers of new postgraduate opportunities in this important research area and will
 benefit the entire UoA11 PGR cohort through new infrastructure and resources and opportunities
 for interdisciplinary training and industrial engagement, as well as providing significant numbers
 of new postgraduate opportunities for our unit.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The unit has attracted significant income from a wide variety of sources, including the Research
 Councils (predominantly EPSRC and NERC), Innovate UK, EU, charities and industry. Total
 research income during the census period was £6.95M, a greater than five-fold increase over
 the REF2014 census period (£1.29M). A proportion of this is expected due to increases in
 average FTE over the two periods (REF2021=15.8, REF2014=8.5). However, staff growth
 explains only £1.11M of the £5.66M uplift in research income. This significant increase clearly
 indicates a transformational shift in our ability to attract research funding, particularly for larger
 bids, and our ability to write high quality, exciting and timely grant proposals. Our strategy has
 been to empower staff to apply for grants commensurate with their career stage, for example by
 supporting study leave applications for all those applying for fellowships and larger grants and
 providing relief from teaching for new starters. These initiatives are underpinned by a
 departmental-wide six-point approach to achieving high quality grant applications:

    1. Promotion of funding opportunities at staff, departmental and College meetings and
       research awaydays.
    2. Strong support in bid development through the academic lead system. The academic
       lead is involved in the early stages of idea generation and bid preparation and signposts
       researchers to University services.
    3. End-to-end support from Research Services and IIB to provide partner engagement,
       administrative support, and to ensure that bids are costed appropriately.
    4. Departmental workshops and monthly writing clubs, aimed at early career researchers, to
       enable the sharing of best practice among staff.
    5. Implementation of a peer-review process that provides independent feedback from senior
       academics at key stages in the application process.
    6. Leveraging of match funding from the College to increase resources for applications
       (e.g., an additional research studentship), particularly for early career awards.

 This democratised approach has resulted in income spread across the department and at all
 seniority levels. During the census period, 15 separate staff have worked as investigators on
 funded research projects spread across 33 different funders including UKRI, EU, Alan Turing
 Institute, RAEng, Royal Society and a wide range of industrial partners.

 Notable awards include (Funded amount to the UoA shown):

 ERDF: Environmental Futures and Big Data Impact Lab: £1.35M, Everson
 UKRI: Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme: £1.0M, Li
 EPSRC: Keedwell: £354K, Fieldsend: £300K, Christmas: £288K
 NERC: Everson, Fieldsend, Luo: £459K
 Innovate UK: Fieldsend: £262K, Keedwell: £188K, Everson: 2x £111K
 US Army Research Office: Menezes: £130K
 These awards have been underpinned by a host of smaller awards from other funders as
 described above.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy
 Our strategy is to continue to build on this success and to ensure that the implementation of the
 initiatives described above continues and is further embedded into departmental culture.
 Through the expanded AL system, we aim to provide research-area specific support to staff of
 all levels to develop novel ideas into concrete, high quality proposals. We recognise our
 interaction with industry as a strength and will continue to develop our relationships with
 industrial partners and to engage with large-scale schemes such as the Industrial Strategy
 Challenge Fund.

 A further challenge to the research funding landscape is the increase in call-based funding
 opportunities with short turnaround times. To address this, a pipeline of ideas is maintained to
 provide a pool of potential proposals that can be adapted for these calls. Furthermore, we
 remain vigilant to new opportunities through web and e-mail announcements, our memberships
 of various national and regional forums, and our own funder advisory networks (e.g., EPSRC
 FAN - Keedwell).

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Physical Infrastructure
 Computer Science is located in a newly refurbished home on the Streatham Campus, Innovation
 Centre Phase 1. A strategic decision was taken to move to this building to provide a single home
 for the department, with the attendant benefits to the research environment from Computer
 Science researchers being co-located in a single facility.

 The building has undergone a £1.1M repurposing that has seen the creation of new offices and
 open-plan workspaces for 70 academics, PDRs and PhD students within a purpose-built
 environment. These workspaces are located alongside break-out rooms, kitchen facilities and
 two undergraduate teaching labs, named Lovelace and Babbage by a department-wide popular
 vote. These improvements have created a home for Computer Science and have raised capacity
 to 191 spaces for academics, PDRAs and PhD students, providing room for the department to
 expand in-line with our growth strategy.

 There are further plans for researchers and PGRs from IDSAI to be co-located with the Global
 Systems Institute (GSI) and Astrophysics, providing opportunities for interdisciplinary research,
 particularly around the Environmental Intelligence theme.

 Computational Resources
 Researchers can make use of a variety of resources within the department and at the University
 and regional level. Locally, a significant volume of work is conducted on workstations purchased
 as part of research projects. However, larger facilities exist at the research group level with
 specifications tailored for specific research areas, e.g.:

 Everson: 12-machine Xeon CPU Linux Cluster
 Fieldsend: Tesla k40 GPU servers
 Wu: NVIDIA Titan RTX GPUs workstations (funded by an EPSRC Equipment Award)
 Menezes: 22-core Xeon Server, 515Gb of RAM, 80Tb of storage, RTX 2080Ti GPU

 Researchers in Computer Science also have access to two local HPC facilities that have
 attracted over £10M of investment in the census period: ISCA and Isambard, described below.

 ISCA
 ISCA is a £3M University HPC facility designed to serve advanced computing requirements for
 all research disciplines, combining a traditional HPC cluster with a virtualised cluster
 environment. ISCA is available free of charge to all research groups and consists of a range of
 computer resources within a single machine: the traditional cluster (128 GB nodes) is
 complemented by two large memory (3 TB) nodes, Xeon Phi accelerator nodes and GPU (Tesla

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 K80) compute nodes. The non-traditional element of ISCA includes a cluster of higher memory
 nodes (256 GB), 3 TB nodes, and an Openstack environment for the management of virtualised
 resources. Academics are encouraged to cost in the use of this facility into research grants to
 support computational work. The unit (Brucker and Keedwell) has recently received an £85K
 EPSRC Core Equipment Award for x86 (56-core, 768GB) and IBM POWER9 (2x20-core CPU,
 4x V100 GPU) nodes to bolster research in the cybersecurity and AI fields.

 Isambard (https://epsrc.ukri.org/blog/isambardhpc/).
 We are members of the GW4 consortium that successfully bid for the £3M EPSRC Tier 2
 Computing centre based at the Met Office. This system is made up of over 10,000 64-bit ARM
 cores representing a novel architecture for research. During the census period, significant use
 (~301,000 core hours) has been made of this by Computer Science researchers for the
 optimisation of CFD models. Further funding has recently been granted for Isambard 2
 (EP/T022078/1), which will use cutting-edge A64fx processors.

 Operational Infrastructure
 Computer Science is led by the HoD who chairs an Executive Group consisting of the DoR, DoI,
 DoE and DoGD. The DoR, (Keedwell) is the primary contact for research-related matters and
 works with Research Services and IIB to support researchers in grant writing, peer review, grant
 management, output nomination and impact development. He is responsible for the promotion of
 research activities within the department and liaises with other related administrative roles such
 as the Director of Postgraduate Research, the Seminar and Event Organiser and the Academic
 Leads. The DoR has a budget (typically £5-7.5K annually) to support research, providing the
 opportunity to pump-prime projects that have yet to be externally funded and to support visits to
 industrial partners or academic conferences, predominantly for ECRs who have limited access
 to funding.

 As discussed in Section 1, the DoI (Christmas) manages impact activities and cultivates impact
 case study development, and the DoGD (Oliveira) fosters international connections.
 Researchers are also supported by dedicated contacts in Research Services (Roberts) to assist
 with the costings and development of proposals, particularly impact and justification of resources
 sections, and in IIB (Gonzales) to encourage engagement with industrial partners and to
 promote industrial funding opportunities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 To achieve our goal to become a global leader in applied computer science research a strong
 set of partners and collaborators from across sectors is necessary. We have already developed
 a rich ecosystem of applied and interdisciplinary research collaborations (both internal and
 external), broad industrial engagement and societal impact, and we plan to extend its reach both
 geographically and into important new sectors. This ecosystem is described in more detail
 below, along with metrics of esteem such as fellowships, prizes, and our contribution to the
 research base through grant reviewing activities. These activities are promoted through the 1
 day per week of S&S time for academic staff described earlier.

 Non-Academic Collaborations
 Every member of the unit makes a significant contribution to the research base, economy and
 society. They achieve impact from their research through collaboration with non-academic
 partners, co-creation of funding applications, student co-supervision, co-authorship of
 publications and invited talks, grouped into the following broad thematic areas:
 Environment & Sustainability
 Core to the Environment and Sustainability theme is our strategic partnership with the Met
 Office, realised through joint appointments (Arribas), the JCEEI and the Impact Lab (see Section
 1). Everson leads the Impact Lab and has played a pivotal role in the projects described, along
 with Christmas, Costa and Keedwell. To date, the unit has worked with 12 partners in this sector:
 City Science, RegenFarm, OTA Water, Emtec, Floor Dynamics, Thermancy , Milkalyser, Seiche,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spatial Quotient (formerly That Figures), Minibems, Applegate and FuturebE. These have led to
 KTPs for Everson (Applegate) and Christmas (That Figures). Further ongoing work in this theme
 includes engagement with the Flood Forecasting Centre (Williams, Arthur), Global Hazard Map
 and TIST (Arthur).
 We work closely with the water industry and have gained funding for projects on machine
 learning with South West Water (1 studentship and 1 KTP, Everson), DC Welsh Water (KTP,
 Keedwell), United Utilities (studentship, Keedwell) and Hydro International (Fieldsend); and a
 KTP with Artesia Consulting (Everson), which developed new data science tools for leakage
 management. We are also involved in UKRI-funded interdisciplinary projects that involve wide
 industry engagement, such as the HOWS project (Keedwell) investigating interactive
 evolutionary methods for designing and managing water systems, with Bristol Water, WSP,
 AECOM, SEAMS and SWW.
 Optimisation and machine learning for sustainable planning and development has underpinned
 our Innovate UK-funded collaborations with City Science (totalling £2M; Everson, Fieldsend &
 Keedwell) and Hoare Lea (Everson, Fieldsend), and a KTP with BEST Energy Saving (Everson
 and Christmas).
 Technology
 We work with telecoms providers including BT, with whom we have 3 funded PhD studentships
 including an iCASE (Min, Luo, Keedwell), and a further 3 with a large telecoms company held by
 Min (confidential). Everson has also received 3 funded PhD studentships in partnership with
 Engineers’ Gate on data science in FinTech and Keedwell has an iCASE with Dyson working on
 AI and privacy.
 We have ongoing collaborations with Samsung (Wu), Google (Barbosa), Nokia Bell Labs
 (Menezes), DeepMind, AWS and Microsoft (Arribas), IBM and IBM Research (Arthur, Everson,
 Hu, Luo & Williams), Ericsson (Hu), Adarga (Williams), Sony CLS (Di Clemente) GE Healthcare
 (Li) and Cambridge Mobile Telematics (Wahlstrom). Fujitsu have funded significant periods of
 consultancy and contract research and have an approved patent with Moraglio.
 Defence (esp. Marine)
 Partnerships in this sector are a particular focus for Christmas, who works closely with a range
 of organisations including the MoD, Qinetiq, BMT and BAE Systems. During the census period,
 she worked with the MoD and BAE Systems as part of an EPSRC Prosperity Partnership.
 Menezes is funded by the USA Army Research Office (ARO) in the understanding of human
 mobility patterns. ARO have visited the University and demonstrated interest in continuing
 funded research with Barbosa, Menezes & Keedwell.
 Government/Policy/Charity
 Danon works for SPI-M carrying out COVID-19 mathematical modelling for SAGE. He has
 received funding from Pfizer and serves on their academic advisory panel. Botta has worked on
 data science projects with the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, Government
 office for Science, Cabinet Office and ONS, and Arthur works with the Health and Safety
 Executive. Barbosa has applied his urban data science tools with the Centers for Disease
 Control and Prevention (USA) and Di Clemente has worked with the Gates Foundation, the
 World Bank and UN data pulse on data science projects. Menezes works with UNICEF and
 hosted one of their research scientists which led to activities in other Colleges.

 Spin Outs
 Social Sensing: An early-stage spin-out that uses social media to map extreme weather and
 climate events (Williams & Arthur directors). They are currently working with the Environment
 Agency Flood Forecasting Centre, where their app is providing flood monitoring and
 retrospective flood forecast verification services. The company is in talks with other
 meteorological organisations, such as Global Hazard Mapping unit at the Met Office.



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government agencies (such as DFT) and various companies in the insurance sector have also
 expressed interest.
 CAFlood is a commercial venture arising from EPSRC-funded research in the simulation of
 flooding using cellular automata (Keedwell), that has generated licencing and contract research
 revenues of ~£65K to date and is the subject of an impact case study. It has been employed by
 local and national government agencies, councils, insurance companies and the water sector
 internationally to model and simulate various flood scenarios. It has underpinned a £3M+ Torbay
 flooding infrastructure award, Thames Water’s £247M maintenance programme, influenced
 national flood risk policies (NaFRA2) and has been applied to flood protection systems
 safeguarding millions of people globally (e.g., Taipei City’s early flood warning system).
 Societal Impact
 During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have responded quickly to address needs in the local and
 national community. Danon received funding to predict the spread of COVID-19 in the UK and
 evaluate the impact of quarantine restrictions, helping to inform local and national government
 response. Everson and Costa developed the award-winning COVID-19 supply hub described in
 Section 1, and Keedwell received funding to develop clinical scorecards for COVID-19 patients
 incorporating viral load measures. Our academics were also involved in broad cross-institutional
 initiatives to model the pandemic through RAMP (Royal Society) and DeCOVID (ATI).
 Further societal impacts have been achieved through CAFlood (Keedwell), which informed
 national flood risk policies; the Impact Lab (Everson, Christmas, Costa, Keedwell), which led to
 the creation of 12 new local jobs and businesses; and collaborative work with DCWW (Keedwell)
 applying machine learning to sewer maintenance strategies, reducing sewer blockages by 31%,
 household flooding incidents by 16% and operational costs by £2M and thereby reducing impact
 and costs for 3M customers (also an impact case study).
 International Research Collaborations

 The unit has strong research collaborations across the globe, developed and promoted through
 the DoGD who encourages unit participation in institution-level initiatives (e.g., strategic
 relationships with Universities of Queensland and Fudan) and the development of unit-level
 global collaborations, of which there are 77 across 6 continents, as shown in Figure 3. These
 include visiting professorships, co-development of funding applications, research project
 collaboration and co-authorship of publications, among others.




                         Figure 3 - International collaborations by country




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic Esteem and Contribution to the Life of the Discipline
 UoA11 staff have received significant recognition both nationally and internationally as
 evidenced by the range of fellowships and prizes awarded below and have been invited to
 review applications for a wide range of funders. They have also contributed over 90 times as
 conference, programme and workshop chairs and 50 times as journal editors, associate editors
 and guest editors across conferences and journals in the cybersecurity, networking, HPC, AI, ML
 and urban systems fields during the census period. These activities are encouraged as a
 method of contributing to the life of the discipline and for personal development, supported by
 the 20% S&S allocation.

 Fellowships
 Arribas, Danon, Everson, Williams, Pugeault, Roussos were appointed Alan Turing Institute
 Fellows in 2018, consolidating our links with this important national institute. Dutta and Di
 Clemente received Marie-Curie (2017-2019) and Newton International (2017) fellowships
 respectively during the early stages of their careers, increasing their research potential and
 widening their networks. Livi was appointed as a Canada Research Chair in 2019, a scheme
 that aims to “attract and retain some of the world’s most accomplished and promising minds.”
 Also in 2019, Li was appointed as a UKRI Future Leader Fellow which aims to “develop the next
 wave of world-class research and innovation leaders in academia and business.”

 Prizes
 Research excellence has been recognised by a variety of prizes awarded during the census
 period. Hu and Williams have won best paper prizes at IUCC14, IEEE SOSE16 and ICWSM
 2016 and Keedwell won 2nd best student paper at CCWI 2016. Staff have also been recognised
 by their professional bodies with Brucker awarded Senior Member status of the ACM in 2015
 and Min receiving an Award for Excellence from the IEEE TCSC in 2017. Evidence of excellence
 in impact is evidenced by Arribas’ - UK IT Industry RITA Award “Best Innovation in Technology”
 2017 / Runner up Best Innovation in Civil Service 2016 and Luo’s 2018 Scottish Knowledge
 Transfer Award from the Scottish Funding Council.
 Grant Reviewing Activity and Membership of Selection Panels
 Membership of grant review and selection panels are an important measure of esteem and allow
 us to make a significant contribution to the life of the discipline. Botta (2016-) and Brucker
 (2015-) are members of the EU ERC/Horizon 2020 review committee and Brucker (2017-),
 Everson, Keedwell (2013-) and Min (2006-) are members of the EPSRC Review College, whilst
 Hu and Wu are members of the EPSRC Associate College. We have also contributed to ad-hoc
 reviewing of UKRI AI Acceleration and FLF schemes, EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, Marsden Fund,
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie, Royal Society, and Leverhulme Trust reviews through Everson,
 Danon, Keedwell, Min and Moraglio. Internationally, staff have conducted reviews for REPRISE
 (Italy- Di Clemente), NFST (Chile – Menezes), NRF (South Africa – Keedwell, Fieldsend), FFG
 (Austria), SNSF (Switzerland) and ANR Doctoral Contracts (France) (Keedwell).

 Conclusion
 Collectively, these sections describe a young and vibrant department, engaged in impactful
 research connected with the wider international community and making significant contributions
 to the life of the computer science discipline across the globe.




                                                                                         Page 16
