Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: Social Policy and Social Work

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Our research is focused on the nexus between social administration and social policy, organised
 through six research clusters: social policy and public administration; social work; social
 economics; politics; peace and conflict; sociology and criminology. By embedding the design,
 implementation and delivery of our research in the everyday lives of state and civic society, we
 have developed and sustained an excellent reputation for producing high quality research outputs
 that examine, document, theorise and tackle emerging social challenges. Through meaningful
 collaborations with policy-makers and civic society, we have influenced evidence-based policy
 and practice. We have a strong track record in producing knowledge that reaches beyond
 academic boundaries. We have built close working relationships with government departments,
 international NGOs, human rights bodies, trade unions, national and international oversight bodies
 and communities directly impacted by our research. Our research is driven by a desire to
 understand social change and ensure that the social sciences have social value. We seek to
 produce research that has meaningful relevance and impact for real world issues in areas such
 as human rights, access to justice, politics, commerce, industry, civil society and the public and
 NGO sectors.

 Aims and Goals 2014-2020

 Social Work and Social Policy at Ulster has strongly rooted its research in understanding and
 contributing to regional challenges, typified in the last REF cycle by a strategic focus on devolution,
 policy making and public administration, equality and social justice, and our longstanding tradition
 of work on health and social care. Since 2013, our Unit has undergone a process of thematic
 renewal that echoes Northern Ireland’s (NI) own process of opening up in the post-conflict period.
 This has presented us with challenges, but also opportunities and responsibilities to play a role in
 understanding social transformation beyond our borders. Building on the previous works of Knox
 and Osmani, our research in Central Asia, Bangladesh, Ghana and Papua New Guinea, has
 expanded considerably with research also commenced in South Africa, the Middle East, New
 Zealand and Latin America. The foundation for our work on social justice, developed by Borooah
 and JS O’Connor, has expanded to include work on language justice, institutional abuse and
 reproductive rights. To achieve our overall aim of ensuring our ongoing relevance regionally, while
 expanding our research profile internationally, the Unit adopted a conscious strategy of building
 on these core strengths, while expanding our expertise in a number of thematic areas.

 Thematic and staff renewal has been supported by a programme of institutional support and
 resourcing strategies as outlined in the institutional level environment statement (also see People
 and Funding sections in this statement). Since REF2014, there have been important changes
 to our research structure designed to strengthen the Unit’s management and facilitate Unit level
 strategic development and innovation and more dedicated resource and support. The
 development and monitoring of our research and impact strategy is overseen by a Research
 Director (RD) working with the Faculty Associate Dean for Research & Impact (ADRI). An active
 research and impact committee (comprising all staff) worked with the RD to set and monitor targets
 for grant applications and income, publication output, impact and mentoring and support.

 A key strategic goal has been to sustain a lively and stimulating environment, to support
 transformative and ‘risky’ research and enhance the development of early career staff, contract
 research staff and PhD researchers. Linked to the achievement of our overall goals we set six
 objectives:



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   focus on improving the vitality and sustainability of our research;
    •   increase our grant income through extending and strengthening our funding base;
    •   increase the volume of high-quality research publications and consolidate our intellectual
        leadership in the key themes outlined below;
    •   build and expand on our core strengths by appointing new staff within these strategic
        priorities;
    •   build on our reputation for policy relevant and user-focused work by increasing
        collaboration with users, policy-makers and civil society;
    •   grow our PhD community and enhance support for ECRs.

 As detailed through this submission, we have met these objectives. In REF 2021, we are returning
 31 members of staff compared with 22 in 2014, a 41% increase. Eighteen books have been
 returned in this submission, compared to eleven in 2014. The submission includes ten new
 members of staff, three of whom are ECRs. We have significantly extended and strengthened
 our funding base, attracting total grant income of £5,790,471 (compared to £1,955,2335 in 2014)
 – a 238% increase. This includes research council funding of £2,588,121 as compared to
 £1,016,367 in 2014, a 155% increase.

 Research and Impact strategy

 Our strategy centres on three core impact-oriented themes.

    1. Policy and practice in contested societies – Continuing a strong and distinguished
       tradition, the Unit produces research that documents and analyses how heightened forms
       of political contention associated with conflict and conflict legacies mediate and influence
       policy and professional practice. This can be seen in explorations of political representation
       and policy making (Aughey, Braniff, Gilmartin, Morrow), and analysis of the politics of
       responsibility and public management and contested spaces (McGrattan, Byrne and
       Morrow). We are enhancing our reputation for work on the performance and functioning of
       policy making and administrative reform approaches (Carmichael and O’Connor) and their
       impact on the delivery of services. Birrell, Gray, Knox and Heenan have been instrumental
       in highlighting the relationship between structures of government and the
       fragmentation of public services. We have invested in new appointments which adds
       capacity to develop comparative public policy analysis and bridge public administration
       and social policy (Gazzola’s work on language and social justice; O’Connor’s work on
       education).

    2. Emerging socio-economic challenges – The Unit has developed diverse and thriving
       currents of research that document, illuminate, and theorise, key social challenges
       historically pushed to the margins by post-conflict priorities. These include
       reproductive rights, education and inequality, professional judgement in social work and
       policy in multi-ethnic societies. An important strand of work on reproductive rights
       (Bloomer, Horgan and Gray) facilitated by ESRC and Open Society Foundation grants,
       has been instrumental in developing new understandings of abortion and effectively
       challenged traditional political and religious discourse refuting the need for policy reform.
       Work in this cluster has also emerged in response to politically charged debates
       concerning education inequality, segregation and performance in divided and contested
       societies and has influenced policy in Northern Ireland (Knox; O’Connor; Birrell;
       Carmichael). Health and Social Care has remained an important theme. Taylor’s Health
       and Social Care (HSC R and D Office funded) work with partners from the Max Planck
       Institute has made a significant contribution to how concepts of risk in dementia care is
       understood and communicated from the perspective of persons with dementia, their
       families and professionals. The appointment of new staff with expertise in inter-personal
       violence perpetrator interventions (McGinn), conceptualisation of elder abuse (Killick) and
       the resilience and wellbeing of social workers (McFadden), signifies our commitment to
       expanding our social work research.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     3. National and global social justice – Since 2013, the Unit has proactively leveraged a
        rich body of locally-rooted knowledge, experience and expertise to expand our national
        and global portfolio of work, which centres on health and social care, good governance,
        sustainable development and human rights. Lundy’s pioneering study of redress for victims
        of historical child abuse (facilitated through her success in being awarded a two-year
        Leverhulme Major Fellowship), used a bottom-up participatory action research approach
        and directly led to legislative amendments. Moore’s work on the post-Corston women’s
        penal crisis provides insights into the failure of prison reform in England and Wales.
        Lasslett’s award-winning work (2017 Justice Prize for best paper award by the Journal for
        Crime, Justice and Social Democracy) on investigative methodologies has systematically
        uncovered transnational corruption and human rights abuses taking place in Papua New
        Guinea and Uzbekistan, facilitated through grants from the Christensen Foundation, Open
        Society Foundation, and the National Endowment for Democracy. MacGiollabhui’s work
        on political succession and police surveillance in South Africa further demonstrates how
        our Unit is extrapolating the lessons from Northern Ireland and applying them
        elsewhere. Osmani has co-authored with Dr Mahmud, a member of the UN Committee for
        Development Policy, on the macroeconomics of poverty reduction in Bangladesh for the
        World Bank. O’Connor’s research on education in active conflict areas has fed into reports
        for the International Committee for the Red Cross (with Smith, Education) and for the
        OECD on reform of public administration (Central Asia).

 At the heart of our research strategy is the Unit’s applied approach to research in multi-ethnic
 societies - the questions asked, the methods used, and the outputs generated are coproduced
 with stakeholders and practitioners, with a special emphasis on marginalised communities
 adversely impacted by different forms of direct and structural injustice. For example, strategies
 have been codeveloped with trades unions (Bloomer: abortion as a workplace issue); Lasslett’s
 decolonizing work was coproduced with indigenous communities in Bougainville and human rights
 monitors in Uzbekistan; work on peace walls (Byrne and Gormley Heenan) was codeveloped with
 local communities and the Department of Justice. Lundy’s work on redress in the area of historical
 institutional child abuse was codesigned and coproduced with victims, leading to legislative
 change at Westminster.

 Epistemologically, our Unit aims to, and has succeeded in, opening up academic knowledge to
 communities, activists and grassroots beneficiaries by creating pathways that distil practice-based
 knowledge. The central mission of our Access Research Knowledge (ARK) research centre has
 been to make academic research accessible to the widest possible audience. This includes open
 access to large scale survey data sets which have been used by government, journalists, NGOs
 and academics across the world to monitor progress on key government indicators, with regard to
 political attitudes, community relations and attitudes towards minority ethnic groups. Kelly’s and
 Braniff’s work with local community groups in the area of peace building has linked their theoretical
 approaches to the practical ‘sustainable peace’ challenges facing our society. This approach
 opens critical pathways to knowledge and insights from below which shapes the novel aims and
 questions at the heart of our research. It is also critical to the University’s role as Northern Ireland’s
 civic university and its mission to widen participation.

 Future research and impact strategy

 Moving forward to our future research strategy, our focus over the 2014-20 cycle has now solidified
 into a shared commitment to critical social policy research that explores the relationship between
 structural violence, socio-economic justice and building resilient, sustainable and secure societies
 in Northern Ireland and beyond. This represents a maturing intersection between the core three
 themes underpinning our REF 2021 submission. It is most boldly articulated in the new Graduate
 Academy for Policy, Peace and Social Justice being launched in 2021. The Graduate Academy is
 an interdisciplinary multi-unit of assessment centre of applied research and practice, which is
 committed to delivering a suite of research-led postgraduate degrees promoting social justice,
 human rights, change-leadership, community development and peacebuilding through inclusive,
 approaches to learning and research.

                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A number of recent initiatives will generate visible outcomes over the next five years. For example,
 through EU Peace and Reconciliation funded projects we will be able to assess the impacts of
 Brexit on migrant worker populations (Hamilton: EU funded £203K) and will secure evidence led
 policy and practice developments for peace building architectures that are inclusive of
 marginalised young people (McArdle £474K). A strategic aim will be to expand our inter-
 disciplinary work. There is a basis for this in O’Connor’s interdisciplinary GCRF grant with
 Education (£1.8m). Gray’s interdisciplinary project on gender budgeting with the Ulster Business
 School and Wise Centre for Economic Justice at GCU and in partnership with the Women’s Budget
 Group is funded by JRCT to explore gender budgeting as at policy tool for addressing gender
 inequality.

 We will maintain our strategic commitment to infrastructure that supports direct engagement with
 policy-makers, users and practitioners. This includes investment in the Conflict on the Internet
 (CAIN) digital archive, the most independent and internationally respected resource on the
 Northern Ireland conflict, social policies and peacebuilding processes. We will also maintain our
 civic partnerships through a recently introduced Professors of Practice Scheme and ARK civil
 society partnerships and fellowships (See section four).

 Support the highest standards of research integrity and Open Research Data

 Ethical governance, regulation and training is overseen by a University level Committee (chaired
 by Gray). There is a School Ethics committee with responsibility for ensuring that all staff are
 aware of ethical standards and adhere to these. It considers all applications with those that require
 further scrutiny proceeding to the University level committee or to the relevant NHS ethics body.
 All staff in the Unit are required to complete the University’s research integrity course.
 Completing this course is also a requirement for all post-graduate researchers. The course reflects
 the University’s Code of Practice for Professional Integrity which, in turn, reflects the UUK
 Concordat.

 The University has a range of practices in place to comply with the principles of the Concordat on
 Open Research Data. All staff participate in open access initiatives through the use of the PURE
 system. At Unit level, we are committed to the accessibility of our research and to transparency in
 the research process. ARK makes all annual survey data available free of charge on the ARK
 website. The data is also deposited with the UK Data Service at the University of Essex. The
 Conflict on the Internet (CAIN) archive ensures open access to a range of textual, statistical and
 visual data on the Northern Ireland conflict, social policies and peace building. Recent investment
 by the University, government and philanthropic funds are supporting a modernisation of the
 archive.


 2. People

 Our Unit is located in a large school with research and teaching split across two of the university’s
 four campuses. Since 2013, we have seen a number of our most distinguished and experienced
 scholars retire but we have recruited an exciting contingent of early and mid-career researchers
 who have been at the heart of the strategic themes pursued by the Unit. Our staffing strategy is
 guided by our research strategy in terms of recruiting new scholars to expand the international
 dimensions of our research (Gazzola and MacGiollabhui), develop our work on social work
 interventions (McFadden, McGinn and Killick) and consolidate our expertise on politics,
 governance and policy making in divided societies (Gilmartin; Coyle). We have been fortunate
 in being able to retain two of our most distinguished professors, Birrell, on a 0.2fte contract and
 Offer on a 0.4fte. In addition to their research outputs, they have had a pivotal role in mentoring
 ECR staff, leading PhD supervisory teams and, in Birrell’s case, providing important analysis on
 devolutionary and constitutional issues and health and social care integration to Westminster and
 devolved governments.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staffing strategy and development

 We encourage and support research participation and career development for staff pursuing a
 career in research at all stages of their career. The University and Unit have made a firm
 commitment to the principles outlined in the Concordat for the Career Development of Research
 Staff. This support is in place through a number of initiatives:

    •   A policy that ensures staff have protected time for research through keeping
        teaching and administrative loads relatively low and equal. Our Unit level Research
        and Impact Committee has developed and introduced a transparent workload model
        across the School. Those with significant research responsibility have a six-hour teaching
        load per week over the 2 x 12 week semesters, but senior research staff in this category
        also hold leadership responsibilities (such as Impact champion, course director or chair of
        ethics committee). All newly appointed staff have six hours teaching per week for the first
        three years of their employment, without a significant administrative task. Within this
        probation period, they are also supported to complete their Postgraduate Certificate in
        Higher Education and gain HEA membership. Staff in the School with a primarily teaching
        and learning role – mainly practitioners supporting professional degrees - are encouraged
        to build their research profile, through PhD research (including by publication). They can
        also apply for developmental support which includes a reduction in teaching load to 8.25
        hours and access to full researcher development support.

    •   Collaboratively developed research goals, focused on quality not quantity. The
        School and our Unit Level Research and Impact Committee has replaced a system of
        individualised, annual research targets with a shared set of medium-term goals all staff
        with a significant research responsibility commit to. They include development of quality
        outputs over a REF cycle, and a focus on applying for ambitious collaborative research
        grants, without individualised income generation targets.

    •   A university ‘Research Income and Grant Opportunities for Ulster Researchers’
        (RIGOUR) scheme provides training/events to improve success rates of grant
        applications. At Unit level, each staff member has a research allowance as part of our
        researcher development programme, which includes conference funding. Staff are
        encouraged to attend the conferences of learned societies (Social Policy Association,
        Political Studies Association, the British Society of Criminology, the British Sociological
        Association, the Sociological Association of Ireland and the Joint University Council for
        Public Administration and Social Policy). In addition, the University has established a
        GCRF challenge fund, where numerous substantial inter-disciplinary pilot awards were
        made (Braniff, Ketola, Morrow and O’Connor).

    •   A formal institutional staff mentoring scheme is overseen at Unit level by the
        Research Director. This collegiate mentoring process supports new colleagues,
        ECRs and those returning to study following a period of leave or administration or
        intensive teaching. Support is provided for the development of research grant proposals,
        journal articles and research collaborations. Where mentoring expertise was not available
        from our existing staff (due to the voluntary exit scheme or unforeseen professorial
        departures), we drew upon our existing networks in other universities to formally link ECRs
        with established professors. These professors, for a set fee, provided feedback on
        academic writing, monthly mentorship meetings and associated support. Staff in the Unit
        have also benefited from the university’s Significance and Originality of Academic
        Research (SOARING) training on quality of research outputs and publications and
        UCommunicate Training which supported effective engagement with the media and other
        stakeholders.

    •   Provide regular forums for intellectual exchange. The Unit has four distinct, regular
        seminar series: Pushing Boundaries, aimed at PhD researchers in their final year and

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        academic staff; DARES (Decision, Assessment, Risk and Evidence Studies) aimed at
        practitioners and academics in the field of Social Work; and our Social Science Lunchtime
        Series, aimed at PhD researchers and staff interested in discovering new theories and
        methodologies. Our research centre, ARK, has a seminar series focusing primarily on
        public attitudes data from ARK’s suite of social attitude surveys.

    •   Supporting academic writing and publication through peer-to-peer learning groups.
        The Committee has also established a ‘Shut up and Write’ group. It meets regularly on the
        first Friday of the month and consists of staff at all career stages. On occasion, talks are
        given by more experienced members of the group in response to queries raised by ECRs
        and those returning to research.

    •   Facilitating research grant application mentoring through an action learning group
        to support colleagues developing grant applications. This group consists of ECRs,
        those returning to research following a period of leave and those returning following a
        period in University administration. This group is coordinated by our dedicated faculty-
        facing Research Development representative. The internationalization of our research
        agenda has been encouraged through direct financial support to staff to participate in
        inward and outward exchanges and research leave for staff to spend a semester at a
        different institution (for example, O’Connor at Nazarbayev University to examine
        administrative reform in authoritarian regimes; Gazzola to University of Ottawa to research
        a German funded project examining “Managing Multilingualism in the Public
        Administration”).

    •   A strong focus on enhancing impact at institutional and Unit level. The university
        Impact Development Series workshops provide training on generating and tracking impact;
        two staff from the Unit (Gray and Gormley Heenan) led workshops. This support was
        complemented by a civic impact fund, received by Horgan and Bloomer (engagement with
        MPs at Westminster on Reproductive Rights through seminars and policy briefs) and
        Lundy. Lundy hosted an international seminar on institutional abuse with participants from
        Canada, US, Australia, Uganda and local/national colleagues and NGOs/groups etc. This
        event showcased the research on institutional abuse, facilitating knowledge exchange
        ideas leading to the development of an international research grant. Each of our three
        impact case studies emerged from a University pump-priming award. At Unit level, an
        impact support working group develops and implements a systematic approach to
        achieving research impact. Professor Lundy, who was awarded the University’s Award for
        Public Impact (with Amnesty International) in 2019 for her work on achieving justice for
        victims of institutional child abuse, leads this work as Impact Champion for our team, with
        the support of our dedicated Faculty Impact manager. Impact is also supported through
        ARK where all staff, but ECRs in particular, are supported to write policy briefs and features
        and engage with policy makers through policy roundtables.

    •   Ulster University research and impact awards. The university recognises outstanding
        achievement through high profile awards, including Distinguished Research Fellows
        (achieved by Lasslett) and Senior Research Fellows and high-profile Impact Awards, which
        recognises outstanding partnerships (awards in the Unit include Lasslett for Social
        Renewal Impact Excellence Award in collaboration with Jubilee Australia (2017); Lundy for
        the University’s Award of Research Partnership of the Year, with Amnesty International
        (2018)).

 Returning an additional ten staff in REF2021, and a significant increase in research funding,
 outputs, PhD completions and engagement with civil society reflects a culture over the REF
 cycle that has been about ensuring the provision of opportunities and support at institutional and
 Unit level.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students

 In order to maintain and strengthen research culture for postgraduates and to develop further as
 a centre for training future generations of researchers, we have invested substantially in various
 PhD research initiatives. In total, over this REF period, the Unit has awarded 50 national and 20
 international funded PhD scholarships, which includes a tax-free stipend, coverage of tuition
 fees, and an annual research budget.

 In line with this significant investment since 2013, 30.14 PhD degrees have been awarded in the
 Unit with a further 33 full time and 14 part time researchers currently undertaking PhDs.
 Demand for the PhD programme remains high. In 2019, we received 50 applications for six
 scholarships. The Unit participates in two prestigious doctoral partnerships. We are part of the
 COFUND Doctoral Training Alliance through which we have secured 4 international Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie PhD researchers, since 2018. In addition, we participate in the ESRC-funded
 Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Partnership (NINE DTP), offering a range of
 opportunities across the 1+3/3.5/3 pathways. These partnerships augmented our university
 funded scholarships. A further 20 university funded international PhD scholarships were awarded
 by our Unit (2014-2020).

 Since REF 2014, a new MSc in Social Policy has been specifically designed to support research
 training and directly supports the PhD programme within the Unit. This has also been recognised
 as a valid pathway for the ESRC 1+3/3.5 awards as part of NINE DTP, attesting to the quality of
 research training within the programme.

 All PhD researchers in the university are registered with the Doctoral College which offers a
 comprehensive Researcher Development Programme, closely aligned with the Vitae framework,
 that consists of workshops (approx. 150-200 sessions each year), online training and numerous
 other, more bespoke development opportunities which complement subject specific research
 training and within which there is a strong focus on employability. Post graduate researchers have
 a tailored supervisory team chaired by an experienced PhD supervisor and including less
 experienced supervisors to expand supervisory capacity. Within the Unit, our PhD researchers
 benefit from significant tailored support offered by the Postgraduate co-ordinator (MacGiollabhui)
 who provides additional pastoral care and organises a weekly PhD researcher seminar for all
 researchers. This is a new role created during the REF cycle to ensure PhD researchers received
 such support within an active research environment. Peer support and the building of collaborative
 networks across year groups is encouraged through the location of researchers in open plan
 accommodation. PhD researchers are fully integrated into the research environment with the Unit
 and School; they present at School seminars where they receive constructive feedback and are
 strongly encouraged to present at conferences - and are financially supported to do so. All
 scholarship students receive between £900 (RTSG) and £1,500 (Co-Fund) in addition to their
 annual stipend to support their research. When the School hosted the UK’s SPA Annual
 conference in 2015 and 2016, a number of researchers were on the planning committee, many
 provided support at the conferences and presented papers. Murray, a PhD researcher in
 Criminology, organised the 2016 Irish Post-Graduate Criminology Conference. The Unit also
 hosted the Sociological Association of Ireland Post-graduate Conference in 2017.

 Our students are encouraged to join the learned societies for their discipline and have benefited
 from this. For example, one (Chapman) was selected to take part in the SPA Insight into
 Publishing Scheme run with Social Policy and Society; Simpson, an inter-disciplinary student
 within the Law Unit was awarded SPA Event Funding for a seminar on social security and
 devolution.

 We have invested heavily in our PhD researcher environment at a School level. This has resulted
 in 5 students (Kazanoglu, Noira, Nugent, Kyle and Murray) being successful in attaining a
 Santander International Mobility Award and Gstrein being awarded a fieldwork travel grant from
 the Canada-UK Foundation. This highlights the international nature and calibre of their work.
 Students are encouraged and supported to publish in ISI journals and the majority of graduating

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students have at least one article accepted, for example, Best had five articles published before
 his viva (including in Children and Youth Services Review and Mental Health Review Journal),
 Olsen (Disability and Society), Chapman (Health and Social Care in the Community), Rouse
 (Nationalism and Ethnic Politics), Foster (Public Money and Management), Stanton (International
 Journal of Conflict Engagement and Resolution), Simpson (Journal of Social Security Law), Mullan
 (Routledge), Bell (International Review for the Sociology of Sport) Gstrein (International Journal
 of Drug Policy), Fusheini (Journal of International Health Management and International Journal
 of Public Administration). Many have had their PhDs published as monographs by: Routledge
 (Kazanonoglu, Rouse, and D. McKeever [also awarded University best thesis prize, 2018])
 Palgrave (A. McKeever).

 This commitment has resulted in many of our researchers gaining lectureships, positions in
 regional/local government and with NGOs: PhD researchers have gained positions at prestigious
 universities: University of Liverpool (C. Pierson); UWS (A. McKeever); University of Ontago
 (Fusheini); Koç University (Kazanoglu), Edge Hill (Martynowitz), Coventry (Nugent),
 Gloucestershire (El Masri), (Hagan), Glasgow (D.McKeever), Best and Hill (QUB) Simpson
 (School of Law, Ulster). Stanczak and Murray were appointed to permanent Criminology
 lectureships within the School, Roddy and McGinn to lectureships in Social Work at Ulster and
 Mackle to a permanent post in social work at QUB. McGill and Rouse were awarded postdoctoral
 fellowships at Oxford and Ulster respectively. Gstrein was appointed Asst Director for Strategy,
 Canberra Regional government; Perry is Office Manager for the Democratic Unionist Party, a
 number work as policy and research managers (for example, Chapman at Employers for
 Childcare, Palli at Playboard NI, and McElhinney at the Northern Ireland Council for Voluntary
 Action.

 Employability is also enhanced as all PhD researchers have the opportunity to teach. This is
 particularly important if they are considering lectureship positions. They enrol on the First Steps
 to Teaching and Learning Programme, a 20 credit level 7 module on the PG CPD framework. The
 module is accredited by Advance-HE at Descriptor 2 of the UKPSF and following successful
 completion the PhD researchers are awarded Higher Education Academy Associate Fellowship
 (AFHEA). They then have the opportunity to develop their teaching skills on under-graduate
 courses under the supervision of a member of staff.

 Equality and Diversity

 Themes of equality and diversity are central to the research agenda in our areas of strategic focus.
 Staff are passionately committed to research in these areas, for example, work on gender (Gray
 and Bloomer, funded by ESRC, RCT and Open Society); socio economic inequality (Osmani
 funded by Leverhulme) and disability and discrimination (Horgan funded by JRF). The Unit has a
 strong outreach ethos. Women in the School have a high profile and are supported by the
 institution with regard to civic engagement; this being reflected by three of the four recipients of
 the University’s Civic Impact Fund in the Unit being female and all bar one of our Impact Case
 Study contributors being women (4). Much of the unit’s research and civic engagement addresses
 the needs of deprived and marginalised communities, for example: the work of Horgan with civil
 society organisations and with the Department for Communities on the Anti-Poverty Strategy;
 Braniff’s and McArdle’s work with marginalized young people; Kelly’s work on peace building;
 Gray’s work on the Northern Ireland Gender Equality Strategy; Lundy’s work with victims of
 institutional abuse and Bloomer’s work on female reproductive rights.

 Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded in all research processes
 and policies as outlined in our Code of Practice, placing people at its centre and ensuring barrier
 free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF. We used it as our roadmap for
 identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021. All University staff undergo equality and
 diversity training; anyone involved in recruitment and selection must undergo regular selection
 training that includes an equality and diversity component. Those involved in REF have had
 specific REF equality and diversity training. Staff have also undergone optional training (e.g.
 neurodiversity training), and the Unit has provided reasonable adjustments and support in cases

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of disability or specific learning differences. The University respects the full array of Northern Irish
 equality legislation and, as a public authority, must have due regard to the need to promote
 equality of opportunity in respect of nine protected characteristics. Hamilton and Horgan have
 contributed to policy work on equality in the University. Hamilton served on the widening access
 and participation and racial equality working group.

 The University has an Institutional SWAN Bronze award and plans to submit a Silver award
 application in 2021. The School is working towards Athena SWAN accreditation in January 2022,
 working with the newly appointed Faculty Athena SWAN coordinator. Carmichael is on the
 Advance HE National Committee for Athena SWAN. Four members of the School have
 participated in the Aurora leadership development programme, a programme specifically designed
 to encourage women to think of themselves as future leaders and actively engage in developing
 their leadership potential.

 During the REF cycle, two women in the Unit were promoted to Professorships (Gray and Gormley
 Heenan and three to SL level (Bloomer, Hamilton and Braniff).

 In addition to institutional policies on flexible and/or remote working and support for staff with
 caring responsibilities, ill-health or other equality-related circumstances, the School has recently
 put in place an agreed set of actions at School level to prioritise equality and diversity. This
 includes the development of a workload model and additional support (including equipment grants)
 to help to ensure that those with caring and other responsibilities are proactively supported to
 maintain a research profile.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Overview

 Our research income strategy derives from our aforementioned thematic foci and is in keeping
 with the university’s Research and Impact Strategy. We have succeeded in our objective of
 expanding and strengthening our research funding base with a sustained record of grant awards.
 As noted in Section 1, our research income has increased by 196% over this REF cycle,
 (£5,790,470 compared to £1,955,233 in 2014).

 Our research grants reflect our longstanding tradition in the arenas of social justice, policy and
 practice in contested societies and emerging socio-economic challenges. While we remain
 responsive to local and regional challenges, over this REF cycle, we have consciously targeted
 our grant applications to develop the global aspect of these themes. We also encourage a flexible
 and reactive approach to grant opportunities that may arise, as demonstrated through our H2020
 and EU Peace and Reconciliation funding. This demonstrates the flexibility within our Unit to
 provide academics with the space necessary to contribute to large multi-university applications at
 short notice.

 Working with institutional support, our Unit Research and Impact Committee has set up a wide
 range of initiatives to support academic colleagues at all career stages applying for research
 funding. Evidence of this includes the ‘research grant action learning group’, peer mentoring, and
 reviewing of large grant applications by third parties before submission. We are acutely aware that
 funding in the social sciences is increasingly competitive and have therefore deliberately refrained
 from imposing income targets on staff. Through peer support, and dedicated support from
 Department for Research & Impact, we have created an environment where academics are
 encouraged to apply for grant income through tangible, meaningful interventions. The evidence
 presented below demonstrates that this approach is effective.

 We have secured funding from a diverse range of sources, including (£136K) research council
 grants for work on policy and practice in contested societies (ESRC, Morrow, Gormley Heenan
 and Byrne: £115K, the results of which were commissioned by the BBC World Service), from the
 AHRC (Braniff £95K to research communities’ commemoration and memory with regard to the

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northern Ireland conflict). The ESRC also funded a body of work on attitudes to abortion and the
 illegal use of the abortion pill in NI, which contributed to reform of abortion law (Horgan, Gray
 Moore, £200K).

 Substantial funding has been acquired from the Health and Social Care Research and
 Development fund for work on dementia and risk (Taylor £252K and McGinn £80K) and on the
 social work workforce and Covid-19 (McFadden £70K) demonstrating our ability to respond quickly
 to our subject specific research calls. A proportion of the NI Life and Times annual survey is funded
 by the Northern Ireland Executive Office (£493K over the REF period) and the results are used for
 policy indicator monitoring purposes (community relations and attitudes to ethnic minorities).
 Reliance on this robust and independent data has increased considerably since the adoption of
 the Outcomes Accountability Based Framework by the NI Government.

 Projects recently commenced will continue to develop these themes. For example, £474K (Peace
 IV) has been awarded to a team led by Ulster (McArdle) advising on future youth work policy, and
 the quality and effectiveness of interventions across the island of Ireland; £203K has been
 awarded to examine migrant workers and workplace justice in the border regions of the north and
 south of Ireland (Hamilton) while, in collaboration with Education, a £1.8m GCRF Networking plus
 project will examine the administration of education in Africa and Central Asia (O’Connor). Funding
 from the AHRC (£202K) has also been allocated to examine the relationship between Northern
 Ireland’s divided history and the development of future public policy.

 Other notable sources of funding include charities and philanthropic trusts: Lasslett was awarded
 grants from National Endowment for Democracy for work on kleptocracy and forced labour in
 Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan £136K and the Christinsen Foundation (£147K) for work on land
 resistance and heritage in Papua New Guinea. Funding from the Open Society has been received
 for numerous projects on a Victims of Corruption Rights Network (Lasslett, cumulatively totalling
 £222K); and Bloomer (£19K) for her work surveying doctors and their attitudes to abortion. Our
 work on gender equality and social justice, in collaboration with NGO partners, has been supported
 by awards from the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust for work on gender budgeting (in
 collaboration with Ulster Business School and NI Women’s Budget Group) (Gray: £124K) and for
 work on the role of liberal faith groups with regard to abortion (Bloomer: £59K, with University
 Alliance).

 The Leverhulme Foundation have funded Lundy’s Historical abuse inquiry work, co-designed and
 co-produced with victims (£94K), and Osmani’s poverty alleviation work with civil society in
 Bangladesh (£43K).

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit’s research infrastructure is headed by a Research Director who works closely with the
 Head of School for Applied Social and Policy Studies and Faculty Associate Dean for Research
 and Impact and Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research. Research is managed with the support of
 a PhD coordinator (MacGiollabhui) and a Research Ethics Committee (chaired by Convery). The
 University has invested in a bespoke online ethics application system at Unit level, easing
 administrative burdens while maintaining a rigorous peer review process. The Research Director
 has a budget, calculated on the basis of the unit’s research performance in REF2014 and other
 performance indicators. This is used to support a range of activity including to support individual
 research needs of staff and PhD researchers (as outlined above in section 2). A number of central
 Research and Impact departmental staff are ‘spoked-in’ to the unit, and we provide an office for
 Research and Impact staff to work in our building with our staff and researchers.

 Synergies between Units and Centres are driven at a Faculty level through a Research Directors
 Forum which meets monthly to develop strategy, stimulate an interdisciplinary research
 environment, and share best practice.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Within the Unit we have a strong tradition of collaboration and partnership working for high
 impact policy research. The RD and the Department for Research and Impact provide funds to
 support specific impact-oriented activities and Lasslett, Bloomer and Horgan were recipients of
 university impact awards. The Faculty has a dedicated Impact Manager who assists with the
 development of tailored project impact plans.

 Facilitating our research through thematic areas rather than traditional disciplinary silos has
 encouraged multiple cross disciplinary collaborations. Our intra institutional collaborations have
 emerged from institutionally organised sandpit events such as an event in 2017 which brought
 together researchers from a range of disciplines under the heading of ‘cognitive science and
 mental health’ and which led to Heenan’s collaborations with Psychology and Computing and
 external NGOs from both the north and south of Ireland, researching policy and youth work
 initiatives to improve young people’s mental health (£590K). Other examples include O’Connor’s
 collaborations with the School of Education examining the challenges facing integrated education
 in Northern Ireland (£27K); Gray’s collaboration with law which has led to an impact case study
 (in UoA18) that brought about meaningful change in Scottish social security law; Braniff and Byrne
 have worked closely with Geography investigating dealing with the past in Northern Ireland
 (cumulatively £97K); McGinn has collaborated with the School of Computing and Built
 Environment (NHS R&D £80K) examining the role of technology in developing care pathways for
 people with dementia and learning disabilities.

 The Unit has also supported regional, national and international inter institutional collaborations.
 Regionally, within our unit, the Access Research Knowledge (ARK) research centre, a joint Ulster
 University and Queen’s University Research Centre focusing on social policy and politics in
 Northern Ireland (Gray is Co-director and Horgan is Policy Director), is a flagship example of
 university collaboration in the jurisdiction. Since 2000, it has conducted a suite of social attitude
 surveys (of adults, 16 year olds and 11 year olds), conducted empirical research on a wide range
 of topics and provided an independent forum for critical policy debate in an often unstable and
 highly charged political environment. McFadden is the lead on a multi-disciplinary research project
 looking at the wellbeing and coping of 4,000 health and social care workers during COVID-19
 study, in collaboration with partners at Queens University Belfast (QUB), Kings College London
 and Bath Spa University.

 We have run numerous AHRC and ESRC funded collaborative research seminars and
 projects including Marnoch’s successful ESRC Brexit seminar series, and corresponding YouTube
 informatic in collaboration with Glasgow University’s Law School; Braniff’s ESRC seminar series
 with Huddersfield and Southampton on Memory and Identity, with a forthcoming edited book
 (MUP). Lundy’s Boston College research exchange resulted in a two-volume publication Eire-
 Ireland on historical abuse bringing together academics from a range of countries, Irish
 victims/groups and the Irish government’s Minister for Children together for a two-day conference
 and dialogue. Birrell collaborated with academic colleagues from Birmingham, Glasgow and Edge
 Hill universities on a comparative analysis of the integration of health and social care across the
 jurisdictions of the UK. Lasslett is co-founder with Professor Penny Green (QMUL), Professor
 Tony Ward (Northumbria), and Dr Thomas MacManus (QMUL) of the International State Crime
 Initiative (ISCI), an interdisciplinary centre for research, reportage, training and debate on state
 violence and corruption. The Social Work departments at QUB and Ulster University collaborated
 in developing the Northern Ireland Social Work Research and Continuous Improvement
 Strategy 2015-2020, and are now collaborating in ensuring a harmonised university contribution
 to the 2020-2025 Strategy in areas such as identification of the research needs of the social work
 service; targeting of PhD projects towards worthwhile service development topics; and building
 supportive networks between service providers and academia to facilitate research projects and
 their dissemination so as to build a research culture in the profession.

 Bloomer’s collaboration (based on £34k government grant) with colleagues at University of
 Liverpool, Rhodes University and the University of the Philippines led to a book on global abortion

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 politics published by Policy Press. McFadden’s work with colleagues in Ulster University Business
 School and the University of Malaysia has resulted in the design of a school based mental health
 promotion programme for adolescents. The expansion of our focus on global social justice has
 been supported through staff undertaking research visits and engagement in international
 networks. Bloomer, Lasslett, Lundy and Osmani have spent considerable periods at institutions in
 South Africa, Uzbekistan, Australia, USA and Bangladesh. Taylor is an Honorary Associate of the
 Harding Centre for Risk Literacy, Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin, while
 Carmichael and Birrell are visiting Professorial Fellows at Humboldt University.

 Throughout the period 2014-2020, our programme of visiting scholars has contributed to research
 excellence. Visiting Professorships have been held by: Jill Manthorpe, Robert Pinker, Kathleen
 Mahoney, Penny Green, Chris Dolan and Nicholas Whyte. Jill Manthorpe is Professor of Social
 Work at King’s College London and is Director of the NIHR Health and Social Care Workforce
 Research Unit. While visiting Ulster (2014-2018), Manthorpe co-developed our research on
 safeguarding vulnerable adults from abuse, as well as helping to develop our REF capabilities
 across the School. ARK hosted a number of visiting fellows including: Prof Sue Yeandle,
 Director of Centre for International Research on Care and Labour, Sheffield University, June 2015;
 John Williams, Aberystwyth University, Oct 2015; Anna Tarrant, University of Lincoln, June 2017;
 Dominic Campbell, Creative Ageing International, 2016. These appointments bring high quality
 input to the unit, through research seminars, workshops, joint publications (eg, Offer and Pinker;
 Green and Lasslett), informal mentoring of staff and PhD researchers and facilitate access to wider
 networks such as Lundy’s regional work gaining international recognition and emulation (Canada).
 A specific focus of the ARK visiting professorships was knowledge exchange with policy makers,
 NGOs and PhD researchers facilitated through seminars, workshops, policy briefs and research
 updates. The ARK Ageing PhD students also benefited from working with the visiting professors
 (for eg, Chapman codesigned a workshop and published a policy brief with Anna Tarrant).

 Non-academic collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our extensive collaborations with NGOs, policy stakeholders, public sector bodies and users are
 critical to our research and impact. That academic evidence is accessible to a lay audience has
 been particularly important in this region where a media focus on Social Policy issues is relatively
 new and where the structures and culture of governance have not always made scrutiny or
 accountability easy. At regional level, Lundy’s collaboration with the Committee on the
 Administration of Justice (a leading NGO) and victims of conflict groups resulted in the
 development of gender principles for addressing the legacy of the conflict in NI. Bloomer, Horgan
 and Gray’s work with NI and GB NGOs (Family Planning Association, Alliance for Choice, Northern
 Ireland Women’s European Platform and the Women’s Resource Centre) formed the basis of
 ESRC, Open Society and JRCT funded work on reproductive rights. Gray’s earlier work with the
 Women’s European Platform and, through it, engagement with the UN Committee on the
 Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women, underpinned the application to the
 CEDAW Committee for an Inquiry into abortion in Northern Ireland (one of only five enquiries
 conducted by the CEDAW Committee using the Optional Protocol). Gray’s research on social care
 and collaborations with AgeNI and other NGOs led to her being asked to lead the academic input
 into the Northern Ireland Citizen's Assembly on Adult Social Care (Nov 2019). Payne’s work with
 the NI Consumer Council resulted in a range of recommendations related to illegal money lending
 that are currently being considered by statutory agencies and law enforcement. Braniff has worked
 in Belfast and Derry City urban areas to co-produce community tourism experiences and
 exhibitions in partnership with the NI Executive’s Urban Village Initiative and with cross-community
 groups to help explore, understand and share their history and heritage.

 Over the period, our international collaborations with NGOs and our external networks have grown
 as can be seen through: Gazzola’s involvement in the design of the new General Language Policy
 Plan for the Friulan Language (2021-2025) with the Regional Agency for the Friulian Language,
 the executive body for language policy of the Region Friuli Venezia Giulia.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of his civic contribution to business and human rights in the Pacific and Central Asia,
 Lasslett sits on the Cotton Campaign’s steering committee, Jubilee Australia’s Board of Directors,
 Trócaire's Business and Human Rights Advisory Group, and contributes to The Guardian
 (Australia), PNGi (PNG), openDemocracy (UK), Radio Ozodlik (Uzbekistan) and El-Tuz
 (Uzbekistan).

 A UN Department of Political Affairs’ Policy and Mediation Division workshop (11 December 2018,
 New York) featured Kelly and Hamber’s (Law) definition of reconciliation as the most
 important. This work has also been presented to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for
 Human Rights (26-28 June 2019), the Catalan Institute for Peace, and by the Irish Representative
 in Colombia.

 A strategic aim of our Unit is to make a significant contribution to policy and this is factored
 into our grant applications and dissemination plans and opportunities actively pursued. Birrell’s
 expertise in the area of devolution is recognised in invitations to provide evidence to government
 committees. He presented written and oral evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee on
 the Constitution on Subjects of Inter-governmental Relations in the UK (2014) and the Union and
 Devolution (2015). He also presented evidence to Northern Ireland Assembly Committees on
 subjects relating to: an opposition in the Assembly; the Barnett Formula; public administration and
 reform of operation of devolution, to the National Assembly for Wales on the review of the Barnett
 Formula and the Scottish Parliament Committee on Finance and the Constitution on the impact of
 Brexit on devolution in Northern Ireland. Kelly was invited to contribute as an Expert Advisor to the
 Northern Ireland Party Leaders’ discussions on the implementation of an Oral History Archive in
 the context of the Stormont House Agreement, February 2015. Lundy provided expert oral
 evidence to the Westminster Affairs Committee and twice to the Committee for the Executive
 Office on historic institutional abuse. Knox’s work on education was presented to the Education
 Committee at Stormont (2014); while Gray, Horgan and Bloomer provided written and oral
 evidence to the Women and Equalities Select Committee Inquiry on abortion in NI. Lasslett made
 a submission on Corruption and Human Rights in Uzbekistan to the Uzbekistan UNHCR Universal
 Period Review (Third Cycle, 2018) and made a submission 'Addressing development by
 challenging impunity: The social impact of state and corporate crime on Papua New Guinea', to
 the Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade Committee inquiry: “The delivery and effectiveness of
 Australia’s bilateral aid program in Papua New Guinea” (April 2015).

 Our work influences the role of international organisations including the UN CEDAW Committee
 and UN Special Rapporteurs. The UN Special Rapporteur for Children invited Lundy to brief the
 Special Rapporteur and UN member countries at the 34th Session of the UN Human Rights
 Council on the issue of historical institutional abuse. Gray (with Fitzpatrick and Simpson, Law)
 submitted evidence to the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty during his visit to the UK.
 Bloomer, Horgan and Gray supported the UN CEDAW Committee during their visit to the UK to
 conduct an Optional Protocol Inquiry into abortion in NI. They advised the Committee on its
 itinerary and submitted expert evidence based on the unit’s body of research on abortion.

 Colleagues from within the Unit have taken on significant societal leadership roles. The action-
 oriented and applied nature of our research has formed the basis for appointments to civil society,
 public sector and international bodies. Between 2012 and 2015, Morrow was Chair of the Scottish
 Government’s Advisory Group on Tackling Sectarianism and in the 2016 chaired the Scottish
 Government’s Advisory Group on Tackling Hate Crime, Prejudice and Community Cohesion.
 Morrow was also a member of the EU Commission’s Radicalisation Awareness Network (RAN).
 Braniff is an Academic Friend of the European Peacebuilding Liaison Office (EPLO) and is a board
 member of the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council. Horgan is a director of, and
 formerly Chair of the NI Anti-Poverty Network. Gray was a member of the Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation’s Anti-Poverty Strategy Taskgroup (2013-2016) and sits on the Regional Health and
 Social Care Research and Development Strategic Advisory Group. Lundy was appointed by the
 Minister of Children and Youth Affairs in the Irish Government to advise on the establishment of a
 collaborative forum on historical child abuse. O’Connor was commissioned by the UNDP to


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evaluate how effective administrative reform efforts were in changing the mindsets of civil servants
 in Central Asia.

 Extensive knowledge research exchange activities have been supported, directly involving
 collaborations between academics, policy makers, practitioners, the media and publics. One such
 is the Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series (KESS), an initiative run in partnership with the NI
 Assembly and other universities in the region, the first of its kind in the UK formally partnering a
 legislative arm of government – the Assembly – with academia. Gray represents Ulster University
 on the management panel and numerous staff in the Unit have participated on topics such as:
 transformation in social care (Gray, 2014/15), peace walls (Gormley Heenan, 2014/15); the
 independence of the voluntary sector (Ketola, 2015/16), economic inequality and societal
 wellbeing (O’Connor, 2015/16) and outcomes based accountability (Gray and Birrell, 2017/18),
 delivering shared education (Knox, 2017/18). The Unit, in collaboration with QUB, has supported
 and been involved in managing the annual ESRC Festival of Social Science from 2016. For the
 past six years, it has also co-funded the Imagine Belfast Festival which provides a showcase for
 new ideas on politics, society and activism in Northern Ireland and seeks to encourage the
 participation of under-represented groups in debate and discussion. Large numbers of our staff
 and PhD researchers have participated in these festivals.

 Contribution to the discipline: learned societies, the research process and peer review

 Staff have actively engaged with learned societies and professional bodies. They have served on
 the executive of the SPA (Gray, Ketola, Hamilton, Saunderson), on the executive of the PSA
 (Carmichael and Gormley-Heenan) and on the Sociological Association of Ireland (Lundy).
 O’Connor, Gray and Carmichael are also members of the EMPA (European Masters of Public
 Administration Network) and in 2020/2021 will hold the presidency. O’Connor and Carmichael
 serve on the Public Administration Committee of the Joint University Council.

 National and international conferences have been organised by our Unit within the REF cycle,
 including the discipline’s primary national conference, the SPA (in 2015 and 2016). The Unit also
 hosted the Sociological Association of Ireland Conference in 2017 and Morrow, supported by the
 Impact Team and colleagues from Law, brought the international conference ‘Build Peace’ to
 Belfast in 2018; Braniff with colleagues from Law brought International Peace Museums Network
 conferences, international policymakers, activists and researchers to our Belfast Campus. We will
 host the 2023 global Q Methodology conference.

 Our staff contribute extensively to the discipline thorough their editorial roles, peer review, grant
 review and membership of advisory panels. Horgan is on the editorial board of Social Policy and
 Society, Tridimas is managing editor of The German Greek Yearbook of Political Economy; Taylor
 is on the editorial board of the European Social Work Association Book Series; Kelly on editorial
 board of Behavioral Sciences of Terrorism and Political Aggression; Bloomer is a member of the
 editorial board for Culture, Health & Sexuality; Gazzola is editor of Language Problems and
 Language Planning and a member of the scientific board of A’dam Multiling working paper series;
 Kelly co-edited a Special Issue of Journal of Human Rights Practice, (8, 1, 2016); Duffy was editor
 for the International Network for Economic Research (INFER) Working Paper Series 2015-2018;
 Carmichael is a member of the advisory board of Public Policy and Administration; Offer is on the
 editorial board of Frontiers in Sociology. Braniff is on the editorial board of Irish Political Studies.

 Staff in the Unit peer review and regularly review work for leading journals in Social Work, Social
 Policy, Criminology, Sociology, Economics, Political Science, Area Studies and Public
 Administration. Seven members of staff serve as peer reviewers for the ESRC/AHRC/ERC and
 GCRF (Braniff, Kelly, Gray, O’Connor, Lasslett, Lundy and Horgan).




                                                                                                 Page 14
