Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Solent University

 Unit of Assessment: 20 (Social work & Social Policy)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

    1. Unit of Assessment (UoA) 20 at Solent University brings together research and
       researchers from two main areas - the Work, Inequalities and the Lifecourse (WIL)
       research group, and the Warsash Maritime School (WMS). In addition, it draws on
       research from across many other areas of the University, including Health and Social
       Care; Computing and Networks; Education and Sociology; Business, Finance and
       Accountancy; Marketing, Journalism and Communications; Architecture, Design and The
       Built Environment; Psychology; and Engineering.

    2. The WIL research group provides a space for new conversations and collaborations to
       develop through seminars, sharing of resources through workshops, mailing lists, and
       online discussions. Conceptually, WIL is interested in work in a broad sense - labours
       both paid and unpaid, and how these fit together and change over the life-course. At the
       organisational and macro levels, the group is concerned with workplace and managerial
       practice, shifting labour markets and skillset demands, and how inequalities are
       embedded within these and how they can be challenged and countered in policy terms.
       These concerns tap into some of the most pressing demands of our time that affect our
       daily lives, including worker wellbeing, the growing use of zero-hours contracts and the
       gig economy, shifting workforce demographics, how technology affects jobs, and the
       widening gap around work-based disadvantage.

    3. The Warsash Maritime School (until July 2020 called the Warsash School of Maritime
       Science and Engineering) was established in 2015 from Solent's Engineering and
       Sciences departments and the Warsash Maritime Academy. Because of its association
       of over 120 years with education and training in the maritime sector and with shipping,
       ports and seafarers' life and work, the maritime area has traditionally been a key
       research strength at Solent. The worldwide trade of goods at the scale and ease of today
       is only possible because of the global maritime industry. The sector is a unique platform
       for international collaborative research that can deliver global benefit to society and the
       environment. Our goal is to pursue and build world-leading science and engineering
       research for a safe and sustainable maritime future. Research at Solent directly impacts
       the practice and behaviour of maritime businesses, industries and government agencies
       to reduce global environmental impact and deliver a safe and sustainable maritime
       sector. This includes investigating novel and innovative solutions to the challenges of
       changing technologies and work practices in the maritime industry, such as the
       implications of autonomous vessels and their interactions with human crews. Research
       creates solutions for a cleaner, safer and more efficient industry and workplaces, by
       investigating alternative propulsion and fuelling technologies. This research contributes
       to efforts to improve global maritime safety standards and understand complex
       employment relationships and the impacts of changing employment models on seafarers
       and seafaring.

    4. UoA20 is a new Unit for Solent and resonates closely with the University’s fundamental
       qualities. As a Higher Educational Institute, Solent focuses on key social policy matters,
       such as widening participation, social justice and supporting social mobility, to bring
       about societal change. As the University continues to mature as a Higher Education
       Institute, we have been able to crystallise our contributions from different subject areas
       and build UoA20. This has involved academics at all stages of their research careers,
       including Grisoni, Wadsworth, Farquhar, Velija, Burnell and Wright at the more

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        experienced end, and Baum-Talmor, Wang, Pyakurel, Devereux, Kantamaneni, Sobnath
        and Miranda towards the Early Career Researcher (ECR) end.

    5. The UoA exemplifies the University's success in delivering its commitment and strength
       through cross-disciplinary collaboration and working in partnership with key stakeholders.
       For example, the Gender, Empowerment and Multicultural Crews Project spanned the
       disciplines of maritime studies, law, gender studies and health/wellbeing to explore
       seafarers' welfare, highlighting issues and identifying solutions that have been driven into
       practice through partnerships with unions and shipping companies. This work was
       shortlisted in 2017 for the Times Higher Education Awards in Research Project of the
       Year: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.

    6. As a new UoA, our research profile is young but, guided by the principles of cross-
       disciplinary research and strong external partnerships, we have a clear sense of
       direction. The UoA has 20 staff, a number which has grown with the recent appointments
       of six early career researchers which shows our commitment to bringing through new
       researchers, informed by the University’s strategic undertaking towards ECR
       development (see paragraph 20 of the institutional level environment statement).

 Present Strategy
    7. Building on the University's strategy 2015-2020 (see paragraph 14 of the institutional
       level environment statement), UoA20 took the following research and impact approach.

    i.   Establishment of a UoA Coordinator
 As the UoA comprises groups from across the university, a UoA Coordinator was established to
 lead research and innovation moving forwards. This Coordinator regularly met with the Heads of
 Research from all Schools and in particular, researchers from WIL and WMS. They convened
 regular UoA research meetings to facilitate cross-disciplinary sharing of ideas and external
 partnerships to address real-world issues.

   ii.   Supporting high-quality research
 The UoA was established as part of the University's drive to increase its research quality and
 relevance. To this end, the main focus has been on ensuring that staff have the time and space
 to concentrate on research and subsequent publications. This has involved providing writing
 support and internal peer review, both within and beyond UoA20. This approach has delivered
 with staff identifying 89 outputs for review, from which 44 were selected for submission in
 REF2021. These include publications in journals such as Frontiers in Psychology, Economic and
 Industrial Democracy, and Economic and Labour Relations Review, and as such are testimony
 of progress and trajectory as we begin to publish in academic journals of the highest reputation.

   iii.   Staff development
 We have put a range of measures in place to support the development both of early career
 researchers and of more established academic staff. These are detailed in Section 2 below and
 include:
        • identification of the most research-active staff who have been given an increased time
          allocation for research
        • biannual one-to-one research meetings with the UoA Lead to plan, review and allocate
          support
        • an enhanced training package which uses the university's central research development
          programme (see paragraph 26 of the institutional level environment statement) and
          supplements it with UoA-focussed training; and
        • prioritised access to institutional funding to support conference attendance and network-
          building
                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strategy also included a mentoring programme to partner less experienced researchers with
 more experienced researchers. The successful outcomes of these mentoring arrangements are
 evidenced through staff publications, joint authorship of articles, speaking invitations to national
 and international conferences, and increases in teams submitting proposals for externally funded
 research initiatives. The research environment has been further strengthened through the
 establishment of an ongoing monthly research seminar series.

   iv.   Support from the Research Office
 Under Solent's corporate research and innovation strategy, the central Research Office had its
 capacity and capability enhanced in research performance, research integrity and funding
 support. This support is available across the University. As a result of the size and international
 collaborative nature of recent bids within the Unit, UoA20 has proactively engaged with support
 from the Research Office in relation to bidding as an area development. (see paragraphs 22 and
 27 of the institutional level environment statement). This has enabled delivery on the corporate
 objective of increasing cross-disciplinary research. This underpinning support has facilitated and
 enabled the UoA level strategies outlined above in relation to staff development, the generation
 of high-quality outputs and applications for external funding. Again, this approach has started to
 bear fruit, for example, with the successful award to Wright, in collaboration with partners from
 France, Belgium, and the Netherlands, of the Implementation of Ship Hybridisation Project.

   v.   Improving grant income
 To improve its ability to conduct high-quality research, the UoA has sought to win more external
 funding. This was further developed by the Strategic Lead for research, who supported staff
 through the biannual research planning meetings referred to earlier, which included the
 development of funding applications. Where appropriate, the UoA Lead assigned an academic
 "funding mentor", experienced in writing and reviewing bids, and sought dedicated support from
 the Research Office to help develop and review the proposal prior to submission. The UoA
 approach has led to an increase in the number of successful bids from four in 2015/2016 to 14 in
 2018/2019.

   vi.    Delivering real-world impact
 As stated above, the UoA's guiding principles are to deliver cross-disciplinary research with real-
 world impact. The UoA20 approach to impact is that ideas must be driven into practice using a
 collaborative approach that extends beyond academia from the outset of the research. The key
 to this is strong relationships with stakeholders who "own" a problem or are well-placed to act on
 challenges. The UoA supports relationship-building by helping staff identify and approach the
 most appropriate partners, providing funding for travel/hosting meetings, and giving staff an
 enhanced time allocation for joint work with partners to deliver impact. Through research
 meetings and one-to-one planning, the UoA is also encouraging the sharing of relationships and
 wider impact opportunities across the UoA (and the University more widely). An example of this
 approach's success is the recent Seafarers' Welfare in Chinese Ports Project by Zhang, which
 led to changes in national legislation and company policy to improve protections for those
 working in the sector.

 Future Strategy
    8. Having successfully built a portfolio of outputs, impact, income and doctoral student
        recruitment to support a submission in UoA 20 for the first time, there is a high level of
        optimism among research staff in growing research work in the area of Social Policy. The


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        plan is to ensure that we improve the quality and volume of research and develop a
        pipeline of funds and research-active staff to give this UoA longevity.

    9. The University has recently published its 2020-2025 strategy with Research &
       Knowledge Exchange at its centre (see paragraphs 15 and 16 of the institutional level
       environment statement). It has a newly appointed Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and
       Knowledge Exchange to lead research at the institutional level and a senior academic to
       lead UoA20 appointed in Nov 2020, to complement and support the work of the existing
       strategic research and knowledge exchange leadership at the Faculty and School levels.
       To grow PGR in UoA20 five doctoral bursaries, one for each year between 2022/23 and
       2026/27 have been approved by the University’s Executive Board.

    10. In summary, we will build on our successes in UoA20 by focusing on areas that we have
        made some good progress in and also developing research in areas such as,
        Environment and Engineering and Healthcare. We have had funding and output
        successes in these areas, including Wright's projects on the Implementation of Ship
        Hybridisation (see above) and Ports Energy and Carbon Savings, funded through the
        EU. Investment and structural appointments, including UoA Leads, are being made to
        support this growth. Our strategy for the next five years will be focused on building
        towards the next REF submission, and we will adapt our strategy to reflect all that we
        learn from the current cycle of REF2021.

 2. People

    11. Solent University’s corporate strategy is to invest in and support disciplines with world
        leading and internationally excellent outputs and impacts in research. Within UoA 20, the
        focus is on improving individual and community wellbeing through practice, provision,
        and policy, and the principles of inclusivity, equality and diversity lie at its heart. The UoA
        has key strands on gender and wellbeing and these research themes are fundamental to
        the UoA’s approach to its staff. Within the UoA, we work hard to ensure that all staff are
        enabled to do their best and that they are recognised for their excellent work.

 Staffing strategy

 Recruitment

    12. Our recruitment strategy aims to strengthen cross-disciplinary research and is building on
        our successes. With the support of the University, the Unit has grown over the past
        several years to encompass a total of 20 academic staff, with a range of interests and
        complimentary backgrounds. We are increasing professor and associate professor
        appointments, and hiring processes assess research outputs and prioritise grant capture
        experience in the subject area of Social Policy. This investment has supported three
        research fellows and seven postdoctoral researchers. Staff aligned to the UoA have
        supervised 26 research students across the University, with three directly aligned to the
        UoA. We invested in new postdoctoral and senior researchers. For example, Research
        Fellow Kantamaneni joined in 2016, postdoctoral researchers Miranda, Morley, Sobnath,
        Pyakurel, Devereux and Baum-Talmor joined in 2018 and Wadsworth, Senior Research
        Fellow in 2019, to strengthen research on wellbeing and work, in particular in the
        maritime sector.

 Training and Development

    13. Our Researcher Development Programme (RDP) delivers information, support and
        professional development to researchers at all career stages and is responsive to sector
        developments and proposals for additional content. The programme, available to both
        staff and research students, includes internal training options and prestigious external
        speakers, recently including the New Economics Foundation on the Theory of Change. In

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        addition, as indicated earlier, our Mentoring Scheme pairs junior and more senior
        researchers to provide opportunities for mutual development.

 PGR Strategy

    14. Since the award of Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) in 2017, three
        postgraduate research students have successfully graduated from the Unit.

    15. There are two strands to our strategy for enhancing PGR in the UoA. Investment in
        training initiatives and mentoring for new supervisors is intended to increase our
        supervisory capacity and enhance the experience of supervisors. In parallel with this, the
        PGR research environment will be further developed through enhanced opportunities for
        students to engage in the wider research community, for example by participating in the
        UoAs research groups and their activities. This will also contribute to the spin-out
        research groups in Environment and Engineering and Healthcare, building on the
        successes identified in this UoA and contributing to their development for independent
        submission in a future REF cycle. In addition, the University has taken a strategic
        decision to approve at least one fully paid PhD bursary for each UoA annually from 2022
        for five years.

 Inclusivity, Equality and Diversity

    16. The University’s equality and diversity policy is designed to ensure that Solent continues
        working towards an environment free from discrimination and intolerance in all forms and
        one in which everyone is treated with dignity and respect. The University supports staff to
        enable impact from their research through a regular professional development review
        process, as well as sabbaticals, residential workshops and research mentoring focused
        on writing bids and papers or enhancing individual research plans.

    17. Within UoA 20 this approach is central to both our community and our research. For
        example, the Units proportion of female staff is 70%. Which is substantially higher than
        the overall REF submission from the University which is 40% (see paragraph 34 of the
        Institutional Level Environment Statement). This is a reflection our research focus on
        gender, for example the Gender Empowerment and Multicultural Crews Project (see
        above).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

    18. The Unit began the period with income in the 2013/14 of £10k across two projects. This
        has increased to a total annual income during 2018/19 of over £240 across more than a
        dozen projects. Of this income for 2018/19, over £100k came from national and
        international government funding, including the EU; and the remainder came from
        charitable foundations. Total income for the UoA for the period 2013/14 to 2018/19 was
        £536,883.

    19. In addition, UoA staff continue to apply for and be awarded internal University funding to
        support early-stage research development and project seeding.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

    20. During the 2015-2020 period, the University increased its investment to support research
        in disciplines with recognised national and international outputs and impacts. This
        included strengthening access to and improving the use of ICT in research.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    21. As noted in the Institutional level statement (paragraph 51), within the maritime element
        of the unit, substantial investment has been made in facilities including a
        towing tank and ship handling centre, and a suite of world-leading maritime simulators.
        This offers not only exceptional training using the latest facilities, but
        also unique support and expanded capacity for maritime research, particularly around the
        maritime workplace.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    22. The nature of the Unit's cross-disciplinary research means that we seek long-term and
        impactful partnerships to enhance and improve workplace wellbeing, safety, and
        sustainability. We collaborate extensively with researchers in academia, industry, social
        enterprises, and government locally, nationally, and internationally. The University's Civic
        Charter, launched in 2018, has embedded our efforts to work collaboratively to build a
        fairer and sustainable future for all. We have excellent connections with local groups,
        including Southampton City Council and the Solent Local Enterprise Partnership. Our
        international and European links are strong. For example, the recently established Ports,
        Energy and Carbon Savings and Implementation of Ship Hybridisation Projects (referred
        to above) funded by the European Union include collaborators from the Netherlands,
        Belgium and France; while the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) funded
        Assessment of Physical and Economic Coastal Vulnerability of South Asia Project, led by
        Kantamaneni, includes partners from across South Asia.

 Support for interdisciplinary and collaborative research

    23. The University has provided internal funding to support and develop interdisciplinary
        research collaborations through its Research, Innovation, and Knowledge Exchange
        (RIKE) funding programme. External funding has been won to develop and encourage
        international working, including from the British Council, the University of Bordeaux and
        the University of Illinois, for workshops and travel.

    24. As described above, the WIL research group was formed in 2018 to bring together an
        interdisciplinary group of academics and facilitate space for conversations and
        collaborations to develop. The group provides a platform for seminars and sharing
        resources through workshops, mailing lists, and online discussions. Moving forward, the
        group is forging links with external collaborators to develop projects.

 Networks and research collaborations

    25. We have an extensive range of existing networks and collaborations in communities and
        with representatives of industry and government. These collaborations help us achieve
        impact and design and implement more rigorous research through contact with key
        groups and stakeholders. For example, local community engagement is critical for
        Kantamaneni's work on vulnerabilities of coastal communities in South Asia (see above).
        The project has involved 1000 participants, and workshops have been attended by
        agriculturalists (farmers), fishing people, school and university students, and women's
        groups. Similarly, our global maritime networks led by Wright are working to develop
        more sustainable technologies for cleaner maritime environments, which will benefit
        crews, maritime ecosystems and wider society; while work by Devereux and Zhang (see
        above) is supporting policy for improved wellbeing and working conditions for seafarers
        and maritime professionals.

 Events

    26. We organise and host a series of well-attended research seminars and meetings both
        within and beyond the Unit. The Solent Festival of Ideas, held in 2020, aimed to
        creatively explore how the University could collaborate with a range of partners to tackle

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the challenges and change affecting our social, cultural and economic futures and
       position Southampton as a connected city. The Insight Lecture series includes regular
       public lectures on a wide range of topics, including Wright on the implications of plastic
       pollution on society in his talk entitled Bakelite, Billiards and Bottles in April 2018; and
       Kantamaneni on Natural disasters and coastal vulnerability: Signs of inevitable cycles of
       climate or the marks of human footprints? in March 2019. Internally, there are formal and
       informal School and research group-based seminars with external speakers,
       postgraduate research student seminars, and research half-days to discuss and share
       our research.

 Contributions to professional associations and learned societies

    27. We are active contributors to a number of learned societies. Burnell is a member of the
        Forces in Mind Trust Mental Health Research Programme Expert Review Panel. Wright
        is a member and elected Chair for Education of the American Center for Life Cycle
        Assessment, and member of the Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Initiatives.
        He was recognised internationally with the American Center for Life Cycle Assessment
        (ACLCA) Award for Academic Leadership in 2016. Ratna held membership of the North
        American Society for the Sociology of Sport and The Leisure Studies Association and
        Co-Chaired the Sport Study group of the British Sociological Association. Baum-Talmor
        is a member of the Royal Anthropological Institute and the British Sociological
        Association.

 Editorships, conference organisation, seminars

    28. Staff are involved in journal editorship and conference organisation with a number of
        journals and groups in our fields. Kantamaneni was invited as a guest editor to the
        Special Issue "Coastal Vulnerability and Management: Evaluation of Risk Levels and
        Mitigation Strategies" of the MDPI journal Sustainability. Wright has provided leadership
        contribution to the organisation of the ACLCA conference 'LCA' (Life Cycle Assessment)
        since 2014 and is a Topic Editor to the MDPI journal Sustainability. Burnell is a member
        of the Editorial Board for the journal Quality in Ageing and Older Adults. Ratna has held
        positions as an Associate Editor (Sociology) to Humanities and Social Sciences
        Communications (previously known as Palgrave Communications) and as an Editorial
        Board Member to Leisure Studies. Farquhar guest-edited a special issue of International
        Journal of Bank Marketing and Qualitative Market Research: An International Journal.
        She is also a Member of the Editorial Board of the Service Industries Journal.

 Summary

    29. Solent is submitting to UoA20 for the first time. The Unit’s research community is
        evolving rapidly and is expected to further develop to support submission to related UoAs
        in future REF cycles. This reflects the strategic leadership of the Unit, which has focused
        on investing in its researchers. In addition to recruiting new staff, this has included
        ensuring that all those with responsibility for research have both dedicated time for their
        activities and the supports they need to progress in their areas of expertise. This
        inclusive and nurturing approach has led to a thriving community with strengths in a
        range of areas of research. In combination with the substantial investment in
        infrastructure and facilities, this has produced an exciting and vibrant research
        environment and is a strong foundation from which to continue to grow UoA 20.




                                                                                             Page 7
