Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context
 The Department of Information Studies (DIS) offers new insights into ‘wicked’ problems and
 contemporary debates in our information and data-rich society. Our priorities are to lead
 interdisciplinary research collaborations using intellectually ambitious critical research approaches
 to solve complex information problems, grounded in our distinctive coalition of researchers,
 combining social science, humanities and computer science scholars with expertise across
 information studies. We have more than tripled grant capture to a total of £3.7m from UKRI, EU
 and charities, plus £0.4m from RCEF. DIS, in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities (A&H), is the
 largest group in the UoA, of 20 staff (19.6 FTE), comprising: 17 researchers from DIS, one from
 the Centre for Editing Lives and Letters (CELL), one from Department of Science and Technology
 Studies (STS), and one from BASc (Arts and Sciences). DIS celebrated 100 years as a leader of
 library, archival and information science, beginning as the first British School of Librarianship in
 1919. It expanded beyond Library and Information Studies to embrace Archives and Records
 Management in 1947, Information Science in 1973, and in the 2000s, Digital Humanities, and
 Publishing, bringing together a portfolio of programmes unmatched in the UK. We engage with
 alumni and honorary professors, and integrate research and doctoral activities into five
 international Masters programmes, bringing academic insights to bear on key issues in society.
 Since 2014, DIS has recruited 11 research staff, made a new professorial appointment and
 refreshed all senior management positions. Of nine new academic hires, five were Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs), appointed to their first academic post, enabling us to renew our research
 strategy.

 Unit structure
 The UoA hosts five research groups in DIS and one centre that act as incubators for cross-
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary research, foster doctoral and ECR development and translate
 research to industry and government: (i) The Centre for Archives and Records (ICARUS) is a
 leading international centre of expertise in archives and record management theory, methodology
 and practice; (ii) UCL Digital Humanities (UCLDH) embraces digital humanities researchers from
 multiple disciplines (computer science, heritage science, archaeology, modern languages, spatial
 analysis, geography, medical physics), and works with heritage and community organisations.
 UCLDH is affiliated with UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies, a space supported by A&H and the
 Faculty of Social and Historical Sciences (SHS) dedicated to fostering advanced research
 dialogue and debate across disciplines; (iii) The Centre for Publishing (CfP) researches with
 industry partners, including the Publishers Association and Booksellers Association, to explore
 diversity and inclusivity, open access, consumer insight, and bookselling; (iv) Knowledge,
 Information and Data Science (KIDS) develops methodologies, algorithms and paradigms that
 bridge logic-based AI and statistical machine learning and enable practical application, such as
 an innovative knowledge-base for cross-searching and semantic enrichment of heritage
 collections; and (v) FOIL (Forum on Information Literacy Research) promotes Information
 Literacy research internationally and translates research outcomes into professional practice.

 Founded by Jardine, the Centre for Editing Lives and Letters (CELL) is a collaborative research
 laboratory of humanities scholars seeking digital solutions to archival questions. CELL’s expertise
 focuses on the Early Modern period (1500-1800).

 Research strategy
 Our strategic objective is to position the UoA as the leader in information studies by 2025 and
 beyond, to transform how information is understood in society, find new solutions to information
 problems and challenges faced in professional practice, and extend our reach into other
 disciplinary areas, through our distinctive approach to research and unique group of disciplines.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This objective reflects our leadership in developing disciplines internationally, including leading
 innovations in digital humanities in Italy, China, Russia and Latin America (Terras, Mahony,
 Nyhan, Crymble); in critical information literacy (Lloyd); in archival science and in the new field
 of community archives (Flinn’s foundational definition adopted by the Mellon Foundation). Our
 strategy has three aims that seek to:
 1. Address real world information practices and challenges through collaborative research with
     public policy impact;
 2. Be local: be global;
 3. Cultivate an agile, innovative and responsive research culture to build sustainable, future-proof
     practice.

 1. Address real world information practices and challenges through collaborative research
 with public policy impact. We have a proven track-record in finding solutions for real-world
 information challenges and shaping and informing public policy. Aim 1 exemplifies and supports
 UCL’s strategic objective ‘to cross boundaries to increase engagement between disciplines and
 communities’ by promoting synergistic thinking in the interdisciplinary field of information studies
 and leading networks of expertise for innovative thinking to address scholarly and complex real-
 world problems. Building on long established participatory research by Flinn in community
 archives, MIRRA research was co-produced with care leavers, exploring their information rights
 and producing new recommendations about how these rights should be enabled (Shepherd,
 Lomas, Sexton). MIRRA public policy briefings were discussed with the UK Information
 Commissioner’s Office, The National Archives, Ofsted, and influenced practice with the British
 Association of Social Workers. Significant public policy outcomes were achieved by Duke-
 Williams’s UK Census & Administrative data LongitudinaL Studies Hub (CALLS-Hub) delivered
 with the Office for National Statistics (ONS), by combining expertise in geographic data and spatial
 systems to develop methodologies and training for researchers; while CeLSIUS has facilitated
 access to the ONS Longitudinal Study since 2012, and by 2025 will redesign support for remote
 users, innovate linkage of data from the 2021 Census, and create new Census research. Further
 projects include Academic Book of the Future, combining interdisciplinary expertise from
 information studies and humanities to explore how scholarly work in the Arts and Humanities will
 be produced, read, and preserved in future (Rayner, Canty). Lomas created a new unified
 definition of Research and Development for all knowledge domains, in Defining R&D for the Arts
 and Creative Industries, working with NESTA and Arts Council England. Smallman’s CODEsign
 project extended public understanding of science and engaged wider voices in technology and
 policy development.

 Our research projects have helped redefine the information disciplines and innovative practice
 solutions for professions. For example, Enlightenment Architectures with the British Museum uses
 computational interrogation to enhance understanding of the intellectual structures of Sloane’s
 catalogues and to produce new data-mining techniques (Nyhan, 2016-2021). Valeonti will (2019-
 2021) develop digitisation technologies to enable museum visitors to design customisable
 merchandise with artworks and give real-time insight into museum audiences.

 2. Be local: be global. We embody world-leading expertise in digital user engagement in critical
 cultural heritage, locally and globally, which enables us to respond to UCL’s objective ‘to engage
 with research priorities … at the global, national and local levels’ to enable innovative solutions
 while exploring situated research questions. Our cross-disciplinary collaborations led to improved
 discovery and (re)use of digital cultural heritage, working with the Bodleian Library, Fitzwilliam
 Museum, British Museum and many European and North American museums (Nyhan, Terras,
 Flinn, Valeonti, Bikakis, Symonds, Crymble). For example, the CrossCult consortium (UCL, the
 National Gallery and partners from seven European countries - France, Greece, Italy,
 Luxembourg, Malta, Spain, UK), employed interdisciplinary approaches between humanities and
 computer science researchers, museum professionals and companies. It developed innovative
 technology tools for presenting history to non-specialist audiences in engaging ways and reflected
 on the cross-border interconnections among cultural heritage, citizens' viewpoints and physical
 venues (Horizon 2020, Bikakis, Vlachidis, Terras). Oceanic Exchanges with the British Library
 (BL), combined expertise in computational periodicals research from six countries (Finland,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Germany, Mexico, Netherlands, UK, USA) to examine patterns of information flow across national
 and linguistic boundaries (Nyhan). Symonds created a dynamic digital research environment
 uniting the dispersed contents of two of the most important libraries of the English Renaissance in
 the Archaeology of Reading project with Johns Hopkins and Princeton Universities, enabling
 scholars to map thousands of manuscript annotations. Shepherd, Flinn, Lomas, Bunn were Co-
 Is in InterPares Trust, a research partnership of 70 organizations, in North America, Latin America,
 Europe, Africa, Australasia, and Asia, including experts in archival science, law, IT, cybersecurity,
 information governance, digital forensics, and engineering, to improve understanding of
 information rights and trust in digital environments.

 A key priority is to continue to build on our strategic local position in the centre of London’s cultural
 institutions and professional communities, engaging with community groups, users and cultural
 professionals, to mine rich research environments with innovative potential, for instance research
 into OpenGLAM (galleries, libraries, archives, museums) for small heritage bodies with the Marx
 Museum. Flinn’s longstanding leadership of Community Archives and Heritage Group connects
 grassroots heritage groups across the UK. We will draw on these experiences to extend our global
 academic reach and strengthen our deep research links with key strategic partners, locally,
 nationally and internationally. For instance, Bikakis and Vlachidis are active in European digital
 heritage networks (following CrossCult and ARIADNE). The Critical Heritage Europe network
 continues to address critical questions, while the joint UCL-Gothenburg Critical Heritage Studies
 Centre enables us to research with Swedish heritage institutions (Nyhan, Flinn). Shepherd is
 collaborating on Real-time rights-based recordkeeping in Australia (2020-2023).

 3. Cultivate an agile, innovative and responsive research culture to build sustainable,
 future-proof practice. Following the Covid-19 pandemic, it is even more vital and urgent to
 support UCL’s strategic objective ‘to inspire and empower research leadership’ by future-proofing
 academic and practice fields to ensure sustainable futures. Our current research developed new
 methods of engagement and co-created research with professional and marginalised
 communities, for example, on information literacies for migrants (Lloyd, Hicks), care experienced
 adults (Shepherd) and in mental health recovery (Sexton). Ramdarshan-Bold researched
 diversity in Young Adult (YA) publishing, and developed practical interventions with Words of
 Colour, Theatre Peckham and Spread the Word, to examine the representation and the
 experiences of children’s authors and illustrators of colour in the British publishing industry.
 Lloyd’s expertise in workplace learning and information behaviour extended understanding about
 nurse information use, and patient information practices in chronic illness. In Digital Lives Williams
 investigated mobile digital technology in the lives of people with learning disabilities. We research
 the histories and tell the stories of those whose voices were silenced, including pioneering women
 archivists (Shepherd), devalued, feminised labour in digital humanities (Nyhan), women
 booksellers (Rayner), black cultural archives (Ishmael) and black lives in Old Bailey Online
 (Crymble).

 We will invest in sustainable practices, including recruiting, mentoring and promoting excellent and
 diverse junior staff, guiding doctoral candidates to produce innovative research, obtaining funding
 for post-doctoral research and fellowships, and building a deeply reflexive research culture to grow
 the academic research community. We will continue to lead the field in emerging research areas
 in information rights (Lomas, Sexton, Shepherd), data curation and AI (Bikakis), knowledge
 representation and natural language processing (Bikakis, Vlachidis), information literacy (Lloyd,
 Hicks, Inskip), community archives and digital oral history (Flinn, Nyhan, Crymble), and book
 culture (Ramdarshan-Bold, Rayner).

 Impact strategy
 Our research, including but not confined to the submitted impact case studies, exemplifies our
 commitment to sustaining and transforming real-world scenarios and professional practice across
 the information sector, including how publics engage with digital information and heritage, now
 and in the future. Our research has developed innovative software and mobile applications for
 interactive delivery of digital cultural heritage (Bikakis), formulated critical questions underpinning
 the development and delivery of digital information and scholarly resources to a variety of publics

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Shepherd, Lomas, Sexton, Rayner) and critically informed the presentation of digital cultural
 heritage, resulting in transformed and deeper public engagement at a national and European level
 (Nyhan, Valeonti). Terras’s work on deep imaging Mummy Cases with University of California,
 Berkeley and Stanford, and on the Great Parchment Book with London Metropolitan Archives,
 enabled unprecedented public and scholarly access to digital cultural sources. Broughton’s
 classification research on the structuring of terminologies, expressing faceted structures through
 web representation languages and systems for automatic metadata generation, and as Associate
 Editor of the Universal Decimal Classification Consortium and Editor of Bliss BC2, informs the
 professional practices of library and information professionals world-wide. Our research has
 empowered professional and other communities to address critical questions in unsettled times,
 with Ramdarshan-Bold’s work inspiring high profile discussion in the press (including The
 Guardian) and across the publishing industry of the barriers facing writers of colour in children’s
 and YA fiction, and Rayner’s Academic Book of the Future resulting in on-going network events
 supporting publishers, libraries and academic researchers to rethink the uncertain future of
 academic publishing. The long-term research-led engagement with community heritage bodies
 (Flinn) supported their greater profile and sustainability in terms of collections and organisation.

 Building upon the success of our REF2014 case studies, we have embedded impact and
 evaluation into the culture of all our research so our researchers appreciate the centrality of
 evaluative impact from the outset of each project. Our commitment to impactful collaborative
 research with industry and community partners and to building sustainable, innovative research
 practices is facilitated by expert-led workshops and one-to-one discussions to insert impact into
 research activities in bid writing and research design. Making participatory practices and impact
 central to the MIRRA project design resulted in FamilyConnect, a website for care leavers based
 on project findings, accessed by over 2264 users, and recognized with a UCL Community Award
 in 2020. MIRRA was chosen to exemplify how UCL is responding to the challenges of the UN’s
 Sustainable Development Goals. Developing the case studies and impact more generally, we
 have made extensive use of the support and impact funding available from Faculty and central
 Research Impact and Curation, Knowledge and Enterprise, and Public Engagement teams, to
 augment our research impact, to design impact data collection tools, to plan innovative events and
 multimedia presentations, to extend the domain of our research and to capture changes in
 attitudes and practices resulting from such engagements.

 Research integrity
 Research integrity is a central tenet of our research culture and we lead developments in research
 ethics practices across the university. Our research expertise has been central to developing
 UCL’s principles of research governance. Flinn has helped shape the institutional approach to
 Research Ethics and Integrity by representing humanities and social sciences on UCL’s Research
 Ethics Committee (which approves all ethics applications) and on the Working Group which
 designed new university-wide processes for research ethics decisions, policy and governance.
 This knowledge is brought into DIS, where Flinn oversees research ethics and data protection.
 Lomas led the development across UCL of research data protection training and sits on UCL’s
 GDPR Strategic Programme Board (2018-). She scripted the compulsory online GDPR training
 which has to date been taken by 24,000 UCL staff and 700 researchers. All our staff and doctoral
 students take research ethics training. This goes beyond ethical research methods to include
 authorship, research supervision, equitable acknowledgment of contributions, data management,
 and internal peer review. Departmental Research Committee, termly, includes ethics as a standing
 item, ensuring staff understand research policies including UCL’s Research Staff Code of Practice.

 Open research
 We are at the forefront of UCL’s ‘commitment to Open Research and Open Data’. DIS is central
 to the governance of UCL Press, the UK’s first fully OA university press (Rayner, Nyhan). Rayner
 developed a new form of OA book publishing, Books as Open Online Content (BOOC), inspiring
 other BOOCs with UCL Press, and she developed an innovative sprint (fast-track) OA publication
 with Palgrave Macmillan as part of their Palgrave Pivot series. Boswell and Canty created an OA
 student-led academic journal, Interscript, with UCL Press, to disseminate postgraduate, ECR and
 industry research. We proactively create an open research environment, opting for OA publication

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wherever possible for monographs (Nyhan, Flinn, Computation and the Humanities, Springer
 Open Access, 179,000 downloads; Jardine, Temptation in the Archives, first OA monograph by
 UCL Press, 17,495 downloads in 133 countries); open access in print journals (JDoc, JoLIS,
 Archival Science) and online OA journals (Digital Humanities Quarterly, Information Research);
 and making research openly accessible via web platforms (eg Transcribe Bentham Project;
 Academic Book of the Future - UCL Press BOOC, 5358 downloads, OA Palgrave Pivot, 82,000
 downloads). UCL’s publishers’ agreements enable Gold OA in key journals. 96% of UoA articles
 and conference papers accepted from 1 April 2016 were deposited in UCL Discovery, are Gold
 OA or qualify for exceptions. Nyhan represents A&H and SHS on UCL’s Bibliometrics Working
 Group, which formulated new policy on best practice bibliometrics. Bunn and Nyhan advised
 UCL’s research data repository implementation to facilitate data capture, access and publication.
 We have also led and defined debates around OA nationally. Through the AHRC Academic
 Book of the Future project, we worked with academic publishers, policy makers, academics, and
 booksellers, to research how academic work is produced, consumed, and disseminated. In the
 Project Report we scrutinised the high levels of support for OA from Arts and Humanities
 scholars in the UK, and identified key challenges in ensuring OA for REF submissions. This was
 critical to public debate, voiced at the University Press Redux conference at the BL in 2018, and
 the OA Monograph Working Group to reshape REF policy on OA (2016-2019). Rayner
 established the annual Academic Book Week in 2015. Shepherd and Duke-Williams advised
 ADRC-E/ADRN on national information governance issues around sharing government
 administrative data and we innovate access services for Census data use via ONS.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The UoA’s 19.6FTE comprises 3 Professors, 8 Associate Professors, 7 Lecturers and 2 Research
 Fellows. Reflective of our distinctive research strategy, we have, in the light of retirements
 (Broughton, Stevenson) and staff recruitment, recrafted our research priorities since 2014 to
 promote deeper reflexivity in research practice, and to foster creative thinking to ‘tackle complex
 societal problems’ (REF5a). Recruitment in this period has taken our disciplines into new areas
 and demonstrated our commitment to original scholarship. DIS appointed Lomas to develop
 information governance across library, archive and data science; and Vlachidis to develop data
 science and technical skills across library and information science. Recruitment of new scholars
 in each of our disciplines (Lomas, Sexton in archives and records management, Valeonti,
 Crymble in digital humanities, Vlachidis in information science, Lloyd, Hicks in library studies,
 and Ramdarshan-Bold in publishing) catalyses us as the national leader across information
 studies.

 UCL’s Academic Careers Framework articulates new promotion criteria which emphasise
 research excellence while ensuring parity and transparency. During the current REF period, six
 staff were promoted from Lecturer to Associate Professor, validating our approach to recruit
 excellent ECRs whom we nurture, develop and advance to leadership roles within UCL, nationally
 and internationally. An excellent staff development strategy supports all academic staff at
 whatever stage in their career and across the researcher-practitioner nexus. Particularly notable
 is our policy to inculcate our ECRs and Research Associates (RAs) into our rich traditions via a
 well-established programme of one-to-one probationary mentoring, monthly meetings with the
 Head of Department, and through our ECRs Community of Practice which, since 2018, has
 supplemented university-wide training. Of nine new researchers appointed since 2014, five were
 (three are still) ECRs. We employed four RAs on funded projects. Staff teach to their research
 strengths, enabling us to deliver research-led, world-leading postgraduate programmes. In 2019
 we were the first LIS programme outside the USA to receive provisional American Library
 Association accreditation.

 Honouring the VITAE Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers, we rotate
 administrative responsibilities, committee chairing and institutional citizenship roles to build
 competencies for promotion. Our research culture values generosity and mutual respect for
 scholarly inquiry. We promote career development through Supervisors’ workshops, Away Days

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research seminars (including doctoral research, neurodiversity in learning, mental health
 workshops, inclusion and equality training), and mentoring by matching experienced PIs with
 ECRs for doctoral supervision and grant applications. Two ECRs obtained Fellowships (British
 Academy, AHRC). Researchers refresh their skills through conference participation and training
 (eg Research management, Leading research teams, Engagement and impact, Writing for
 publication). Two staff attended the Senior Women in Leadership programme to enable
 succession planning. Our strategic priorities include enhancing the happiness and wellbeing of all
 staff by caring approaches to management: our management team includes the Faculty’s
 inaugural Vice Dean Wellbeing (Rayner) and we implemented an email policy ‘only in working
 hours’ in 2020. We have regular ‘tea and cakes’ socials. Two academics are Arena assessors,
 UCL's professional development pathway accredited by the Higher Education Academy, and
 advise on Fellowship portfolios. Thirteen staff are Associates and Fellows and five Senior Fellows
 of the HEA. The pandemic highlighted the need to support staff wellbeing and facilitate their
 research. We support caring responsibilities when adjusting workloads and working hours. We
 assist staff and research students through technology and training to research virtually, for
 instance, Ramdarshan-Bold led the ‘Professional and Creative Development Virtual Hub for
 new/emerging Authors Of Colour During COVID-19’ funded by UCL Innovation and Enterprise.
 We engage across UCL to enable staff development and to contribute to the university’s research-
 led teaching environment. As part of initiatives for UCL’s second campus in the Olympic Park,
 Rayner led on the Engagement with Creative and Cultural Industries pathway of the new BA
 Creative and Applied Humanities, while Flinn brought his expertise in community archives into
 participatory projects by spearheading the development of the Urban Room & Memory Workshop.
 We engage with UCL Research Domains which improve integration and develop new projects,
 including Lomas, Bunn on HeXAI (Human Explainable AI). Vlachidis is on the Humanities and
 Data Science research group of the Alan Turing Institute.

 We use UCL’s appraisal framework and annual reviews to identify training needs, citizenship roles,
 career development activities (such as secondments to Faculty) and university projects, journal
 editing, external reviewing and applying for promotion. All staff have an annual appraisal with their
 line manager (for academics, the Head of Department) to discuss achievements and career
 aspirations: all appraisers have attended EDI and appraisal training.

 The departmental sabbatical’s rota follows UCL’s policy of one term sabbatical after three years’
 service, allowing sustained attention on research (e.g. completion of monographs, development
 of grant applications, deeper reflective ‘blue sky’ thinking), and was maintained throughout the
 pandemic. The productiveness of this approach is evidenced by Nyhan’s publication of two
 monographs published following her 2018 sabbatical; Shepherd’s successful submission of an
 AHRC major research grant application following her 2016 sabbatical.

 Individual researchers are nurtured through a strongly collaborative culture of research-sharing
 and via the strategic use of resources. Faculty and Departmental resources for conferences and
 networking are guaranteed so staff can test ideas, share findings, develop networks (minimum
 £1000 per person, per annum). Productivity is improved by: an active research seminar series
 encouraging research reporting and testing ideas; a ‘Critical Friends’ group that offers improved
 support for publication; the bi-monthly ‘Shut Up and Write’ group (established in 2019) that protects
 two hours dedicated writing time for doctoral students and staff; a flexible workload model that
 allows staff to work at home on research at least one day a week. The dynamic research
 environment encourages and makes room for requests from national and international scholars
 for research exchange and translation activities. Although space is very limited, we accept a few
 visiting scholars from the many who apply (eg two of 18 requests in 2019) to provide us with
 access to expertise and act as a catalyst for synergistic thinking. We welcome scholars from many
 countries: in 2019 for example, Professor Xinyun Xu from Jiangxi Normal University and Professor
 Gunilla Widen from Abo Akademi, Turku, Finland.

 Research Students
 We are training the next generation of researchers and information professionals based on 100
 years of leading the field in UK information education. DIS is regarded internationally as a premium

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 location for doctoral research and we have among the largest and most prestigious cohorts in the
 UK (especially in archival science, information literacy, and publishing), attracting scholarship
 candidates from around the world, who progress to academic and senior professional posts. We
 value highly the doctoral student experience, each new intake of students to DIS is managed as
 a cohort, supported by the Departmental Graduate Tutor, with peer-to-peer mentoring, to ensure
 full immersion. There are currently 31 doctoral candidates in DIS, representing an increase over
 the period, an average intake of 4-6 students, with 11 funded students exceptionally recruited in
 2018. Students complete more promptly if fully funded, so we support doctoral students to win
 scholarships. Since 2014, candidates have won scholarships from AHRC-LAHP (5) (the AHRC
 DTP: London Arts and Humanities Partnership), Leverhulme, Marie Curie, Commonwealth, Thai,
 and China Scholarship Commissions, the governments of Kuwait, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia.
 We create a rich and vibrant doctoral environment by recruiting excellent students from the UK,
 Europe, the Middle East and Asia. We match them with the best supervisors in the sub-disciplines,
 and support them through training. We recruit a diverse doctoral cohort to ensure our research
 cultures adopt a broad range of perspectives and experiences. Most part-time students work in
 senior industry and professional roles, supported by their employers (eg Routledge, BL). They
 bring rich professional experience to combine with academic rigour.

 Our doctoral programme benefits from our strong interdisciplinary approach which creates scope
 for students to address innovative research problems, adapt methodologies and create new
 knowledge. Interdisciplinary reach is evidenced through doctoral co-supervision with other
 academic disciplines across UCL (computer science, medical physics, psychology, anthropology,
 history, archaeology). Similarly, our strong external networks give doctoral candidates access to
 expertise and supervision (through AHRC collaborative doctoral awards) with The National
 Archives, Wellcome Collection, BL and at University of Peloponnese, Greece. Jordan (BASc)
 brings his considerable expertise in digital cultures and the digital economy as a research
 supervisor. Doctoral students have won scholarships for cross-disciplinary placements (eg
 Eveleigh to UCL Engineering; Knöchelmann to Yale).

 The Departmental Graduate Tutor provides academic assistance and pastoral care, in addition to
 each doctoral student’s two supervisors who meet students regularly (at least fortnightly in the first
 two years). Outstanding doctoral supervision is central to the doctoral experience. DIS’s
 Supervisors Forum encourages reflection on supervisory practice, discussion about challenges
 and solutions, best practice sharing, and mentoring of less experienced supervisors. We actively
 engage doctoral students in wider networks, such as CH Europe, and the Gothenburg–UCL
 partnership. We financially support our doctoral students to present papers and posters at
 conferences in the UK and internationally.

 We have improved timely completions of doctoral theses, by creating a supportive community that
 builds methodological, theoretical, and practice confidence in candidates. 27 doctorates were
 successfully completed in the 2013-2020 period, representing a concerted effort to increase
 completions from nine in 2008-2013. We increased monitoring and support for student progress,
 via the upgrade process and annual formal departmental reviews, and compulsory first year
 weekly seminars. We know individual students need tailored support, and raise awareness,
 through their supervisors, regular emails, and weekly seminars, of UCL-wide support services,
 wellbeing, mediation, disability services, psychological services, and careers service. We seek
 advice across UCL where appropriate. Doctoral students benefit from study space and equipment
 in a refurbished, dedicated PhD room.

 Incoming doctoral students are introduced to our research practices via a 26-week seminar
 programme. Recognising the complexity and uncertainty many candidates experience in the first
 year, the compulsory weekly seminar covers structure and process of candidature and
 methodologies employed in the fields. Second and third year students organise peer-to-peer
 Research Cafés. An annual departmental survey of student interests allows the second and third
 year programme to be tailored, with a focus on developing researcher practices (e.g. writing for
 publication, developing a web presence, applying for funding), and advanced methodological
 training. DIS’s lunchtime seminar series gives doctoral candidates confidence in their emerging

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ideas and presentation skills, and they observe experienced researchers modelling best practice.
 Doctoral students take workshops from UCL Learning and Development, UCL’s Doctoral School
 and LAHP in line with VITAE framework, including Public Engagement, Research Impact,
 Innovation and Enterprise, and maintain a record of progress in their online Log. Building on UCL’s
 Arena One (teaching and learning programme), students develop their CVs by becoming post-
 graduate teaching assistants. Doctoral students are also part of the principal supervisor’s research
 group giving them access to research practices and activities of the core discipline (e.g. archival
 science critical reading group).

 We have a student representative on our Research Committee, and review doctoral student
 experience through the annual PRES survey and as part of the quinquennial Internal Quality
 Review. We also participate actively in Faculty Research Committee to ensure we benchmark our
 practices.

 We boast an enviably well-networked alumni community; our alumni work in every global region
 (North and South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Middle East) and hold key professional posts in
 national archives, libraries and cultural institutions, as well as academic iSchools on several
 continents. Many doctoral graduates return to senior professional positions (eg Head of Research,
 UK National Archives; Digital Records and Transfer Manager, UK National Archives; Collections
 Information Manager, Wellcome Collection), while others make a career in academia (eg
 Universities of Bamberg, Liverpool, Glasgow, East Anglia, UCL, Chulalongkorn University
 Thailand, City University of New York), or rise to the top of their fields (eg Secretary General,
 International Council on Archives). The impact of our research through our alumni is worldwide.

 Equality and Diversity
 DIS established an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Group in 2019 with Faculty support, and made
 its first Athena SWAN Bronze application in 2020, only the second Department in the Faculty to
 do so. Athena SWAN allowed us to study diversity data for the first time and to take actions towards
 improvement where necessary and provides a roadmap to deepen our commitment to equality
 and diversity. Our gender balance for academic staff has remained stable since 2015 (56% female:
 44% male), while that for research staff shifted from 50%:50% in 2015 to 80% female in 2019.
 One of our challenges is the dominance of female recruits throughout the career ladder from PGT
 (76% female: 24% male in 2019), doctoral students (67% female: 33% male in 2019) to professors
 (66% female: 33% male in UoA). Another challenge is the low representation of non-white
 ethnicity: of 56% female academic staff, 6% are BME; all 44% male academics are white. BME
 representation in the student pipeline in 2018 was 34% among PGT, 26% for doctoral students;
 to improve on these statistics, we successfully supported BME applicants for doctoral scholarships
 and sought diversity advice for new hires UCL’s ‘fair recruitment’ support. Ethnicity data for DIS
 doctoral students indicates an increase in BME students accepted (from 4 in 2017, to 7 in 2018).
 In our Athena SWAN application, we identified further actions we need to take to improve the
 diversity of the academic pipeline including better data monitoring, targeted marketing and
 recruitment, as well as scholarships for under-represented groups. We have succeeded in
 diversifying the communities of doctoral students and staff in some sub-fields since 2014 (YA
 fiction; community archives), successfully supported BME academic promotion to Associate
 Professor, and enabled more inclusive research methods and topics. We encourage staff to make
 use of UCL’s leadership training programmes, including Accelerate to Leadership, and are
 committed to implementing A&H’s race equality pledges.

 Structurally, it is our ED&I Group that implements best practice. Mandatory unconscious bias
 training (100% completion) improves understanding of EDI, and we are developing transformative
 ally and anti-racist training with support from Faculty. Workshops on mental health, suicide, and
 neurodiversity awareness and bullying and harassment training are organised for staff. As part of
 our ED&I agenda we support staff to join inclusion networks.

 We reviewed our diversity-inclusive practices and offer flexibility to all staff who request work-life
 balance changes, or have returned from long-term sick leave. Our proactive practice (pre-
 pandemic) enabled academic and administrative staff to work remotely for one or two days per

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 week to alleviate time and travel costs and to accommodate caring responsibilities.
 Communication technologies (Teams, Zoom) ensure that staff maintain contact. We hold all
 department meetings within core hours (10.00-16.00). Our compassionate approach guarantees
 that staff and research students return to work successfully after periods of parental and maternity
 leave (two staff and one doctoral student took maternity leave, two staff took parental leave) or ill
 health (three staff supported to return after serious illness). UCL’s generous maternity leave
 provisions include an additional sabbatical term to re-start research before a return to work, while
 reduced duties due to sickness are agreed by the Head of Department with advice from
 Occupational Health and HR. The UCL Covid-19 Career Support Scheme is an equity- and
 inclusion-based response to the understanding that the pandemic has impacted individuals in our
 community differently. Staff at all career stages are equally supported to make research grant
 applications and supported for reward, such as additional increments and promotion. Part-time
 staff have equality of opportunity, even if the quantity of activity is constrained by their work hours.
 Career pathways for part-time staff are the same as for full-time staff. One Lecturer worked part-
 time for 10 years but was promoted to full Professor.

 The UoA’s REF Group had 50:50 gender balance, including senior staff in each sub-discipline,
 ECRs, and members of the ED&I Group. The REF Group undertook EDI training to support output
 review and selection, determination of independent researchers, and choice of ICSs. UoA staff
 were updated regularly on the submission and were encouraged to ask the REF or ED&I Groups
 for advice. We reviewed the UCL Equalities analyses, and are pleased to see that the selection of
 research-only staff is gender balanced, and that women are over-represented in the output
 distribution. Low numbers and incomplete data limit the use of the ethnicity data, but we note that
 the percentage of outputs attributed to staff identifying as white is slightly below the analysis
 baseline.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The UoA has a very strong record of external income generation at both national and international
 levels, winning research grant awards worth over £3.7m since 2014, including over £1.97m from
 UKRI and research funders, plus £0.55m from EU, and from non-EU and charities funders.
 Research income of £2.9m during 2014-2020 has allowed us to collaborate in large national and
 international research consortia (eg Academic Book of the Future, AHRC, Rayner; CrossCult, EC,
 Bikakis; Oceanic Exchanges, ESRC, Nyhan), and to lead scholarly projects (eg British Book
 Trade, AHRC, Stevenson; Enlightenment Architectures, Leverhulme, Nyhan; Archaeology of
 Reading, Mellon, Symonds; CelSIUS, ESRC, Duke-Williams; CODEsign, EC, Smallman). In
 addition, researchers have won 12 competitive UCL Global Engagement, Public Policy, E-learning
 Environments, and Beacon Bursary public engagement funding. For example, £4000 to pilot public
 policy engagement with care leavers (Sexton); Ramdarshan-Bold to increase awareness of
 theatre audiences of the experiences of authors of colour; £17,000 to lead collaborative
 developments in new disciplines, including establishing digital humanities curricula and research
 in China (Mahony); and engaging diverse and excluded communities in the emerging field of
 science communication in South Africa (Smallman).

 Significant funded research projects since 2014, arranged by theme:

 Discovery and (re)use of digital cultural heritage (total £1.178m):
  Project name            Funder                 Funding        Project         Researchers
                                                 awarded to dates
                                                 UCL
  Critical Heritage       H2020 Marie            £187,000       2016-2020       Nyhan, Flinn
  Studies Europe          Skłodowska-
  (CHEurope)              Curie Action
  CrossCult               Horizon 2020           £186,000       2016-2019       Bikakis,
                                                                                Vlachidis, Terras


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Oceanic Exchanges:      ESRC              £78,000       2017-2019    Nyhan
  Historical Newspaper
  Repositories
  ARIADNE (Advanced       EU Seventh        Overall       2013-2017,   Vlachidis
  Research                Framework;        budget        2019-2022
  Infrastructure for      H2020             €6.6m
  Archaeological
  Dataset Networking in
  Europe);
  ARIADNEPlus
  Enlightenment           Leverhulme        £85,000       2016-2021    Nyhan
  Architectures: Sir      Trust
  Hans Sloane's
  catalogues
  Complex analysis of     JISC              £18,000       2015         Terras
  large scale digital
  collections
  Nondestructive          Charities Aid     £54,000       2015-16      Terras
  imaging of Mummy        Foundation
  Mask Cartonnage
  English Book Owners     Oxford Lyell      £19,000       2020-2024    Symonds
                          Fund &
                          Bibliographical
                          Society
  Archaeology of          Mellon            £263,000      2014-2016,   Symonds
  Reading                 Foundation                      2016-2019
  Dynamic Dialects        AHRC              £12,000       2014-2015    Beavan
  Chronotropic ground     AHRC              £32,000       2017-2020    Beavan
  for mapping literary
  texts
  British Book Trade      AHRC              £81,000       2014         Stevenson
  Enabling independent    AHRC              £163,000      2019-2021    Bikakis, Valeonti
  museums to access
  technological
  innovation

 Data curation and governance (total £1.276m):
  Project name           Funder             Funding to    Project      Researchers
                                            UCL           dates
  CeLSiUS; CALLS Hub ESRC                   £576,000      2012-2025    Duke-Williams
  UK Data Service        ESRC               £525,000      2012-2017,   Duke-Williams
                                                          2017-2022
  Administrative Data     ESRC              £175,000      2013-2018    Shepherd, Duke-
  Research Centre-                                                     Williams, Sexton
  England- information
  governance

 Community participatory research (total £0.696m):
  Project name            Funder             Funding to   Project      Researchers
                                             UCL          dates
  Information rights      AHRC               £330,000     2017-2019,   Shepherd,
  ecology: MIRRA                                          2020-2021    Lomas, Flinn,
  (Memory-Identity-                                                    Sexton
  Rights in Records-
  Access); MIRRA+


                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Representation of         BookTrust          £30,000        2007–2020       Ramdarshan-
  children’s authors and                                                      Bold
  illustrators of colour
  Digital Lives             British Academy    £278,000       2016-19         Williams
  Real-time rights-         Australian         £58,000        2020-2023       Shepherd
  based recordkeeping       Research
                            Council

 Public policy (total £0.536m):
  Project name              Funder             Funding to     Project         Researchers
                                               UCL            dates
  Academic Book of the      AHRC               £307,000       2014-2017       Rayner, Canty
  Future
  E-legal deposit in        AHRC               £26,000        2017-2019       Terras
  academia
  Record DNA Network        AHRC               £15,000        2017-2018       Lomas
  Turing Fellowship         Alan Turing        £6000          2018-2020       Smallman
                            Institute
  Society in Innovation     EC                 £182,000       2018-2021       Smallman
  and Science through
  CODEsign

 Infrastructure and facilities
 UCL infrastructure investment includes successful bids for Research Capital Equipment Funds in
 2018 and 2019 (total £394,000). This enabled significant new provisions in the Digitization Suite:
 in 2019, purchase of a super light element micro x-ray fluorescence spectrometer for heritage
 imaging to detect illegible text and to determine the composition of pigments, enabling owners of
 heritage objects to use a single, secure laboratory; and in 2018, portable multispectral imaging
 equipment for heritage objects, which acquires images in 12 colours, including ultraviolet and
 infrared, and filters. These techniques have a wide range of research applications with
 manuscripts, papyri, epigraphy and document analysis, with the benefits of portable equipment,
 enabling research collaborations with museums, archives and libraries.

 The infrastructure of our research centres and their research strategies align closely with our
 strategic aims to address real-world information challenges through collaborative research with
 community and professional partners; to be local and be global; and build sustainable practices.
 We take advantage of Faculty and UCL support (eg Research Development Manager; European
 Office) for grant funding, writing, peer reviewing, impact capture, to supplement DIS support in
 costing and administering grants. We have a dedicated subject librarian who provides tailored
 training for staff and students, access to exceptional archival, print, e-journals and database
 subscriptions through UCL Library, OA publishing agreements with major journal publishers, and
 UCL Library funding to purchase books (£9000 pa). We have access to world-class research
 libraries in the locality, through the University of London, the national research collections at the
 BL and the National Archives. We have invested in improving the facilities for our doctoral students
 by refurbishing their work room, providing new desks and ICT with the support of Faculty IT,
 printing facilities, and improving their pandemic working settings at home through laptop risers,
 keyboards, lumbar supports etc. Postgraduate students also have a refurbished common and
 work room with new networked ICT provision.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our staff are world-leading in our collaborations, our contributions to building the research base
 of our disciplines and through research which positively impacts society.

 Collaboration
 Our international collaborative networks are crucial to our research culture, allowing us to engage
 with academic and practitioner partners in cultural heritage, information studies, public policy and

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 related communities and to deliver research-led outcomes. We support research-practice
 synergies by enabling co-research with industry, government, charity and public bodies and
 appointing practitioners to steering committees of our research groups and as Honorary
 Professors (including Elizabeth Denham, the UK’s Information Commissioner). Our research
 resulted in a deeper understanding of the impact of information studies on other disciplines, and
 vice-versa, including bringing archival studies into critical heritage studies with archaeology and
 museology (Flinn, Nyhan), critical social questions into the study of AI and digital humanities
 (Bikakis, Bunn, Nyhan, Vlachidis), and digital cultural heritage (Terras, Nyhan, Valeonti,
 Vlachidis, Symonds). We have been active in 21 interdisciplinary collaborations, across the EU
 (eg CrossCult; ARIADNE), North America (eg cross-institutional partnerships with Universities of
 Toronto and Yale) and worldwide (eg InterPARES Trust with 70 partners). Researchers
 collaborate with key national cultural institutions, local to UCL but with global reach and
 significance, to enhance access to collections, including Enlightenment Architectures with the
 British Museum, and collaborations with National Gallery, Natural History Museum, Tate, London
 Metropolitan Archives, Science Museum, RAF Museum, and Fitzwilliam Museum. We created
 digital resources for scholars, including the libraries of Gabriel Harvey and John Dee in
 Archaeology of Reading with Universities of Johns Hopkins and Princeton.

 We create opportunities to share research findings and initiate research ideas, including co-
 organising Archives and Society seminars at the Institute of Historical Research, presenting The
 National Archives research seminars, the Centre for Critical Heritage Studies seminar series and
 creating a new collaborative partnership, Bloomsbury CHAPTER (Communication History,
 Authorship, Publishing, Textual Editing and Reading) with the Institute of English Studies. We
 forge strong alliances with significant groups in London to create a research base for publishing
 studies, with Worshipful Company of Stationers, Bloomsbury Publishing, Faber, and Macmillan.
 Lloyd founded the Maris (Migrants and Refugee) network, bringing together information science
 researchers to focus on information problems in the forced migration field, such as Supporting
 Information Practices in Refugee Transition (SpIRiT).

 Doctoral research, including AHRC Collaborative Doctoral awards, embeds research in
 professional practice, co-supervised with industry professionals (including at The National
 Archives, Welcome Collection, Black Cultural Archives, British Museum). Excellent doctoral work
 is recognised by industry (eg Seles’s doctoral thesis won Digital Preservation Coalition Award).

 Contribution to economy and society
 A notable strength is the professional and industry experience of many of our academic staff.
 Hicks, for instance, was formerly librarian at the University of Colorado, Boulder; Sexton, was
 formerly Head of Research at The National Archives. Such grounding in industrial practice greatly
 enhances the impact of our research. Recognition of our reach outside HE is evidenced by
 Lomas’s invitation to speak in Parliament and at the Annual International Regulatory Affairs
 Symposium. She chaired the Working Group which wrote the UK’s GDPR guidance on archival
 derogations for the UK National Archives and the Information Commissioner. Lomas served on
 the Lord Chancellor’s Advisory Committee for National Archives and Records and the Forum on
 Historical Manuscripts and Academic Research deputizing as Chair for the Master of the Rolls,
 and is a member of the International Standards’ committees on records management and privacy
 technologies. Staff consultancy embeds research in practice and professional communities,
 including Duke-Williams advising the National Statistician on the future of the National Census
 as an invited expert on the Methodological Assurance Review Panel; Vlachidis advising the
 Welsh Assembly Government on language technology. Lomas provides archival, records
 management and information governance advice and training to the Duchy of Cornwall estate and
 AirTanker Ltd. Bikakis is on the steering committee of RuleML, which collaborates with the W3C
 on standardization of rules on the Web. Practical tools and systems which benefit the economy
 include MeThinks, a system for automated content management on the Social Web (Bikakis) and
 a novel Natural Language Processing toolkit for the Welsh language (Vlachidis). Archaeology of
 Reading (Symonds) informed the International Image Interoperability Framework, a W3C
 standard for presenting, sharing, and annotating images on the web used by cultural sectors.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UCLDH provides research-led consultancy and specialist digitization services, through the
 Industry Advisory Panel (including Adobe, Microsoft which sponsors a DIS student prize, IBM).
 We nurture an enriching dialogue between our research and public engagement through annual
 public lecture series from leading thinkers and scholars in the archival field (Jenkinson Lecture),
 publishing (Stevenson Lecture), and digital humanities (Hockey Lecture). We have delivered UCL
 LunchHour Lectures (eg Duke-Williams on the Census, Shepherd on care experienced
 information rights) and events in UCL’s annual Festival of Culture, reaching beyond academic
 audiences to bring our research to wider audiences.

 We lead research with cultural and community organisations to deliver impact. For example, we
 led a schools’ engagement workshop as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science; we
 researched the economic benefits of digitization and provided new knowledge on cultural heritage
 metadata modelling (with the Fitzwilliam Museum, National Gallery and British Museum); we
 implemented research findings working with community charities, such as Black Cultural Archives,
 the Care Leavers’ Association and Family Action; and we developed responses to real-world
 issues collaboratively with professional associations, such as the UK response to RiC-CM with the
 Archives and Records Association. We engage with wider publics interested in our research,
 through media interviews on BBC Local Radio, Austrian Public Radio, blogs (including blog for the
 ESRC about ITV’s 63 Up), via YouTube and Twitter, and articles in Research in Practice, The
 Conversation and Nature.

 Contributions to research base and sustainability of disciplines
 We provide positive leadership in directing the scholarly development of our disciplines
 internationally. Scholars are invited abroad as visiting researchers (including Flinn to the
 Universities of Gothenburg and Monash 2018; Ramdarshan-Bold to Australian National
 University 2019; Wintersgill to University of Tyumen, Russia 2019; Lloyd to University of Boras,
 Sweden 2019; Williams to Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil 2017, 2019; Crymble
 to Luxembourg 2019; Bikakis to Paris-Est Creteil 2014). We take a lead in training the next
 generation of humanities researchers, exemplified by Sexton’s appointment as Deputy Director
 (Collaborations and Partnerships) with LAHP (AHRC’s London Arts and Humanities Partnership)
 to leverage her expertise as former Head of Research at The National Archives. She has been
 instrumental in facilitating doctoral research with cultural partners, endangered by furlough and
 closure of galleries in 2020. We educate internationally through our publications cited on university
 syllabi, indicating our reach (Open Syllabus): Lloyd on 22 university syllabi; Nyhan on 50; Flinn
 on 88; Jordan on 88; Shepherd on 288. Lloyd’s H-index (33) and citation rate (2500) in
 information literacy evidence the productivity and reach of her research.

 Our researchers shape current and future research by editing, and serving on editorial boards, for
 34 journals and many conference reviewing committees internationally (eg Hicks, editor, Journal
 of Information Literacy; Jordan, editor, Global Media and China; Bikakis, 3rd International
 Workshop on Semantic Web for Cultural Heritage), book series (Rayner, CUP, Elements) and
 guest edited SIs, (eg Bikakis, Sensors; Flinn, Archival Science). Interdisciplinarity is central to
 our contribution, exemplified by publications in peer-reviewed journals in other fields, including
 International Population Studies (Duke-Williams), Preventive Medicine (Duke-Williams), Child
 and Family Social Work (Shepherd, Flinn, Lomas), Big Data and Society (Shepherd, Sexton),
 PLoS ONE (Lomas), Advances in Education (Lloyd), Journal of Interdisciplinary History (Flinn),
 2016 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Bunn), Journal of Research in Special
 Educational Needs (Williams), Proceedings of Electronic Visualisation and the Arts (Valeonti),
 Digital Scholarship in the Humanities (Nyhan).

 We cultivate scholarly exchanges which lead to research innovation. We organised, in this review
 period, 202 seminars at UCL and elsewhere, including long running series (eg Community
 Archives & Heritage Conference 2014-2020; Digital Classicist London Seminars). We also
 organised or hosted a further 78 conferences and workshops, including as programme committee
 and track chairs (eg Human-centred Explainable AI Workshop; 8th International Web Rule
 Symposium). We have delivered 93 invited keynotes, as well as 170 international conference and
 workshop papers, in addition to UK presentations. Keynotes include International Council on

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archives 2019, Australia; I-CHORA 7 International Conference, Amsterdam; InterPARES Results
 and New Directions, Costa Rica; London Book Fair; University Redux Conference; and
 Futurebook Conference.

 We provide extensive academic service internationally by regularly assessing promotion and
 tenure files (including UCLA, Toronto, UBC, Peking University, Witwatersrand). We provided
 research council evaluations and peer review for UKRI including MRC, and for Asian, European
 and North American national research councils, 47 times, and served on 11 learned society
 committees. Shepherd was appointed to REF2014 and 2021 sub-panels. Flinn provided rapid
 peer review of COVID research proposals for AHRC and ESRC. We have examined 34 PhDs
 including for Imperial College, Royal Holloway, Goldsmiths, University of Crete, Aristotle University
 of Thessaloniki, University of Copenhagen, Monash University, University of Pittsburgh.
 Researchers have won 9 prizes and awards, including a Fellowship of Academy of Social
 Sciences (Shepherd).

 Our research has local and international impact; our interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
 research collaborations are extensive; our doctoral graduates progress to global academic and
 professional positions. All these exemplify and consolidate our aspiration to be the leader in
 information studies research, to continue to make a distinctive contribution to our unique group of
 disciplines and to transform how information is understood in society.




                                                                                              Page 14
