Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: 10

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 The unit maps onto the School of Mathematical Sciences (SMS) at the University of Nottingham
 (UoN), whose research over the REF period has been structured across seven Research
 Groups (RGs) to which all academic staff, postdoctoral researchers and PhD students are
 affiliated, with secondary membership of others as appropriate:

    •   Algebra and Analysis (AA)
    •   Industrial and Applied Mathematics (IAM)
    •   Mathematical Medicine and Biology (MMB)
    •   Mathematical Physics (MP)
    •   Number Theory and Geometry (NTG)
    •   Scientific Computation (SC)
    •   Statistics and Probability (SP)

 The Category A staff submitted (64.5 FTE, bolded throughout, with new appointments noted in
 italics), comprise 24 Professors (P), 25 Associate Professors (AP), 13 Assistant Professors/
 Lecturers (L) and five Research Fellows (two at AP level; three at L level). This represents a net
 expansion by three since 2014.

 Our research activity has grown substantially in scope and value in the REF period. Key figures
 include: 12% increase in research income to £3M p.a.; 50% increase in the value of active
 research awards in the School to £18M, including major awards from the EPSRC, ERC,
 Leverhulme Trust, Royal Society and Wellcome Trust; 20% increase in PhD student numbers to
 96 FTE.

 Overall School strategy is developed by the School Executive Board (SEB), chaired by the Head
 of School (Houston; Dryden prior to 2018). Research and Impact strategies are developed by
 the Research Board, chaired by the Director of Research (DoR, Sotiriou; Houston prior to
 2018), who is also a member of the SEB. Research Board further comprises the REF
 Coordinator (Adesso), Impact Champion (King), Research and Business Development
 Manager (RBDM, Hawker), Heads of each RG, representatives from our early career
 researchers (ECRs) and an EDI representative.

 1.2 Research strategy

 The School makes internationally leading contributions in fundamental mathematics and
 statistics and, in tandem, develops and implements novel mathematical tools needed to advance
 science, solve major societal problems, and support economic growth. Extending our national
 and international reach, promoting the use of mathematics by other disciplines, consolidating our
 key strengths and pursuing new complementary research directions are central to our vision. We
 foster a supportive, inclusive and collaborative research environment that encourages creative
 thinking and scientific independence, while offering high-quality training and mentorship at all
 career stages, from graduate students to established researchers.

 1.2.1 Research strategic achievements since REF2014

 The School has successfully met the strategic aims outlined in 2014. UoN funding and
 outstanding achievements in both teaching and research have supported the creation of six new
 permanent academic posts (three starting after the census date) and an expansion of our

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Support Team from one to four individuals - this team supports the grant application
 process, administers funded projects and helps develop our impact strategy.

    •   Enhancing collaboration between RGs, facilitated by strategic appointments: in NTG,
        Hofscheier and Kasprzyk work at the intersection with AA and bring in strong
        computational elements linking to SC, whilst Laugwitz reinforces links between AA and
        MP; Cangiani and Hubbard provide new links between SC and MMB and Neal between
        SP and MMB. Large awards such as the Leverhulme Trust DTP ‘MASS: Mathematics for
        a Sustainable Society’ (£1M, Owen) have underpinned further growth in collaboration.

    •   Expanding the scope of multidisciplinary research programmes. The Leverhulme
        Trust DTP has supported 15 students working across multiple disciplines on projects
        related to the sustainability of resources. An EPSRC Bridging the Gaps award in
        antimicrobial resistance (King) involved more than 10 different disciplines and industry
        representatives (Section 4.1). King is also heavily involved in the multidisciplinary
        Synthetic Biology Research Centre, and other staff are engaged with the UoN ‘Beacons
        of Excellence’ (Institutional Statement Section 2.1a). Joint appointments between
        Engineering and IAM/SC (Gradoni, Icardi) and Psychology and MMB (van Rossum)
        have opened new doors, while Band continues her fruitful joint appointment between
        Biosciences and MMB. Icardi is employed within the GeoEnergy Research Centre, a
        joint enterprise between UoN and the British Geological Survey (BGS). van Rossum
        directs the Nottingham Neural Computation Research Group (created through a UoN
        strategic development fund award to SMS, Psychology and Physics and Astronomy),
        which is currently training its first cohort of PhD students and second cohort of MSc
        students in ‘Computational Neuroscience, Cognition and AI’.

    •   Establishing a Centre of Excellence in Uncertainty Quantification (UQ). New
        appointments Brown, Icardi, Iglesias, Kalise, Mirams and Chairs Neal plus Leisen and
        Wilkinson in Q3 2020 have established UQ as a Focus Area that brings synergies
        between several RGs (IAM, MMB, SC, SP). Linked funding includes Mirams’ Wellcome
        Fellowship, a Royal Society International Exchange (Icardi), projects with the EPSRC
        composites hub (Iglesias, Tretyakov), and diverse collaborations, e.g. with Architecture
        at Sheffield (Iglesias) and Environmental Systems at Lancaster and Stuttgart (Iglesias).
        We lead (Kypraios, Preston) the ‘Data, Modelling and Uncertainty’ UoN Interdisciplinary
        Research Cluster (IRC), as well as the EPSRC Thematic Doctoral Training Programme
        ‘MaP: Mathematics and Statistics for Modelling and Prediction’ (Tretyakov) which
        includes UQ training for PhD and MSc students.

    •   Exploiting opportunities afforded by internationalisation. We have significantly
        expanded our reach, exploiting opportunities through both funding calls and community
        leadership and engagement. For example, a GCRF multidisciplinary project led by
        Dryden includes partners in Tanzania, whilst the £2M EPSRC Programme Grant on
        ‘Symmetries and correspondences’ led by Fesenko has developed strong links with
        China, Japan and South Korea. Examples of our growing number of community
        leadership activities and roles include leadership positions in EU COST Action networks,
        organisation of around 200 national and international meetings and Visiting
        Professorships in Austria, Canada, China and elsewhere (Section 4). We have active
        collaborations with researchers in over 30 countries. Over half of our publications in the
        REF period were co-authored by international researchers.

    •   Pursuing innovative fundamental research. We have successfully recruited four staff
        (Dufresne, Hofscheier, Laugwitz, Tufarelli) into fundamental areas via UoN Anne
        McLaren Fellowships (AMF) and Nottingham Research Fellowships (NRF) and two
        (Gielen, Schenkel, plus extension for Weinfurtner) on Royal Society University
        Research Fellowships (URF). The Programme Grant, EPSRC Fellowship (Kasprzyk),
        several other EPSRC grants, and one new and two continuing European Research
        Council (ERC) grants, have allowed SMS to expand significantly its activity and outputs,

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and attract exceptionally talented ECRs (such as three 1851 Fellows, Section 2.2) and
        PhD students (Section 2.3).

 1.2.2 Future research strategy

 RGs served the School well in developing its research priorities, but had hybrid roles as
 administrative structures. From August 2020, we are decoupling RGs into administrative
 Sections (Applied Mathematics, Mathematical Physics, Pure Mathematics, Statistics and
 Probability) and new Research Themes (RTs):

  Algebra, Arithmetic and their Geometries     Multiscale Modelling and Heterogeneous Media
  Computational Statistics and Machine
                                               Numerical and Applied Analysis
  Learning
  Data-Driven Modelling and Computation        Quantum Information and Metrology

  Epidemic Modelling                           Quantum Mathematics

  Fluid Mechanics                              Real, Complex and Functional Analysis

  Geometry and Symmetry                        Symbolic Computational Mathematics
                                               Teaching and Learning in Mathematics Higher
  Gravity
                                               Education
  Mathematical Neuroscience                    Wave Modelling

 The RTs were selected after thorough consultation with staff and an EOI process. They reflect
 our research strengths and priorities, encourage further collaboration across traditional discipline
 divides, serve as cohesive research communities for staff and PhD students, and allow for
 flexible updating through regular review in a rapidly evolving research landscape. Together with
 our world-leading Centre for Mathematical Medicine and Biology (CMMB), RTs will both inform
 and reflect our future strategy:

    •   Recruit exceptional talent that bridges our research. Early career Fellowships will be
        a key instrument. We will intensify our effort to identify outstanding potential candidates
        that fit our strategic needs (annual call for EOIs, proactively approaching candidates,
        etc.) and support applications to external schemes (e.g. UKRI Future Leaders
        Fellowships, Royal Society URF, EPSRC Fellowships, etc.) and to UoN Fellowships
        linked to permanent posts.
    •   Strategically invest in innovative research directions. Alongside strengthening our
        international leadership in established priority areas, we will build on recent funding
        successes to pursue new avenues in fundamental research and tackle emerging
        challenges in applications of mathematics to other disciplines. Facilitated by the flexibility
        of the RT structure, maintaining a healthy balance between consolidation and innovation
        is central to our strategy. Current foci are:
            o   Modelling and Data Driven Discovery (M3D). The interface between
                Mathematical Modelling and Data Analysis is currently catalysing discovery in
                disciplines from natural sciences and engineering to medicine and the social
                sciences. M3D is an exciting major initiative that involves 10 RTs across all four
                Sections and CMMB. It builds on our UQ development, our ‘Data, Modelling and
                Uncertainty’ IRC, and collaborative projects with 15 other Schools and numerous
                external partners from the public and private sectors. We aim to create a UoN
                hub to develop new mathematics in tandem with applications, enhance cross-
                Faculty collaboration, provide tailored training programmes, and act as a one-stop
                shop for external partners. M3D will also help us align to emerging priorities and
                showcase the impact of our research.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   Novel directions in Pure Mathematics (PM). Our pioneering programmes in
                Hilbert modular surfaces and in classifying Fano varieties share a distinctive core
                strength: the interplay between theoretical advances and computational algebra.
                We will build on this, developing the links between Tropical Geometry and
                Machine Learning (also linking to M3D). At the interface of Geometry and Number
                Theory we have world-leading programmes in motives, A^1-homotopy theory,
                and the statistics of modular symbols. As high-profile developing areas, they
                provide a natural route for expansion.
            o   Nottingham Centre of Gravity (CoG). Led by SMS with Physics and Astronomy,
                CoG is planned for launch in 2021. The discovery of gravitational waves in 2016
                highlighted major challenges in mathematical modeling, numerics and data
                analysis. CoG will expand in these directions, linking our world-leading research
                in mathematics and fundamental physics to observations. It will tap into new
                funding opportunities (e.g. STFC Gravitational Wave consolidated grants) and
                expand our reach globally (e.g. gravitational wave detector consortia).
            o   Quantum Technologies (QT). Building on our award-winning research in
                quantum science and technology, we will pursue new directions in this national
                and international priority area. One focus will be on quantum simulations for
                fundamental physics, boosted by coordination of a new £4M UKRI Programme
                (Weinfurtner, Louko) with seven UK Universities and numerous international
                partners.

    •   Continue to foster multi-disciplinarity. M3D and CoG are central to our pledge to
        develop fundamental mathematics in constant dialogue with other disciplines. The former
        will catalyse our expansion into Machine Learning and AI and strengthen links with
        Computer Science. UoN ‘Beacons of Excellence’ (Institutional Statement Section 2.1a),
        will further support multi-disciplinarity, e.g. we plan to expand our expertise in
        computational biology and interfaces with imaging and ‘omics data, to support the Future
        Foods and Precision Imaging Beacons, in which we have a key role. Our Engineering
        links will be strengthened through, e.g. the Wave Modelling RT. Energy and water have
        become new foci, driven by sustainability challenges spearheaded through the
        Leverhulme DTP. Opportunities for further development include the new EPSRC CDT in
        Sustainable Hydrogen and the UoN initiative in ‘Water Research’.
    •   Expand national and international networks. This is intrinsic to our focus on
        interdisciplinarity, our recruitment strategy, and the new challenges we are likely to face
        as a result of Brexit and Covid-19. M3D, CoG, and QT are critical steps in this direction.
        Other examples include an MRC-funded UK-Malaysia project (Cangiani, Houston), the
        UKCCSRC council (Graham) and our extensive involvement and leadership in numerous
        networks (Section 4).
 Contingency plans (e.g. more flexible timelines, alternative funding channels) for the
 implementation of major initiatives are in place in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The breadth,
 dynamism and foci of our research activities gives us confidence in their robustness.

 1.3 Impact strategy

 This REF period has seen some outstanding achievements in impact, both in terms of
 supporting its development and in realising outcomes. Highlights include an expansion of our
 Research Support Team, including a dedicated Impact and Engagement Officer, the
 development of our Women in Maths initiative (Section 2.4) and a significant range of other
 public engagement activities (Section 4.2). RGs proved effective in aiding external engagement
 and extending the reach and significance of our impact. Future strategy will continue this positive
 trend in supporting the RTs and providing oversight in developing future impact.

 The submitted impact case studies are:



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   CS1: Enabling the rollout of 5G in Italy and optimising vibration and noise control in
        vehicles using wave modelling
    •   CS2: New product development leading to international business expansion for a
        refrigerant gas sensor manufacturer
    •   CS3: Industrial use of mathematical models for drug safety testing
    •   CS4: Informing international regulatory policy for drug safety using cardiac
        electrophysiology modelling
    •   CS5: Transforming operational planning and asset management within the UK rail
        network

 1.3.1 Impact strategic achievements since REF2014

 This can be summarised via four impact achieving mechanisms:

 Enabling: A key part of our strategy has been to ensure impact is nurtured from the earliest
 stage, with support for development provided at every opportunity. King was appointed Impact
 Champion in 2014 and meets with academics to discuss their research and potential impact.
 These and other surveys generate new areas of impact that then receive a tailored package of
 administrative and financial support. For example: UoN’s KTP team were instrumental in
 securing CS5; Faculty and UoN financial support enabled collaborative visits (e.g. Gradoni,
 Weinfurtner), and software development (e.g. Graham, Mirams). Within SMS, our RBDM and
 expanded Research Support Team support development. The UoN network of Impact Officers
 and academic Impact Champions facilitates the sharing of best practice and the development of
 cross-disciplinary impact.

 The staff workload model and study leave scheme are used to support those undertaking
 impact-related activity. Examples include study leave for Graham in 2018 facilitating growing
 work with industry partners, and for Creagh in 2017 and Hodge in 2018 to aid work on CS1 and
 CS5, respectively. The School Research Board meets 3-4 times a year and advises on priority
 areas, e.g. through a refresh of our School Research Strategy in 2019 and targeted discussion
 at Away Days. Board discussions led to appointments in SC and SP, where further personnel
 were needed to develop our ambitions in linking work to Engineering and our UQ initiative.

 Engaging: Maintaining relationships with other disciplines and end-users is critical for impact to
 be realised. In 2016 we launched a series of industry talks from alumni and other partners (e.g.
 Bloomberg, Capital One, GSK) to provide routes to collaboration for our staff and careers advice
 for our students. These have expanded to a Faculty-wide programme to encourage cross-
 disciplinary working. Engagement events such as Study Groups (e.g. in Clean & Sustainable
 Growth, 2019, led by Owen with Innovate UK) have continued (Section 4). Expanded links with
 Engineering (e.g. through joint appointments Gradoni, Icardi) led to a wealth of new activity,
 such as the partnerships with Telecom Italia and British Telecom (CS1) and grants with RAEng
 and H2020 (led by BGS). Alongside our longstanding Engineering connections, we have
 developed many others, e.g. with Biology, English, Medicine, Physics and Psychology; 2018
 saw the 20-year anniversaries of the establishment of both the Rolls-Royce University
 Technology Centre in Gas Turbine Transmission Systems and our CMMB.

 Widening participation activities are another key long-term route to impact, encouraging uptake
 of degrees and careers in mathematics while disseminating research interests to a wider
 audience. Aside from our dedicated School liaison team, examples include: Feinstein has over
 30,000 downloads of materials on mathematical and functional analysis on Open Educational
 Resources at UoN; numerous staff contribute to summer schools (e.g. Sutton Trust) for
 promising pupils, taster days, careers events and activity classes; Wuthrich took part in a panel
 at mathscon 2019; a UoN Widening Participation grant in 2017 enabled Knott, Cianciaruso,
 Coutant (postdocs) to demonstrate a bubble chamber experiment to local schools; numerous
 interactive talks with local schools and abroad such as Gradoni 2018 in Italy with our partner
 Telecom Italia.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Delivering: Our case studies provide a representative sample of the breadth of impact types
 and application areas: they span multiple groups (IAM CS1,3; MMB CS3,4; SC CS3,4; SP
 CS2,5) and impact multiple sectors including communications (CS1), health (CS3,4) and
 transport (CS1,2,5). The immediate beneficiaries are industry or policymakers, with impact
 achieved via the delivery of efficiency savings, or new diagnostic or prognostic tools. In the
 longer term, patients stand to benefit through improvements in drug development and
 therapeutics (CS3,4), customers through more effective communication and transport
 infrastructures (CS1,5), and the environment through reductions in pollutants (CS2).

 Relationships with clients have been nurtured by Strömberg through Winchester Consulting;
 this is resulting in transformative impact to companies dealing with redundancies, particularly
 through the Covid-19 pandemic, with support being provided to grow the client relationships.
 Other successes include knowledge exchange schemes such as CASE PhD studentships
 (Section 2.3) and KTP (CS5). Public engagement activity has attracted a wide range of
 audiences, with some particularly high-profile (notably our Women in Maths initiative – see
 Section 2.4) and interesting approaches including an opera, poetry show, and BBC Radio 4
 interview, in addition to multiple outreach videos on YouTube and elsewhere which have
 collectively attracted well over 6M views (Section 4.2).

 Reaching Globally: Our international reach has expanded significantly this period. Examples of
 success include H2020 programmes (Billingham, Icardi, Tanner) and NIH and NSF (Bharath,
 O’Neill) – see also Section 3.1. One focus has involved work with Asia, including via our
 international campuses such as through the visit of Toussaint (Ningbo) to Louko in 2019 and
 joint mentoring of a researcher based at Ningbo on Mirams’ Fellowship in 2020. New links have
 been established through an MRC grant with Malaysia (SC), and developing collaborations in
 China, Japan and Korea (MP, NTG). New projects with Africa (SP, GCRF grant with Tanzania)
 and South America (MP, FAPESP grants with Brazil; IAM, RAEng grants with Colombia; SC,
 networks with Chile) have further expanded our reach.

 1.3.2 Future impact strategy

 Our future strategy revolves around new key objectives for our impact-achieving mechanisms.

 Enabling: Our focus is to exploit the RT structure to identify and pursue opportunities to
 maximise impact from emerging and developing activity. UQ has broadened to our M3D priority
 and this, in conjunction with the UoN Machine Learning initiative, provides ample opportunity for
 impact through, e.g. software development with Computer Science. Our alignment to UoN
 Beacons puts us in a very strong position to create impact pathways in food security, medical
 imaging and synthetic biology. We will continue to use our workload model and study leave
 scheme (Section 2.2) which, with support from the Impact Champion and Impact Officer, have
 proved highly effective. Specific objectives:
    • Ensure impact activity is recognised alongside research and teaching duties, thereby
         encouraging staff to engage with impact and develop new ideas.
    • Maintain development of impact cases, supporting them from the earliest stage.

 Engaging: The expansion of the Research Support Team provides an excellent foundation for
 the next REF period. We have already started to explore new approaches to end-user and public
 engagement over the last few years (Section 4), and our intention is to enhance significantly
 both the range and scale of activities in the years ahead. We aim to:
     • Coordinate more School-led events involving both staff and students, alongside
        continued engagement with University-wide activities, and make broader use of social
        media to promote and report on these.
     • Explore a wider variety of industry engagement activities such as breakfast meetings with
        local SMEs and focused workshops.

 Delivering: Our intention is to significantly increase end-user engagement, with support from the
 Research Support Team and UoN’s Digital Research Service (Institutional Statement Section

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1d). A particular target is student placements (UG and PG). This will be aided by our new
 degree programme with industry (commencing 2020) and degree apprenticeship in Data
 Science (commencing 2021). Students undertaking such programmes in the past have been
 motivated to pursue further studies and to maintain links with the School; this represents a
 valuable route to nurturing relationships with alumni who pursue careers in industry. These and
 other exploratory activities (e.g. Study Groups) will expand our industry funding portfolio. In
 summary, we will:
     • Expand our programmes of internships for undergraduate and postgraduate students
         funded by external partners.
     • Expand our business-led activities such as CASE and KTP.

 Reaching Globally: We have been successful in developing new global links and funding
 (noted earlier and in Section 4). Many of these involve end-users such as clinicians, and offer
 direct routes to impact. Large awards such as our EPSRC Programme Grant, Leverhulme DTP
 and ERC grants have helped to expand the scope of visitor programmes, as well as our
 international reputation. Key objectives:
     • Exploit interdisciplinary connections to further expand international reach to end users.
     • Explore more funding opportunities with an international and impact aspect, e.g. Newton
         Fund, GCRF.

 1.4. Open research environment and research integrity

 Open Science

 Staff and students have been routinely developing open-source software for many years,
 primarily in R, C++, or Python, which are made available through repositories such as GitHub,
 the Comprehensive R Archive Network (CRAN) or UoN’s own data repository. SMS also hosts
 long-term developers in Magma (Kasprzyk) and SAGE (Strömberg, Wuthrich). Examples of
 good practice include:

    •   Mirams developed cardiac electrophysiology mathematical models to predict clinical pro-
        arrhythmic risk. The free simulator (https://cardiac.nottingham.ac.uk) has performed over
        7,000 simulations for over 350 users (CS3,4). UoN’s Digital Research Team have been
        working on making the code more portable, and UoN covered the costs of MS Azure to
        allow a Research Software Engineer to optimise the simulations for time-limited queries.
    •   Dryden’s R package on CRAN ‘shapes’ provides shape analysis tools and supports his
        2016 book with Mardia ‘Statistical Shape Analysis, with Applications in R’. https://cran.r-
        project.org/web/packages/shapes/index.html. This has over 3,000 downloads per month
        on R studio and a total of >100k (>90th percentile of R packages). The package has 182
        Google Scholar citations, primarily by researchers in biological sciences.

 Reproducibility and validation of results is an important aspect, which is realised both through
 public deposition of data and by collaboration with industry partners. Examples of the former
 include the R package epiABC on GitHub which supports “A tutorial introduction to Bayesian
 inference for stochastic epidemic models using Approximate Bayesian Computation” by
 Kypraios, Neal and Prangle, and Python code in Bitbucket which supports “Automatic Symbolic
 Computation for Discontinuous Galerkin Finite Element Methods” by Houston and Sime.
 Examples of validation include performance analysis of Gradoni’s electromagnetic wave model
 (CS1) which was undertaken by IMST GmbH to validate the model’s theoretical predictions, and
 a workshop in 2020 organised by Graham with companies interested in the rheology software
 he was developing – with subsequent validation work taking place alongside fitting the code to
 their needs.

 More broadly, industry is regularly engaged through seminars, study groups and other tailored
 events to promote open dialogue and knowledge exchange. Research articles are deposited in
 the UoN Repository once accepted, in line with UoN’s Publication Framework, and often also in
 public repositories as preprints, allowing wider access.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Integrity

 UoN holds the European Commission’s ‘HR Excellence in Research’ badge, signs up to and
 implements the Concordats to Support Research Integrity and to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, and annually reviews and updates its own Code of Research
 Conduct and Research Ethics (Institutional Statement, Sections 2.4 and 3.1). SMS implements
 these through the annual review process, guidance in staff and student handbooks, and review
 of projects and grant applications through our two School Ethics and Integrity Officers (DoR and
 RBDM) who also oversee compliance with legislation and procedures in the School and report
 annually to UoN board. Grant applications receive internal peer review; assistance is also
 provided for data management plans and the writing process in general, including an annual
 training course for ECRs. Active awards are supported to ensure responsible project
 management, assessment of risk and accuracy of reporting to funding bodies.

 Beyond the formal requirements, SMS employs a range of measures to ensure a positive and
 healthy working environment for staff and students. All staff undertake training in bribery
 awareness, data protection, EDI at work, GDPR, modern slavery, staff and student equality,
 unconscious bias, and responsible use of social media. These are supplemented by other
 courses, e.g. training for staff involved in interview panels to eliminate bias and ensure fairness
 throughout the recruitment process. SMS has developed policies above and beyond the
 University requirements, embodied from 2020 in the SMS Behavioural Charter, which fosters an
 environment of mutual understanding and respect and is intrinsically linked with our EDI
 procedures (Section 2.4).



 2. People

 2.1 Overview and staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy closely follows the research and impact strategies. Over the REF period,
 efforts have been made to increase personnel in our smaller groups (NTG, SC and SP) and
 recruit individuals who work at group intersections (Hofscheier, Kasprzyk at AA-NTG,
 Laugwitz at AA-MP, Icardi at IAM-SC and others) to encourage synergies. The REF period has
 seen small overall growth from 64 to 67 Category A staff.

 Over this period, we have recruited 21 new academic staff, listed below (three further staff will
 be starting later in 2020/21) and seen six retirements, one voluntary redundancy, one death in
 service and ten staff moving to new appointments elsewhere, including Wilkinson who is re-
 joining SMS as a Professor in September 2020. Iglesias, Sotiriou and Weinfurtner joined the
 School in October 2013 and were included in REF2014 as new appointees.

    •   AA: Laugwitz (2019, joined as NRF).
    •   IAM: Gradoni (2016, previous research assistant since 2013, joint with Engineering),
        Icardi (2017, joint with Engineering), Kalogirou (2019, joined as Leverhulme Early
        Career Fellow), Scase (2014, joined from Engineering)
    •   MMB: Fadai (2020), Mirams (2016, joined as Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellow and NRF;
        now on a Wellcome Fellowship and a Professor), R Nicks (2016)
    •   MP: Schenkel (2016, joined as Royal Society URF), Tufarelli (2016, joined as NRF)
    •   NTG: Kasprzyk (2015), Strömberg (2014), Hofscheier (2019, joined as NRF).
    •   SC: Cangiani (2019), Hubbard (2014), Kalise (2019)
    •   SP: Bharath (2014), Neal (2020), Severn (2019), Silverman* (2018), Sirl (2014)

 *Silverman has a part-time contract with UoN as a Professor of Modern Slavery Statistics in the
 Rights Lab, one of the six UoN Beacons. He is affiliated to SMS and a member of the SP group
 (see also substantive connection statement in Staff return).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Promotions have been secured by (2020 promotions come into effect from August 2020):

    •   AA: Vishik (P, 2020)
    •   IAM: Gradoni (AP, 2020), Graham (P, 2018), Scase (AP, 2019), Tanner (P, 2016)
    •   MMB: Band# (AP, 2019), Brook (AP, 2017), Mirams (P, 2019), O’Dea (AP, 2019), Thul
        (AP, 2018), Wattis (P, 2017)
    •   MP: Adesso (AP, 2014 and P, 2016), Fuentes (P, 2015), Gnutzmann (AP, 2015), Guta
        (AP, 2014), Schenkel (AP, 2019), Sotiriou (P, 2017), Weinfurtner (Principal Research
        Fellow, 2017 and P, 2020)
    •   NTG: Diamantis (P, 2020), Wuthrich (AP, 2017)
    •   SC: Hubbard (P, 2020), Iglesias (AP, 2020), van der Zee (AP, 2020)
    •   SP: Bharath (AP, 2019), Bolton# (L, 2021), Brignell (AP, 2019), Kypraios (AP, 2015 and
        P, 2020), Le (P, 2016), Preston (AP, 2018)
 #Band and Bolton are being returned to UoA6 and UoA2, respectively. Both represent excellent

 examples of interdisciplinary collaboration, emphasising the extent of our innovative
 mathematical approaches to biomedicine. Band completed a PhD in SMS and then joined the
 Centre for Plant Integrative Biology; she is now AP on a joint appointment with Biosciences, with
 significant funding successes (£1M from BBSRC, HFSP). Bolton is an AMF who is progressing
 to an academic post from March 2021; her expertise in the spread of pandemics has been very
 much in demand in the last year, including via an MRC project led by Life Sciences.

 Our strategy has ensured that we have maintained an excellent balance of age and experience.
 We are working towards addressing the gender imbalance prevalent in the subject (new
 appointments Dufresne, Kalogirou, R Nicks, Severn and promotions for Band, Bolton, Brook,
 Fuentes, Le and Weinfurtner), see also Section 2.4.

 The School continues to recruit internationally and has attracted staff from, e.g., the US
 (Bharath, Laugwitz), Canada (Gielen, Hofscheier) and Australia (Fadai). UoN and SMS
 provide tailored advice for overseas applicants, covering visas, finance, accommodation,
 registering with local facilities, the university system and UK culture. The School also has a
 dedicated visitor room and regularly hosts international visitors (Section 4.1).

 2.2 Staff development

 SMS has a dedicated staff development programme that seeks to identify beneficial changes in
 School practice, to promote effective use of new technology and to encourage research
 collaboration, as well as supporting individual staff in their careers. The programme is led by the
 Staff Development Officer, with input from the Head of School, DoR, Director of Teaching and
 Learning, and SMS Boards. Individual needs and opportunities are identified through the staff
 appraisal scheme (Institutional Statement Section 3.1), through which advice on training and
 career development, including promotion and objective feedback on progress are provided. This
 is supplemented by our peer-mentoring system which has recently been enhanced following
 consultation, and by regular group and individual meetings.

 UoN’s Researcher Academy (on which Graham serves as Faculty of Science Lead) and
 Professional Development Unit run a wide range of courses designed in collaboration with the
 School to foster and enhance skills needed for career development; SMS also runs tailored
 training, e.g. in grant-writing and working with the media, as well as an annual exercise allowing
 draft promotion cases to be considered by senior colleagues and feedback provided.

 For academic staff, a workload model is used to ensure that the demands of teaching, research
 and administration roles are distributed fairly. Several staff work part-time and loads for these
 staff are balanced appropriately in the model. Study leave is offered on a ‘one for six’ basis (i.e.,
 after six teaching semesters staff can apply for a semester of leave); cases are assessed on the
 proposed activity and benefits for the individual and the School. In this REF period, 28 academic

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff have been granted study leave, with outcomes including the production of high-quality
 research papers, successful grant applications, development of impact case studies and impact
 activity (Section 1.3.1), and engagement such as Newton Institute programmes (Section 4).
 Pressures on staff time are also alleviated by the work of our seven dedicated teaching staff, as
 well as assistance from our in-house Research Support and wider School Support teams.

 Early and mid-career researchers

 Postdoctoral ECRs benefit from our staff development programme and are offered optional
 teaching, mentoring and supervision experience to further aid their development. They are
 encouraged to take the lead in organising seminars, events and other group activities in the
 School. Members of academic staff new to lecturing are given reduced administrative and
 teaching duties under the School’s workload model. All new staff are assigned an established-
 staff mentor and are encouraged to disseminate their research within the School’s extensive
 seminar programmes. New lecturers have preferential access to School travel and equipment
 budgets to enhance their opportunities to participate in international conferences and
 collaborations and to ensure that they have appropriate computational resources. ECRs have
 representation on the School’s Research Board where they can raise issues and provide fresh
 outlooks on existing activities. Grant applicants are supported through the School’s formal
 mentoring and review systems and training, as mentioned above.

 UoN’s Research Leadership programme provides mid-career support to successful applicants;
 in this period Graham, Kypraios, Sotiriou, Tanner, Vishik and Weinfurtner participated in one
 of these programmes. Promotions to Professorial level were subsequently achieved by all six.

 Fellowships

 During this REF period, the School has made concerted efforts to encourage fellowship
 applications (internal and external). These include:

    •   1851 Commission Fellowship (Knott 2017, McIlroy 2017, Saravani 2016)
    •   Daphne Jackson Fellowship (Franks 2015)
    •   EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (Kasprzyk 2016)
    •   Marie Curie Individual Fellowship (Coutant 2014, Iannella 2015)
    •   Royal Society Industry Fellowship with BT (Gradoni, 2020)
    •   Royal Society URF (Gielen 2018, Schenkel 2016, Weinfurtner extension 2018)
    •   Wellcome Senior Biomedical Research Fellowship (Mirams 2018)

 Outgoing Fellowships for our PhD students are noted under Section 2.3. In addition to the
 above, Dufresne, Hofscheier, Laugwitz, Mirams and Tufarelli won internal AMF/NRFs.

 All Fellows receive the same career development support as academic staff. AMF/NRF holders
 and other longer-term Fellows such as EPSRC, Royal Society or Wellcome Fellows, are
 supported in progression to a permanent academic position through the appraisal scheme and
 regular reviews of goals. The double promotion of Weinfurtner during her Royal Society
 Fellowship illustrates the effectiveness of such support.

 2.3 Research students

 The School currently hosts 96 PhD students. The gender balance at PhD level has remained
 stable across the REF period, at around 30% female. Since 2014 we have awarded on average
 24 PhDs per annum, a slight increase on REF2014’s 22. The School recruits highly qualified
 candidates from across the world through advertising and personal contact, and from our nine
 MSc programmes (whose intake tripled over the REF period) and strong UG population. The
 latter is aided by our well-supported summer research bursary programme (15-20 UG students
 in a typical year) which also helps (particularly ECR) staff with preliminary results to aid grant


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applications, e.g. Band’s successful HFSP application in 2020. Our annual PhD open day is
 widely promoted, and staff and PhD students frequently represent us at external recruitment
 events.

 Studentships are assigned largely on quality, with other factors including supporting new,
 particularly ECR, staff, alignment to external grant applications and balance amongst the RGs.
 Many studentships are multidisciplinary, e.g. through the Leverhulme DTP, UoN BBSRC and
 MRC DTPs, Synthetic Biology DTProg and themed ‘mini-CDTs’: ‘MAML’ (Modelling and
 Analytics for Life Sciences) and ‘MaP’. Funding has also been secured through the EPSRC DTG
 and School-funded studentships, CASE awards (Houston, Icardi, Stupfler and van Gennip,
 Tanner), and a fully industry funded studentship from BAST Inc Limited (Stupfler, Brignell).

 Training and support mechanisms

 The School holds two annual Welcome Events for new PhD students. Students have access to a
 continuously updated online School handbook, which provides guidance on all aspects of
 student life. Every student is assigned a principal supervisor, responsible for research guidance
 and administrative matters, and at least one secondary supervisor, whose involvement may
 range from additional mentorship to effective research co-supervision (where relevant, from a
 different UoA or by external collaborators, e.g. BAST Inc Limited, Crick Institute). In addition, a
 ‘buddy’ is assigned, typically a PhD student in the year above, and since 2020 also a
 postdoctoral mentor. There is a dedicated Support Team that PhD students communicate with
 on a regular basis. This team holds regular meetings to discuss everyday issues involving PhD
 students, and members offer confidential help and advice. Moreover, the School has a PhD
 Student Mental Health Representative, who holds monthly mental-health meetings. Important
 issues related to PhD students (and postdocs) are discussed in a dedicated Forum which meets
 quarterly.

 Training of supervisors is provided via the PGCHE and Professional Development short courses.
 Our supervision quality has been recognised, e.g. through Adesso being shortlisted for
 Outstanding Supervisor of the Year at the 2017 THE Awards. Excellence in enhancing the
 student learning environment has been recognised by UoN’s Dearing Awards where SMS won
 best overall School (in 2017) and three individual awards.

 Formal assessed PhD training requirements (which includes required broadening training)
 depends on the length of the programme (3, 3.5 or 4 years), which in turn reflects the incoming
 student’s experience, as well as any multidisciplinary elements of the project. In general, the
 School encourages 3.5-year programmes to allow consistency and better cohort building.
 Assessed training is provided through modules delivered by SMS and other Schools, as well as
 the MAGIC (Mathematics Access Grid: Instruction and Collaboration) and APTS (Academy for
 PhD Training in Statistics) UK Taught Course Centres. Since 2019, PhD students are required to
 take a Research Integrity Course, as part of the UoN-wide initiative. PhD students have access
 to an array of free training courses from the Researcher Academy, e.g. CV writing and interview
 training, and SMS sessions, e.g. annual review peer practice. Many PhD students also receive
 joint training, for example, through our joint PhD partnerships with Birmingham and Adelaide or
 through co-supervision with other Schools.

 SMS houses dedicated PhD student offices. Students share common room facilities with staff
 and can access further work and social space in the nearby Engineering and Sciences Learning
 Centre and George Green Library. Financial support of £1,000p.a. per student is provided for
 conference attendance and the RBDM advises on further funding opportunities and provides
 annual training in grant-writing, working with the media and pursuing a career in academia.
 Students take the course ‘Facilitating UG learning as a Postgraduate Student Teacher in
 Mathematical Sciences’ as a requirement for UG demonstrating, teaching or assessment
 marking. All students benefit from extensive seminar programmes (each RG runs one or more
 series, supplemented by coordination of regional activities such as the East Midlands Seminar in
 Geometry), Study Groups and workshops.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 PhD students are proactive, with staff encouragement, in event organisation, e.g. the 2014 and
 2020 National Research Students’ Conferences in Probability and Statistics and the ‘Quantum
 Roundabout’ workshops in 2014, 2016 and 2018. They also co-organise events led by staff,
 such as the 2016 ECMTB/SMB conference. Students are passionate about outreach, e.g. Akele
 visited a UK desalination plant and as a result co-led an event there in 2019 with the Institute of
 Chemical Engineers, and Radjen appeared on local radio in 2019 (more in Section 4). The
 School’s SIAM-IMA Student Chapter was established in November 2017; this is run by PhD
 students and is very active in event organisation.

 Prizes and awards

 The effectiveness of our PhD training is evidenced by the many prizes and Fellowships awarded
 to our students. We have supported several competitively awarded EPSRC Doctoral Prize
 winners (Seymour 2019, Le 2020, Morris 2020) and UoN provided six equivalent prizes for
 students on the ‘MASS’. Others include first prizes at TakeAIM (Holden, 2017; Brown, 2020), an
 EPSRC Fellowship (Girolami, 2014 – who subsequently won a JR Oppenheimer Fellowship at
 Los Alamos in 2017), a JSPS-Royal Society Fellowship (Oliver, 2014), LMS Early Career
 Fellowships (Morris, 2020 and Pybus, 2020), an MRC New Investigator Award (Chernyavsky,
 2015) and an honourable mention in the 2018 Giulio Rampa Thesis Prize (Juarez-Aubry, 2018).
 Many students secure competitive funding from UoN schemes (e.g. Researcher Academy Travel
 Prize) and externally (e.g. MRC-funded visit to Harvard for Brown, 2018), as well as winning
 prizes at events (e.g. Braun, 2015; Mills and Schäfer, 2017). Prizes to top postgraduate students
 include e.g. the UoN Dean Moore Research Scholarship (Baker, 2014; Roggendorf, 2018).
 Every year our students have been selected to attend the SET/STEM for Britain competition at
 the Houses of Parliament; Irons won the national Silver Prize for mathematics in 2018. Birkar,
 recipient of the 2018 Fields Medal, was a UoN PhD graduate in 2004 and visited SMS in 2019 to
 inspire our students.

 Many of our PhDs go on to postdoctoral research positions; they have also proved highly
 employable in industry. Several who graduated in the REF period have already secured
 permanent academic appointments, including at Bath, Brasilia and Crete or fellowships, as
 noted above.

 Progress monitoring

 A student’s status as a PhD candidate is probationary during the first year of registration: each is
 subject to a Confirmation Review by the end of that year, followed by Progression Reviews in
 subsequent years. These involve a written report and research plan that are assessed in an oral
 exam by two independent assessors, who also monitor successful completion of training
 requirements. Further reviews can be held at any time should concerns be raised, for example,
 through the regular supervision meeting reports (at least 10 p.a.) completed by the supervisors
 and student. Progress monitoring seeks to ensure thesis submission within the period of
 registered study, with extra time granted for cross-disciplinary studentships (who are often based
 in other Schools), CASE, etc, as well as for students affected by Covid-19 and personal
 circumstances.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 In the REF period SMS established an EDI Committee (formerly the Athena SWAN group and
 since 2020 the broader People and Culture Committee) to ensure that all matters affecting staff
 and students are considered fully. The committee includes staff and student representatives.
 The first Chair of the EDI Committee (Pumpluen, who now sits on the Faculty EDI Committee)
 was appointed to the LMS Women in Maths Committee in 2016 in recognition of her work
 towards the EDI agenda. The School hosts the Faculty BAME Champion (Augustus) who
 supports positive change across UoN and works closely with Faculty and UoN EDI staff

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including the PVC for EDI (Sharples) who sits on UoN Executive Board. UoN EDI policies
 (Institutional Statement Section 3.5) are followed, with additional key School-level actions taken
 by our EDI Committee including:

    •   Pushing for, and achieving, greater equality in event participation, particularly seminar
        and conference speakers, e.g. half of the ECMTB/SMB conference speakers were
        women (from 2014).
    •   Initiating surveys and follow-up support activities for disabled, LGBT+ and BAME people,
        including actions to reduce the attainment gap and encourage more diverse internal PhD
        candidates (from 2015).
    •   Providing staff and student training on unconscious bias (from 2016), including explicitly
        linking training to the School’s behavioural standards, which have been formalised into
        the SMS Behavioural Charter (2020).
    •   Enacting (University-wide) supportive parental leave and flexible working policies that
        allow people of all genders and role types to access support, including a consistent policy
        for all PhD students irrespective of the funding policies (from 2017).
    •   Creating specific ‘safe-space’ offices where students and staff can feel at ease to discuss
        issues without fear of discrimination, aimed particularly at supporting LGBT+ staff and
        students (from 2017).
    •   Changing role requirements and the tone of job adverts explicitly to encourage a more
        diverse applicant pool (from 2019).

 Our Behavioural Charter and other measures above have been well received. Evidence of
 appreciation of our proactive approach to reducing discrimination and providing a supportive
 environment include the award of a Vice Chancellor’s Medal to Moriarty (Impact Officer 2016-
 2018) for exceptional contributions to developing UoN EDI procedures, and to Pumpluen and
 Nichols (PhD student) for their efforts as ambassadors for women in STEM.

 The committee actions contributed heavily to the successful renewal of the School’s Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award in 2016 and 2019. SMS also supports the LMS Good Practice Scheme.
 Over the period the School has championed nationally and internationally its ‘Women in Maths’
 initiative. This has included a 2018 conference, with speaker Maria D’Orsogna who discussed
 ethical uses of mathematics and showcased the science and careers of female researchers in
 computation. A Facebook community (over 8,200 followers at Aug 2020) was established in
 2014 by Pumpluen, and two groups are coordinated: “Women in Maths” (over 1,500 members
 at Aug 2020) and “Alice: Women in Quantum Information” (over 300 members at Aug 2020). The
 initiative has been lauded by the LMS, European Mathematical Society, European Women in
 Mathematics and others, and has been extended to widen the diversity net beyond gender
 considerations. Pumpluen was featured in an article in Womanthology, an online magazine that
 champions positive female role models (124k readers and 21.4k Twitter followers), where over
 85% of surveyed viewers said their interest in mathematics had increased and many women
 found it ‘empowering’, noting that they were more inclined to study or resume studying
 mathematics afterwards. Supplementing this online activity, a PhD-instituted group for women,
 trans and non-binary people in mathematics meets for lunch weekly in term time. Students have
 further contributed to EDI through, e.g. participation in the Nottingham civic showcase for
 international women’s day demonstrating the uses of mathematics, outreach to schools (Section
 4.2), Accenture girls in STEM day, and creation of the Women and Pride in Maths bimonthly
 newsletter that now has around 200 global subscribers. The School continues to have a
 dedicated Tutor for Women Students.

 Ten staff are trained as mental health first aiders (in addition to our regular first aiders) to help
 understand and respond to student and staff concerns. Students have mental health meetups to
 reduce isolation and general stress. The Health and Wellbeing Officer coordinates activities to
 encourage social and professional wellbeing, e.g. social exercise during lunch breaks, provision
 of fruit in our common room and a School table tennis tournament. Students are encouraged to
 contribute ideas, which have included a mathematical poetry club, film club and board game
 competitions. After the outbreak of Covid-19 and move to online working, numerous training and

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discussion events were held to develop best practice in the new environment. Covid-19 has
 accentuated the importance of mental health and wellbeing, particularly for those with caring
 responsibilities and other factors that can aggravate the situation; online fora such as a School
 virtual cafeteria have helped retain a sense of community.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income and funding portfolio

 Research income increased steadily over the period, aside from a dip in 2017-18 due to some
 larger grants closing the year before. Our current portfolio (grant value to the School) is worth
 £18M, representing a 50% increase from the last REF. This comprises over 70 active awards
 comprising (by value) 42% EPSRC, 15% Wellcome Trust, 12% Leverhulme Trust, 8% Royal
 Society and a variety of other UK and international sources. Notable examples include:

  Award                                              SMS staff                      Value
  EPSRC Bridging the Gaps in Antimicrobial           King                           £0.5M
  Resistance
  EPSRC Design by Science Grant                      Graham                         £1M
  EPSRC Fellowship                                   Kasprzyk                       £0.5M
  EPSRC Nexus with Southampton                       Owen                           £1.5M
  EPSRC Programme Grant with Oxford                  Fesenko                        £2M
  ERC Starting Grant                                 Adesso                         £1M
  GCRF award with Tanzania                           Dryden, Le, Preston,           £0.5M
                                                     Silverman, Sirl
  H2020 RIA with BGS                                 Icardi                         £9M
  Horizon Digital Economy Hub renewal                Dryden                         £4M
  Leverhulme DTP                                     Owen                           £1M
  Marie Curie IAPP with Engineering                  Tanner                         £2M
  Marie Curie ITN with Engineering                   Billingham                     £4M
  Royal Society/Wellcome                             Mirams                         £0.5M
  Sir Henry Dale Fellowship
  Royal Society URFs                                 Gielen, Schenkel,              £1.5M
                                                     extension for Weinfurtner      collectively
  STFC Consolidated Grants with Physics              Barrett, Krasnov, Louko,       £1.5M
                                                     Sotiriou, Weinfurtner          collectively
  Wellcome Collaborative Award with Imperial         Brook                          £2M
  Wellcome Senior Biomedical Fellowship              Mirams                         £2M

 King directed the modelling work on BBSRC/EPSRC industrial technology and synthetic biology
 grants held within Life Sciences exceeding £18M in total value, serving on the Core
 Management team of UoN’s Synthetic Biology Research Centre. Around a dozen further BBSRC
 grants and studentships with Biosciences with a collective value of over £4M have involved
 Band, Farcot, King, Owen and Preston. Other awards of lesser face value but equal strategic
 importance have included a Leverhulme project grant with Physics (Scase), two UK
 Regenerative Medicine Platform awards (King, O’Dea), NERC grants with Biology (Brignell) and
 work funded through the EPSRC Composites Hub (Tretyakov, Iglesias). Charity and
 international funding increased substantially, e.g. via FQXi (Adesso, Fuentes, Tufarelli), NIH
 (Bharath, O’Neill), NSF (Bharath), ONR (Tanner) and the major Leverhulme and Wellcome
 awards mentioned above. Industry funded research was also a key feature of this period, e.g.
 with Bloomberg by Preston, Bharath, van Gennip and Mahlberg (English, Birmingham) and


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £100k from BAST Inc Limited supported a four-year PhD studentship. Substantial investment
 (over £650k) from predominantly US philanthropists enabled the establishment of the Physics
 branch of the Penrose Institute (Fuentes) which supported two postdocs and multiple visits by
 Penrose to SMS (Section 4). The School was also aided by the provision of two internally funded
 doctoral training grants: ‘MAML’, centred around MMB, that supported five students and ‘MaP’,
 spanning multiple groups (IAM, SC, SP), that supported four (with 11 other students aligned).

 Research margin (combined with income from teaching) contributes towards supporting pump-
 priming activity for research, as well as a significant investment into PhD studentships (Section
 2.3).

 3.2 Consultancy and professional services

 Formal consultancies have included Element Six (Cliffe, Houston, 2012-date), Mars Petcare
 (Owen, 2019-date), Chalice Medical (Houston, O’Dea, 2016-17), Cranswick (Icardi, 2019-
 date), Heilbronn (Kasprzyk, 2017-date), Rambus (Farcot, 2015-16), Winchester Consulting
 (Strömberg, 2016-date). Our impact case studies highlight further examples such as Dynament
 (CS2). In 2017, Preston, Kypraios and Brignell established their own company, DAMSL Ltd,
 alongside Goulding (Business School) and Wilkinson (Sheffield, now UoN), consulting for over a
 dozen private and public sector clients on projects from rail-safety standards to optimising a
 multinational retailer’s website.

 Cliffe (Rolls-Royce) and Tanner (inuTech) have been part-funded by industry and extensive
 interactions also occur through other mechanisms, including internships, CASE awards (Section
 4) and patents developed by staff (Fuentes, Weinfurtner, Zhang). Many of these are supported
 by UoN’s ‘Nottingham University Consultants’, who assist with the legal and financial aspects of
 the relationships.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

 The School is housed in a dedicated facility built in 2011, which contains offices for all academic
 staff, postdocs and PhD students, research and admin support and our in-house IT team. The
 building includes dedicated study space and computing facilities for UG and MSc students, eight
 ‘break-out’ rooms to encourage small group discussion, and a shared staff-PhD student common
 room. An AccessGrid room provides space for delivery of advanced courses through the UK
 ‘MAGIC’ consortium (Section 2.3). SMS has eight in-house dedicated Linux multi-core servers
 and access to the University’s High-Performance Computing Facility (with 15 SMS registered
 users in 2018-20); UoN is a partner in the EPSRC-funded MidPlus regional HPC centre. The IT
 team maintain the hardware, as well as providing support for software and liaising with the
 central Information Services team.

 Weinfurtner has dedicated laboratory space in an adjacent building due to her developing both
 theoretical and experimental aspects of her work. A further laboratory is being refurbished for
 her new Leverhulme Research Leadership Award (£1M) and UKRI Programme (£4M) in 2020.

 Reflecting our funding successes, the School’s Research Support team has expanded since
 2014 to four: the mathematically-trained RBDM assists staff with applications, provides training
 and aids with strategic planning; a Research Support Officer and Research Support
 Administrator together provide day-to-day assistance with event support, budgeting, project
 management and administration; and an Impact and Engagement Officer helps to develop and
 realise research impact, and supports outreach and business engagement activity in the School.
 This team also advises on ethics and integrity matters (Section 1.4), alongside the DoR, as well
 as assisting in meeting requirements for the open data agenda such as production of Data
 Management Plans, accessing funds for open access publication, and matters of data storage,
 retention and security.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 The School is engaged in many hundreds of research collaborations, most of which are
 interdisciplinary. These occur through funded grants (Section 3.1), joint events, networks and
 research papers. Below, we present an indicative selection to highlight the disciplinary and
 global reach of our work.

 Selected international collaborations, networks and partnerships

 We have represented the UK on EC COST networks: Barrett “Quantum Structure of Spacetime”
 2015-19; Gradoni “Advanced characterisation and classification of radiated emissions in
 densely integrated technologies” 2015-19; Sotiriou “Gravitational Waves, Black Holes and
 Fundamental Physics” (also Working Group leader) 2017-21 and "Quantum gravity
 phenomenology in the multi-messenger approach” 2019-23. Kalise leads “TIDAL: Taming the
 Curse of Dimensionality in Dynamic Programming Equations” 2019-22, funded by the French
 Gaspard Monge Program on Optimisation, Operations Research and Data Science with partners
 in Boston, Imperial, Graz and Sorbonne.

 The continuing partnership with the Mathematical Biology Institute in Ohio supported a joint
 workshop ‘Generalized Network Structures and Dynamics’ in 2016 (Coombes). Mirams has led
 on the CiPA initiative with the US Food and Drug Administration and was part of the Health and
 Environmental Sciences Initiative Cardiac Safety Technical Committee (CS4).

 Other funded collaborations include: Creagh, Gradoni, Tanner with electrical engineering at
 University of Maryland and UoN, supported by multiple EC, EPSRC and other grants; Icardi with
 Porta (Politecnico di Milano) funded by Royal Society; Kurzke with Cabre (UPC Barcelona)
 funded by IRCEA and with Ignat (Toulouse-Paul Sabatier) funded by ANR; Oblezin with
 Lebedev (Moscow) funded by the Russian Science Foundation. Collaborations such as
 Diamantis with Hoffstein (Brown), Kiral (Keio) and Lee (Bristol), Strömberg with Skoruppa
 (Siegen) and Vishik with Smirnov (St Petersburg) have helped secure external funding; the
 latter also led to a 2017 lecture series. Other international programmes include a year-long
 programme on IUT in Kyoto, Japan (Fesenko, 2020/21), and a six-week programme on Probing
 Effective Theories of Gravity in Strong Fields and Cosmology at Kavli Institute for Theoretical
 Physics, Santa Barbara, USA (Sotiriou, 2020).

 Selected national and regional collaborations

 The BBSRC Multiscale Biology Network led by Owen included a summer school at UoN in 2017
 that sparked several new collaborations including with Schupper and Krishnan (Aachen,
 Germany). This led to a mini-symposium (by postdoc Kalogiros) at the SIAM Conference on
 Computational Science and Engineering in Washington, USA in 2019.

 One highly successful collaborative award is EPSRC ‘Bridging the Gaps: Systems-level
 approaches to antimicrobial resistance’ (King, 2015-17) which fostered relationships with
 Biology, Veterinary Medicine, the Medical Faculty, Chemistry, Physics and Engineering. The
 programme supported 23 pump prime projects, 40 researchers (largely ECRs) and around 40
 activities that engaged end users including via changes to the education of healthcare
 professionals, input into NHS improvement projects, informing governmental organisations such
 as the Animal and Plant Health Agency and DEFRA, and impact on competitive business
 decisions such as for Severn Trent Water.

 Our multi-disciplinary collaborations are often supported and/or initiated through UoN investment
 such as the Beacons and IRCs that include the ‘Data, Modelling and Uncertainty’ cluster we lead
 (Kypraios, Preston), and Impact Acceleration Accounts such as work by Stupfler with Derclaye


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Law, UoN) on EU case law. Beacons involve staff from around 20 different disciplines across
 UoN and provide excellent opportunities to develop exciting new directions.

 SMS staff are involved in various regional groups, including through coordination of the: East
 Midlands RSS Group (Brignell, Kypraios, Sirl); LMS East Midlands Seminar in Geometry
 (Kasprzyk); Northern Number Theory Seminar Series (Wuthrich). Staff also organise activities
 or speak at the Newton Institute: Uncertainty Quantification for Cardiac Models (Mirams, 2019);
 Flows, mappings and shapes (Zhang, 2017); Gravity, twistors and amplitudes (Krasnov, 2016);
 Free Boundary Problems (King, 2014; with a six-month resurgence programme planned in
 2021/22); speakers: King 2015 (Simons Fellow), Wattis 2016, Zhang 2017, Houston and King
 2019, Ball 2020 (Covid-19 related).

 During the Covid-19 pandemic, staff were involved in the Royal Society Rapid Assistance in
 Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) initiative (Band, Bolton, Kypraios, Mirams, Owen and
 Preston), as well as in multidisciplinary and multi-institutional Covid-19 UKRI projects (Bolton,
 led by Life Sciences and Kalise, led by Warwick).

 Research events (around 200)

 In 2016 we hosted the ECMTB/SMB conference, one of the largest mathematical and theoretical
 biology events in the world (around 850 delegates from 40 countries for a week). This was
 organised by our MMB staff and PhD students, with support from our admin team. Below is an
 indicative selection of other events hosted at UoN (around 100 in total):

  Event title                           Funder       Year     Organiser(s)              Delegates
                                                                                        (approx.)
  57th ARTIN Mtg (online)               UoN, LMS     2020     Laugwitz                  100
  Holomorphic dynamics                  LMS          2019     D Nicks                   25
  LMS Regional Meeting on zeta          LMS          2019     Gnutzmann,                30
  functions and elliptic curves                               Strömberg, Wuthrich
  Scientific computation using          UoN,         2019     van der Zee         50
  machine learning                      UoB’ham
  SECURE Workshop                       H2020        2019     Icardi                    50
  Threshold networks                    EPSRC        2019     Coombes, Lai, Thul        40
  Mathematics of multiscale biology     LMS          2018     Farcot                    80
  Polaron Day                           LMS          2018     Tufarelli                 30
  Multiscale biology summer school      BBSRC,       2017     MMB group                 80
                                        LMS
  Stochastic epidemic models            LMS          2017     Sirl                      40
  Bogomolov 70th birthday               EPSRC        2016     Fesenko                   30
  BritGrav                              UoN, IoP     2016     Louko, Sotiriou           80
  Kac-Moody Groups and L-               Heilbronn    2016     Oblezin                   12
  Functions
  Manifold-Valued Data                  EPSRC        2016     Dryden, Le, Preston,      60
                                                              Wood
  Graviton scattering                   ERC          2015     Krasnov                   50
  Gravity at all scales                 ERC          2015     Sotiriou                  100
  Quantum cybernetics & control         FQXi         2015     Adesso                    80
  Statistical inference for epidemic    EPSRC        2015     Kypraios                  25
  models
  Waves in complex media                H2020        2015     Gradoni, Tanner           40

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Selected outgoing visiting appointments (over 20 in total)

    •   Ball, Visiting Professor, Stockholm University, 2017, supported by the Knut and Alice
        Wallenberg Foundation.
    •   Fuentes, Visiting Professor, University of Vienna, 2015-2018.
    •   Sotiriou, Distinguished Visiting Professor, Instituto Superior Tecnico, Lisbon, 2018.
    •   Tretyakov, Visiting Professor, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 2017.
    •   Weinfurtner, Emmy Noether Fellow, Perimeter Institute, Canada, 2015-2016.

 Selected incoming visiting researchers (over 100)

 Notable visitors include: Antonsen (Maryland), Bogomolov (Courant Inst. NYU), Britton
 (Stockholm, via an EPSRC Visiting Fellowship for Ball and O’Neill), du T Mouton
 (Stellenbosch), Falk (Wurzberg, supported by LMS), Gillibert (Toulouse), Goldfeld (Columbia),
 Lafforgue (IHES), Marron (N Carolina), Penrose FRS (Oxford), Pickering (Rey Juan Carlos),
 Prohl (Tubingen, supported by LMS), Smirnov (Steklov Inst.), Unruh FRS (Perimeter Inst. UBC),
 Zelmanov (UCSD).

 4.2 Engaging with end users and contributing to society

 Reaching out to industry, clinicians and policymakers

 Work with industry often arises through consultancy (Section 3.2; industry income is also noted
 in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.). Tanner and Gradoni continue to develop a wide network of industrial
 connections, most recently with BT (talk to BT Research Labs 2019, Gradoni’s Fellowship),
 Telecom Italia, Airbus and others. Tanner supports other staff in his role as the School industrial
 engagement representative. CASE awards have proven a successful mechanism for
 engagement for many years in the School, and over the period we have secured four in a
 competitive environment: with Element Six (Houston), Romax (Tanner), Russell Group Limited
 (Stupfler, van Gennip), and Total (Icardi). The appointment of Mirams in 2017 allowed him to
 enhance his existing wide network of industrial and public sector connections, e.g. with GSK,
 Roche and the FDA.

 The UoN Institute for Policy and Engagement, established in 2017, has helped to encourage
 policy work, e.g. Graham is a committee member of the US-led Additive Manufacturing
 Benchmark Test Series, which allows modellers to test their simulations against rigorous
 benchmark data. Graham also sits on the UKCCSRC council and ran a workshop in 2014 with
 participants such as National Grid and the Pipeline Industry Guild.

 Fuentes was part of the Strategic Research Agenda Working Group, Quantum Flagship
 European Commission 2018-19. Sotiriou was Topical Team Member in ESA’s Voyage 2050
 space program and Fundamental Physics subgroup Chair in the 3rd Generation Gravitational
 Wave Detector Consortium Science Case Team. Hubbard and Scase collaborate with Johnson
 (Geography, UoN) on work with the Environment Agency, and Icardi with BGS through his joint
 appointment.

 Science communication

 Many staff and students are involved in Open Days, the annual UoN community day, and local
 events such as Light Night, Science in the Park and the Nottingham Festival of Science and
 Curiosity. One of the highlights has been the ‘PubHD’ programme: this began in Nottingham in
 2014 with the aim of enabling speakers to explain their work to the general public in an informal
 pub setting. SMS students and staff have contributed to nine talks and the scheme has been so
 successful that there are now over 20 branches in seven countries. Staff have also made
 contributions to: Skeptics in the Pub (van Gennip 2018); Scibar (Coombes 2016); Pint of
 Science (Weinfurtner 2016, Sotiriou 2017, Adesso and Fuentes 2019). For the 2017 Pint of

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science, SMS submitted mathematics-inspired artwork, including a large art installation; Brewer
 (PhD student) was an exhibited finalist.

 Public talks are organised when the opportunity arises, e.g. Penrose delivered a sold-out (~350
 in person, others via livestream) public lecture in 2018 during one of his visits and Sotiriou
 organised events celebrating the centenaries of General Relativity and Black Holes and the first
 detection of gravitational waves. In 2017, Wattis gave a talk to a local Science and Technology
 Club and Sotiriou at a Café Scientifique. Sotiriou also gave invited outreach talks in Cambridge
 (Archimedeans, 2018) and Malta (2018). Fuentes talked about her work on a BBC programme
 (2018) and gave a plenary talk at the New Scientist Live Event in London (2019) which had an
 audience of 20,000. Symonds produced three videos for the YouTube educational channel
 Numberphile (up to 296k views each), while Weinfurtner made several videos and interviews,
 e.g. a Sixty Symbols video (2016, over 230k views to date), one in Spiegel online (a renowned
 German magazine), in NOWTHIS (2017, over 3.1M views to date) and in Techinside UK (2017,
 over 1.3M views to date). Newspaper coverage of Weinfurtner’s work and/or expert opinion
 includes numerous articles in the German and English press such as The Times (2016) and
 New Scientist (2014). These and multiple other YouTube videos and interviews have
 encouraged particularly women to consider careers in mathematics and physics (Section 2.4).
 Fesenko has appeared on BBC Radio 4 and been interviewed by New Scientist and others
 regarding his work with Mochizuki. The School was also active in the immediate response to the
 Covid-19 pandemic: for example, Ball co-authored a paper in Science (2020) modelling the
 threshold for reaching herd immunity; this was covered in the news and an interview on Notts TV
 and by many outlets including the Daily Mail and Hindustan Times.

 Knott and Tufarelli collaborated with an artist to produce a book about quantum mechanics
 (‘Our quantum reality’) using accessible text and illustration. Knott was subsequently interviewed
 by FQXi who funded the project, and the design for the book appeared on the front cover of
 Physical Review Letters in 2018. Adesso hosted a performance of ‘Entanglement: An entropic
 tale’ by Midlands troupe Infinite Opera at Lakeside Theatre in 2018 with a Q&A (leading
 performer Korda moved onto a PhD at Birmingham City University on ‘Librettising Science’ co-
 supervised by Adesso), and the public dissemination event ‘Science Rhymes’ in 2019 within
 Nottingham Poetry Festival (PhD student Lanyon, who performed at the event, also ran an SMS
 Mathematics & Poetry club in 2018-20). Links to the arts world have also appeared naturally
 through Owen’s cancer modelling work which was featured in a 2018 exhibition ‘Where science
 and art meet’ in the Netherlands and in the associated O2 magazine in 2020.

 4.3 Academic leadership and services to the research community

 SMS staff undertake a wide array of other activities in the mathematical sciences community.

 Prizes and awards

 Our academic leadership and the international reputation of our research were recognised with
 prestigious awards, including:

    •   Weinfurtner, Leverhulme Research Leadership Award, 2020
    •   Silverman, Knighthood for Public Service and services to Science, 2018
    •   King, LMS Naylor Prize and Lectureship, 2017
    •   Adesso, World Economic Forum Young Scientist Honour, 2016
    •   Gradoni, Latmiral Prize, Italian Society of Electromagnetics, 2015
    •   Tanner, Best Paper Award of the IEEE EMC, 2015
    •   Farcot, La Recherche Biology Prize, 2014

 Steering and advisory committees

 In addition to staff involvement in numerous conference steering committees, we highlight:


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brignell (APTS Executive Committee), Kasprzyk (Classification, Computation, and Construction,
 EPSRC Programme Grant), King (EPSRC FAST Healthcare NetworkPlus Advisory Board,
 subpanel 10 member and interdisciplinary advisor for REF2021), O’Neill (NIHR ‘Real time
 modelling of a pandemic influenza outbreak’ project 2013-15), Silverman (UK Research
 Integrity Office, Chair of Trustees), van Rossum (Bernstein Center Munich advisory board).

 Funding panels

 EPSRC panel members include Kasprzyk (2016), Strömberg (2018), Dryden (2015, 2018),
 King (2016), Owen (2017), Coombes (2017, 2018, 2019), Oblezin (2019), Fuentes (2014,
 Physics Chair), Billingham (2017, 2018). We maintained representation in the EPSRC Early
 Career Forum (Thul 2014-2015, van Gennip 2016-2018, McIlroy 2019-2020) and hosted an
 EPSRC SAT Meeting in 2019.

 Other agency roles include: Brook (Royal Society Newton Fellowships panel 2018-2021);
 Coombes (Royal Society Research Grants Board 2013-15; MRC Skills Development panels
 2017-18; Commonwealth Scholarship Commission); Fuentes (EC FET panel member and
 reviewer); Graham (UKCCSRC council since 2017); Graham, Le, Schenkel (Royal Society
 International Exchange Committee); Kypraios (Chair of RSS Statistical Computing Section);
 Scase (NERC Highlight Topics panel 2018).

 Grant reviews

 Demonstrating the breadth of our interdisciplinary activity, staff undertake reviews for almost all
 the UK Research Councils (AHRC (Silverman), BBSRC – Farcot, O’Dea, van Rossum;
 EPSRC – over 20 staff; MRC (Farcot, Mirams, van Rossum), STFC (Sotiriou), UKRI (King)),
 as well as for Leverhulme Trust (Kurzke), LMS (Bharath) and Wellcome Trust (Kypraios,
 Mirams, Owen). Internationally, we have reviewed, e.g. for Cariparo Foundation (Sotiriou),
 Chilean FONDECYT (Houston, Pumpluen, Sotiriou), Czech Science Foundation (Sotiriou),
 Danish Council for Independent Research (Graham), ERC (King), German DFG (Adesso,
 Barrett), Hong Kong Research Grants Council (Diamantis, Houston), NSERC (Barrett, Louko,
 Sotiriou), NSF (Barrett, Louko), NWO (Farcot), South African NRF (Sotiriou) and the Swiss
 National Science Foundation (Houston, Sotiriou).

 Learned society roles

 Numerous staff are members of the IMA, LMS, RSS or SIAM. More substantial roles include:
 Billingham, Coombes, Icardi, King, Scase and Wattis (Fellows of IMA), Dryden (elected
 Fellow of Institute of Mathematical Statistics, elected member of the International Statistics
 Institute), Icardi (Interpore event committee), King (IMA Journals Board of Management, SIAM
 Prize Committee), Louko (International Society on General Relativity and Gravitation committee
 since 2013), Mitchell (PhD, RSS committee), Pumpluen (member of Deutscher
 Hochschulverband since 2013, elected member of LMS Women in Maths committee since
 2016), Silverman (Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences since 2014, FRS), Sotiriou (Chair
 of Gravitational Physics Group at IOP since 2017), Tanner (elected member of the
 Sudentendeusche Akademie since 2017), Weinfurtner (Chair of International Society for
 Relativistic Quantum Information since 2018).

 Editorial duties (over 40) and monographs

    •   Journal board memberships include: Acta Applicandae Mathematicae (King, joint editor-
        in-chief), Advances in Computational Mathematics (Houston), British Journal of
        Pharmacology (Mirams), Classical and Quantum Gravity (Louko), Communications in
        Mathematical Research (Zhang, deputy editor), Computational Methods and Function
        Theory (Langley), European Journal of Applied Mathematics (King, joint editor-in-chief),
        General Relativity and Gravitation (Sotiriou), IMA Journal of Numerical Analysis
        (Tretyakov), International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture (Billingham),

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Journal of Engineering Mathematics (Billingham), Journal of Mathematical
         Neuroscience (Coombes, joint editor-in-chief and co-creator), Journal of Physics A
         (Adesso), Mathematical Biosciences (Ball, Kypraios), Mathematical Medicine and
         Biology (King, joint editor-in-chief), Physica D (Coombes), PLOS One (King, O’Dea),
         Proceedings of the Royal Society A (Barrett, Sotiriou), PRX Quantum (Adesso),
         QJMAM (Billingham, King), Quantum (Fuentes), Sankhya Series A (Bharath), SIAM
         Journal on Scientific Computing (Houston, Tretyakov), Statistical Science (Kypraios),
         Wave Motion (Gradoni).
    •    Book editorships include: Geometry Driven Statistics (Dryden, Wiley 2015), Optimal
         Control: Novel Directions and Applications (Kalise, Springer 2017), Thermodynamics in
         the Quantum Regime (Adesso, Springer 2019).
    •    Monographs include: hp-Version Discontinuous Galerkin Methods on Polygonal and
         Polyhedral Meshes (Houston, Springer 2017); Formulations of General Relativity
         (Krasnov, CUP 2020), Modular Forms: A Classical Approach (Strömberg, AMS 2017).

 Invited talks

 Staff have provided many hundreds of invited talks over the period. We highlight here some of
 the (over 50) special events and notable talks.

 Special events:

    •    Barrett: Conference for Alain Connes’ 70th Birthday, Fudan, China, 2017
    •    Dryden: 3rd David Finney Lecture, Edinburgh, 2019
    •    Edjvet: Workshop for Arye Juhasz’ 70th Birthday, Technion, Israel, 2017
    •    D Nicks: Workshop for Walter Bergweiler's 60th birthday, ICMS, 2018
    •    Schenkel: Workshop for Klaus Fredenhagen’s 70th birthday, Hamburg, 2017
    •    Sotiriou: ‘100 years of gravitational light deflection’, Sao Tome and Principe, 2019
    •    Vishik: Voevodsky Memorial Conference, IAS, Princeton, 2018

 Keynotes and plenaries include:

  Speaker        Event                          Venue                   Year    Delegates
                                                                                (approx.)
  King    International Symposium on            Ireland                 2019    300
          Bifurcations and Instabilities
          in Fluid Dynamics
  King    XI Summer Workshop in                 Brazil                  2019    400
          Mathematics
  R Nicks International Conference on           Denmark                 2019    100
          Mathematical Neuroscience
  Houston 16th Conference on the                Brunel                  2019    350
          Mathematics of Finite
          Elements and Applications
  Gradoni International Symposium on            China                   2018    200
          Antennas, Propagation and
          EM Theory
  King    Mathematics for Complex               Canada (Fields          2018    60
          Microbial Systems                     Institute)
  Coombes International Conference on           Spain                   2016    200
          Artificial Neural Networks
  Dryden  SIS2017                               Italy                   2017    300


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Speaker    Event                         Venue           Year   Delegates
                                                                  (approx.)
  Fuentes  The Science of                  USA             2017   300
           Consciousness
  Kypraios 52nd Gregynog Statistical       Wales           2016   50
           Conference
  D Nicks  LMS Postgraduate                London          2015   30
           Conference in Complex
           Dynamics
  Louko    Hawking Radiation               Sweden          2015   100
  Coombes International Conference on      Turkey          2014   60
           Complex Dynamical Systems
           and their Applications

 Other notable talks include:

  Speaker       Event                      Venue           Year   Delegates
                                                                  (approx.)
  Weinfurtner 29th Workshop on General     Japan           2019   230
              Relativity and Gravitation
  Sotiriou    GWADW2019                    Italy           2019   200
  Barrett     Non-commutative              Germany         2018   50
              Geometry, Index Theory       (Oberwolfach)
              and Mathematical Physics
  Brook       7th Conference on            Germany         2018   100
              Systems Biology of
              Mammalian Cells
  Sotiriou    Shapes of Gravity            Netherlands     2016   100
  Coombes     International Conference     China           2015   100
              on NeuroInformation
  Graham      British-German Frontiers     Germany         2014   70
              of Science




                                                                              Page 22
