Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling

 Unit of Assessment: D27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context, objectives and structure

Stirling’s submission to UoA D27 is based upon the organisational Division of Literature and
Languages (DLL), which sits within the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. Our multidisciplinary team
comprises 34.3 FTE members of staff working in literary and film studies, language, translation and
linguistics, creative writing and publishing studies. Since 2014, we have consolidated our research
under three focussed and integrated themes:

   •    Transnational Narratives, Literatures and Cultures;
   •    Book History, Writing and Publishing; and
   •    Language, Linguistics and Translation.

Our vision is to increase understanding of text and language as they function across geographical,
linguistic, material, commercial, institutional and cultural borders, and as they have developed over
time. Our strategy is to enable multidisciplinary research that is transnational in scope and
significance, and which has real-world impact and utility.

Our research themes are sufficiently broad to accommodate a diversity of historical, geographical,
linguistic, theoretical and applied approaches to text and language. But they also provide the
mechanism for strategic resource planning and a framework for growth through alignment with
University research priorities. DLL research participates in the University’s overarching theme of
Cultures, Communities and Society, and in its designated Research Programmes in Cultural
Heritage, Digital Society and Culture, and Human Security, Conflict and Cooperation. The success
of our strategy is reflected in:

    •   the significant staffing investment made in DLL over the last six years. Seventeen research-
        active members of staff have been appointed (ten replacement posts; seven newly created
        research positions). These appointments have, in turn, allowed us to develop additional
        specialisms within areas of existing strength, in French and Francophone Studies, Spanish
        and Latin American Studies, Scottish Literature, Gothic Studies, Publishing and Critical
        Religion, and to establish new capacity in Translation Studies, which spans all three of
        DLL's research themes.

    •   The formation of our research themes has also been crucial in creating the necessary
        environment and support structures for smaller-scale (<£100k) and major grant capture in
        an increasingly competitive funding terrain. The themes are designed to foster and facilitate
        cross-disciplinary collaboration and knowledge-sharing, create opportunities for
        international and public partnerships, and provide mentoring opportunities for ECRs. In this
        they have been signally successful, driving overall research income up to £1.3 million in
        2014-20.

Our themes are supported by Faculty-wide Centres, Networks, and associated research groupings.
These include the Stirling Centre for International Publishing and Book Cultures, the International
Centre for Gothic Studies, the Stirling Scottish Studies Network, the Eighteenth-Century Studies
group, the Translation Research Group, the recently revived Postcolonial Studies Group and the
recently founded Modern Research Group. These inclusive fora provide opportunity to discuss
research ideas, share best practice, develop new initiatives and impact agendas, form
collaborations and develop research leadership. They also provide a welcoming and nurturing
environment for PGR & post-doctoral researchers.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Evidence for the success of our research themes and their promotion of strategic priorities is
detailed below (names are given in alphabetical order; italics indicate a review-period appointment).

Transnational Narratives, Literatures and Cultures conducts research within and across
Anglophone, Francophone, and Hispanic literary, film and cultural studies, in a wide range of
national and international settings and configurations. Exploration and interrogation of the idea of
hospitality (and resistance to that idea) underpins much of the work of this theme, which fits into the
exciting and innovative agenda set by the transnationalising modern languages research agenda
and is typified by interdisciplinary, intercultural, multilingual and cross-genre approaches.

In Anglophone literary studies, Scottish literature and culture from the Romantic period to the
present is examined with particular emphasis on the history and politics of Scottish identity as these
are expressed domestically and through mechanisms of transnational and transatlantic exchange.
Highlighted here are Hames's work on independence and devolution and his International Journal
of Scottish Literature; Hunter's research on Hogg and international periodical publishing; and
Shaw's study of revivalism and Celtic identity. Robinson's broader interests in pan-Caribbean
literary culture also encompass elements of Scottish studies with an emphasis on postcolonialism,
diaspora and locations of reading.

Research in this theme is distinguished by a similarly non-metropolitan and multi-generic approach
to Francophone and Hispanic literatures and cultures. In Francophone studies, Barclay's expertise
in North African and Mediterranean writing and culture has been enhanced by the appointments of
Grayson, Ní Loingsigh, and Parish, who extend geographically (to Sub-Saharan Africa) and
conceptually, to issues of migration, trauma, conflict, and memory. In Hispanic studies, the recent
appointments of Baker (Bolivia) and Ordiz (Mexico, Argentina) have further developed established
strengths in colonial Iberian and Latin American research represented in the work of Dedenbach-
Salazar Saenz (Peru) and Olivera. Film and visual culture are a key point of intersection between
Francophone and Hispanic research in DLL, again with an emphasis on geographical range
(Europe: Ezra, Johnston, Davies; Algeria: Barclay; Argentina: Olivera) and diversity of critical
approach (exoticism, gothicism, commodity culture: Ezra; gender and sexuality: Johnston, Olivera).

The expansive contexts of Gothic and Critical Religion as critical/aesthetic categories make for
extensive transnational, multimedia and cross-disciplinary research in DLL. Work in this theme
encompasses gothicism and occultism in literary and visual cultures, extending from the 19th
century to the present, and from New Zealand to Spain and Latin America. The interdisciplinary
work of Gao and Hass, meanwhile, examines the interplay between literature and religion in
Chinese and European literary, philosophical and spiritual traditions.

Members of staff linked to this theme conduct research and engage in knowledge exchange and
external engagement opportunities through the aforementioned research groups and networks,
such as the International Centre for Gothic Studies and the Postcolonial Studies Group.

Members: Anderson, Baker, Barclay, Davies, Dedenbach-Salazar Saenz, Edwards, Ezra,
Ferguson, Jones, Gao, Grayson, Hames, Hass, Hunter, Johnston, Ní Loingsigh, Olivera, Ordiz,
Parish, Shaw, Robinson

Book History, Writing and Publishing is concerned with textual production, reproduction,
materiality, circulation and reception. Strong staff investment since 2014 has aimed at creating a
coherent and distinctive research grouping by integrating new and established expertise in three
related areas: historically-oriented research in book history and material cultures; textual editing;
and the study and practice of contemporary writing and publishing.

Book history and material cultures is concentrated in the Early Modern period and the eighteenth
and nineteenth centuries. Jackson Williams focusses on the intellectual and material cultures of
early modern northern Europe, with a particular interest in Scotland. Vine complements and
consolidates the Early Modern grouping with his work on book history, manuscript studies, and the
history of science and information in the British context. Halsey's research in the eighteenth and

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
nineteenth century is similarly concerned with material and print culture, with a particular interest in
readers and library history. Her new £1 million AHRC project on library borrowers' records 1750-
1830 extends her established expertise in reading practices to the Scottish context.

The Scottish Romantic period is also the focus of Hunter's work in textual editing. Since the early
1990s, DLL has administered and directed the Stirling/South Carolina Research Edition of the
Collected Works of James Hogg. Hunter's £400k AHRC project resulted in publication of the
Edition's 30th volume. Penn's editorial work, meanwhile, is located in Medieval Studies and in
particular the Latin writings of John Wyclif and his contemporaries.

DLL makes a distinctive contribution to research and practice in contemporary writing and
publishing through synergies between staff in Creative Writing and Publishing Studies. This
grouping brings together writers working in a variety of modes and genres (poetry, fiction, creative
non-fiction, playwrighting, screen-writing, editing), with researchers focussed on contemporary
literary publishing and marketing and digital textual media and eBooks.

Knowledge exchange, research and collaboration across the Book History, Writing and Publishing
theme is facilitated by Stirling Centre for International Publishing and Book Cultures (directed by
Squires), and by the Pathfoot Press (directed by Jackson Williams), which facilitates hands-on
letterpress printing, teaching and research.

Members: Bell, Halsey, Hunter, Jackson Williams, Jamie, MacNeil, Penn, Rowberry, Squires,
Tasker, Vine

Language, Linguistics and Translation encompasses some of our newest research foci, and has
been a site of significant staff investment since 2014. The theme comprises Language and
Linguistics, Translation and Interpreting Studies, and extends across literary, linguistic, sociological
and hermeneutical approaches to historical and contemporary issues and challenges. The locus of
this theme is in applied research that aims to illuminate and ameliorate social problems and
conditions. Its concerns range from public health and food culture, to civil and minority rights and the
historical legacy of colonial discourses. Its methodologies include language and discourse analysis
and translation and interpreting theory and practice.

Linguistic research into public health issues is central to Benwell's work on health communication,
and Smith's research into metaphor and framing in anti-smoking campaigns. Health also forms an
important strand in Li's multimodal translation studies work on postcolonial food cultures, and on
stress and mental health impacts on professional translators.

Interpreting and translation research has been an investment priority during this review period, with
an emphasis on appointments that have potential to enhance other research themes. Stokes' work
on German literary translation, and de Pedro Ricoy's research into State-trained indigenous
translators and interpreters’ rights in present day Peru, and the translation work of Dedenbach-
Salazar Saenz on indigenous cultures and language of Andean peoples have synergies with the
Transnational research theme. Similar connections have developed between translation studies and
Critical Religion, as demonstrated in Gao's research into the translatability of Christianity into
Chinese culture, and Dedenbach-Salazar Saenz's work on translations of Christian sacramental text.

Knowledge-sharing and strategic planning in this theme is facilitated through the Centre for
Interpreting, Translation and Intercultural Studies, the Critical Religion group, the Postcolonial
group, and the Translation Research group.

Members: Benwell, Dedenbach-Salazar Saenz, Gao, Li, de Pedro Ricoy, Smith, Stokes




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Impact and Interdisciplinarity

Our impact strategy, set in place before 2014, incorporates the following goals:

   (1) preserving and making public literary and cultural heritage in a transnational context;
   (2) developing critical vocabularies to enhance understanding of cultural values and practices;
   (3) engaging in applied research that directly helps practitioners to improve and innovate; and
   (4) inspiring and educating readers and audiences outside academia.

We pursue these goals as integral to our research culture, as we identify specific beneficiaries and
direct our research towards those beneficiaries.

A key strategic aim has been to increase the number of partners with whom we collaborate, to
strengthen existing relationships, and to pursue research that crosses language and media. Partner
organisations include local, national and international organisations, schools and public cultural
spaces (libraries, museums and galleries). These partnerships have been particularly fruitful in
enabling our submitted Impact Case Studies. Communication of our impact includes digital
platforms: blogs, websites, and social media (e.g. the Gothic Imagination (@GothImagination) and
Critical Religion (https://criticalreligion.org/blog/) blogs, and creative writing and publishing studies
website and social media). Our research attracts funding for its impact-orientation as well as its
excellence. The strength of our projects on, for example, global English, women in the literary
industry and the role of indigenous translators and interpreters in guaranteeing access to human
rights lies in their impact. Similarly, work on the language of complaints in the NHS has led to an
award from NIHR to fund research to develop quality improvement recommendations in a project
initially developed via a University of Stirling Research Enterprise Support Scheme award, which
first launched a pilot study and related symposium. AHRC-funded research on French Algerian
repatriation has wider connections to current ‘border’ or ‘migrant’ crises, and works with local partner
organisations, such as Stirlingshire and North Lanarkshire Councils, to harness their participation in
the UK government’s Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme to generate direct impact.
Ongoing research consultancy work in Publishing Studies that partners with book trade and cultural
policy organisations in Scotland is producing significant work in the structuring of cultural policy for
the sector.

Our Impact Case Studies exemplify our approach through collaborations with the British Library to
produce an exhibition, with the Library of Congress, Washington D.C., to host a public symposium
and the Royal Opera House to stage an opera. Across other research projects, our collaborative
partners continue to include Innerpeffray Library, the Royal Society of Literature, the Universities of
Jinan and Sun Yat-sen, NHS Scotland and Northern Ireland, the Amsterdam Centre for Language
and Communication, the Scottish Poetry Library, Publishing Scotland, Creative Scotland,
Écomusée du Val de Bièvre and the Scottish Refugee Council. These partnerships also generate
research impact via PGR projects, with DLL developing nine collaborative PhD projects over the
period, including with Innerpeffray Library, Publishing Scotland, HarperCollins, Scottish Book Trust,
the British Library, Glasgow Life, Leighton Library and the Saltire Society. Halsey’s AHRC-funded
project, ‘Borrowing 1750-1830: An Analysis of Scottish Borrower’s Registers’, works with over
twenty partners, from Aberdeen University Library to Wigtown Subscription Library, and will analyse
the reading of lead miners in Dumfries and Galloway, clergymen in Dunblane and Dumfries,
advocates in Edinburgh, university students, professors and townspeople in the historic university
towns of Aberdeen, Edinburgh, St Andrews and Glasgow, and what Daniel Defoe called the
‘middling sort’ of people in Selkirk, Wigtown, Kirkwall, Haddington, Turriff, and rural Perthshire.

Across our three research themes, the research is collaborative and interdisciplinary in approach.
This emphasis is supported by our staffing strategy, which has appointed staff working across
subject areas and organisational units (e.g. a Lecturer in Religion and Politics, Lecturer in Religion
and Translation, Lecturers in Digital Media and Publishing, and Publishing and the Digital Creative
Economy).



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We hold a single research seminar series for all staff and PGRs, which encourages collaborative
working and sharing of expertise. Bold examples of interdisciplinary working can be found in
Francophone, Hispanic and Gothic Studies, with literary (including travel) writing and theory playing
an important role in our interdisciplinary understanding of cultural texts and their production and
adaptation across different popular genres such as horror. Our distinctive ‘Critical Religion’
approach interrogates the construction and limitations of the category of ‘religion’ itself, and
stimulates interdisciplinary connections with literature, colonialism, postcolonialism, feminist
thought, history, continental philosophy, and hermeneutics. Translation and Interpreting Studies
pursue literary, linguistic and sociological issues within a conscious interdisciplinary framework.

DLL’s researchers also operate intramurally within the Faculty of Arts & Humanities research groups
of Health and Wellbeing, Eighteenth-Century Studies (co-directed by Halsey from DLL and a
colleague from the Division of History), Gender Studies, Youth, Migration and Human Rights, Data
Driven Autonomous Technologies and Agents (DATA), history and archaeology. Beyond the
Faculty they intersect with colleagues in Public Policy, Health Communication, Health Policy,
Cognitive Psychology, Sports Studies, Computing Science and Cultural Heritage.

1.3 Open Research and Research Integrity

Dissemination of research is central to our institutional culture. All DLL staff upload research outputs
into Worktribe, the University’s institutional repository and research data management system.
Publications then appear on individuals’ staff profiles, and can also be located through the
University’s Research Hub searchable web interface via organisational units, research
programmes, research groups, and tags. Outputs are made available automatically. If they are
under publisher embargo, individuals may request access via an automated function which is
directed to the author. All published outputs are submitted to dataSTORRE, the University’s online
research repository, in compliance with GDPR regulations. The University operates an APC fund
for Open Access publishing available to all research-active staff; others have successfully applied
for external grants for open-access costs.

Staff and PGR activity involving primary research conforms to The Concordat to Support Research
Integrity, and must receive approval from the relevant University panel (for DLL generally the
General University Ethics Panel) before research is conducted. Given the contemporary orientation
of some of our thematic areas and the particular involvement of research partnerships with external
organisations and groupings, we are particularly attentive to both the challenges and advantages
of embedded, ethnographic and participant research. ECRs and PGRs may receive dedicated
training in this area, through both University workshops and DLL development activities, including
the monthly PGR ‘Research Club’ for Publishing Studies and the monthly writing group meetings
and yearly writing retreat of the interdisciplinary Eighteenth-Century Studies Group.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

The current cohort of the unit of assessment is 34.3 FTE and comprises 7.5 Professors, 9.4
Associate Professor/Senior Lecturers, 16.4 Lecturers and 1.0 Research Fellow.

The key strategic aim for the Division of Literature and Languages has been to attract and develop
a talented group of academics across the career spectrum to sustain and further develop a vibrant
research environment. Three colleagues retired during this period, but with a combination of ten
replacement posts, including four at Professorial level, and seven new research active posts, our
staffing strategy has enabled us to extend and enrich our research activity, reconfigure our research
themes and expand their geographical reach The areas of French and Francophone Studies,
Gothic Studies and Scottish Studies have seen significant staff departures and arrivals, but have
increased their core academic complement and enabled each area to develop a more focused and
strategic research agenda which has, in turn, led to funded research collaborations within the
Division and the development of more coherent research-led teaching Programmes. For Book

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History, Writing and Publishing, the departure of emeritus early-modernists attached to specific
projects is balanced by the arrival of scholars in Early Modern material culture, creative writing,
digital publishing and the creative economies which has facilitated the full incorporation of
Publishing Studies into the research group, realising a range of new collaborations and possibilities
that is best exemplified in the newly founded Pathfoot Press (Stirling’s Centre for Letterpress).
Recent strategic appointments across Programmes (Religion and Translation, Digital Media and
Publishing, Publishing and Digital Creative Economy and Religion and Politics) further underscore
the cross-disciplinary basis of staffing strategy.

2.2 Staff Development

Our recruitment strategy, designed to strengthen and improve the coherence of our three themed
areas outlined above, targets both Early Career Researchers and research leaders. Our strategic
framework and operations ensure staff are integrated into a community that conceives of research
as a central rationale for the Division’s activities and we equip our researchers to develop Stirling’s
local, national and international research environment, both by working with external partners and
international collaborators.

Support for Researchers and Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

The continuing positive influence of the Researchers’ Concordat and the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers is evidenced within our UoA through research induction
programmes upon employment, peer to peer mentoring arrangements for all staff and faculty-
organised senior colleague mentoring of early career colleagues. Dedicated funds are available for
all staff to attend specialist training events and conferences. The Researcher Development
Programme, managed by the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies, is available for all staff.
Introduction to interdisciplinary research is made through the Stirling Crucible programme, working
with colleagues from across the University and which offers models and practice experience for
interdisciplinary working. Direct research support for all research grant applications is given by a
dedicated Research Development Officer and this, together with the Divisional Research Director,
supports colleagues in the research grant application process including grant craft workshops and
peer review coordinated via the university’s online Worktribe research management system.

To support and realise the potential of individual researchers, an annual performance review
scheme, ‘Achieving Success’, is undertaken by all staff. This supportive aspect of personal
development gives an opportunity to reflect on achievements and plan short and long-term future
goals facilitated by a workload model. This review is also used to provide information on staff
activities, aspirations and resource requirements and facilitates development of the Faculty planning
and promotions processes.

The Faculty workload allocation model ensures research, teaching, and administration ratios of
40:40:20. All academic staff (permanent, fixed-term, part-time) can apply for one six-month period
of leave after six semesters of service. Semesters accrued during probation and maternity leave
(four since 2014 as well one parental leave and five paternity leaves) count towards leave
entitlement. Researchers in DLL have been successful in 89% of applications for institutional leave
since the Autumn 2013/Spring 2014 round (32 of 36 proposals). This figure includes the last round
(considering requests for Autumn 2019/Spring 2020). All applicants receive intensive feedback
from Divisional and Faculty peer-reviewers – including the Associate Dean for Research, Divisional
Research Director and Head of Division – prior to submission for approval by the Faculty Executive.
On rare occasions where colleagues are unsuccessful in securing institutional leave, the Division
endeavours to adjust teaching and administrative loads to ensure colleagues receive some form of
enhanced research time.

The development of ECRs and their research profile is essential to our environment. Probationary
ECRs are supported through a review process, given a phased reduction in teaching (starting with
up to 25%) during their probation period, and have regular meetings with the Head of Division,
Divisional Research Director, and a ‘senior colleague’ within their disciplinary area, to advise on

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
career planning, research and practical and operational matters. Additionally, probationary staff
have a mentor, drawn from a pool of senior staff members from other disciplines with excellent
records in teaching, publication and funding. These collegial relationships – co-ordinated at Faculty
level – complement the support given to all staff by the Divisional Research Director and the
Associate Dean for Research. In consultation with the mentors, ECRs decide on a tailor-made
programme of one-to-one sessions and workshops from the University’s Researcher Development
Programme, including subject-specific workshops (e.g. on European funding). Where appropriate,
ECRs and lecturers are encouraged to join grant applications by senior colleagues.

The success of our staffing and organisation strategy can be measured in that all colleagues offer
high quality research outputs and the unit overall has delivered significant increases in research
income and impact over the past six years. Early career researchers are nurtured within their
respective research group, provided with feedback on research ideas (during initial development,
and during write-up), and offered peer mentoring of grant proposals. In this cycle, ECRs secured
over 25% of awards.

Access to promotion is available through University Guidelines published annually. Researchers
are encouraged to discuss career progression with the Head of Division via the Achieving Success
process and to assess themselves against the benchmarks in the Concordat (since 2008) and the
Researcher Development Framework (since 2011). Over the past six years, three Lecturers, all
women, have been promoted to Senior Lecturer. Staff on fixed-term contracts are employed to
teach and research and are supported as full members of the Division. Fixed term staff benefit from
the probationary, ECR and mentoring support detailed above. Post-doctoral researchers on fixed-
term contracts have gone on to successful permanent academic posts elsewhere. A key
component of the staff development strategy is to provide leadership opportunities, particularly for
mid-career academics. This approach has facilitated leadership development within the Division
with mid-career staff now in key roles such as Head of Division (Benwell, Hunter), Chief Examiner
(Smith), and Postgraduate Director (Barclay, Halsey). These changes have also allowed the
Division to continue to promote gender balance in senior roles and to ensuring the long-term
sustainability of our leadership and research culture.

2.3 Equality and Diversity

The University’s commitment to gender equality was recognised in the institutional Athena SWAN
Bronze award in 2016. Support for equality and diversity is built into our research strategy and DLL
fosters equality and diversity perspectives in research, for example, many of our researchers work
on gender and sexuality and are members of the Faculty of Arts & Humanities Gender Research
Group. Gender equality is consistently under review: currently DLL have 24 female staff to 20 male,
with 7 women at the professorial level compared to 1 man. The Division’s representatives on the
Faculty Athena Swan committee (ECRs, Grayson and Shaw) are engaged in seeking the Bronze
Award for the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, efforts co-ordinated by the University’s Equalities
Action Group, which promotes Athena Swan institution wide. The Division is also engaged in Aurora,
the leadership development initiative for women, with a Faculty mentorship scheme in place. Three
women in the Division have benefited from this leadership training during this REF cycle.

The Division follows equality and diversity policies at Faculty and University level that include:

   •   teaching relief for those returning from maternity leave
   •   the same institutional support for those on fractional contracts as full time staff
   •   an email policy that limits expectations of email activity outside 8:00-19:00 Monday-Friday
   •   all those in decision-making roles around research and leadership must attend an Equality
       and Diversity Training workshop to improve awareness of the conscious and unconscious
       biases that affect all stages of recruitment and advancement.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition to these, DLL is committed to:

   •   monitoring our curriculum, to ensure greater representation of female authors and authors
       from under-represented groups. To this end we have worked with the University’s Academic
       Development team to explore issues around decolonising the curriculum.
   •   aim for a strong gender balance in visiting speakers and major roles at seminars,
       conferences and workshops
   •   providing central offices for new and temporary staff who might otherwise be given
       accommodation less close to the heart of the unit
   •   scheduling committees, meetings and seminars between 10-4, to allow those with child-care
       responsibilities to attend.
   •   ensuring that Senior-level admin roles are occupied evenly by male and female colleagues
       with a view to gaining leadership experience (currently 8 out of 14 senior roles are occupied
       by women in the Division).

The University’s technical infrastructure enables access to shared drives and a wide range of
licensed online applications so academic staff can work from home, providing work responsibilities
are fulfilled, and the supportive atmosphere of a scholarly community is maintained on site. Most
flexible working is implemented informally, and staff adjust working hours to cater for family
commitments, travel arrangements or personal preferences. Evidence from discussions with staff
and staff surveys indicates that informal flexible working is appreciated and used regularly to enable
care for families during pressured times, for example school holidays, when children or family
members are ill or for care of elderly relatives. Following periods of leave (for parental leave, illness,
or carer responsibilities), staff can apply to work flexibly or part-time upon their return with an
eventual return to full-time work (1 member of staff has taken up this opportunity). It is the
responsibility of the Head of Division to arrange maternity/parental cover in discussion with the
member of staff.

2.4 Postgraduate Research Student (PGR) Supervision and Training

As the next generation of academic researchers, PGRs are central to our research culture. We
have a thriving community, with 71 PGRs from around the world registered during the period. We
support and develop our PGRs by closely matching supervisors to nurture the very best talent to
deliver high-quality research, delivering a dedicated bespoke training programme, creating a
stimulating but supportive environment where PGRs participate in each of our thematic areas, and
providing individual funding. 45 PGRs completed their doctoral work during this period.

Funding
As members of the Scottish Graduate School of Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), we have a strong
track record in the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership competition, with 37 (51%) of our PGRs
awarded funding. These results are testament to our strategy of tailoring supervisory teams to
provide optimal support for doctoral projects. Our supervisors benefit from training on all aspects
of the supervision provided by SGSAH, in addition to bespoke blended training provision delivered
via online and face-to-face sessions. Each Stirling PGR benefits from two supervisors; in addition,
in order to maximise complementary supervisory expertise a proportion are co-supervised with
colleagues at St Andrews, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Strathclyde, Dundee, and Heriot-Watt.
Our networks extend internationally: we have co-supervisory agreements with universities in
France (Clermont-Auvergne; Lorraine) and China (Dalian). PGRs also benefit from our excellent
links with external research partners: 9 (13%) of our PGRs were supported by partners including
the British Library, HarperCollins, Creative Scotland, Publishing Scotland, the Book Trust, Glasgow
Life, Innerpeffray Library, the Leighton Library and the Saltire Society. This list reflects the networks
operating within the Book History, Writing and Publishing thematic area, and demonstrates that our
PGRs are deeply embedded within and benefit from staff research projects, supporting them to
become skilled in knowledge exchange, partnership working, project management, and research
impact.



                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




The chart below shows the range of funding awarded:




Our PGRs’ success in securing external funding through highly competitive schemes demonstrates
the effective support provided by our supervisory teams. Seventeen (24%) were fully funded by
SGSAH’s AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership. In addition, the University and Faculty regularly
offer competitive studentships that attract high calibre applicants from around the globe. Other
prestigious studentships secured include Commonwealth Scholarships, Carnegie Trust
Scholarships, as well as AHRC project-funded studentships and AHRC Collaborative Doctoral
Awards. PGR award-holders are members of each of our thematic areas.

Training
We provide all PGRs with extensive training and support, guided by Vitae’s Researcher
Development Framework, the employability agenda set out by the University of Stirling (2011) and
Scottish Government imperatives on employability (2012). All PGR students attend a University-
wide induction session when they commence their studies, as well as annual Faculty induction
events tailored to each year of study. All PGR students undertake an initial Skills Development
exercise in their first supervisory meeting, and Skills Development is monitored against the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework by the supervisory team on an ongoing basis. PGRs are
encouraged to take ownership of their own development by identifying training needs. Formal
training is delivered at three levels: through Divisional provision, including specialised tuition on
areas such as palaeography, Latin and MFL; through a programme of researcher development
courses run by the Institute for Advanced Studies, which is organised in five strands covering
academic skills and knowledge, creation of a personal profile, leadership, development research
skills, and knowledge transfer and impact; and through SGSAH’s Scotland-wide training
programmes.

Thanks to Stirling’s membership of SGSAH, all PGRs are able to attend their training events,
including the annual Summer School, as well as apply for funding for Cohort Development activities
working in collaboration with peers and staff across universities in Scotland. Our students have
successfully applied for Cohort Development Funding in the following areas: Public Engagement,

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Writing for a Wider Audience, Authorship, Hands-On Printing, Textual Editing, and Rare Books
Handling, while staff members have also successfully applied for Cohort Development Funding in
Modern Languages, Book History and Critical Religion. This ensures that any skills gap identified
by either PGRs or staff may be filled with bespoke provision. SGSAH-funded students can also
access its internships, catalyst training, hub activities and residential week for networking. The
breadth of provision ensures that PGRs can select from a range of options to create training that
is tailored to the needs of their specific project.

Environment
We foster a collegiate and active research environment by including PGRs in all research seminars,
workshops and conferences. Within the Division, PGRs are invited to present their work in the
Divisional Research Seminar, typically in their third year (or part-time equivalent). Outside the
University, we encourage PGRs to network through conference attendance, poster and paper
presentations, and to become active in relevant learned societies as PGR Representatives or
committee members. To facilitate this, we make available research funds of £2,000 per PGR for
conference attendance and research expenses; beyond this PGRs may also apply to the Faculty
of Arts & Humanities Research Fund. Our PGRs also have staff-level access to all facilities and
administrative support, and are entitled to hot-desking office space and a dedicated PGR common
room. All PGRs can stand for appointment as one of the Faculty’s PGR representatives, sitting on
the Faculty PGR Directors’ Forum, which meets three times a semester.

We encourage the development of a supportive PGR community in a number of ways. A mentoring
scheme puts new PGRs in contact with those further on in their research career, allowing them to
benefit from peer-to-peer support. Weekly coffee sessions are led by the Divisional PGR Director,
and similar sessions take place at Faculty level to facilitate interdisciplinary relationships and
knowledge exchange. PGRs also have the opportunity to develop transferable skills working
collaboratively across disciplines: they are encouraged to organise and lead the annual Faculty PGR
conference, which attracts PGRs from across the UK, and to become active as editors and peer-
reviewers on SPARK, the University of Stirling’s international online journal of postgraduate
research.

As Early Career Academics, PGRs can receive training in teaching as well as research, with access
to accredited CPD courses in Learning and Teaching run through the Academic Development
department.

Supervision
Supervision is core to delivery and oversight of PGR development. All PGRs have two Stirling
supervisors, carefully selected to ensure that ECRs are supported by senior colleagues.
Supervision meetings take place at least monthly in line with University-wide regulations, with
progress and actions being recorded online by the PGR in the University’s Research Compass
system and agreed by supervisors. Beyond regular supervision, we operate a rigorous but
supportive PGR annual review process, in which our PGRs present and discuss a 10,000-word
chapter, a training and events report, and their project plans for their remaining study. These
reviews are held with two members of staff: in Year 1 with the PGR Director and their second
supervisor, and in subsequent years with staff unconnected to their project. These reviews are key:
they enable PGRs to develop the skills of oral defence of their work, and extend staff input into
student work beyond the supervisory team. All PGRs have the opportunity to have a mock viva
before their examination.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income

Since the last REF, we have sought to increase research income by leveraging our strategic
research themes. The success of this strategy has led to a rise in research income to £1.3 million in
2014-20. In an increasingly competitive environment, this increase reflects the effectiveness of the
new support measures introduced: 1) the clear communication of expectations for research staff at

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
all levels; 2) training on designing and writing grant applications; and 3) the implementation of a
supportive peer-review process. These measures provide the foundation for three strategic
approaches to income generation:

   1. Develop junior researchers, who are encouraged to build a track record of success by
      applying for small awards (<£100k) from a variety of funders, supported by experienced
      colleagues through a formal system of mentoring. While small awards are largely unseen
      amongst large grant capture, this experience is crucial in pump-priming future income
      generation. In this cycle, ECRs secured over 25% of awards [10 out of 38].
   2. Consolidate colleagues with initial successes, who use this experience to target larger
      schemes such AHRC Early Career Fellowships/ UKRI Future Leaders, or collaborate as CIs
      with more senior colleagues on large grants
   3. Build international collaborations (de Pedro Ricoy, Parish) and public partnerships (Benwell)
      to grow our funding network.

Book History, Writing and Publishing:
Major AHRC awards were secured for:
    -    ‘Borrowing 1750-1830: An Analysis of Scottish Borrower’s Registers’ (PI Halsey; total value
        c. £1 million);
    - ‘James Hogg: Contributions to International Periodicals’ (PI Gilbert; CI: Hunter; total value
        £407k);
    - ‘Writing Britain's Ruins, 1700-1850: The Architectural Imagination’ (PI Townshend; total value
        £225k);
Other AHRC grants included follow on funding for ‘Out of Bounds Poetry Project’ (PI Robinson; follow
on funding, total value £100k); an AHRC Creative Economy Engagement Fellowship (with the
Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities), examining self-publishing in Scotland (PI Squires;
total value c.£53k) and the conclusion of Neil Keeble’s AHRC-funded 5-volume Reliquiae
Baxterianae project (2011-15; total value c. £400k). Substantial awards from other funders include
a British Academy award for ‘Mercantile Humanism: Knowledge-Making in Early Modern England,
1560-1660’ (PI Vine, total value c.£106k).

Transnational Narratives, Literatures and Cultures
New internal processes of grant development and peer-review aimed in particular at supporting Early
Career Researchers resulted in the award of an AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship: 'From
colonisers to refugees: narratives and representations of the French settlers of Algeria' (PI Barclay;
total value c.£252k).

Language, Linguistics and Translation
Significant AHRC successes include an AHRC/GCRF Follow-on Funding for Impact and
Engagement, ‘Improving women's lives through the role of female social interpreters in rural Peru’
(PI de Pedro Ricoy; total value c. £100k). Large awards from other funders include Benwell’s NIHR
NHS complaints project (in collaboration with the Universities of Ulster, Queen Margaret and
Loughborough – total value £557k).

3.2 Research infrastructure

Organisational infrastructure

Our three research themes provide the strategic infrastructure that 1) guides investment in staff
appointments; 2) drives research culture; 3) shapes research proposals and awards; and 4) supports
the delivery of outputs. Integrated within the University research themes, the Divisional research
themes enable and promote participation in advisory panels for governments and their agencies,
research councils, NGOs, learned societies and editorial boards, through which we influence
research policy and practice. The knowledge generated through this involvement is combined with
funder information from the University’s Research and Innovation Services, and made available to
colleagues through briefings that highlight the latest research opportunities and approaches.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University Library supports staff through its special collections, with particular strengths in Book
History, seventeenth-century texts (Leighton Library collection) and Scottish Studies. Two major
recent additions are the Iain M. Banks Archive and the Patrick McGrath Archive. The FAH has a
conference travel allocation which is open to DLL staff, in particular to supporting ECR’s networking
opportunities. DLL researchers can also apply to the University pump-priming schemes, Connect,
Connect+ and Steers, which are focused on new research initiatives linked to GCRF-related projects.

3.3 Operational Infrastructure

The research themes are embedded in and function through a series of well-established
collaborative partnerships. The Pathfoot Art Gallery, located within the University, functions as a
research-led creative development site in which Gallery staff work with practising artists, writers and
academics from across the unit to develop interdisciplinary research-led art, installations and
exhibitions. In addition to two exhibitions – When the Muse Looks Back: Picturing the Poetess
(Parker); James Hogg in the world (Hunter) – on poetry and literature that produced new creative
pieces now in the Gallery collection, staff in the Book History, Writing and Publishing theme have
ongoing collaborations with the Gallery: ‘The House of Words’, which features creative outputs by
the annual Charles Wallace Fellow (Robinson), and the annual ‘Pathfoot Project’ in which students
from our Creative Writing Masters and the Glasgow Conservatoire produce and publish original work
responding to the themes of the current exhibition (Bell). Also run by the Book History theme in a
cross-institutional collaboration with the Pathfoot Art Gallery and the University of St Andrews is the
Pathfoot Press: a centre for letterpress printing, research and teaching of hand printing that provides
training to researchers from across Scotland and features in research and conference presentations
at Stirling (Jackson-Williams, Halsey).

The Transnational Narratives, Literatures and Cultures theme also works with the Gallery,
mounting a major year-long exhibition, ‘Experiences of Exile’, which, in collaboration with the Musée
du Val de Bièvre near Paris, contrasted instances of Mediterranean migration from the 1960s and
today (Barclay). The project included a 10-week art therapy workshop series that brought together
a practising artist and a group of locally resettled Syrians to explore creatively the experiences of
‘Home from Home’. The group also featured the exhibition ‘Human Zoos’ (Murphy) and has recently
developed a ‘Black Lives Matter’ outdoor mural trail (Robinson), working with artists of colour. The
theme also has a longstanding collaboration with the Macrobert Arts Centre, hosting the annual
French Film Festival with public film introductions (Murphy, Marshall), and ad hoc screenings and
round table events (Barclay). The Macrobert offers an annual arts programme of 400 live
performances and screenings; with seven separate spaces that can accommodate between 40 and
460 attendees, it serves as a hub which links researchers, arts groups and community groups in
sustainable and mutually beneficial relationships.

The Book History, Writing and Publishing theme is facilitated by an ongoing and extensive
network of collaborative partnerships with 15 Scottish libraries, which encompasses archival
research, public engagement activities, and joint supervision of a number of postgraduate
studentships (Halsey, Jackson-Williams). Beyond Scotland, there are research partnerships
investigating the role of mercantilism in early modern literature with the London Metropolitan
Archives and London Guildhall Library (Vine).

The Language, Linguistics and Translation theme also worked with the Pathfoot Art Gallery on
the multidisciplinary exhibition ‘Reflections from the East’ (Hass) which encompassed hermeneutics,
religion and art, and on the exhibition The Pebbles are Each One Alive (Anderson and Pollock).

Key to the Language, Linguistics and Translation theme is the Interpreting Lab, a state-of-the-art
facility that enables students and researchers to replicate the conditions of a multilingual conference.
It features six double booths (equipped with interpreting consoles and a PC), a smartboard, a sound
system, and a master workstation. It can accommodate 10 people around a boardroom-style table,
each of whom have access to a console that allows them to listen to the output from the interpreting
booths of their choice through headsets, and to a microphone. Both the hardware and the software
are supplied by Televic, a leading provider of interpreting and multilingual communication solutions.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The equipment in the lab allows for running simulations to generate research data that can be used
for a variety of purposes. Trainee or professional interpreters’ performances can be audio and video
recorded to test and assess processes and outputs related to simultaneous and consecutive
interpreting, for example, comparing a simultaneous interpreter’s performance with their preparation
work to evaluate the results and draw conclusions that can inform pedagogical practices. In addition,
the configuration of the lab is ideal for observing and recording interpreter-mediated multilingual
interaction between delegates around the table.

3.4 Impact Infrastructure

Impact is an integral focus of our research. This is supported at Faculty level by our Academic Impact
Champion, and Academic Evidence Champion and a Research Impact Officer. Their input ensures
methodological rigour and effectiveness. Our strategic partnerships with the Pathfoot Art Gallery and
the Macrobert Arts Centre offer important venues for a range of impact activities through which we
reach a diverse range of community groups. The ‘Experiences of Exile’ exhibition (Barclay) held
2018-19 in the Pathfoot Art Gallery featured period artefacts, historical analysis, photography and
audio-visual material on Mediterranean migration. Visited by an estimated 18,000 visitors, it formed
the backdrop to a programme of cultural events and visits from artists, musicians, writers,
photographers, community groups and refugee support groups. The Macrobert Arts Centre was the
venue for a programme of film showings, academic introductions and round-table discussions on
Mediterranean migration, involving international academics, refugee theatre group ‘The Trojans’,
and local community groups such as Forth Valley Welcome (Barclay). These partnerships are an
important conduit for engaging different publics with research questions, themes, and findings, and
facilitating the building of deep and lasting connections.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Approach to collaborations and contributions

All DLL staff are encouraged to develop links with research partners and users, beneficiaries and
audiences in line with our Impact strategy. Staff working in Creative Writing, Publishing and
Translation Studies, whose work is substantially underpinned by non-academic networks, provide
example and advice to all DLL’s outward-facing activity. Their successful applications, such as the
AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards and similar funded partnership schemes, including those run
by SGSAH, are used as case studies from which to learn and develop new partnerships and projects.
This approach has borne particular fruit in developing ECR and supervisor capacity for partnership
working. During recent years, external organisations have included Glasgow Life (exploring the
potential for a reading, writing, publishing strategy for the city, including with its book festival Aye
Write), Innerpeffray Library (developing substantial new knowledge derived from the Library’s
collections and archives), the Saltire Society (involving a substantial redevelopment of its literary
awards), and Scottish Book Trust and the ROAR Working Group (examining gender and other
inequalities in Scottish writing and publishing). Our workload allocation model allows staff to devote
time to developing non-academic networks. Prospective partners spend time on campus and staff
network off-campus; priming funds are provided by the Division, Faculty and University for such start-
up research activities.

4.2 Key research users, beneficiaries and audiences; wider activities and contributions to the
research base, economy and society

Across our themes we interact with, inform and engage a wide range of research users, beneficiaries
and audiences. The ongoing goal here is to convert the many strong pathways undertaken in the
projects and activities into well-defined impact, in accordance with our impact objectives set above.

Transnational Narratives, Literatures and Cultures

The transnational reach of collaboration within this theme is made explicit through global initiatives
and activity. For example, the AHRC-funded project, “Narratives and Representations of the French

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
settlers of Algeria”, worked in partnership with the Ecomusée du Val de Bièvre and Grand-Orly Seine
Bièvre and generated a public multi-media exhibition in the Pathfoot Building, home to DLL and the
University’s Art Gallery, concerning the repatriation of French settlers back to France as well as a
major international conference (Sept. 2019). Further transnational links involving colleagues in
Spain, the UK and France have been developed with the Grupo de Estudios de lo Fantástico. Staff
exchange and collaboration, for example, with the University of Lille III and the National University
of Córdoba (Argentina), see Stirling staff regularly travel overseas to give research talks. Links have
also been established with China through the shipment in 2015 of a landscape painting by leading
Chinese artist Ding Fang to Stirling for its ‘Reflections from the East’ exhibition in the Pathfoot
Building. Hass, a founding member of The Critical Religion Association that operates in association
with the Ekklesia think tank, gave a public lecture on the work. A project on religion and music with
colleagues from the University of Uppsala (Sweden) and the University of Humanistics Studies
(Utrecht, Netherlands) is also in development, an outcome of which would be a series of public
performances that directly manifest the research. Stirling is a partner organisation for the 3-G
Network, based at Montpellier, researching Guyana, French Guiana and Surinam across disciplines.
The Charles Wallace Fellowship is managed by DLL and Robinson runs its House of Words legacy
project (2014-), curating in the Pathfoot Building a ‘window poem’ by each visiting fellow. Robinson
has also acted as consultant for a new opera, The Knife of Dawn, based on Martin Carter and his
work. Her Collaborative Doctoral PhD partnership with the British Library (on Black British Poetry in
Performance) concluded in 2017. This transnational reach is further consolidated by Parish’s
involvement in the BA/GCRF-funded ‘Memories from the Margins’ project examining unofficial
memory work in Lebanon and Syria and the EU-funded Horizon 2020 DisTerrMem project which
examines often conflicting memories across disputed borders and territories (Armenia, Pakistan and
Poland) and links closely with the university-wide Cultural Heritage Programme.

Research has been developed and consolidated around the cultural debate on Scottish
Independence. Hames, for example, was PI on the two-year archival and workshop project ‘Narrating
Scottish Devolution: Literature, Politics and the Culturalist Paradigm’ (BA/Leverhulme Small
Research Grant; £3k; 2014-2016), and recently held a public event “Indyref: Culture and Politics Five
Years On” (21 Sept, 2019) in which testimonials were gathered to gauge public perception. Jamie’s
poem for the Battle of Bannockburn monument, selected by the public, was followed by several
Scottish Book of the Year Awards (2014, 2016), and her focus on current Scottish politics in these
works led to a major feature article in the Guardian (July 2014) and to radio and TV appearances to
discuss Scottish independence (The Andrew Marr Show; April 2015; Radio 4 Start the Week, March
2016). Though seemingly of strict nationalist focus, this research extends independence concerns
well beyond the borders of a single nation, as evidenced in Bell’s third novel, an output written in
response to the 2014 Scottish independence referendum through “the parallel independence
narrative” of Malta. Anderson takes this Scottish extension even further, as part of an AHRC follow-
on project with Michael Wheeler in Philosophy, The Art of Distributed Cognition, that delivered an
international art exhibition, The Extended Mind, in partnership with one of Scotland’s leading art
galleries, the Talbot-Rice Gallery in Edinburgh from 01/11/19 to 30/01/20, alongside related events,
workshops and resources.

Members of this theme contribute their knowledge and expertise to a number of national committees
through their roles as AHRC peer reviewers, Carnegie Trust research assessors, trustees of various
learned societies (eg. Modern Humanities Research Association, Board of the International Society
for Religion, Literature and Culture, Universities Committee on Scottish Literature). They are
regularly invited to sit on the editorial and advisory boards of a number of national and international
journals (eg. Victoriographies, Victorian Review, Literature and Theology, Journal of New Zealand
Literature, DeSignis, Studies in French Cinema, Studies in European Cinema, French Cultural
Studies,) and edit or co-edit various series and journals (eg. the MHRA series, Critical Texts, Journal
of European Popular Culture Film Studies). They have also taken up international visiting positions
(US-UK Fulbright Visiting Professor, 2017; Princeton University Library Fellowship, 2015).




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Book History, Writing and Publishing

Collaboration and partnerships within the book and writing industry is a hallmark of this research
theme. For example, a series of doctoral training workshops was organized on ‘The 21st Century
Book Historian’ (Stirling, Dundee, Edinburgh, Innerpeffray Library) for the Scottish Graduate School
of the Arts and Humanities (2014) that led to a successful application by Halsey to the Scottish
Funding Council for an Applied Research Collaboration doctoral studentship (ARCS) on ‘Books and
Borrowers: the history of Scottish Reading, 1747-1857’ (2015-18, £41k) with intrinsic links to the
Innerpeffray Library. Halsey was also a member of two AHRC networks that were funded between
2014 and 2016: Community Libraries: Connecting Readers in the Atlantic World, 1650-1850 and the
Digital Reading Network and she currently serves as a member of the Management Group of the
Reading Experience Database. Jackson Williams is collaborating with a network of scholars from
Aberdeen, Edinburgh, and Oxford on a study of the Lindsay Library, an important early modern
Scottish library. He also helped to found in 2016 the Pathfoot Press in conjunction with the Stirling
Art Collection, which undertakes a variety of commissions and projects with the university and the
wider Scottish literary community. Vine, a member of the Notebooks Network and a contributor to
the Trust and Risk in Literature Network, created and presented an instructional film on watermarks
and filigranology, in association with the Centre for the History of the Book at the University of
Edinburgh. Close engagement with Scottish publishers and related public agencies and networks is
provided by Squires. She is an Advisory Board Member for the AHRC Ambient Literature project
(UWE, Bath Spa, Birmingham) and the AHRC Academic Future of the Book (UCL/Kings), Director
of Publications and Awards, SHARP (Society for the History of Authorship, Reading and Publishing)
and Secretary for the Association for Publishing Education. From 2020, Squires is the Director of the
Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities.

This research theme also includes important publications and activities by our creative writers, as
we continue to develop Stirling as an international hub with a strong focus on Scottish writing. Jamie
(Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and Royal Society of Edinburgh) had continuing success
with Sightlines (John Burroughs Medal 2014, Orion Magazine Book of the Year 2014), published the
acclaimed new poetry collection The Bonniest Companie in 2015 (winner, 2016 Saltire Society Book
of the Year and Scottish Poetry Book of the Year; shortlisted for 2016 Roehampton Poetry Prize),
and won a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (£29k). She followed this success with the publication
of her Selected Poems and in 2019 of a new non-fiction title, Surfacing. This book was shortlisted
for the 2019 Highland Book Prize and featured as Radio 4 Book of the Week in February 2020. Bell
published The Busker, part-funded by Arts Council England, was awarded a K Blundell Grant from
the Society of Authors (£2k) and a place on the Scottish Film Talent Network Programme 2018.
MacNeil was commissioned by the British Council to travel to Argentina as part of the ‘Outriders’
project and published The Brilliant and Forever (shortlisted, 2016 Saltire Society Fiction Book of the
Year) as well as editing a new collection of the writing of Robert Louis Stevenson. Bell established
the Scottish Contemporary Writers Series, with a grant from the Stirling Fund, and also held an event
funded by Book Week Scotland.

Several members of this theme serve as judges of literary awards: Squires judges for the Saltire
Society Scottish Publisher of the Year and Emerging Publisher of the Year Awards; MacNeil for the
inaugural Highland Book Prize and Jamie judges for the Edwin Morgan Poetry Award. Stirling’s
profile is further enhanced by festival appearances by Bell (Edinburgh International Book Festival
2014, Bloody Scotland Crime Writing Festival 2016-19), MacNeil (Edinburgh International Book
Festival 2017 & 2018) and Jamie, both as keynote (Princeton Poetry Festival 2016, New Networks
for Nature 2016) and in the national media (Andrew Marr Show BBC One, The Echo Chamber BBC
Radio Four, Anatomy of Rest BBC Radio Four). Recognition extends to current students and alumni
of our MLitt and PhDs in Creative Writing and Publishing (Danny Murphy, winner of Costa Short
Story Prize 2015; Ross Sayers, shortlisted 2017 Saltire First Book award; Harry Giles, shortlisted for
2016 Forward Prize for Best First Collection; Roseanne Watt, winner of the 2018 Edwin Morgan
Poetry Prize and Christina Neuwirth, shortlisted for the Saltire First Book of the Year 2018).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Language, Linguistics, and Translation

Many non-HEI beneficiaries emerge from the collaborations and partnerships developed within this
research theme. Benwell’s healthcare communication research is shaped by ongoing contact with
NHS Complaints Handling teams in Scotland and Northern Ireland, as she collaborates with
colleagues and stakeholders in both regions to conduct research on healthcare complaints and to
develop staff training. Li is involved in the Eye Tracking Study of Learning Chinese as Second
Foreign Language, and a study of food labels in mitigating intercultural confusion. De Pedro Ricoy
has participated in the Peruvian Government’s advisory committee in charge of drafting the Protocol
for Indigenous Translators and Interpreters in Public Services, the Regulation of the Indigenous
Languages Act, and the Statutes of the Register of Indigenous Translators and Interpreting. She is
co-author of a report submitted to the Peruvian Ministry of Culture outlining recommendations for
State-led training of indigenous translators and interpreters. Dedenbach is a Member of the
Amsterdam University Center for Language and Communication research group ‘Revitalizing Older
Linguistic Documentation’ (ROLD), and is co-founder and member of the European Network for the
Study of Andean languages (REELA). Stokes was selected as one of 12 international translators for
a scholarship from the German Foreign Office to attend Summer Academy at the Literarisches
Colloquium Berlin, August-September 2016. She was also invited by the Scottish Poetry Library to
accompany three Scottish Poets to the British Council in Moscow to research poetry translation
facilitation (September 2016) and is conducting research on poetry translation facilitation in a
VersSchmuggel Project organized by the Literaturwerkstatt Berlin. Her translation of Sarah Kirsch’s
Ice Roses: Selected Poems was shortlisted for the Oxford-Weidenfeld Literary Translation Prize and
for the Popescu European Poetry Translation Prize (both 2015).

Conclusion

Research in the Division of Literature and Languages at Stirling encompasses an exciting and
diverse range of expertise across and between different languages, cultures and genres. Evidence
for this dynamic research culture can be found during the REF2021 review period in the high quality
of publications, the impact of our research, the development of early career researchers and our
reach and influence in local, national and international collaborative networks. Central to our future
strategy is consolidation of the new directions in and across our three themes (Transnational
Narratives, Literatures and Cultures; Book History, Writing and Publishing; Language, Linguistics,
and Translation) particularly through support of ECRs while ensuring the continued vitality of
established research and maintaining our commitment to historical range. Our future strength lies in
the local, transnational and comparative dimensions of our research interests and particular
strategies for growth include identifying research projects that utilize local holdings and link to local
and international networks.




                                                                                                Page 16
