Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL); Birkbeck, University of London; Institute of
 Zoology

 Unit of Assessment: 5 (Biological Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The overarching aim of our research in Biological Sciences is to tackle fundamental biological
 questions and to build tools and resources for the wider research community. The 235 staff
 (219.7 FTE) returned in this Unit of Assessment (UoA) represent a diverse group of early career
 and established researchers who are using microbial, plant and animal systems to advance our
 understanding of the fundamental principles underlying molecular and cellular function,
 physiology and behaviour, and how these principles are shaped by evolutionary, ecological and
 environmental forces. Staff are located in UCL’s Faculty of Life Sciences, Birkbeck
 (University of London) and the Institute of Zoology, together with the Sainsbury Wellcome
 Centre, Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit and Wolfson Institute for Biomedical
 Research. UoA5 represents a unique centre of excellence in Biological Sciences clustered
 within the historic area of Bloomsbury, now part of the new London Knowledge Quarter, which
 contains over 100 cultural, research, scientific, business and academic institutions. This shared
 environment supports our researchers to use new knowledge and discoveries to tackle
 challenges with real-world impact on human physiology and health, conservation and the
 environment, as well as informing pharmaceutical and biotechnological industries, governments
 and society. At the heart of our approach is a commitment to provide a stimulating and
 supportive environment where we can recruit, retain and develop the careers of researchers,
 provide access to outstanding research infrastructure and expert technical support and to foster
 a research culture where equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded in everything we do.
 The vitality, sustainability and strength in depth of the world-leading research over this REF
 period is exemplified and evidenced by:

 Recognition of research excellence by national and international bodies:
    •   Research income of over £479M, an average of £68.5M/year, £312K/FTE/year
        (compared to £33.4M/year and £176K/FTE/year in last REF period);
    •   Publication of over 6700 peer-reviewed open access research articles; 180,000 citations
        in total; >2.4 times the average for their field; 366 ‘highly-cited’ articles (top 1% for their
        field); Collen, Mace, Pearson, Blackburn, Partridge and Attwell named as ISI Highly
        Cited Researchers (Clarivate);
    •   Vibrant doctoral training environment with 11 structured programmes (including the
        largest BBRSC and MRC DTPs in the UK) with an intake of >130 students per year;
    •   Major honors and awards e.g., Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (O’Keefe 2014),
        election of 5 Fellows of the Royal Society (Orengo 2019, Silver 2017, Fitzgerald 2016,
        Dolphin 2015, Hausser 2015), Biological Secretary of Royal Society (Partridge), Dame
        Commander of the Order of the British Empire, services to environmental science (Mace
        2016), Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Brodsky 2015, Lloyd 2020);
    •   QS 2021 ranking of 10th worldwide and 3rd in UK for Life Sciences and Medicine.

 Support for new research initiatives and facilities:
    •   Establishment of major new research initiatives e.g., Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for
        Neural Circuits (£140M, infrastructure and core funding), Centre for Life’s Origins and
        Evolution (£3.5M), Centre for Biodiversity and Environmental Research (£2M), Dementia
        Research Institute (£280M), UCL East Nature Smart (£400M);
    •   Strategic recruitment of world leading researchers (7 professors, 1 reader, 2 associate
        professors, 4 lecturers, 25 group leader fellows);


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Investment in buildings (>£10M) and equipment (>£14M) to ensure outstanding
        infrastructure and facilities (including establishment of Science Technology Platforms
        with permanent expert technical staff to provide access to superb core research facilities
        for all researchers).

 Development of a supportive and inclusive culture:
    •   Recognition and reward for success through a transparent promotion process (190 junior
        and senior promotions);
    •   A broad and inclusive range of activities and initiatives designed to enable researchers to
        realise their potential, such as a transparent fellowship career path, structured
        mentorship, and provision of financial support for ECRs, e.g. 5 UCL Excellence Fellows
        (£1.25M), awards for new groups and fellowship extensions (£0.75M), that have attracted
        25 group leader fellows and >20 junior fellows;
    •   Initiatives to promote Disability, Gender, LGBTQ+, Race and Religion & Belief equality
        for staff and students (e.g., 9 Athena SWAN awards).

 Key roles in collaborative and interdisciplinary research partnerships:
    •   Most research is collaborative, involving UK (71% of staff) or international (84% of staff)
        partners. This has resulted in 68% of outputs involving international partners, and 30%
        are cross-institutional;
    •   Extensive (61% of staff) involvement in interdisciplinary collaborations, resulting in at
        least 50% of outputs in this submission involving interdisciplinary research;
    •   Participation in graduate training networks (40% of staff), international conference
        hosting (61% of staff) and participation (95% of staff), visitor exchanges (23% of staff),
        editorial work for leading international journals (51%);
    •   Extensive involvement and participation in major national and international research
        networks (e.g., membership of 53 European research networks with €36M UoA5 funding
        out of €73M total).

 Engagement with industry and policy makers:
    •   Extensive collaboration with industry, commerce, and policy makers (41% of staff);
    •   Generation of >£6M of industrial funding and £7M central government funding in the REF
        period, leading to diverse impacts described below and in impact case studies;
    •   Competitive award of UCL Business proof of concept funding (£0.6M), translational
        research office funding (£0.75M);
    •   Consultancy with industry, government and SMEs (£0.5M total).

 1.2 Structure of Research Environment
 Our research environment is organised in five broad research themes (and associated sub-
 themes). Forward planning in themes is based on bottom-up investigator-led initiatives, together
 with overarching shared strategic goals. The change to structuring our research operations in
 this way, rather than around departments and institutes, reflects the success of the thematic
 research strategy presented in our REF2014 submission, and especially the development of
 new initiatives described here that facilitate cross-institutional, cross-departmental and
 interdisciplinary research interactions, including cross-faculty research domains, PhD training
 programmes and research facilities. Our themes are:

    •   Cellular and Developmental Systems - sub themes: The dynamic cell; Organelle
        biology and function; Tissue biology; Physical biology;
    •   Disease Biology - sub themes: Genetics of disease; Healthy ageing; Mechanisms of
        disease;


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Evolutionary Biology, Biodiversity and Conservation;
    •   Neuroscience - sub themes: Molecular, cellular and developmental neuroscience;
        Systems neuroscience; Sensory neuroscience and pain;
    •   Structural and Molecular Biology - sub themes: Macromolecular machines;
        Computational structural biology.

 Research in each theme takes place across five academic departments - Birkbeck Department
 of Biological Sciences (BBS), the UCL Research Departments of Genetics, Evolution and
 Environment (GEE), Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology (NPP), Structural and
 Molecular Biology (SMB), Cell and Developmental Biology (CDB) - together with five dedicated
 research centres/institutes - MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology (LMCB), Wolfson
 Institute for Biomedical Research (WIBR), Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for Neural Circuits and
 Behaviour (SWC), Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit (GCNU) and the Institute of
 Zoology (IoZ). Research is enriched by collaborations and access to facilities of other world-
 leading departments at UCL (including Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Statistics,
 Computer Science, Engineering, Earth Science and Medicine) and with nearby institutes, such
 as the Francis Crick, Rosalind Franklin and Alan Turing Institutes in which we are founding
 partners. These links are enabled through cross-faculty/institution strategic planning, joint
 appointments and secondments, investigator-led collaborations and joint supervision of PhD
 students. UoA5 researchers are also typically members of institutes/centres/domains that
 support cross-cutting research themes, foster collaboration, attract capital investment and inform
 strategic recruitment. Interactions are further promoted through diverse programmes of thematic
 symposia and workshops, seminar series, prestigious named lectures and larger annual
 international meetings.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 1: Research in UoA5 is organised across five academic departments and five research
 institutes/centres. Darkness of shading illustrates the level of research activity in each research
 theme. Although research in each department is most concentrated in one theme, it generally
 cuts across different themes, whereas work in research institutes/centres is more focussed.

 1.3 Research and impact strategic principles
 Our aim is to create a world-class research environment and culture that promotes the continued
 delivery of innovative and original science and enables researchers to realise their full potential
 through world leading interdisciplinary collaborative research, enterprise, impact for society and
 the economy. Our strategy is guided by the key principles below:

    •   Major research centres and institutes – Identify areas of excellence around strong,
        well-funded research groups led by outstanding individuals with long term strategic vision
        (rather than attempt to cover all areas in the Biological Sciences). Targeting of these
        areas for investment comes from complementary mechanisms: top-down to give overall
        direction (e.g., ZSL/IoZ partnership), and bottom-up to support researcher-led initiatives
        (e.g., Centre for Life’s Origin and Evolution; Microbiology Domain).
    •   Recruitment and career development – Targeted recruitment of leading senior
        scientists, balanced by recruitment of external and internal fellowship holders and
        lecturers, with a well-structured career-development programme for all staff.
    •   Interdisciplinarity – Research groupings that draw upon a range of disciplines across
        the life and biomedical sciences, clinical, mathematical, computational and physical
        sciences, and supported by cross-cutting Research Domains to address global
        challenges.
    •   Integration of approaches – Encompassing scales from the molecular to sub-cellular, to
        cellular, to organs, to whole organisms, from individuals to populations and communities,
        and within an evolutionary framework.
    •   World-leading research infrastructure – Provision of substantial capital funding for
        cutting edge equipment, ongoing funding for technical support and organisation of shared
        facilities.
    •   Shaping and responding to strategically important national and international
        priorities – Encouraging membership of panels and funding bodies; international
        collaborations; hosting and participation in international conferences; widely
        disseminating information about UKRI and charity initiatives; pro-actively creating and
        supporting research consortia and training networks.
    •   Specific support for ECRs, new staff and initiatives – UCL Excellence, UCL/IoZ
        Springboard and Birkbeck ISSF Fellowship schemes, a transparent Fellowship proleptic
        path to permanent appointments, well-organized induction and mentoring, internal
        funding provision for new groups and research initiatives.
    •   Translation of research for clinical and industrial exploitation and implementation
        of national policy – Provision of support for technology transfer; industrial partnership
        management; consultancy contracting; public engagement and media relations.

 1.4 Mechanisms to disseminate research and create impact
 Our research tackles questions of fundamental importance for all levels of life, from molecules to
 organisms to ecosystems. It has a broad range of external academic and non-academic users
 and beneficiaries. Staff are encouraged and supported to engage directly with these
 beneficiaries to transfer expertise and knowledge that will transform and benefit society. To aid
 this, we have taken a multi-faceted approach: dissemination and impact is embedded in UoA5
 strategy; active participation in policy making, consultancy and industry collaboration; and a
 systematic approach to the dissemination of research findings to academic and non-academic
 audiences.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The academic community: Rapid dissemination of our research findings impacts the speed
 and direction of national and international research efforts. This is achieved through the
 promotion and support of open access data and publication (see 1.5 for details). A UOA5 staff
 survey carried out in July 2020 showed that staff participated in conferences to cross foster
 ideas (95% of staff), organisation of conferences or scholarly meetings (61% of staff),
 collaborative PhD student training (40% of staff) and hosting international visitors (23% of staff).

 Industry and entrepreneurs: Work with industry is facilitated by knowledge transfer and
 enterprise support mechanisms (resulting in 40% of staff having had CASE studentships,
 industry-sponsored research or consultancy roles). The Knowledge Transfer and Enterprise
 Board delivers strategic senior leadership to UoA5 researchers; the UCL Translational Research
 Office employs >15 staff who provide dedicated project management support for technology
 transfer, access to seed funding and industrial partnership management support; Base KX is the
 UCL start-up hub; UCLB is the technology transfer company; UCL Consultants provide a full
 range of academic consultancy services; UCL Innovation & Enterprise supports business
 partnership and knowledge exchange. Support for our research innovations has resulted in
 partnerships to translate discoveries into impact through spin outs (e.g., Wood, PainGene),
 clinical trials (e.g., Szabadkai, metabolic/mitochondrial profiling for cancer; Bhakhta,
 repurposing drugs to combat TB), translational funding (e.g., Luscombe, LifeArc). Some have
 already resulted in impact case studies (Martin, Orengo, Chatterjee), with at least 53 other
 ongoing partnerships (totalling £6M in competitive grant funding). Two UoA5 students were
 members of the Rice Inc team who were awarded the $1M 2018 Hult Prize.

 Government Departments, non-governmental organisations and other policy makers:
 Membership of key policy committees; advice to UK Government including Ministers of State,
 all-party Parliamentary Groups, BEIS, House of Commons/Lords Select Committees and DHSC;
 these activities are mirrored internationally through work with global regulatory bodies. These
 activities are supported by the UCL Public Policy Unit. Our researchers have provided scientific
 evidence to the UK Government across a diverse range of policy areas, including the
 emergence and control of wildlife diseases (Cunningham, Garner, Lawson and Woodroffe)
 and zoonoses (Cunningham and Jones), human-wildlife conflict (Woodroffe), species
 reintroductions (Sainsbury), and global biodiversity trends (Freeman), and recent evidence to
 the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee has informed the UK’s future
 preparedness for pandemics (Jones). Similarly, our researchers work with global regulatory
 bodies (e.g., World Organisation for Animal Health), and conservation conventions (e.g., CITES,
 Convention on Biological Diversity).

 Media and cultural organisations: We have developed approaches to ensure effective
 communication and raise awareness of our research findings to a broad range of audiences. We
 work proactively with our Media Relations and press offices, and those of funding organisations
 (e.g., MRC, Wellcome). Staff appear weekly in print and broadcast media. During the REF
 period 46% of staff have been interviewed or featured on major news and current affairs
 programmes. 85% of staff and PhD students have participated in exhibitions (e.g., Biology
 Week, New Scientist Live, the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition), open days (e.g.,
 talks, performances, and pop-up stalls at UCL ‘it’s all academic’ festival), public lectures (e.g.,
 UCL Lunch Hour Lectures), and student mentoring/work placements (e.g., Nuffield Foundation,
 in2ScienceUK). The outstanding student training and experience is illustrated by the award of a
 ‘New Researcher Outreach and Engagement Award’ from the Royal Society of Biology to one of
 our students in 2019. Other highlights include (see 4.7 for details) Soapbox Science supporting
 and showcasing leading women scientists (Pettorelli, Sumner), developing the research
 content of museums and public exhibits (Chatterjee, Odlyha) and extensive engagement with
 the public through best-selling and prize-winning popular science writing (Lane, Jones,
 Rutherford, Thomas).

 1.5 Open Science, Research Reproducibility and Integrity


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our institutional commitments to research transparency and integrity are described in the REF5a
 for each joint-submitting institution. In addition, all research in UoA5 incorporates the principles
 of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, Code of Conduct for Research and
 Transparency in Research. These include the use of metrics for Open Research and a
 commitment to the principles of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA).

 Publications: Administrative staff support compliance with open access policy across UoA5 and
 ensure that new staff receive open access training. UCL Discovery and Birkbeck BIRON provide
 free and unrestricted access to more than 5400 research outputs authored by researchers in
 UOA5 units. Both IoZ and Birkbeck Biological Sciences staff deposit their research outputs in
 UCL Discovery. Of all publications accepted since 1/4/16, 97% have been deposited (or have
 exceptions) and 92% comply with OA Policy (or have applicable exceptions). Percentage
 compliance of all publications with open access policy in departments/institutes within this
 submission has increased from 89% in 2016 to 94% in 2020.

 Primary Data: We are committed to the migration of data previously stored on internal servers
 to the public domain. The majority of our researchers (65%) have made research data, software
 or code available through open-source sharing platforms (e.g., GitHub, Wellcome Open
 Research, Figshare). UoA5 researchers have access to the UCL Data Safe Haven for sensitive
 and commercial datasets, whilst the UCL Research Data Repository was established in June
 2019 to allow datasets to be made open access in accord with UKRI and FAIR Open access
 principles and the Concordat on Open Research Data for more than 10 years upon publication
 and linked from the institutional research publication repository (and publisher’s websites where
 possible). Already, 31 accessible datasets have been deposited by staff in this submission.
 Researchers are encouraged to go beyond UKRI minimum requirements and make useful data
 not presented in publications accessible with appropriate metadata via the Repository and linked
 to via each group’s website as soon as no further work is anticipated on the subject.

 Reproducibility: Researchers have made important contributions to establishing research
 standards and methods to support research reproducibility, including papers that define
 guidelines or set community standards for research procedures or analyses. For example,
 Orengo is founder and executive Committee member of the 3D-Bioinfo Community that aims to
 develop structural and functional annotation, to create open resources for sharing, integrating
 and benchmarking (F1000 Research 2020). Silver has developed a suite of programmes for
 modelling neuronal and network activity to bring uniformity to the field of neurocomputation and
 spearheaded standardization of biological models of neural circuits (e.g., NeuroML Neuron
 2019). Other examples include setting standards for ancient DNA analysis (Burbano, eLife
 2015), experimental design (Stern, Nat Rev Mol Biol, Bioessays 2019), use of siRNA (Bowers,
 2019), morpholino (Wilson, PLoS Genetics 2017) and CRISPR-Cas9 reagents (Rihel, Wilson,
 Dreosti, Whitmore, eLife 2021), mouse phenotyping (Mott, PLoS Biol 2015), bioimaging
 (Henriques, Nat Methods 2018), computational pipelines (Luscombe, Nextflow), methods for
 phylogenetic analyses (Telford, Curr Biol 2015 and Yang FRS, Mol Biol Evol 2018, 2020, PNAS
 2018). Whilst the majority of UoA5 research builds upon and extends key findings, UoA5
 researchers have also contributed directly to research integrity, governance and ethics (e.g.,
 triage of several hundred apparently fabricated papers submitted from China to 'Cell
 Biochemistry & Function' (Arnett)); 3Rs and animal research procedures (e.g., development of
 non-animal models for toxicology testing (Thompson, Dis Model Mech 2018)); development of
 automated behavioural operant conditioning boxes to avoid researcher bias and interference
 (awarded the Crick 3R prize) (Schaefer, PLoS One 2018).

 1.6 Unit-wide strategic initiatives to foster interdisciplinary research
 Ten Research Domains have been established by UCL to bring together large academic
 communities across the Unit and wider University to address challenges that cut across both
 historical faculty boundaries and research themes. Four of the current Domains (Neuroscience;
 Microbiology; Food, Metabolism and Society; Cancer) are detailed below as they are
 academically led by researchers in this submission, whilst there is also significant involvement in

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Environment, eResearch and other Domains. Domains provide a platform for interaction
 between researchers, coordinating large-scale funding applications, informing recruitment
 strategy and institutional investment, and for developing national and international research
 partnerships. Each domain is coordinated by a steering group with representatives at different
 career stages from departments, institutes, and research themes, together with support staff to
 facilitate communication and events. Domains are supported by strategic funding for facilitators,
 workshops and symposia and to provide development opportunities for early career researchers.

 Neuroscience: This provides a strategic support structure for fundamental and clinical
 neuroscience across UCL, encompassing approximately 500 PIs. The steering group is led by
 UoA5 researcher Smart, with Wilson, Geranton, Barry, Riccio and Margrie also members. It
 has been instrumental in obtaining large-scale investment in UCL Neuroscience, e.g.,
 Sainsbury-Wellcome Centre (£110M building and initial £50M core funding), Dementia Research
 Institute (£280M) and the UCL Institute of Mental Health (£1M by the Sackler Trust and £0.4M
 from UCL for core staff and pump priming).

 Microbiology: Launched in 2018, led by Santini, to strengthen impact in microbiology research,
 innovation, and public engagement across UCL and Birkbeck, it includes 120 academics and
 hundreds of clinical specialists and early career researchers. The research remit includes all
 work on microbes at cellular and molecular scales, their roles in health and disease, and the
 public’s perception of these microbes. The domain has proved invaluable in fostering
 collaborations in response to SARS-COV2 (e.g., Santini and Orengo, Scientific Reports 2020;
 van Dorp and Balloux, Nat Comms 2020).

 Food, Metabolism and Society: Launched in 2017, led by Brodsky, Thomas and Alic, to
 promote interdisciplinary approaches to research related to healthy human metabolic function
 and the environmental and economic impact of human, animal and microbial metabolism.
 Arising from the domain, UCL is now a major partner in a consortium of seven UK universities
 and research institutes which secured a £5M UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund to develop a Centre
 for Doctoral Training (CDT) focused on developing the next generation of interdisciplinary food
 systems researchers.

 Cancer: The Cancer Domain (Lloyd is co-chair, Pomiankowski and Luscombe are steering
 group members) brings together researchers addressing the societal, technical and health
 challenges of cancer, and those exploring its underlying biology. UoA5 researchers are
 especially active in the theme of ‘understanding cancer’ (encompassing cancer cell biology,
 tissue organisation; immunity, tumour heterogeneity and cancer evolution; nutrition, metabolism
 and ageing).

 1.7 Achievements and progress of strategic objectives in REF2014 submission
 Enabling state-of-the-art imaging (see 3.2.3 for details): Substantial institutional, UKRI,
 Wellcome and industrial funding (total £8M) has led to the creation of the Imaging Science
 Technology Platform (https://bit.ly/386rVY4). It is open to all UoA5 researchers, allowing
 macroscopic light sheet imaging, advanced confocal and super-resolution techniques, high
 throughput and cryo-EM. Highlights include: (a) The UZMIC advanced imaging centre and its
 associated imaging platforms (established through a partnership between UCL (£2M) and Carl
 Zeiss microscopy (£1.5M), bids to the UCL Capital Equipment Fund (£1.7M) and competitive
 external bids to Wellcome and BBSRC (£1.5M)); (b) SUper Resolution Facility (SURF) was
 established in 2014 with institutional and MRC funding (£2M) to provide specialist infrastructure
 for super-resolution imaging and technology development; (c) one of the best cryo-EM facilities
 in the UK has been established at Birkbeck with combined £4M Birkbeck/UCL/Wellcome funding
 for four microscopes including a state-of-the-art 300kV Titan Krios microscope installed in 2018.

 Facilitating the use of model systems for the study of disease (see 1.8.2 and 3.2.3 for
 details): A £1.5M investment in the UCL Fish Facility and £3M for lab refurbishment for fish
 researchers has created one of the largest fish facilities in Europe, allowing forward and reverse
 genetic screens in zebrafish, cavefish evo-development and healthy ageing research in killifish.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A further £2.5M investment has been provided for new laboratory facilities for C. elegans,
 enabling the recruitment of Professors Conradt and Lambie; and ECRs Barrios and Labbadia.
 £0.1M investment in new fly facilities has enabled six ECRs to be recruited through highly
 competitive external fellowships (Alic, Kinghorn, Niccoli, Fernandez, Amoyel and Franz).

 Strengthening evolutionary biology research (see 1.8.3 for details): The Centre for Life’s
 Origin and Evolution (CLOE) was established in 2017 as a new interdisciplinary centre to study
 processes underlying major evolutionary innovations. Recruitment has taken place on all levels:
 Greig (Reader) – from Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology (2017), Thompson
 (Professor) – from University of Manchester (2017), Burbano (Associate Professor) – from Max
 Planck Institute for Developmental Biology (2019), Marletaz (Royal Society University Research
 Fellow) – from Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (2020). CLOE researchers will be
 located in a newly refurbished lab and office space (at a cost of £3.5M, completion summer
 2021). This investment has already resulted in the award of a BBSRC SLoLa (Lane, £3M).

 Strengthening biodiversity and environmental research and ties with ZSL/IoZ (see 1.8.3 for
 details): Led by Director Mace (FRS), the Centre for Biodiversity and Environmental Research
 (CBER) has expanded through estate projects in 2016 and 2020 (totalling £2M) for
 refurbishment of office and lab space. It is now a vibrant, interdisciplinary centre with 12 PIs and
 senior fellows. Recruits include Bridle (Professor) from Bristol (2020), Sumner (Reader) from
 Bristol (2016), Newbold and Pigot who joined CBER on Royal Society Research Fellowships.
 To increase ties between IoZ and UCL, Blackburn (Professor) moved from the IoZ to CBER
 (2014), and four-year Springboard Fellowships were introduced with costs split equally between
 IoZ and UCL (recruiting Visconti (2015) and Horswill (2020)). All IoZ staff now have honorary
 UCL appointments, IoZ and UCL were founding partners of the London NERC DTP and MRes in
 Biodiversity, Ecology, and Conservation, and IoZ participate in UCL grant review and submission
 processes and annual promotions.

 Developing research into neural circuits underlying behaviour (see 1.8.4 for details): A
 major catalyst has been the creation of the SWC for Neural Circuits and Behaviour. SWC’s
 iconic new building was opened in 2016 (£110M from the Gatsby Charitable Foundation and
 Wellcome). It is designed to stimulate interaction and collaboration between SWC research
 groups and co-located theorists at GCNU. A five-year core grant (initially £50M and £70M
 renewal) has enabled the recruitment of nine new group leaders: Murray, Branco, Kampff,
 Isogai, Margrie Mrsic-Flogel in 2016, Otis, Stephenson-Jones (ERC Starting Grant) in 2017,
 Akrami and Hofer (ERC Starting Grant) in 2018, and the establishment of superb core facilities
 with highly skilled support staff. Facilities include Advanced Microscopy (serial 2P, light sheet,
 head mounted 2P, 3P imaging systems), Histology, Virology (AAV and modified rabies viruses),
 Advanced Manufacturing (FabLab), and High-Performance Computing. In addition to the SWC,
 systems neuroscience has also received major investment with the establishment of new
 systems neuroscience and behavioural suites of labs within UCL’s Rockefeller building and the
 WIBR (£0.4M). Researchers using mammalian models are now co-housed and facilities for non-
 mammalian models to study circuitry and behaviour have expanded (£5M) to facilitate
 recruitment of new groups using C. elegans (Barrios) and zebrafish (Dreosti, Bianco). We
 have also established direct links to systems neuroscience groups in the Francis Crick Institute,
 including the joint appointment of Schaefer.

 Expanding sensory neuroscience and pain research (see 1.8.4 for further details):
 This group (led by Fitzgerald, Hunt and Wood) aims to develop and exploit advanced tools and
 technologies to study pain, from primary sensory neurons to cortical networks, with the aim of
 developing new pharmacological and physiological targets and provide alternatives to opioid
 treatment of chronic pain. To enable this, newly refurbished laboratories (£0.1M) have been
 opened in the Medawar building and there has been significant recruitment of early career
 researchers working on pain and nociception: Koch recruited from the Salk Institute to a
 Lectureship in 2019, Geranton (Lecturer, now Associate Professor), Fabrizi (MRC Career
 Development Awardee (CDA), now Associate Professor, awarded Medical Foundation’s


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Emerging Leaders first prize 2020) and Browne (WIBR, Wellcome Sir Henry Dale (SHD)
 Fellow).

 Strengthening UCL/Birkbeck partnership for structural and molecular cell biology (see
 1.8.4 for further details): The focus has been on developing capacity for understanding large
 macromolecular machines. In addition to the investment in Cryo-EM and super-resolution
 imaging facilities (detailed above and 3.2), facilities for time-resolved TIRF and optical tweezers
 (£300k Birkbeck/UCL/WT) have been established and crystallization and protein characterization
 and interaction capabilities renewed (£300k Birkbeck/UCL/WT). The recent establishment of
 UCL-wide Science Technology Platforms in NMR (led by Christodoulou) and mass
 spectrometry (led by Thalassinos) are amongst the best in the country. There have also been
 targeted recruitments of staff using NMR, X-ray, single-molecule and cryo-EM in membrane
 trafficking (Brodsky, Professor, 2014 and Zanetti, BBSRC Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow, 2014;
 Reader, 2020), intracellular transport and molecular motors (Roberts, Wellcome SHD, 2014;
 Senior Lecturer & Wellcome Senior Fellow, 2020), transcriptional regulation (Cheung, Wellcome
 SHD, 2014; Robinson, MRC CDA, 2018; King, Lecturer, 2019 and Gouge, Wellcome SHD,
 2020) and redox metabolism (Marechal, MRC CDA, 2015). Several ECRs have also been
 recruited to bring a molecular cell biology perspective to areas with existing excellence in
 structural biology or vice versa; including ribosome function (Cabrita, Lecturer, 2017),
 phosphorylation (Mylona, Birkbeck ISSF Fellow, 2017) and bacterial secretion systems (Ho
 Lecturer, 2019).

 1.8 Major achievements and future goals of research themes

 1.8.1 Cellular and Developmental Systems (CDS)
 Research in this theme encompasses gene expression control, cell signalling, cytoskeletal
 regulation, membrane trafficking and organelle regulation, cell cycle control, cell specification,
 tissue formation and remodelling, and understanding how these processes are hijacked in
 disease.

 1.8.1.1 The Dynamic Cell
 Our goal is to obtain an integrative and holistic view of dynamic cellular processes and cell
 behaviours at single cell resolution, and ultimately reveal systems insights into dynamical
 developmental processes (e.g., Mayor, Science 2018, Stern, Science 2014, Barnes, Cell
 Systems 2019). This research has been underpinned by investment (>£5M) in imaging platforms
 (see 3.2 for details). In addition, single cell sequencing technology (£0.25M) has been integrated
 into the genomics STP, offering unparalleled insights into cell states during development (e.g.,
 Chubb, Development 2019, eLife 2020; Thompson, Developmental Cell 2018). Furthermore, a
 £5.5M investment in infrastructure and facilities for a wide range of model systems (see 3.2 for
 details) has facilitated the recruitment of researchers using key model systems; Drosophila
 (Fernandes (Wellcome SHD), Amoyel (MRC CDA) and Franz (Wellcome SHD)), C. elegans
 (Barrios and Conradt) and Dictyostelium (Thompson).

 1.8.1.2 Organelle biology
 Ongoing research is revealing ever more critical roles for organelle biology and cellular
 metabolism in all aspects of biology from embryogenesis to disease aetiology. Areas of focus
 include the function of lysosomes and mitochondria. The Consortium for Mitochondrial Research
 (CfMR) and the LysoNet initiative have been established to consolidate activities and bring
 together basic and clinical researchers to understand impacts on cell behaviour (Patel, Cell Rep
 2017, eLife 2020), disease (Mole, Hum Mutation 2019) and the development of new therapies
 (Mole, Molecular Therapy 2018). A biochemistry core has been established (£0.3M) with
 Seahorse (extracellular flux analysis) and Oroboros O2K fluorespirometer. Investment in
 imaging (see section 3.2) has enabled the development of innovative experimental approaches
 (e.g., Duchen and Szabadkai, Nat Comms 2014). New recruits include Lambie (UCL Senior
 Fellow) and Conradt (Wolfson Royal Society) in 2019 who bring expertise in endolysomal
 system dysfunction, mitochondrial stress (Conradt and Lambie, Cell Rep, 2019) and disease
 (Lambie, Nature 2020, PNAS 2020).

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.8.1.3 Tissue Biology
 The advent of ever more effective approaches for analysing the biology of cells in intact tissues
 is enabling major advances in our understanding of mechanisms underlying tissue organisation
 during development, homeostasis, repair, regeneration and resolution following inflammation.
 Our research in these areas has led to breakthroughs in understanding tissue establishment
 (e.g., Pichaud, Dev Cell 2015; Nature Cell Biology 2017), homeostasis (e.g. Lloyd, Cell Reports
 2018) and growth regulation (Wilson, eLife 2020) and regeneration following injury (e.g., Lloyd,
 Cell 2015). Work has been supported by investment in imaging to enable deep tissue excitation,
 laser ablation in tissue, intravital imaging and 3D reconstruction of tissue volumes in combination
 with optical clearing methods (e.g., Zeiss 880 2-photon (with OPO), 2016, £0.5M MRC). ECR
 recruits include Acton (CRUK CDF 2015) whose research bridges tissue biology with
 understanding of adaptive immune responses (Nature 2014, Cell Reports 2019), Aloia (LMCB
 Junior Group Leader) who brings expertise in organoid systems and liver models (Nature Cell
 Biol 2019) and Franz (Wellcome SHD) who has provided novel insights in wound healing and
 cancer (Dev Cell 2018). Work at the clinical interface has been strengthened. Tedesco (ERC
 Starter) is a clinician scientist who developed the first human 3D artificial skeletal muscle entirely
 derived from pluripotent stem cells of patients with muscle diseases (Cell Reports 2018) and is
 co-lead of the London Stem Cell network (https://lscn.crick.ac.uk).

 1.8.1.5 Physical Biology
 The Institute for the Physics of Living Systems (IPLS) was established in 2013 as a cross-
 faculty initiative to promote interdisciplinary approaches combining physics, mathematics,
 theory, modelling and engineering to understand how the physical world affects cell and tissue
 biology, and enable physics and mathematics graduates to transition to life science research.
 Interdisciplinary collaboration has enabled novel biological principles affecting cell behaviours to
 be revealed, including tension and force (e.g., Paluch and Baum; Nature Cell Biology 2015,
 Nature Cell Biology 2017, Nature 2015; Nature 2020; Science 2020) and mechanical stiffness
 (Mayor and Charras, Nature 2018, Science 2018, Science 2019, Nature Communications 2019,
 Developmental Cell 2018). The >25 PIs across the Unit have been supported by investment in
 advanced microscopy (see 3.2) and staff: current IPLS director Mao was recruited in 2014 (MRC
 CDA 2014) and brings expertise in how tissues cope with mechanical stress (Current Biology
 2020) and how tissue fluidity promotes epithelial wound healing after injury (Nature Physics
 2019); Saric and Banerjee (both Dept of Physics) are theoretical biophysicists embedded within
 the IPLS.

 Future strategy in Cellular and Developmental Systems:
    • Expand and integrate expertise in quantitative (i.e., mathematical, statistical and
        computational) approaches in each of the subthemes.
    • Strengthen the use of vertebrate model systems, focusing on aspects of stem cell and
        organoid biology, and neural development to complement our research base in other
        model systems.
    • Consolidate and expand interdisciplinary and translational organelle research by bringing
        together researchers and resources across the UoA through the establishment of a new
        ‘Inner Cell Centre’ and expansion of metabolomics and respirometry capabilities.
    • Increase ties with the Centre for Integrative Anatomy (see section 1.8.3) to enable cell
        and developmental biology to bridge temporal and special scales to encompass
        evolutionary and human genetics.
    • Expansion of IPLS research themes through engagement and targeted collaboration with
        departments of engineering and material science, as well as the Turing Institute and
        Crick.

 1.8.2 Disease Biology
 This theme encompasses research into understanding the mechanisms underlying disease
 through animal and cell-based models, the genetic basis of disease, ageing and ageing-related
 disease, and ultimately novel therapeutic strategies.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.8.2.1 Mechanisms of Disease
 Understanding the biological mechanisms underlying disease onset and progression is central to
 our goal of moving rapidly from discovery science to clinical translation. Research in this area
 links multiple departments and faculties, including those outside the Unit including the UCL
 Cancer Institute (e.g., de Bruin and Tada work on cancer cell replication and cell interactions
 (Cell Reports 2016; Nature Comms 2018). A focus has been to increase interactions with
 clinicians through the development of models of disease (e.g. Wilson and Rihel Nat Comms
 2016, Neuron 2016), and the recruitment of clinician researchers (e.g. Tedesco) to aid
 interactions with clinicians and pharma, and encourage clinicians to undertake PhDs (e.g.
 Tuschl, now an academic clinical lecturer and MRC clinical fellow). Research into viral infection
 has led to the development of novel effective antiviral therapies and understanding viral host
 interactions (Marsh, PLoS Pathogens 2019; Mercer, Nature Microbiology, 2018, Nature
 Microbiology, 2019, Nature Microbiology, 2019). We also encourage commercialisation, for
 example Virology Research Services Ltd is a contract research organization founded by LMCB
 researchers providing consultancy and experimental services in virology and early-stage
 antiviral/vaccine discovery.

 1.8.2.2 Genetics of Disease
 The UCL Genetics Institute (UGI) is a cross-faculty centre dedicated to the development of
 statistical and bioinformatic approaches for genome data analysis. UGI researchers apply these
 methods to understand the genetics of human diseases, improve crop varieties, antibiotic
 resistance, and provide genetic and biochemical insights into human evolution (e.g., Thomas
 and Brodsky eLife, 2019). UGI has expanded the scope of its research by incorporating
 psychiatric genetics (Kuchenbaecker), statistics (Curtis) and transcriptional regulation
 (Luscombe, Joint UCL/Crick appointment). New appointments include Mott (Professor) who
 investigates the effects of genomic variation in plants and animals (Nature 2015, Cell 2016, Nat
 Genetics 2016); Andres (Senior Lecturer) who uses genomic-level statistical approaches to
 uncover mechanisms underpinning population diversity (Science 2017); Secrier (UKRI FLF)
 who employs machine learning and data integration strategies to study cancer (Nat Gen 2016);
 and van Dorp (UCL Excellence Fellowship), whose collaborations with UGI Director Balloux
 have enabled reconstruction of transmission chains in hospital wards and description of global
 epidemics, past and present, including COVID-19 (Nature Comms, 2020).

 1.8.2.3 Healthy Ageing
 The Institute of Healthy Ageing (IHA) is a centre of excellence for research on the biology of
 ageing and ageing-related diseases. Its aim is to develop a new translational biogerontology
 using the ageing process as a point of intervention to protect against the diseases of old age.
 Under the leadership of Partridge and now Bahler, the IHA has expanded in basic science
 through the recruitment of Alic (Biosciences Research Fellow and now Associate Professor,
 Nature 2017) and Labbadia (BBSRC David Phillips, PLoS Comp Biol 2019, Dev Cell 2020) who
 use model organisms to uncover novel mechanisms underpinning lifespan, whilst Niccoli
 (Alzheimer Research UK Senior Fellow, Science 2014) and Kinghorn (Wellcome Clinician
 Scientist Fellowship, PNAS 2019) bridge to clinical settings and neurodegenerative disease.
 Basic science discoveries have led to links with industry for the development of novel
 therapeutics for neuro-degenerative disorders (Ketteler, Nature Chemical Biology 2015, Nature
 Comms 2017).

 Future strategy in Disease Biology:
    • Establish the ‘UCL HumGen Core’ to bring together experts and research programs on
        human disease genetics which are currently dispersed across different departments, and
        to provide a centre of expertise that enables researchers to share knowledge and create
        synergies. It will allow links to be made with researchers developing models for the study
        of genetic disease (including ageing) and to enable subsequent clinical translation of
        genomics to benefit healthcare.
    • Establish the ‘UCL Metacore’ for the study of genomic DNA from complex mixed
        community samples to understand health and disease. Genomics data from complex
        samples requires dedicated expertise and refining of data-driven methodologies. We will

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        bring together and expand research in environmental sampling, microbiomes, plant
        health and breeding, host-microbiota interactions, and ancient DNA (museomics).


 1.8.3 Evolutionary Biology, Biodiversity and Conservation
 UCL and IoZ have long been leaders, innovators and partners in complementary aspects of
 evolutionary biology, biodiversity and global conservation challenges. This REF period has seen
 the depth and vibrancy of the collaboration between the two organisations markedly increase,
 which allows us to jointly tackle fundamental questions, with potentially transformative outcomes
 for wildlife and people.

 1.8.3.1 Evolutionary Biology
 Evolutionary biology research aims to understand processes underlying major innovations and
 transitions that have led to the diversity of life. This research spans shallow and deep
 evolutionary time and is carried out in two newly established, but complementary, research
 centres:

 Centre for Life’s Origins and Evolution (CLOE): The establishment of CLOE in 2017 (Director
 Telford) has brought together researchers across Biosciences, Computer Sciences and Earth
 Sciences, championing the integration of diverse technological approaches to evolutionary
 biology (e.g., molecular biology, genomics, microscopy, palaeontology, embryology). A £3.5M
 investment has resulted in new laboratories, office and communal space (completion summer
 2021). Research ranges from understanding the origin of life and eukaryotes (e.g., Lane and
 Pomiankowski, Nat Ecol and Evol 2019) to understanding how evolution has shaped the
 diversity of multicellular life (e.g., Telford, Curr Biol 2015 and Yang, PNAS 2018). New
 appointments include: Burbano (Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship) who uses ancient plant
 DNA to study host-parasite dynamics, crop domestication and invasive species (Science 2017);
 Marlétaz (Royal Society URF) who uses genomic approaches to better resolve the phylogeny of
 metazoans and understand the functional impact of whole genome duplications (Nature 2018);
 and Thompson who combines modelling and lab experiments to reveal the molecular details of
 kin recognition and social strategies (Nat Comms 2017, PNAS 2019).

 Centre for Integrative Anatomy (CIA): The CIA brings together researchers from diverse
 academic fields working on all aspects of anatomy: comparative, evolutionary, developmental,
 medical, and forensic. Under Director Evans, whose studies of amphibian fossils has shed light
 on the vertebrate anatomy evolution (Science 2020), the CIA has renewed UCL’s strength
 in evolutionary vertebrate anatomy. Investment has been made to refurbish labs and provide
 advanced imaging technologies including a high-resolution microCT scanner, dedicated CT lab
 and 3D printer to allow form-function relationships in modern and fossil taxa to be investigated
 (total cost £375K). CIA researchers can now employ diverse and cutting-edge approaches to
 study anatomy in order to understand structure and function, embryonic development,
 phylogenetic relationships, ecology, and evolution. New appointments include Felice (2018:
 evolvability and disparity across clades, PLoS Biology 2020) and Porro (2018: biomechanical
 finite element and musculoskeletal modelling).

 1.8.3.2 Biodiversity and Conservation
 Research in biodiversity and conservation combines field, laboratory, and computational
 approaches. Staff actively engage in using their findings to influence policy and management.
 Research is undertaken across two complementary and closely aligned centres of excellence;
 the Centre for Biodiversity and Ecology Research (CBER) and the Institute of Zoology (IoZ).
 Joint appointments strengthen these research links, including Blackburn whose work with
 Redding led the development and analysis of GAVIA, the most comprehensive resource on the
 global distribution of alien species in any major taxon (Nature 2019); Visconti, who uses large-
 scale ecosystem models to predict future biodiversity loss (Nature Climate Change 2017); and
 Horswill, who works at the interface between environmental variation, demography, and
 population dynamics (PRSB 2018).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Biodiversity and Environmental Research (CBER) was established in 2013
 with a £1.5M investment in a new building and four new posts. Led by Director Mace FRS (who
 published the first science-based paper on the risk that human perturbations will destabilise
 Earth systems, Science 2015), further estate projects (2016 and 2020, totalling £2M) have
 expanded CBER facilities through refurbishment of office and lab space. CBER research lies at
 the interface between biodiversity and environmental change. Its core themes include: the
 consequences of biodiversity loss; environmental change and biodiversity; and limits to adaptive
 change. Significant appointments include: Sumner who studies mechanisms of behavioural
 plasticity in social insect ecology and resilience to environmental change (Nature 2018); Bridle
 who studies ecological and genetic limits to adaptation in plant and animals species and how
 this affects distributions and niche widths (Ecology Letters 2014); and Newbold and Pigot (both
 Royal Society URFs) who apply computational models to elucidate the mechanisms
 underpinning biodiversity at large spatial, temporal, and taxonomic scales (Nature 2015, 2020).
 Newbold’s work has transformed our understanding of the effects of land-use on terrestrial
 biodiversity (Nature 2015, Science 2016), whilst work with other CBER PIs (Jones, Blackburn,
 Redding) has shown that land-use change favours zoonotic disease hosts (Nature, 2020).

 The Institute of Zoology (IoZ) is an international centre for conservation science which made
 an independent return to REF2014. However, the strengthening links between IoZ and UCL has
 drawn the two organisations together. Research is focussed in five areas: wildlife health,
 endangered species recovery, coexistence of wildlife and people, global biodiversity monitoring,
 and mitigating and adapting to climate change. New appointments include Nicoll who studies
 the biology and management of small populations (Current Biology 2014); Hansford who
 explores extinctions in the archaeological period (Science Advances 2018); and Redding
 (Wellcome SHD Fellow) who develops eco-epidemiological mechanistic models to predict the
 emergence and spread of zoonotic disease (Nature 2020). His work with Cunningham (who
 identified the biological determinants of cross-species viral transmission in bats and rodents
 (Ecology Letters 2015)) has led to a wider understanding of the interplay with socio-economic
 factors in predicting Ebola outbreaks in Africa (Nat Comm 2019). The recruitment of Turvey
 (Royal Society URF) adds strength to IoZ efforts through Jepson, Norris and Wang to
 understand human impacts on biodiversity and ecological systems (Science 2018, Science
 2018, Nature Sustain 2020, Nature 2017).

 Future strategy in Evolution, Biodiversity and Conservation:
    • Establish a centre for theoretical modelling and quantitative biology, harnessing already
        strong ties between evolutionary biologists and mathematical, computational and
        statistical sciences. This initiative, led by Barnes (Wellcome SRF) and bolstered by the
        recruitment of Shou from the Fred Hutchinson, USA (Academy Medical Sciences
        Professorship), will encompass systems approaches, cell biology and neuroscience,
        microbial population dynamics, ecological dynamics and genomic computational studies.
    • Establish and integrate the new Nature-Smart Centre. Building of this bold cross-
        disciplinary institute (directed by Jones) began in this REF period and will open as one of
        the 11 cross-faculty institutes within the new UCL East Campus (£400M investment) in
        2023, linking biodiversity to computer science, urban ecology to city planning, and
        environmental economics to human health, to develop tools for a more sustainable and
        resilient future.
    • Establish and integrate the National Institute for Biodiversity and Public Health. This
        £200M partnership between IoZ, UCL, and Royal Veterinary College, led by
        Cunningham will create a globally unique transdisciplinary research and innovation hub,
        enabling us to identify and mitigate the eco-epidemiological and socioeconomic drivers of
        biodiversity loss and its associated zoonotic diseases.

 1.8.4 Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology
 Research activity spans studies of atomic level structure, to molecular and cellular biology, to
 integrated neural circuit activity and how this impinges upon behaviour, physiology and disease.

 1.8.4.1. Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Neuroscience

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research focusses on understanding the mechanisms underlying nervous system development
 and function. It is underpinned by world leading research facilities, including outstanding core
 imaging facilities, the creation of a London Centre for High Throughput Electrophysiology
 (Nanion, BBSRC £0.6M) and a core-funded Multi-Electrode Array facility for dissociated neurons
 and human stem cell recording (£151K). This REF period has seen a focus on structural
 approaches to the molecular basis of neuronal signaling through collaboration with the ISMB and
 recruitment (e.g., Gold Wellcome SHD fellow, whose work with Smart led to the first atomic
 structure-based explanation for neurosteroid action (Nature Struct Molec Biol 2017). There has
 also been investment in facilities (>£7M) to support researchers using different model systems.
 This includes Barrios (lecturer) and Poole (WT SRF) using C. elegans and Fernandes
 (Wellcome SHD Fellow) using Drosophila who have identified glia as a novel source of neural
 progenitors in these model systems (Nature, 2015, eLife 2020, Science 2017). Facilities for fish
 (Wilson, Dreosti, Rihel, new recruit Bianco (Wellcome SHD Fellow, then SRF), chick (Stern)
 and mammals (Attwell, Richardson, Salinas, Riccio, Kessaris, Li, Jessen, new recruits
 Koch, Browne) have enabled major advances in cellular neuroscience (e.g., Richardson’s
 work on oligodendrocyte function (Nat Neurosci 2016, Science 2016) and diverse clinical
 implications (e.g., Attwell’s discovery of a novel level of control of blood flow, Nature 2014; Nat
 Neurosci 2016 (together with Gourine); eLife 2014; eLife 2016; Science 2019).

 1.8.4.2 Systems Neuroscience
 Our word-leading systems neuroscience research aims to understand how neural circuits are
 connected, how they encode sensory information and perform computations before giving rise to
 complex and adaptive behavioural phenotypes. It builds on our strength in understanding spatial
 navigation (e.g., Barry and O’Keefe, Nature 2015; Science 2018; Hausser, Cell 2020) and has
 greatly expanded through the opening of the SWC (led by Mrsic-Flogel and Margrie) (£110M
 Wellcome/Gatsby). The SWC is supported by five-year core grants (initially £50 million, renewed
 £70M in 2020) (see 1.7 for details) which has enabled new group leaders to be recruited
 (Murray, Branco, Isogai, Margrie in 2016, Mrsic-Flogel, Otis, Stephenson-Jones (ERC
 Starting) in 2017, Akrami and Hofer (ERC Starting) in 2018, and the establishment of superb
 core facilities with highly skilled support staff. This includes the Fabrication Laboratory and
 MakerSpace, which is an innovation lab for the design and manufacture of custom tools and
 instrumentation for the research community. SWC also collaborates with members of UoA5
 through its invitation-only affiliates program. Affiliates are invited to SWC events and have
 access to the FabLabs and other core resources. They can host SWC PhD students for lab
 rotations and act as their joint supervisors for placements and are also invited to jointly host
 seminar speakers at the SWC. Current affiliates include Bianco, Clark, Hausser, Macaskill,
 Rihel, Silver and Wilson who are collaborating with SWC researchers on a wide variety of
 ideas. In addition, systems research has been bolstered by laboratory refurbishment, a new BSU
 (total £4.2M) and the recruitment of Dreosti, Bianco, Macaskill (Wellcome SHD or SRFs). The
 standing of our research in this area is demonstrated by the fact that of the 22 group leaders
 forming the ‘International Brain Laboratory’ (£9.6M Wellcome), five are in this UoA (Hausser,
 Mrsic-Flogel, Höfer, Latham and Dayan). This REF period has also seen the development of
 machine learning and AI approaches, with a Neuro-AI sub-domain set up within Neuroscience
 Research Domain (led by Barry and Smart within this Unit) and interactions with commercial
 partners, including Google DeepMind (Barry, Nature 2016). Research on neural circuits in vivo
 benefits from interactions with the Gatsby Unit whose work encompasses theoretical and
 computational neuroscience, computational statistics, machine learning and artificial intelligence
 (Sahani, Neuron 2016, Nat Neurosci 2019, Latham Nat Neurosci 2014, PLoS Comput.Biology,
 2016, Dayan, PNAS 2016, Nat Comm 2018).

 1.8.4.3 Nociception, sensory neurophysiology and pain
 Research encompasses identifying nociceptive circuit pathways, and spans from peripheral
 sensation to central mechanisms of pain perception, and from fundamental discovery science to
 drug development and clinical translation. Approaches include animal and human models,
 molecular genetic studies, pharmacology, whole animal physiology and human EEG mapping of
 sensory fields. Established researchers (e.g. Fitzgerald and Dolphin both elected FRS in this
 REF period) have been joined by newly recruited early career scientists. This includes lecturers

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Koch (recruited from the Salk; Cell, 2015 Science 2015, Neuron 2017) and Geranton (whose
 discovery of a stress regulator that drives chronic pain by modulating spinal glucocorticoid
 signalling has therapeutic potential (Science Transl Med, 2014)) and Browne (Wellcome
 SHD). The addition of a clinical neurophysiologist (Whitehead) and computational scientists
 (Ianetti, Fabrizi (MRC CDA) has enabled the study of pain and sensory processing in the
 developing human brain, resulting in the discovery of a major brain centre driving human
 postnatal brain maturation (Whitehead and Fabrizi eLife 2016). Major collaborative awards
 totalling >£3.6M bring these scientists with different skillsets together (e.g., London Pain
 Consortium, WIBR Molecular Nociception Group (Wood, Cox, Zhao), Infant Pain & Sensory
 group (Fitzgerald, Fabrizi), epigenetics, stress and pain (Geranton, Hunt)).

 Future strategy in Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology:
    • Developing and integrating new methods: cryo-EM methodology for determination of
        neurotransmitter receptor structure and their molecular pharmacological modulation by
        drugs/ligands, and for tomographic imaging of synaptic structure; serial block-face two-
        photon microscopy for whole brain fluorescence tomography; mesoscope technology to
        explore the neural connectome and to image neural activity at cellular resolution in
        genetically-defined neuronal populations; new mammalian and fish ‘behavioural,
        pharmacological and metabolic animal phenotyping platforms’ for genetic disease,
        obesity, diabetes, ageing and exercise studies.
    • New virtual centres to promote collaboration between experimentalists, theorists,
        engineers and large-data scientists to drive discovery: Institute for Mental Health for the
        exploration of the molecular bases for mental health disorders; Centre for Neuro-AI (with
        computer science, industrial (Google) and academic partners (the Alan Turing Institute))
        to investigate how neural computation promotes flexible, adaptive behaviour, at the level
        of brain regions, neural circuits, cells, and single synapses.

 1.8.5. Structural and Molecular Biology
 Our research focuses on understanding how macromolecular complexes function. It brings
 together >70 PIs at UCL and Birkbeck within the Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology
 (established in 2003). Investment in facilities and recruitment over this REF period has allowed
 cutting-edge methods to be introduced and developed. This includes >£5M (detailed in Section
 1.6 and 3.2) in new cryoEM technologies that have revolutionised structural biology. Existing
 crystallization and protein characterization and interaction capabilities have been consolidated
 and renewed in the ISMB-BiophysX facility (£300k Birkbeck/UCL/WT). The recent establishment
 of UCL-wide Science Technology Platforms in NMR (led by Christodoulou) and mass
 spectrometry (led by Thalassinos) will enable future coordinated investment in these areas.
 Recruitment has added methodological expertise in cryoEM to the pre-existing group (Saibil,
 Orlova, Moores and Topf). This includes Zanetti (BBSRC Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow, Nat Comm,
 2018) and Robinson from Stanford (e.g., Methods, 2019). We have also expanded the use of
 single molecule and super-resolution imaging. Roberts (Wellcome SHD) brings expertise in
 time-resolved single-molecule TIRF microscopy (eLife 2014) and King brings newly developed
 technologies for correlated fluorescence imaging and opto-mechanical manipulation of DNA
 complexes (PNAS 2019). We have actively promoted an environment in which novel methods
 can be developed, exemplified by the development of quantitative super-resolution imaging and
 software tools for data analysis (Lowe, eLife 2015), pioneering methods for MS (Thalassinos
 and Topf, Structure 2018) and NMR (Hansen and Christodoulou, Nature Comms 2019;
 Scientific Rep 2016).

 1.8.5.1 Macromolecular machines
 Existing expertise in RNA polymerase (Werner), histone methylation (Hansen) and non-coding
 RNAs (Arnvig, Nobeli), has been added to by new recruitment: Ramos (Professor, from NIMR)
 has built a program of NMR, biophysical and transcriptomic analysis of mRNA transport (Nat
 Comm 2018); Cheung (WT SHD) has provided novel insights into the dynamic assembly and
 regulatory mechanisms of RNA polymerases (eLife 2017; Nature 2020); Robinson (MRC CDA)
 brings expertise in structure and dynamics of chromatin remodelling (Cell 2016); King (Lecturer)
 brings expertise in single-molecule study of the DNA topoisomerases (PNAS 2019); Gouge (WT

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SHD) performs structural studies of redox sensing and transcription (Cell 2015). Strength in
 protein folding, the chaperoning and activation of proteins, and of pathological protein misfolding
 in human diseases (Christodoulou, Lowe, Raleigh, Saibil, Thalassinos and Vaughan) has
 been augmented by the recruitment of Cabrita (Lecturer) who studies misfolding during protein
 biosynthesis (Nat Struct Mol Biol 2016). Finally, the grouping studying transport of proteins in
 eukaryotes (Moores, Brodsky, Lowe, Boucrot, Zanetti) and bacteria (Hayward, Waksman)
 has produced seminal discoveries in this REF period, e.g. discovery of a new endocytic route
 (Boucrot Nature 2015, Nat Cell Biol 2018) and how proteins and DNA are exchanged between
 bacteria and with human hosts (Waksman, Nature 2014 with Orlova, Cell 2017 with Zanetti,
 Cell 2016 with Santini). Expertise in bacterial secretion systems has been bolstered by new
 recruit Ho (Lecturer, PNAS 2017).

 1.8.5.2 Computational Structural Biology
 Birkbeck and UCL have a long history of significant joint developments in computational analysis
 and structural prediction of biological molecules, particularly proteins. Activity is centred around
 the joint UCL/Birkbeck Bloomsbury Centre of Bioinformatics led by Jones (joint appointment
 UCL Bioscience/SMB and Computer Science, returned in UoA11) whose work with DeepMind
 has led to the creation of AlphaFold (Nature 2020), currently the world’s best method for the
 prediction of protein structure from sequence. We host internationally important protein structure
 databases for integrative structure analysis. UCL is one of the 11 institutes that constitute the UK
 Node of the ELIXIR infrastructure for bioinformatics, the inter-governmental coordinating body
 funded by national governments and the EU for bioinformatics resources. CATH-GENE3D
 (Orengo) is the major service from UCL and contains domain predictions for 82 million gene
 sequences presently available in public databases. The Protein Circular Dichroism Database
 (PCDDB) (developed by Wallace, NAR 2017) and Intrinsically Disorder Protein ELIXIR
 Community are also part of the ELIXIR landscape (F1000 Research 2019). In-house
 development of new tools of this kind and their expert application has led to insights into non-
 coding RNA (Nobeli, Arnvig, NAR 2018), voltage gated-sodium channels (Nobeli, Wallace,
 PNAS 2016), von Willebrand Factor function (Gervasio, Hansen, J Phys Chem 2018), redox
 regulation (Gout, Orengo, Biochem J 2017), and the evolution of enzyme function (Orengo and
 Williams, PNAS 2014).

 Future strategy in Structural and Molecular Biology:
    • Expand the application of structural, super-resolution and cryoEM imaging to problems in
        cellular function in neuroscience and neuropharmacology, cancer biology, and molecular
        microbiology.
    • Build research capacity in computational structural biology with a focus on emerging
        machine learning, AI and simulation methods in the prediction of the properties of
        molecular systems and integrating data from diverse structural, genetic and cellular
        studies. Create an STP to support application of computational structural biology in cross
        disciplinary research.
    • Build capacity in understanding the evolution of macromolecular function in nature
        through synthetic biology and evolutionary approaches to understand how structure
        constrains gene evolution, and to provide insights into the artificial selection of new,
        technologically useful functions (through increased ties with Chemistry and Biochemical
        Engineering).


 2. People

 UCL, Birkbeck and IoZ are committed to developing and sustaining a culture that enables staff at
 all career stages to develop an international research profile through their outputs, funding and
 contributions to research impact. This goal defines our approach to staff appointments,
 mentoring and promotion.

 2.1 Staff


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Recruitment
 Recruitment is based on a holistic evaluation of academic excellence. Application evaluation and
 interview panels are composed to ensure fairness in EDI, and training in fair recruitment is
 compulsory (with unconscious bias training compulsory for panel chairs). UCL (2013) and
 Birkbeck (2017) have received the HR Excellence in Research Award. There have been seven
 new appointments directly to professorships to provide leadership in strategically important
 areas (e.g. Conradt from Munich as head of CDB Dept, Thompson from Manchester (now
 Head of GEE Dept), Mrsic-Flogel from ETH Zurich as SWC Director), and seven to
 lectureships/senior lectureships. We have also recruited 25 junior group leaders via competitive
 externally funded independent research fellowships (e.g., Research Councils, Royal Society,
 Wellcome, Cancer Research UK and other biomedical charities) and highly competitive internal
 independent Fellowship Schemes (e.g. UCL Excellence Fellowships, Birkbeck ISSF
 Fellowships, UCL/IoZ Springboard Fellowships) representing an investment of >£1.25M. We are
 also proud of our researchers that have taken up influential positions at other universities and
 research institutes in the UK and internationally. We view this is a positive reflection of the
 vibrant research culture at UCL, and its ability to promote success. Examples include Oates
 (EPFL), Stanewsky (Muenster), Paluch (Cambridge), Baum (MRC-LMB Cambridge), Cabreiro
 (MRC-LMS & Imperial College London), Mercer (Birmingham), Piper (Monash), Norris (Natural
 History Museum).

 2.1.2 Career development, mentoring and appraisal
 UCL, Birkbeck and IoZ have adopted the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and the European Charter for Researchers and Code for
 Recruitment. All staff are appraised annually by the Head of Department or manager to set
 research targets and training goals, and plan progression towards promotion. In addition,
 comprehensive mentoring systems for academic, research staff and postdocs have been
 created. Mentors are more experienced staff working in a similar area as the mentee, but without
 direct management involvement. Mentors are provided with training (e.g., online mentoring
 platform (uMentor) developed by UCL) and many staff also participate in the University of
 London B-MEntor programme for BAME academic and research staff founded by UCL. ECRs
 also have access to bespoke support networks through Research Domain and Divisional
 structures.

 2.1.3 Staff training
 Staff are provided with protected time to complete 10 days per year of skills training, and have
 access to the Researcher Development Framework, a professional development tool to enhance
 the knowledge, attributes and skills required for success as professional researchers. In-house
 bespoke leadership training is provided (e.g., over the last 3 years alone Future Leaders (9
 staff), UCL Women in Leadership programmes (7 staff); Women in Research (8 staff)). There is
 also training for junior staff, including the Arena2 course for probationary lecturers (19 staff),
 whilst UCL is the only UK institution to host the EMBL Group Leaders course. We also actively
 promote a sabbatical policy, which allows paid leave free from teaching and administrative
 duties for up to a year. This enables staff to maintain a high calibre of research, scholarship and
 innovation, or refresh their research outlook and expertise, often at overseas universities.
 Examples include Bahler who spent five months at Stanford University to learn about research
 with the turquoise killifish (Nothobranchius furzeri), including husbandry and genome-editing.
 This enabled us to establish a colony of this promising new model to study ageing and ageing-
 associated diseases, and resulted in a Cancer Research UK Pioneer Award; Waksman who
 spent the summer of 2014 at the Institute of Advanced Study Strasbourg in order to enable
 expansion of the use of high-resolution EM methods in his research (see 3.2).

 2.1.4 Promotions
 The UCL Academic Career Framework (ACF) was comprehensively revised in 2017/18 to
 support every type of academic career path via a robust set of processes with explicit criteria.
 The IoZ Science Research Grading (Promotions) Policy is also aligned with the ACF. Birkbeck
 followed a similar framework to introduce a new ACF in 2018/19. For all three institutions the
 ACF is designed to ensure parity whether staff deliver research and education in equal measure,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialise in public engagement or enterprise, or focus on teaching and institutional citizenship,
 or enterprise and external engagement (impact). Promotions are not contingent on securing
 grant funding but on ability and achievements, and the DORA commitments to research
 evaluation are explicitly recognised, as are contributions to Open Science. Since 2014, 38 staff
 have been promoted to professor, 35 to reader/senior lecturer/associate professor/principal
 research fellow, and 27 to lecturer/senior research fellow/senior associate.

 2.2 ECRs and Fellows
 All UoA5 departments and institutes have established dedicated programmes for ECR
 development. Holders of independent research fellowships are considered equivalent to those
 on academic contracts and are expected to move onto academic positions after their
 fellowships. To ensure fairness, potential fellows are invited to apply through open
 advertisement and assessed following the same procedures as applying for a lectureship
 position (seminar, meeting staff, interview). We provide academic and administrative support for
 the preparation of the fellowship application and dedicated strategic financial support for ECRs
 through the Wellcome ISSF fund and matched funding (£0.6M during REF period). This
 facilitates additional grant applications and ultimately helps ensure long term success.
 ECRs/Fellows are able to recruit PhD students through UCL or external programmes. We will
 provide up to two years of salary support beyond Fellowships (£160K in REF period) to allow
 Fellows to hold additional Research Council grants and help ensure that fellowship holders are
 best placed to transition to a follow-on Fellowship or permanent position. All fellows with suitable
 competitive awards (e.g., Wellcome Henry Dale, MRC CDA, Royal Society URF, CRUK, or ERC
 starting grants) are assessed for a permanent appointment through open seminar and panel
 interview (including external referees) in the penultimate year. The assessment criteria (research
 output, grant income, contributions to teaching and departmental/divisional citizenship) are
 clearly defined upon appointment. All independent research fellowship holders in the last five
 years have progressed to become PIs within UoA5 or elsewhere.

 2.3 Postdoctoral researchers
 Postdoctoral researchers (>300 on REF census date) are central to our research efforts. A
 senior academic in each department/institute acts as an advocate for the local postdoctoral
 community and gives postdocs input into decision making. Career development is strongly
 encouraged: delivery of appropriate amounts of undergraduate teaching and supervision of
 UG/MRes/MSci projects (>300 have attended Post-graduate Teaching Assistant training during
 this REF period), skills training to prepare for future careers as independent researchers or a
 diversity of other career paths (e.g., scientific writing, entrepreneurship, industrial or policy-
 related employment). The UCL Research Domains have also established early career networks
 for careers advice, professional training, and the dissemination of information regarding jobs,
 personal development and funding opportunities. The value placed on postdocs is illustrated by
 their eligibility for accelerated increments/promotions or one-off payments to reward exceptional
 performance, whilst the LIDo DTP Associates programme showcases the contributions of
 “hidden supervisors” (postdocs and technical experts).

 2.4 Clinical researchers
 Clinical researchers from key hospital partners (e.g., UCLH, NHLI, and the Royal Free Hospital)
 and NIHR Biomedical Research Centres are fully integrated into UoA5 labs. This includes
 clinical fellows (e.g. Kinghorn, WT Clinical Research Career Development Fellow; Wood, MRC
 Clinical Research Training Fellowship), clinician PhD students and major long-term
 collaborations with NHS clinicians (e.g. Cutler, cellular mechanisms of haemostatic disorders;
 Fitzgerald, pain in infants and children; Chatterjee, exploring links between culture and health).
 This facilitates the transition from basic biological sciences to the clinic and back (e.g. Cacucci,
 enrolled in UCL DClinPsy doctorate to forge links with NHS partners). This is augmented by
 cross-institutional domains which bring clinical and non-clinical researchers together, and the
 UCL Academic Careers Office (ACO), which brought in £9.2M in grant funding in 2018/19. It
 promotes and supports the development of academic and clinical academics working in
 translational science through a range of programmes designed to enable them to thrive in a
 research environment. Highlights include the ADAPT to Thrive series, in which researchers

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 share stories of failures from their career (Festival of Failure), aiming to normalise failure and
 build a more resilient research community. Other schemes include Eureka@UCL, focused on
 training in translational research, and Clinician Coders, which helps clinical academics to
 develop skills in data science. As well as offering career and support development, the ACO
 obtains funding to enable various fellowships (including MRC Skills Development Fellowships
 and the WT Clinical PhD programme) to be offered through the UCL Clinical Academic Training
 centre.

 Technical support staff
 A review of core facilities established that provision of expert technical support within our
 facilities is only possible if we can offer staff secure positions with good career development
 prospects. Consequently, we are signatories of the national technician commitment
 (https://www.technicians.org.uk/technician-commitment), and all technicians within research core
 facilities on short term, usually grant-funded, contracts have been moved onto permanent
 University funded positions. We now have a cohort of over 40 highly skilled research technicians
 supporting our research endeavour. We also recognise the challenges that have traditionally
 faced technicians in terms of promotion and career progression and have an ongoing
 programme tasked with transforming professional development opportunities for our technical
 staff. Our goal is to have a technical careers framework comparable to that for our research,
 academic and teaching staff in place in the near future.

 2.6 Research students
 In total, 1189 postgraduate research (PGR) students were enrolled across our PhD (895) and
 MRes (294) programmes in the REF period. Yearly MRes recruitment has increased by 8% from
 160 in 2013/4 to 172 in 2019/20. Postgraduate Research Experience Survey first destination
 data highlight the demand for our PhD students. 93.5% went on to graduate level employment,
 and 2.2% to further study, and the average starting salary was £35K. For MRes students
 2016/2017, 50% went on to full- or part-time employment, with an average starting salary of
 £24K, and 43% are enrolled in further study.

 2.6.1 Current programmes
 Our programmes provide world-class doctoral training through three types of funded
 programme: broad programmes (typically UKRI) attracting students across different biological
 science disciplines; focused programmes supporting a particular discipline or institute;
 studentships through industry/third sector collaboration; self-funded/overseas scholarships.
 Almost all students undertake four-year PhD programmes, with some starting their project
 immediately (e.g., iCASE), but most students have rotations during the first 9-12 months that
 give them a breadth of experience of different research laboratories and allow informed choice of
 project. Students have direct influence on the delivery of individual PhD programmes through
 representation on committees/boards. All PhD students are also affiliated to a department, but
 cohort and inter-cohort activities provide programme identity. These include scientific retreats,
 bespoke training and employability seminars with a distinct emphasis on student-led and peer-
 peer engagement.

 UKRI-BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Training Partnership (LIDo DTP):
 UCL has led LIDo, the largest BBSRC DTP in the UK with 230 current students (£4M/annum),
 since its inception in 2012. LIDo was the top ranked proposal in the last two BBSRC DTP
 commissioning rounds (2014 and 2019) and serves as hub for doctoral training across London.
 LIDo aims for all PhD projects to have interdisciplinary co-supervision and a large fraction of
 projects are inter-institutional. LIDo has 8 HEI partners (including Birkbeck) and around 40
 iCASE industry collaborators. For impact, LIDo also has Associate Partners: Unilever (the
 company’s only partner in doctoral training), two non-ministerial government departments (FSA
 and APHA) focussed on food safety and sustainability, and Kew focussed on biodiversity.

 The Birkbeck-UCL MRC PhD programme: This is the largest MRC-DTP in the UK. The
 programme started in 2015 and funds 122 students structured across four major streams
 (Fundamental Mechanisms of Disease, Neuroscience and Mental Health, Experimental and

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Personalised Medicine, and People, Population and Data) on 4-year studentships, National
 Productivity Investment Fund studentships and MRC iCASE studentships. The latter are based
 on joint projects between academics and large (e.g., GSK, AstraZeneca, Waters, etc) or small-
 medium enterprises.

 The London NERC Doctoral Training Partnership (including Birkbeck and IoZ): This UCL-
 led programme of 8 HEIs, which includes the IoZ, delivers transformative interdisciplinary
 training in environmental science research and is one of the largest UK NERC partnerships (25-
 35 studentships per annum). In particular, it supports studentships in biodiversity, evolutionary
 biology, genetics and disease. It brings together multiple collaborative partners for student
 internships drawn from business, NGOs, charities, research organisations and government (e.g.,
 Thames Estuary Partnership, UNEP, Defra, POST), with specific funding for entrepreneurship
 and research experience placements for Summer Studentships.

 CASE Studentships: We engage with SMEs, government and third-sector through co-funded
 studentships with about 60 CASE projects active. This relationship is facilitated by an
 Employability and Placements Officer who oversees fully funded internships for PhD students
 (BBSRC PIPS) and recent PhD graduates through Flexible Talent Mobility Awards. Contacts to
 industry are also maintained though PhD programme memberships in networking organisations
 (e.g., OneNucleus).

 Wellcome 4-year PhD programmes: Over the REF period, we have held Neuroscience;
 Structural, Computational and Chemical Biology; Developmental and Stem Cell Biology; and
 Clinical programmes. The recently awarded Optical Biology programme (2020) brings together
 neuroscientists, cell biologists, physicists, chemists and computational scientists, with world-
 leading industrial and academic partners, to deliver training in optical methods, analysis tools
 and development of new optical technology.

 Partnership for Sustainable Food Future CDT: UCL is a major partner in a new £5M UKRI
 Strategic Priorities Fund CDT focused on developing the next generation of interdisciplinary food
 systems researchers.

 SWC 4-year PhD Programme: The SWC programme trains up to 24 students in highly
 interdisciplinary experimental and theoretical neuroscience. The first year is centred around
 courses taught by SWC and GCNU staff (Boot Camp, Systems Neuroscience and Theoretical
 Neuroscience, Experimental Neuroscience, Neural Data Modelling) as well as research
 rotations.

 Gatsby 4-year PhD Programme: Students study toward a PhD in either machine learning or
 computational and theoretical neuroscience. The first year consists of intensive instruction in
 techniques and research in theoretical and systems neuroscience and machine learning before
 a research project is chosen.

 Institute of Zoology (IoZ) programmes: As an independent research institution it does not
 award postgraduate degrees, so all students have a university registration and both university
 and IoZ supervisors, giving access to expertise and resources across institutions. For IoZ
 graduating students over the REF period, 34% (27/84) were co-supervised with UCL, more than
 any other university, and 26% (22/84) involved CASE studentships. IoZ currently hosts 75
 students in the £93K Student Hub which opened in 2017 to provide communal workspace.

 The MRC LMCB 4-year PhD programme: This programme offer students (six per year) three
 rotations in different LMCB labs with the opportunity of an additional placement at partner
 Institutes at UCSF or Hokkaido University. Students then undertake their PhD project within the
 LMCB with full access to all the normal support provided to UCL students. In addition, they
 attend the annual meeting of the BSCB/BSDB, along with cohort specific training events.



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Crick PhD Programme: There are 200 Crick PhD students at various stages of their four‐year
 programme at any one time. All students are registered in UoA5 and must have a UCL co-
 supervisor (with the majority in UoA5).

 SysMIC: We are the national leaders in the delivery of online training in mathematical,
 computational and statistical approaches for biosciences students through SysMIC
 (http://sysmic.ac.uk). This BBSRC and MRC supported programme was developed by UoA5
 UCL and Birkbeck staff (with Edinburgh and Open Universities) and recently absorbed a surge in
 national demand for research skills training during the COVID-19 pandemic providing remote
 learning for 400 students over 6 months (in addition to >1000 prior students).

 Overseas partnerships: We have specific partnerships with Bogue Fellowships (to the USA),
 the Yale Collaborative Student Exchange Programme and A*STAR Singapore PhD
 programmes. We are also members of EU Innovative Training Networks (e.g., Bianco and
 Dreosti lead network in computational and experimental approaches to understanding circuit
 function in zebrafish).

 MRes programmes: We host >15 diverse MRes streams across the spectrum of biological
 sciences, each attracting 5-15 students per annum. Students spend at least nine months on a
 major research project, and this emphasis on research training provides strong recruitment to
 PhD programmes.

 2.6.2 Recruitment, supervision and training
 We aim to recruit the highest calibre graduate students, so employ selection processes that are
 criteria-based with decisions taken by expert panels. Programmes are extremely competitive,
 with on average 6-8 applications per place. Students choose a principal supervisor and are
 allocated subsidiary supervisor(s) with specific expertise in parts of the research being
 undertaken. All supervisors are required to attend the Introduction to Research Supervision
 course on PhD supervision and must act as a subsidiary supervisor before progressing to
 primary supervisor. There is also training to enhance supervision (e.g., Building Trust and
 Examining Doctorates courses). Students complete a minimum of ten training days per year in
 activities that complement their research, expand their horizon and prepare them for the global
 job market. These include training in mathematical modelling, analytical, statistical and
 quantitative skills (e.g., SysMIC); entrepreneurship modules which cover the impact agenda,
 engagement with business, how to become entrepreneurs and commercialise research, and
 how environmental science can influence national and international policy (e.g., The Bio-Industry
 course; Conception X); science communication and media training (e.g. Podcasting for
 Researchers, Working with the Media, The Guardian Data Visualisation Training); wellbeing
 (e.g. ADAPT programme run by the UCL Academic Career Office); and research culture (e.g.
 workshops organised by UKRIO, ReproducibiliTea). There are also 250 courses aligned to the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) collectively organised by the Bloomsbury
 Postgraduate Skills Network (an alliance of nine central London institutions designed to expand
 provision of skills training).

 2.6.3 Integration into the research culture
 Student representatives participate on departmental committees and departments host student-
 specific seminar series and arrange meetings with external seminar speakers. All students
 attend annual Departmental Student Conferences, at which a selection of PhD students (across
 all years of study) give presentations, with awards given to the best talks. Students are also
 encouraged to engage with UCL Innovation & Enterprise, local networks (https://inno-forum.org),
 national competitions, in the launch of start-ups (https://www.boobybiome.com,
 https://www.bento.bio) and SPERO (Santander PhD Entrepreneurship Opportunity). BBSRC
 LIDo students are required, and MRC-DTP students are encouraged, to organise fully-funded
 placements in industry, governmental departments, other academic institutions, funding
 agencies or non-governmental organisations.

 2.6.4 Progress monitoring

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All research students are supported by the UCL Doctoral or Birkbeck Graduate Schools which
 monitor student progress using an online Research Student Log. Milestones (literature review,
 progress reports) are monitored by a Thesis Committee. Each UoA5 department/institute has at
 least one Graduate Tutor (DGT) responsible for ensuring fair and equitable student recruitment,
 high quality supervision, progress from MPhil to PhD registration, thesis submission; and provide
 general support. Upgrade from MPhil/PhD to PhD is expected after 9-12 months. For final-year
 PhD students, we have developed the “Pathway to Completion” programme which includes
 “meet the examiner” and “know your exam” events, a compulsory residential thesis writing
 bootcamp, and a leaver showcase. Special systems have also been established to support
 clinician (often part-time) PhD students, including scrutiny of work plans to help ensure
 candidates allocate adequate time to their doctoral studies. Of all full-time PhD students starting
 their degrees in 2013/14, 81% completed their doctorates within the prescribed period.

 2.6.5 Additional COVID-19 specific support for research students
 The pandemic and temporary closure of non-essential research facilities and laboratories in
 March 2020 created major challenges for PhD students. Several measures were rapidly
 implemented to ensure continuity of supervision, support, training, and funding. These included:
 (i) funding to enable students to adapt to home working (e.g. desks, chairs, laptops) (ii) 200
 places for online training (using SysMIC materials) to help students develop computational
 aspects of their projects and remain productive; (ii) UCL & Birkbeck Stipend Extension Schemes
 to support final-year students, not eligible for Wellcome or UKRI funded final-year extensions, at
 the minimum London UKRI rate for 3-6 months (iii) allocation of additional UKRI and institutional
 funds to extend earlier years where hardship or difficulty has been identified, e.g., all requests
 from 2nd and 3rd year LIDo students have been evaluated by staff across institutions and funded
 as appropriate, with departments/supervisors also able to top-up stipend extensions; (iv)
 implementation of multi-level pastoral support to help the sizeable proportion of students who
 experienced difficulties adjusting or mental health issues as a result of the disruption.

 2.7 Promoting a positive working environment
 Central facilities available to all staff and students include Occupational Health, the Disability
 Resource Centre and the Counselling Service. To ensure we are aware of staff concerns, and to
 assist in the design of support mechanisms, UCL undertook staff surveys in 2015 and 2017.
 Detailed Action Plans were created and implemented following both surveys. This includes the
 ‘Full Stop’ campaign and a Dignity at Work policy at UCL to reduce incidences of bullying and
 harassment. Birkbeck also introduced a Dignity at Work and Study policy in 2017. Specialist
 Dignity at Work advisors are now available for students and staff to speak to; there is a ‘Report
 and Support’ system where incidents of bullying and harassment can be reported directly, or
 anonymously, or as a ‘witness’; and the staff mental health and wellbeing plan, first launched in
 2017, aims to improve the psychological health and wellbeing of our staff community
 (https://www.ucl.ac.uk/human-resources/health-wellbeing/being-well-ucl/get-involved/staff-
 mental-health-and-wellbeing-plan).

 2.8 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 UoA5 research staff are 38.5% female, ethnically diverse (14% BAME), and international (35%
 EU, 25% non-EU); 2% have a disability and 3% declare as LGBT+. We continue to place great
 emphasis on initiatives that cover Disability, Gender, LGBTQ+, Race and Religion & Belief
 because diversity enhances the academic environment, broadens perspective and increases the
 talent pool of our staff.
    •   The Athena SWAN (AS) scheme has been the main foundation for our policies and
        initiatives on EDI. AS Self-Assessment Teams have been established in all
        departments/institutes and are represented on the senior leadership teams.
        Departments/institutes within this submission have obtained nine AS awards during the
        REF period, and in addition UCL and Birkbeck hold Silver and Bronze institutional
        awards. At the departmental level within UoA5 we hold Gold (LMCB), Silver (Birkbeck
        Biological Sciences) and Bronze (IoZ, SMB, CDB, NPP and GEE) awards.



                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   All departments/institutes within UoA5 have an EDI action plan for staff and students and
        these inform targets for senior leaders set in their appraisals. There are EDI champions,
        central teams of EDI managers and advisors, and Vice/Assistant Deans for EDI and for
        Race, Gender Equality and Disability have been appointed at UCL (de Bruin) and
        Birkbeck (Thompson). Our staff have served on institutional and national EDI
        committees and networks including: the Disability Equality Steering Group, Enable@UCL
        (for staff with disabilities), Neurodivergent Staff Network, Parents and Carers Together,
        Out@UCL, Friends of Out@UCL, LGBTQ+ Equality Advisory Group,
        RaceMatters@UCL, Race Equality Steering Group, Gender Equality Working Group,
        UCL Menopause Network and a Male Allies Group (the men are allies to gender
        equality/women).
    •   Unconscious Bias training is mandatory at UCL and Birkbeck and is now embedded into
        the induction process. In 2018/19, 27 staff completed UCL’s Taking The Lead training,
        equipping them with the skills to address bullying and harassment, and ten Where Do
        You Draw The Line workshops have been held (attended by >150 staff), a harassment
        prevention approach collaboratively developed by UCL, Cambridge, Manchester and
        Oxford.
    •   Staff have generous maternity and paternity leave entitlements, options of career breaks
        and/or flexible working, family-friendly and flexible working practices (e.g., meetings in
        core working hours, and respect for parental child caring duties).
    •   The LIDo DTP has created a Research Experience Placements (REPs) programme to
        target under-represented minorities with summer studentships. This initiative attracts
        industry sponsorship and has been supplemented with ‘the Pathway to PhD’ summer
        event to encourage and advise BAME students in the development of high-quality PhD
        applications.
    •   We designed a rigorous system for REF 2021 output review and selection to ensure best
        EDI practice was observed. Two independent internal scores were solicited for each
        output by a large and diverse group of referees (154 staff, 43% male, 57% female)
        across all contributing departments. Staff involved in preparing the final output
        submission attended face-to-face REF-specific EDI training in addition to mandatory
        ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ training. The initial draft of the final selection of outputs was
        performed by an algorithm that maximises the Unit score and is blind to gender or other
        protected characteristics, career stage or subject area.

 Comparisons between REF periods provides evidence that our initiatives are bringing about
 change. Highlights include:
    •   29% of the 548 attributions in our 2021 output submission are from female scientists,
        reflecting the distribution of eligible staff (30% female). Importantly, 51% of the early
        career, independently funded, attributions are from female scientists, again reflecting
        their distribution (48% female).
    •   We have seen increasing representation of women in leadership roles. 5/10 Heads of
        Research Department/Institute are now women (0/5 in REF 2014).
    •   The number of female staff in senior positions (grade 10) has risen (from 19% to 25%
        over the REF period).
    •   At least 8 female staff who attended institutional Leadership programmes are now in
        senior leadership positions (e.g., Djordjevic (now Head of SMB), Jones (UCL East
        Nature Smart lead), Sumner (Divisional Athena SWAN lead), Townsend-Nicholson
        (SLMS Knowledge Transfer & Enterprise Champion).
    •   The number of female staff in junior positions (Grade 7 and 8) remains high (43%).
        Female staff have also been 33% more likely to receive junior promotions than male
        colleagues.


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Birkbeck & UCL are Stonewall Diversity Champions. UCL was named as one of the UK’s
        best employers for lesbian, gay, bi and trans staff in the Stonewall 2018 Top 100
        Employers Index (ranked 98th out of the 434 employers).
    •   UCL is a Bronze Award holder and Birkbeck a member of the Race Equality Charter
    •   Sumner, British Ecological Society Equality & Diversity award (2016); Cramer, Athena
        Prize, Top Individual Award (2019).
    •   The LIDo DTP was the only DTP cited by UKRI for innovative inclusive practises in
        response to an open letter from minority academics about BAME PhD student
        opportunities (Research Fortnight 2020).

 2.9 Future actions to create and promote an inclusive environment based on data
 analysis
 Increasing the number of women in grade 9 and grade 10 positions: The number of female
 staff in grade 9 and 10 (27% in 2020, 25% in 2013) or grade 7 and 8 (44%, in 2020, 47% in
 2013) is similar across REF periods. This illustrates that fewer female staff still reach senior
 positions. This does not appear to be due to gender bias in the promotion decision as of the 83
 senior academic promotion applications since 2014, female staff were just as likely as men to be
 successful. This suggests (a) junior female staff do not apply for promotion, (b) there are factors
 influencing the success of junior female staff or (c) bias in external recruitment to senior posts.
 To address these issues (a) department/institute heads have been tasked with ensuring that
 female members of staff are encouraged to apply for promotion, with mandatory discussion
 about preparation for promotion during appraisal; (b) we have introduced mentoring schemes,
 career development seminars for early career scientists, and talks from women scientists
 working in policy, industry and academia. Seminar organisers have been tasked with ensuring a
 50:50 gender balance to ensure visibility of leading female researchers; (c) shortlisting and
 interview panels must now be balanced in gender, with one panel member tasked with ensuring
 unconscious bias does not affect decisions about female applicants.

 Increasing BAME representation at all grades: The proportion of BAME staff in the unit
 remains unchanged from 2014 at ~15%. This under-representation is even greater at grade 9/10
 (10%) than at grade 7/8 (19%). To address these issues, researchers in this unit have set up a
 Racial Equity Committee who have worked with HR to update hiring procedures to reduce bias
 and discrimination. There is a webpage to communicate ongoing activities, provide opportunities
 for volunteering and create a set of educational resources related to racial equity. The Fair
 Recruitment Specialist initiative has been established to train twenty existing BAME staff to act
 as advisers and promote visible diversity during recruitment, and we aim for every hiring
 committee to use a fair recruitment process specialist from autumn 2021. Seminar organisers
 have been tasked with ensuring diversity amongst speakers. An annual survey related to EDI
 will be trialled to allow progress to be tracked.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Despite this being a challenging REF period in provision of funding for basic biosciences
 research, research grant income to UoA5 researchers rose to £479M. This represents
 £68.5M/year (compared to £33.4M/year in REF 2014) and £312K/FTE/year (compared to
 £176K/FTE/year in REF 2014). The >1.75-fold increase reflects the success of our research
 strategy, with income from diverse sources. This includes £125M from UKRI (e.g., BBSRC
 (>£32M), MRC (>£67M), other RCUK (£25M, e.g., NERC, EPSRC)), Wellcome (£138M), EU
 (£42M), and industry (£6M). We have been supported by prestigious awards including 3
 Wellcome PRFs, 22 Investigator Awards, 4 Collaborative Awards, 7 SRFs; 2 BBRSC sLoLa; 2
 ERC Advanced and 5 Consolidator Awards, 5 MRC Programme Grants. We have been awarded
 25 senior ECR fellowships worth in excess of £23M, including 3 MRC, 12 Wellcome SHD, 6
 ERC Starter and 5 Royal Society URFs. Junior fellowship awards include 12 Sir Henry
 Wellcome and 36 Marie Skłodowska-Curie.



                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1 Strategies for research income generation
 Institutional-level resources and initiatives are described in REF5a. At UoA5 level, research
 strategy is developed and implemented by a senior executive team comprising Institute/Division
 Directors, the Vice-Deans for Research and Enterprise, and others with key roles. Regular
 meetings with Heads of Departments ensure alignment with departmental strategy. Departments
 and Institutes provide support for PIs (e.g., mentoring, internal grant peer review, away days).
 UCL has also invested in the cross-Faculty Research Coordination Office and Translational
 Research Office. They each comprise a team of >15 senior academically trained personnel,
 often with a background in the research funding or commercial sectors. They have been
 instrumental in the strategic review of facilities (see 3.2), coordinating major funding applications
 involving multiple labs or institutions (together with Domains); supporting research initiatives that
 cut across different disciplines; organizing grant writing workshops and mock interviews;
 administering internal funding schemes. Similarly, the European Research & Innovation Office
 provides advice about EC programmes and promotes interaction with other EU groups.

 3.2 Facilities, equipment and technical support

 3.2.1 Funding sources
 The best research facilities need cutting-edge space and equipment, and highly skilled technical
 support. Institutional investment has come through Capital Infrastructure Funds (>£5M), and the
 Capital Equipment Fund (CEF) which was established in 2018 (total funding £10.6M and >£6.5M
 of CEF has supported research activity within UoA5). The LMCB also received £24M from the
 MRC and the SWC received >£120M from Wellcome and Gatsby Foundation in core support.
 We have also secured £10.6M in awards from Wellcome and BBSRC shared equipment
 schemes; £0.5M from Wellcome ISSF and on average £1.7M in institutional funding per year
 has been used to provide matched funding for equipment requested on grants.

 3.2.2 Funding prioritisation
 All applications for shared equipment (internal or external funding) receive rigorous internal
 review through panels led by the Chair of our cross-Faculty Research Board and four Vice-
 Deans for Research. This ensures priority is given to cross-Faculty and multidisciplinary and
 multi-institution applications and that we only submit highly competitive, well-coordinated and
 strategically important applications to external calls.




                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Cross-cutting support structures that facilitate interdisciplinary research and
 procurement of grant, industry and translational funding.


 3.2.3 Science Technology Platforms (STPs)
 During the assessment period, we reviewed all research facilities that support UoA5 research.
 This review concluded that although some facilities are best suited to support research activity in
 their local environment, the function and availability of others is most effective when centralised,
 enabling the sharing of expensive equipment and technical expertise. This resulted in a major
 programme of work to consolidate small facilities, revamp space and equipment and ensure the
 provision of appropriate technical expertise under the framework of Science Technology
 Platforms (STPs). STPs have academic and technical leadership who provide strategic oversight
 of the services offered, its equipment and its technical support needs, and ensure a coherent
 and consistent service. In 2020 eight new STPs were launched, with four led by UOA5
 researchers: Genomics and Sequencing; NMR Spectroscopy (Christodoulou); Mass
 Spectrometry (Thalassinos); Biological Services; Imaging (Pichaud); Fish Facility (Wilson and
 Bianco); Radiochemistry; Cell Sorting. STPs are subject to rigorous annual review and


                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accountability, after which strategic goals are prioritised for capital funding. Investments in the
 UoA5 led STPs are described in more detail below.

 Imaging STP
 The light and electron microscopy STP has brought together existing and new facilities to
 provide researchers with access to a wide range of cutting-edge wide-field, confocal, multi-
 photon, light-sheet, super-resolution imaging and scanning, transmission and cryo-electron
 microscopy.

 UCL-Zeiss Multi-Scale Imaging Centre (UZMIC): This new (completed in 2019) advanced
 imaging centre is dedicated to dynamic imaging across scales, from single molecule resolution
 to organelles, cells and tissues, and from a single sample to high throughput analysis. UCL
 invested ~£2M to provide purpose-designed, fully renovated and refurbished space, in addition
 to a contribution of approximately £1.5M from Zeiss. Microscopy equipment includes a Zeiss
 Light Sheet Z1 and Zeiss LSM 800 confocal microscope allowing for low phototoxicity imaging of
 living cells at super resolution (BBSRC and UCL CEF £460K), Scanning Tomography arrays
 electron microscope (Wellcome MUE award £550k), Zeiss 880 Airyscan systems, one with UV
 optics and full spectral detection (UCL CEF £750K), Zeiss Airyscan 980 Fast II 8-Y upright
 microscope with multiphoton laser and Zeiss Elyra 7 Lattice SIM super res (UCL CEF £680K),
 Zeiss Airyscan 980 Fast II 8-Y, inverted microscope (UCL CEF £540K), Renishaw Invia Raman
 confocal microscope (BBSRC and UCL matched funding £430K), Nikon X-Ray CT scanner
 (UCL CEF £360k) and Leica 3D Fluorescence Stereoscope Thunder system (UCL CEF £65K).

 Super-resolution and other advanced imaging: The SuRF super-resolution imaging facility
 spearheaded by UCL/Birkbeck was set up in 2013/14, in part through a £1.6M grant from the
 MRC. It has applications which span multiple UoAs (e.g., cell biology, physics of biological
 nanomachines, biochemical engineering of therapeutic proteins, chemistry of synthetic
 biomimetic molecules). It now includes three microscopes that are optimized for cell imaging:
 TIRF STORM system, Structure Illumination Microscope equipped for PALM, 2-colour STED
 recently upgraded in 2018 with a second depletion laser (UCL CEF ~£150K). This has been
 further enhanced by a 3i Lattice Light Sheet microscope allowing for low phototoxicity imaging of
 living cells at super resolution (BBSRC £500K 2017). In 2020, SuRF installed the UK’s first
 microfluidic enabled benchtop, turn-key, multi-function super-resolution microscope from ONI
 (BBSRC £200k) to enable research on in vitro reconstituted molecular machines and further
 simplify access to these technologies to non-specialist/traditional users. As part of SuRF, two
 new optical development laboratories (led by Henriques and Lowe and supported by the
 recruitment of senior grade 9 expert tech support) have been established (£300K refurbishment)
 to develop new methods of super-resolution imaging and data analysis. They are light and
 vibration isolated; and pressure, energy and temperature controlled, with a dedicated fibre-optic
 network connection to a CPU and GPU farm capable of high-performance computing on the
 generated data. In addition, 3i engineers have bench space, where they collaborate to develop
 new technologies. The lab pioneered the development of the sulfoscope, a microscope capable
 of imaging Hyperthermophilic Archaeon (Baum, Curr Biol 2020, Science 2020) and has
 developed new quantitative technologies to improve Super-Resolution Imaging (Henriques, Nat
 Meth 2018; Nature Comm 2019).

 Electron microscopy and cryo EM: The emergence of new EM technologies has revolutionised
 biology. To capitalise, this REF period has seen significant investment in these technologies.
 This includes a ZEISS scanning electron microscope for array tomography (Wellcome (£333K)
 and UCL (£150K)). Together with an associated light microscope, it allows novel 3D
 ultrastructural imaging and is the first correlative workflow of its kind in the UK. We have also
 added a state-of-the-art 300kV Krios electron microscope (installed in 2018 with £4M
 Birkbeck/UCL/Wellcome funding) equipped with Direct Electron Detectors (K3 and Falcon III
 detectors), a phase plate and energy filter. Single particle and cellular tomography are fully
 supported as well as correlative cryo fluorescence/EM microscopy. Vitrobot and Leica GP2 cryo
 plungers are available for sample preparation. Cell preparation equipment includes a high-
 pressure freezer, cryo microtome and freeze substitution and a cell culture suite. The lab is run

                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by two full-time research support posts (EM technical manager and scientific facility coordinator),
 and departmental IT staff manage high-performance computing resources needed for these
 experiments.

 Fish Facility STP
 The UCL Fish Facility is a state-of-the-art resource that provides researchers (including other
 HEIs and Research Institutes) with access to several hundred genetically distinct zebrafish lines.
 It is run by a senior manager and 7 core staff, and investment of over £1.5M during the
 assessment period has more than doubled space/capacity, enabling a much broader range of
 research programmes including ambitious forward and reverse genetic screens. This investment
 has also allowed us to recruit ECRs in UoA5 (Bianco, Dreosti) and other UoAs (Macdonald,
 Young and Tuschl). The Facility also maintains cavefish (Yamamoto) and has recently
 established a killifish facility to support research in cancer and healthy ageing (Payne, Bahler).
 Most technicians working in the Facility participate in research activities, present at conferences,
 and publish their work. This has paid particular dividend during the pandemic as facility staff
 have taken on active roles in supporting research.

 NMR and Mass Spectrometry STPs
 These STPs provide fully supported access to a wide range of biophysical instrumentation
 including UV-Visible, fluorescence and CD spectroscopies, robot-assisted screening, DLS, DSF,
 ITC, DSC, BLI and SEC-MALS instruments. Equipment is housed in a purposed designed lab
 space refurbished in 2020 with Wellcome/Birkbeck/UCL funding (£300K) with dedicated space
 for sample preparation. It also houses 500, 600 700 & 800 MHz Spectrometers. The higher field
 instruments are focussed on structural determination and are all equipped with cryogenic
 probes. The 500 MHz Bruker Avance II system is equipped with automated sample changer and
 cooled probe for medium throughput screening (e.g., in metabolomics) and quality control of
 protein samples. The MS facility performs ion mobility and protein conformational studies on
 isolated proteins/complexes using a Waters Cyclic Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometer and basic
 protein identification using QTOF technology. Computational tools are also developed for data
 analysis.

 3.2.4 Other support for UoA5 research
 Researchers have access to standard molecular biology, biochemistry, tissue culture and
 microbiology equipment, next-gen and Sanger sequencing, genotyping services. A wide range of
 biophysical and crystallographic instrumentation is available at the ISMB BiophysX Centre,
 including UV-Visible, fluorescence and CD spectroscopies, DLS, DSF, ITC, DSC, BLI and SEC-
 MALS instruments. Equipment is housed in a purposed designed lab space refurbished in 2020
 with Wellcome/Birkbeck/UCL funding (£300K) with dedicated space for sample preparation,
 robot-assisted screening and X-Ray system for in-house crystallography. UoA5 researchers also
 received £951K in-kind benefits to use shared UKRI facilities such as the Diamond Light Source
 (£247K) and European Synchrotron Research Facility (£354K). There is also substantial access
 to the national Electron Bio-Imaging Centre (eBIC) at Diamond. Saibil was co-lead on the
 £15.6M grant from Wellcome/MRC/BBSRC that established eBIC in 2015 and is currently a
 member of the Executive Committee. Finally, UoA5 researchers have access to 16 UCL libraries
 whose staff support Open Research through administration of the REF OA policy and UCL
 Discovery, UCL’s Open Access Repository.

 3.3 Research governance
 Research governance policies that underpin expectations about the conduct of research are
 detailed in REF5a. These include principles and training in research integrity, and initiatives to
 prevent misconduct and define action to be taken in the event that an individual is suspected or
 accused of research misconduct. All issues relating to confidentiality and security in the use of
 patient and participant data fall under UCL’s Data Protection policies and the Data Protection
 Office provides extensive training, guidance, and support.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our goal is to foster a rich environment where collaborative and interdisciplinary research is the
 norm, and where our researchers provide essential contributions to the research base,
 economy, society and the vibrancy of the wider scientific community. Data evidencing these
 activities were obtained from a comprehensive survey completed by ~90% of submitted UoA5
 staff.

 4.1 Major institutional collaborations
 Francis Crick Institute: We are a founding member (£40M investment) and UCL provides direct
 financial support (>£1M/annum) for over 80 UCL researchers physically located in the FCI.
 During the assessment period, our unit has made major joint strategic appointments (e.g.,
 Luscombe, Goering, Schaefer), seconded entire research groups (e.g., Tedesco) and
 established satellite research groups (e.g., Szabadkai, Henriques) as part of our Crick-HEI
 Attachment Scheme. UoA5 staff are also supervisors for many students on the Crick PhD
 programme, and participate in many scientific interest groups and other shared activities.

 The Rosalind Franklin Institute: UCL is a founding partner of this national institute dedicated to
 bringing about transformative changes in life science through interdisciplinary research and
 technology development. The research synergy has seen UCL appoint researchers to lead the
 University’s work in RFI research themes of Biological Mass Spectrometry (Thalassinos) and
 Structural Biology (Werner).

 The Natural History Museum: UoA5 researchers are embedded in this partnership through
 collaborative research (e.g., Goswami, Day), gaining access to its unique research collections,
 and several NHM staff are involved in research collaborations at UCL where they hold honorary
 Professorships (e.g., Knapp, Lister).

 Royal Veterinary College (RVC): IoZ has collaborated with the RVC for over 20 years delivering
 novel MSc/MSci programmes on wild animal health and wild animal biology which are
 strategically important for conservation scientist training. The RVC, together with UCL, is also a
 partner in the proposed National Institute for Biodiversity and Public Health (described above).

 4.2 Individual collaborations
 UoA staff have been involved in extensive collaborative and interdisciplinary research.
 Collaborations involve both UK (71% of staff) and international (84% of staff) institutions, with
 61% defined as interdisciplinary. This has resulted in membership of 53 European research
 networks (€31M UoA5 funding out of €73M total awards), 4 Wellcome Collaborative Awards
 (£6.7M) and 2 BBSRC sLoLa (£1.5M share). 48 members of staff (24%) have hosted visiting
 international researchers, many funded by competitive schemes. Collaborative interdisciplinary
 working is also promoted by joint appointments and the award of honorary positions (including
 Category C staff). A total of 275 individuals held such positions on the census date, with 86 at
 professorial level.

 4.3 Contribution to the research base
 The breadth of contributions is highlighted by the following aggregate metrics:
    •   41% of staff have served on national or international grants committees, and 71% on
        learned societies/professional bodies/international research committees ;
    •   57% of staff have given invited keynote lectures;
    •   61% have participated in conference organization;
    •   87% have examined doctorates;
    •   51% of staff served on journal editorial boards, 27% in editorship positions;
    •   97% engage as ‘good citizens’ and are involved is some aspect of refereeing/peer-
        reviewing. Most exceed these minimal expectations;
    •   41% served on committees of national funding agencies including research councils and
        major Charities and other international funding bodies.

                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Prizes such as scholarly fellowships or related awards have been awarded to 52% of staff and
 provide a metric by which the contribution of individuals is recognised. Major honours/prizes
 awarded to both early career and senior researchers include:

 Early career:
 L’Oréal for Women in Science Fellowship 2016, 2020 (Acton, Mao)
 Lister Institute Research Prize 2014, 2018 (Boucrot, Mao)
 BSCB Women in Cell Biology Early Career Medal 2020 (Mao)
 EMBO YIP (Cheung, Dessimoz, Mao, Roberts)
 Medical Research Foundation Emerging Leaders Prize, 2020 (Fabrizi)
 Biochemical Society Early Research Career Award, 2015 (Roberts)

 Senior:
 Fellows of Royal Society (Orengo, Silver, Fitzgerald, Dolphin, Hausser)
 Fellows Academy Medical Sciences (Brodsky, Lloyd)
 Members of EMBO (O’Keefe, Margrie, Paluch, Mayor, Orengo)
 Biological Secretary of Royal Society (Partridge)
 Biochemical Society Award, 2015 (Lane)
 ZSL Silver Medal, 2015 (Pettorelli), 2016 (Sumner)
 Member of the British Empire (MBE) for Services to Higher Education and Culture, 2015
 (Chatterjee)
 Fondation Ipsen Prize for Neuroenergetics, 2016 (Attwell)
 Zoological Medal, the Linnaean Society of London, 2016 (Mace)
 Royal Society Faraday Prize and Lecture, 2016 (Lane)
 Royal Society Croonian Lecturer 2017 (Ashmore)
 Ross G Harrison medal, International Society for Developmental Biology, 2017 (Stern)
 Distinguished Career Award, International Association for the Study of Pain 2017 (Fitzgerald)
 Zoological Society of London’s Scientific Medal 2018 (Pearson)
 Charles L Hoppel International Prize 2018 (Duchen)
 AHRC-Wellcome Health Humanities Medal 2018, (Chatterjee)
 Membership of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters (2018) (Attwell)
 Presidential Lecture, International Society for Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism, 2019
 (Attwell)
 Linnean Medal for Zoology 2019 (Turvey)
 Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship 2019 (Burbano)
 Feldberg Foundation Prize 2020 (Hausser)

 4.4 Contribution to research networks and community resources
 UoA5 researchers have established resources and databases that provide the gold standard for
 research in their field. In structural biology, UCL is one of the 11 institutes that constitute the UK
 Node of the ELIXIR infrastructure for bioinformatics, the inter-governmental coordinating body
 funded by national governments and the EU for bioinformatics resources. CATH-GENE3D
 (Orengo) is the major service from UCL. It has become the world standard resource for
 taxonomic classification of protein structure in terms of functional domains (NAR 2018) and
 contains domain predictions for 82 million gene sequences presently available in public
 databases. The Protein Circular Dichroism Database (PCDDB) developed by Wallace (NAR
 2017), is also part of the ELIXIR landscape and provides the global repository for CD data on
 proteins, whilst the Intrinsically Disorder Protein ELIXIR Community (F1000 Research 2019)
 aims to establish standards for data storage and dissemination for disordered proteins. Martin (J
 Mol Biol 2017) has generated abYsis and AbDb for management of structural data on antibody
 diversity and modelling for therapeutic development (see Impact Case study). Other highlights
 include: the Living Planet Index, a global dataset of wildlife population trends which is curated by
 Freeman; gold standard resources for model organisms (Thompson (Dictyostelium mutant
 resource) and Bahler (POMBE base)); databases of gene expression and neuroanatomy in
 embryos (ECAP; Stern; zebrafishbrain; Wilson); and The Global Avian Invasions Atlas, a
 database of alien bird distributions worldwide (Blackburn).

                                                                                               Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5 Contribution to the economy and society via collaboration with government,
 government agencies, the NHS and industry
 Engagement with industry is encouraged through CASE studentships or industry-sponsored
 research (46% of staff), or consultancy (15%, £0.5M total). Effective collaboration with industry
 has resulted in the award of £5.5M in grants from industrial partners, leading to significant
 translation or commercialisation: 26% of staff have been involved in patents, licensing, spin-out
 formation, consultancy, clinical trials, or been awarded translational funding and secured UCL
 Business proof of concept funding (0.6M), Translational Research Office funding (£0.75M).
 Others work with health and social care services (6%); or with central or local government
 bodies (10%, £1M). This includes advice to UK Government including Ministers of State, all-
 party Parliamentary Groups, BEIS, House of Commons/Lords Select Committees and DHSC
 (e.g., Chatterjee, social prescribing; Jones UK’s future preparedness for pandemics; Mace,
 human impact on the environment). These activities are mirrored internationally through work
 with global regulatory bodies (e.g., IUCN, United Nations, World Organisation for Animal Health)
 concerned with infectious and non-infectious disease in wildlife (Cunningham and Garner),
 zoonoses (Cunningham and Jones), human-wildlife conflict (Durant and Woodroffe), species
 reintroductions (Ewen), and global biodiversity trends (Mace and Freeman).

 4.6 Response to the COVID-19 pandemic
 Researchers and facilities in UoA5 have made major contributions to the national effort to fight
 the COVID-19 pandemic. This includes recent evidence to the House of Commons Science and
 Technology Committee on the UK’s prior preparedness for a pandemic based on research into
 the relationship between infectious disease and habitat loss, biodiversity, bats and live wildlife
 markets (Jones). Before the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, work on predicting and
 modelling Ebola and Lassa fever had led Jones and colleagues to repeatedly warn that
 environmental degradation around the world was increasing the likelihood of ‘spillover’ events
 and pandemics. The recommendation now is that public health organisations, ecologists and
 conservationists must work together to investigate causes of disease (i.e. spillover from wildlife)
 as opposed to solely focusing on proximate causes (i.e. human-to-human spreading). Our
 researchers have also spearheaded COVID-19 studies, including the COVID-19 Mass
 Spectrometry Coalition, of which Thalassinos is a founding member. To date, more than 500
 scientists from 18 countries have joined the coalition and are working to use mass spectrometry
 to identify molecular markers indicative of disease severity. Researchers have also provided
 insights into viral evolution and transmission (e.g., Balloux and Van Dorp, Nat Comms 2020;
 Orengo, Sci Reps 2020; Santini, Lancet Microbe 2020).

 4.7 Contribution to society via engagement with wider audiences
 Staff in this UoA (79% in total) have interacted with or developed relationships with audiences
 outside the university sector, including museums, schools, the media, policy makers, patient
 groups, local communities, and healthcare practitioners.

 Highlights include:

 Institute of Zoology: The unique position of the IoZ, as the research arm of the Zoological
 Society of London (ZSL), affords the opportunity to engage with >1.4 million people visiting
 ZSL’s London and Whipsnade Zoos annually, including c.150,000 children participating in the
 ZSL schools programme. IoZ/ZSL also has an annual programme of 10-15 free public science
 lectures (2000 attendees), 2 international symposia (350 attendees), and 1 early career event
 (55 attendees). All IoZ staff and students are supported in outreach activities, and to develop
 innovative public engagement, such as the 2018 online dissection of a dolphin, which has been
 viewed almost 200,000 times. IoZ also has a strong track record of enlisting citizen scientists,
 and promoting participation and enabling nationwide projects, such as the Garden Wildlife
 Health initiative.

 Popular science writing: UoA5 researchers (e.g., Jones, Lane) have written best-selling and
 prize-winning popular science books, often stemming directly from their own research activity.

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Highlights include Lane’s The Vital Question (2015) for which he was awarded the 2016 Royal
 Society Michael Faraday Prize.

 Soapbox Science is an annual global outreach programme that now runs events in public
 spaces in 14 countries across 5 continents, showcasing women in science and providing
 inspiring role models to encourage higher participation in STEM. Co-founders Seirian Sumner
 (UCL) and Nathalie Pettorelli (IoZ) received a ‘Points of Light’ award from Prime Minister David
 Cameron in 2015 for this work.

 Museums and collections: The location of UCL, Birkbeck and IoZ has enabled collaborative work
 with The British Museum, British Postal Museum, Central St Martin’s Study Collection, Islington
 Museum, UCL Museums, Petrie Museum, and Tate, as well as Tunbridge Wells Museum & Art
 Gallery, Canterbury Museums & Galleries, Whitworth Gallery, Spanish Cultural Heritage
 Institute, and The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts. This engagement includes scientific
 approaches to measuring the benefits of cultural experiences for health and wellbeing
 (Chatterjee), developing museum exhibits (ancient DNA (Mott), perceptions of Nature (Mace),
 model organism research (Bianco) and the preservation of museum specimens (Odlyha).

 4.8 Summary
 This REF period has seen a step change in the environment for UoA5 researchers due to
 tremendous investment across UCL, Birkbeck and IoZ, together with extensive recruitment at all
 career stages; the development of a diverse, collaborative and supportive working environment;
 and provision of cutting-edge facilities, infrastructure and expert technical support. This world-
 class environment has enabled our researchers to undertake the world-leading interdisciplinary
 research evidenced in the submitted outputs and impact cases for this REF period and provides
 a foundation for future success.




                                                                                            Page 32
