Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester
 Unit of Assessment: 19
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 Politics and International Relations at the University of Leicester is recognized internationally for
 its strengths in: intelligence, security and strategic studies; theorising about justice for
 marginalised groups; and analysis of public attitudes and individual and institutional behaviour.
 In this period the Unit has made notable advances in areas including: space policy; the
 relationship between cyber-threats and nuclear weapons; intelligence ethics; Brexit and
 parliamentary behaviour; systematic analysis of generational differences in attitudes towards
 migration; policy-feedback in health care policy; religion and political attitudes; the political
 history of slavery; and the intersection between animal ethics and justice. It is known for its
 commitment to interdisciplinarity and focus on connecting with practitioners in government,
 NGOs, and international organisations such as NATO, the European Space Agency (ESA), and
 the UN. Our strategic approach to research and impact is directed at making original
 contributions in established areas of the discipline while developing new and emerging areas,
 and to developing and disseminating research that has clear benefits beyond the academic
 community.

 Our strategy is pursued through three research clusters that reflect our strengths:

       Parties, Parliaments and Public Opinion (3PO)
       Intelligence, Security and Strategic Studies (ISSS)
       Global Ethics and Political Theory (GEPT)

 These clusters foster a sense of research identity and community, integrating the PGR
 community, supporting thematic research events, and providing avenues for improving the
 quality and potential impact of research via feedback on work in progress. They also underpin
 intra- and inter-disciplinary activity and engagement, enabling colleagues to participate flexibly in
 more than one cluster.

 Parties, Parliaments and Public Opinion (3PO)
 3PO includes Clements, Hopkins, Lynch, McLaren, Waddan, and Whitaker. Research
 interests range across comparative politics, including the politics of the EU and national political
 systems, with strengths in the analysis of public opinion on European integration (Clements),
 immigration (McLaren), foreign affairs and environmental issues (Clements), Euroscepticism
 (Clements, Lynch, Whitaker), and religion and politics (Clements). Additional strengths lie in
 the study of political parties (Lynch and Whitaker), legislatures (including the UK and European
 parliaments) (Whitaker, Lynch), and public policy (Waddan). Hopkins’ research focusses on
 conflict and resolution in Northern Ireland. Much of the cluster’s research develops and tests
 empirical theories using quantitative techniques. The cluster’s practitioner engagement focuses
 especially on organisations that aim to impact the UK parliament and government.

 Intelligence, Security and Strategic Studies (ISSS)
 The ISSS cluster comprises Baker, Bowen, Dover, Futter, Johnson, McCormack, Phythian,
 Shiraz, and Strachan-Morris. It brings together researchers who focus on developing
 theoretical approaches to traditional and emerging areas of security, embracing a broad and

                                                   1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary understanding of ‘security’. Its research covers several areas: developing social
 science and historical approaches to thinking about national security intelligence and the
 management of national security crises (Dover ICS1, Phythian, Shiraz, Strachan-Morris);
 framing and analysing contemporary developments that challenge conventional notions of
 ‘national security’, such as cyber threats to the security of nuclear weapons (Futter ICS2) and
 security in outer space (Bowen); and in developing innovative and interdisciplinary approaches
 to questions of conflict and security (Baker, Johnson, McCormack, and Shiraz). The cluster is
 strong in its range of impact and professional engagement activities, such as in space policy
 (Bowen) and intelligence and security practice (Dover, Phythian, and Strachan-Morris).

 Global Ethics and Political Theory (GEPT)
 This cluster has a core membership of Brace, Cooke, Garner, Fotou, and Staples, bringing
 together political philosophy, international theory, and more historically-orientated methods in a
 cross-cutting and interdisciplinary approach to political theory. Leverhulme-funded Research
 Associate Okuleye and Visiting Research Fellow Hicks have also played an integral role in the
 cluster. GEPT’s research centres around challenges to traditional liberal thought. It includes
 researchers working on issues of slavery (Brace), gender (Brace, Staples), statelessness
 (Staples), and debates about how theories of justice can be applied to marginal groups,
 including animals (Cooke, Garner). Members share an interest in ethics, rights and the scope of
 justice, and in questions of exclusion and belonging. Individual research interests in animal
 rights, slavery, statelessness and migration feed into shared thematic interests in the politics of
 the human, global ethics, victimhood and methods in political theory.

 In 2016, the University implemented a restructuring of its Schools as part of an institutional
 transformation. The Department of Politics and International Relations merged with the School of
 History to create the School of History, Politics and International Relations (HyPIR), located
 within the College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities. This transformation has increased
 opportunities for interdisciplinary scholarship. For example, the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral
 Partnership PhD Studentship, Defending Modernity? Communicating with the Public about
 Nuclear Energy: Historical Perspectives, involved supervision from Clements (Politics) and
 Horrocks (History), along with academics based in the National Archives. Similarly, Garner
 employed PGR Okuleye, with expertise in Oral History, on his Leverhulme-funded ‘The Oxford
 Group and the Emergence of Animal Rights: An Intellectual History’ project.

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact over the assessment period
 In REF2014 we set out four strategic aims, all of which have been delivered.

    2014 Aims                   Achievements
    1. Further developing       In REF2014, the focus of the clusters was coordination and
    coherent research           dissemination of research. In REF2021, the clusters have
    clusters around our         enhanced their developmental role, increasing the focus on
    strengths.                  PGR inclusivity, community, and research support. Success is
                                evidenced in relation to aims 2-4 and in the increased number
                                of successful PhD completions during this period: from 1.6 to
                                5.2 p.a. plus a further 1.2 p.a. completed via Distance
                                Learning (DL). Our international reputation attracted PhD
                                students from eighteen countries, spanning four continents.


                                                  2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Improving our            We have enhanced the role of the clusters in supporting and
    research-supporting         developing grant applications (see §2); created a HyPIR
    structures.                 Research Development Fund (from 2018/19) to support new
                                research initiatives; and implemented annual research
                                mentoring meetings. Together, these have contributed to
                                significant increase in grant applications, grant successes, and
                                income (from £5,075 - £363,544 p.a.).

                                Key successes include Futter’s ERC Consolidator Grant
                                (£1.2m), Morales’ Open Research Area (ORA) (£430k),
                                European Council (£124k), and ESRC Future Leaders grants
                                (£166k); Clements’ AHRC-funded project (£115k), Lynch and
                                Whitaker’s ESRC-funded project (£340k) on Brexit and
                                parliamentary processes, and Garner’s Leverhulme Trust
                                grant (£117k) underpinning his 2020 monograph on the history
                                of the Oxford Group of animal rights theorists, The Oxford
                                Group and the Emergence of Animal Rights (OUP).

                                New support structures (see below and §3) have enabled
                                Bowen, Dover (ICS1), Futter (ICS2), Lynch, and Whitaker
                                to develop and evidence the impact of their scholarship.
    3. Increasing the volume    Our research vitality is evidenced by the quality of our outputs
    of excellent research we    and by publication metrics. During the census period,
    produce and our broader     Category A staff have published 166 journal articles
    contribution to the         (averaging 6.4 per FTE), 39 authored and edited books, and
    discipline.                 83 book chapters, increases from REF2014 of 46%, 160% and
                                177% respectively. Enhanced internal peer review, mentoring,
                                and writing workshops have been introduced to improve
                                output quality. Many of these publications underpin wider
                                contributions to economy and society (see submitted ICSs and
                                §4) and a number have been awarded prizes (see §4).
                                Concurrently, staff have disseminated research through 137
                                conference presentations and public lectures, including more
                                than 40 keynote and invited talks across 15 countries. In
                                recognition of their contributions, Garner and Phythian have
                                been elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences and
                                Garner as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
    4. Appointing first-class   We have appointed Baker, Bowen, Cooke, Dover, Johnson,
    researchers to              McLaren, Omeni, Shiraz, and Strachan-Morris on
    complement existing         permanent Teaching and Research contracts, a combination
    strengths.                  of investment and replacement posts. These appointments
                                have been made across all levels – from Professor to Lecturer
                                – with an emphasis on identifying and developing talented
                                researchers at early stages of their careers.

 Strategic Aims & Ambitions
 Our strategic aims and ambitions for the next census period will build on our achievements and
 enable us to meet new disciplinary and societal challenges:

                                                 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       To produce world-leading research that continues to develop the discipline in areas
        where we excel, particularly innovative critical, normative and empirical theory and
        analysis. We will continue to emphasise new approaches to traditional areas of enquiry
        such as security (e.g. through developing critical approaches to intelligence and
        security), alongside developing new areas of enquiry (e.g. moral and political duties
        towards non-human animals) and harnessing the vast array of social science datasets
        and innovative quantitative methods to answer pressing questions about the evolution of
        parliamentary behaviour and public opinion in post-Brexit contexts. Aligned with
        institutional priorities, we will seek to appoint excellent researchers to develop research
        and impact in respect of Africa and the Global South (Institutional Environment
        Statement (IES): 2.1 and 2.2).

       To continue to emphasise practitioner engagement and impact by translating our
        research into collaborations with non-academic partners. We will build on existing
        connections such as with NATO, ACPO, the UK Parliament, and UK in a Changing
        Europe, and use them as the basis for forging new ones.

       To increase our international, interdisciplinary, and collaborative research.

       To continue to foster a research environment that rewards individual and collaborative
        excellence in research, that facilitates the development of ECRs, is inclusive, and open
        and international in outlook.

       To build on our grant capture success by diversifying sources of funding and widening
        the proportion of colleagues holding major awards through targeted support and
        mentoring.


 Impact Strategy
 Impact is integral to all research undertaken across the three clusters. We have achieved great
 success using our research to benefit and influence national and international governmental
 organisations. To ensure long-term sustainability, we have aligned key elements of our strategy
 with those of the University and in this way are developing routes to future impact. For example,
 the appointment of Bowen has enabled us to develop impact in space policymaking, including
 via interdisciplinary collaborations with the University of Leicester’s Space Research Centre and
 Space Park Leicester (IES: 2.4; 4.4).

 Impact development is supported throughout the research lifecycle (see §3), and we have
 embedded it into annual research and mentoring processes. Institutional impact funding, aimed
 at developing relationships with commercial, public sector and social enterprise partners, has
 supported:


       Bowen to develop policy networks and provide relief from other activities, leading to
        influence of space policy in the UK, European, US, and South Korean civilian and military
        space sectors.

       Dover to develop intelligence research networks (ICS1).

                                                  4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Futter to develop networks with the Cabinet Office Cyber and Government Security
        Directorate, Whitehall, and NATO Intelligence Fusion Centre (ICS2).

       McLaren to develop partnerships relating to the study of immigrant numbers and anti-
        immigrant opinion (resulting in a series of public seminars in collaboration with the UK
        and a Changing Europe across 2020).

       Staples to support a network-building event and follow-up grant planning for a
        collaborative project on ‘Sanctuary, Solidarity and Everyday Protection’.


 In addition to the two submitted impact case studies a series of further projects with high impact
 potential that should deliver policy/societal change in the future are being supported. These
 include Bowen on space policy, Lynch and Whitaker on parliamentary processes, and
 McLaren on attitudes to immigration.

 Ethics and Research Integrity
 We follow the University’s procedure for ensuring all research is conducted to the highest ethical
 standards (IES: 2.7). Our approach to research integrity is informed by University UK’s
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity. All colleagues and students are required to submit
 research programmes for approval to a University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee,
 which ensures adherence to professional standards and legal requirements. PGRs undergo
 mandatory research integrity training during their probation. Research Ethics within the unit is
 overseen by a School Ethics Officer (Dover) reporting to the School Research Committee. The
 Ethics Officer advises and monitors compliance.

 Open Access
 In 2019, we introduced a School Open Access Fund to support Gold Standard OA publication. It
 provides up to £1500 towards journal article publishing and £5000 towards the publication of
 monographs, with a focus on internationally-recognised and world-leading outputs. Staff are
 encouraged to incorporate OA funding into research grants where possible, and the School
 Fund is directed towards match funding where awards are made.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy aims to enable staff to fulfil their research ambitions, using the research
 clusters to maintain a sense of community and coordinate dissemination and capacity-building.
 Each cluster includes at least one Professor and several Associate Professors and Lecturers.
 Post-doctoral researchers and PGRs are integrated into clusters, which serve as support and
 development structures for Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Each cluster lead is a senior
 academic (currently, Brace, McLaren, and Phythian) whose role is focussed on supporting
 researchers to maximise the originality, significance, rigour and impact of their research.

 Over the census period, we have increased Category A FTE staff to 19 (from 18). Our approach
 has been to identify talent that supports delivery and development of our research strategy,
 appointing promising academics at early stages of their careers (Baker, Bowen, Cooke,
 Johnson, Omeni, Shiraz). The success of this approach is evident in that five staff have been


                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoted from Lecturer to Associate Professor during this period, with one internal promotion to
 a Chair.

 Promotion follows a standardised Leicester Career Map aimed at ensuring maximum
 transparency and fairness (IES:3.2). When colleagues have left, we have used the opportunity to
 appoint staff in ways that align with our strategic aims. We have increased the diversity of our
 unit in terms of gender balance (+4% female since 2014) and BAME representation (+10%).

 Recruitment
 PGRs have made a significant contribution to our research environment. Recruitment of post-
 doctoral fellows (seven in total) has focussed on providing career development opportunities,
 shaping the next generation of scholars, and fostering interdisciplinary scholarship. For example,
 Okuleye was appointed for her expertise in oral history on the Leverhulme-funded ‘The Oxford
 Group and the Emergence of Animal Rights’ project. All have been eligible to apply for School
 research funding and integrated into the clusters. PGRs attached to Morales’ ERC and ORA
 projects developed 3PO’s expertise in public opinion and parties, especially using empirical
 theory and rigorous quantitative methods.

 Retention: staff development and recognition
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and the Unit’s implementation is overseen by the School (HyPIR) Research
 Committee. Over this REF period, we have developed and implemented a formal mentoring
 policy, which includes assigning individual mentors and collective mentoring through mentoring
 circles. Mentoring is supported by a professional development process, and by research
 development meetings. In line with the Concordat, staff from the Unit have been supported in
 attending leadership training, and through the School’s Management Committee and
 Performance Development Discussions. In line with our efforts to reduce gendered inequality
 within the unit, this training supported Guerra as deputy head of department and Staples to
 achieve promotion to Associate Professor and be appointed as Academic Director. Newly-
 appointed staff at Lecturer level are allocated lighter teaching loads in their first year and are not
 expected to carry out administrative roles during their first two years in post. Where we have
 identified weaknesses, we have taken measures to overcome them. For example, to address
 social and structural barriers to publication faced by some groups of staff, particularly women,
 we ran a series of writing workshops and provided funded spaces on writing retreats.

 Every member of academic staff has access to a guaranteed annual research allowance.
 Additional targeted support is provided via a School Research Development Fund (RDF). This
 supports projects aligned with the School’s research and impact strategy. College-level support
 is provided for research (CRDF) and impact (RIKE) along with institutional-level opportunities
 (IDF, ESRC IAA, GCRF QR) (IES: 2.3). RDF applications may be individual or collaborative and
 priority is given to ECRs. The RDF is also open to PGRs and RAs. On average, eight awards
 per year are made to staff in the Unit, totalling just under £9000 p.a. across all staff. While the
 bulk of awards from the fund were made to ECRs and PGRs, staff at all career stages make use
 of it. Opportunities also exist through the Leicester Institute of Advanced Studies (LIAS) to
 pursue interdisciplinary work. For example, in 2019, Shiraz received funding from LIAS to carry
 out fieldwork in Colombia towards a single-authored monograph on political violence in
 Colombia, to be published by Edinburgh University Press.


                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 When the School was created, an ECR working group was established. Subsequently, the
 College Research Development Manager has organised a series of workshops for ECRs
 designing their first ESRC/AHRC project. We now have a School-wide ECR group comprising
 35 members that meets regularly. ECR representatives attend School and College-level
 meetings, including Research Committee meetings, and network with University-level ECR
 groups.

 Opportunities for staff development are built into the activities of each cluster. Cluster activities
 are supplemented by unit-level research away-days and informal research lunches aimed at
 maintaining an inclusive research community, celebrating success, and developing research
 strategy. Even during the disrupted Covid-19 period, monthly unit-level informal research ‘chats’,
 and seminars continued virtually. Cluster activities have contributed to grant successes (Futter’s
 ERC Consolidator Grant; Clements’ AHRC grant; Lynch and Whitaker’s ESRC project;
 Morales’ ORA and EC grants, and Garner’s Leverhulme Trust grant (see §1 and §3)).

 The School operates a generous policy of study leave, with staff eligible to apply for one
 semester’s leave after every six semesters. During this time, 28 periods of study leave (equating
 to 14 years FTE) were taken by 20 members of staff. Several took up international Fellowships
 during these periods; for example, Futter as a Fellow of the James Martin Center for
 Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey, and Whitaker at the Australian National University,
 Canberra. Successes arising out of study leave include Waddan’s Obamacare book,
 Phythian’s Principled Spying, Futter’s Hacking the Bomb (ICS2), and Cooke’s ‘Betraying
 Animals’ paper published in the Journal of Ethics.

 Supporting, training, and supervising PGR students
 PGRs are a key part of our research culture and the Unit has emphasised supporting them
 towards successful and timely completion. Success is evidenced by the increase in completions
 in the REF period, averaging 5.2 FTE HESA-reported completions per year compared with 1.6
 FTE in the previous cycle. Building on our profile in professional development and connections
 with partner organisations, the Unit has complemented its campus-based PhD provision with a
 strong international Distance Learning (DL) PhD programme. Although not included in our HESA
 returns, this programme is a core element of our internationalisation and research and impact
 strategies, through engagement with governments, international institutions, and NGOs. Our DL
 PhD programme currently includes 29 Politics and International Relations students (compared
 with 16 campus-based PGRs). Our total number of PhD completions in this period, including by
 DL, was 38. Most (95.1%) PGRs within the School report satisfaction with their supervision
 compared with a sector average of 86.9% as evidenced in the 2019 PRES survey. Reflecting the
 diversity of our intake, just under half of our doctoral awards over the period have been to
 women and slightly under a third to BAME students.

 The University usually funds two of our students per year, a further two will secure funding via
 the AHRC ‘Midlands Four Cities (M4C)’ programme (see IES: 3.3) or equivalent, with the
 balance of students receiving funding via their own governments, charitable or other sources.
 Over the period, eight students were funded by the School or College, totalling £403k in
 stipends, fee-waivers, and travel grants.

 The infrastructure for transferable and research methods skills training is provided by the
 University’s Doctoral College (see IES: 3.2 and 3.3) and is guided by the Vitae Researcher

                                                  7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development Framework. The programme supports PGRs through Leicester’s own Higher
 Education Academy postgraduate teaching programme, with an exit award that can lead to
 Associate Fellowships or Fellowships of the HEA. On average, nine of our doctoral students
 enrol on this programme each academic year. Subject-specific training is delivered through
 cluster workshops and seminars.

 In addition to research funds available at School-level, the Doctoral College offers a range of
 competitive funding opportunities to PGRs (IES 3.2). These include bridge funding to cover gaps
 in funding awards for externally-funded posts for up to three months, travel grants of up to £5k
 for research visits of up to three months, and research support grants of up to £5k.

 Within the Unit, the research clusters have been key in developing and supporting PGRs. This
 role has typically included working with individual PGRs on first publications. To take one
 example, GEPT supported Reid, then coming to the end of his PhD, via a research symposium,
 workshop, and then through the final review and editing process that resulted in publication in
 Contemporary Political Theory. ISSS and 3PO have similarly supported PGRs and combined
 presentations of work in progress by PGRs and ECRs with presentations from leading figures in
 the field (both practitioners and academics), providing valuable opportunities for feedback on
 work in progress.

 The Unit also organises regular cross-cluster PhD workshops which provide experience of
 presenting work in progress. PGRs are often involved in cross-university networks, such as the
 LIAS-funded Leicester Migration Network, which provide additional support and presentation
 opportunities (IES:2.2). The School financially supports PGR attendance at UK and international
 conferences and our students regularly attend ECPR, ISA and other leading conferences and
 workshops in the field. A PGR based in the Unit (Wisthaler) won the ECPR Thesis Prize in 2017.

 DL PGRs are fully integrated into our research environment through tailored activities that meet
 their different needs. Experience of delivering DL has helped us support PGRs and maintain our
 research environment during the COVID pandemic. DL PGRs have the same eligibility to apply
 for funding as campus-based PGRs and have been supported in preparing for conference
 presentations and publishing to the same extent as their campus-based peers. In 2020, we ran a
 series of six virtual seminars for PGRs and staff to present their research and receive feedback
 and support. Four of these presentations were given by postgraduate DL researchers.

 The success of our approach can be seen in the onward academic successes of former PGRs.
 For example: Cox secured a lectureship at SOAS; Dodsworth a lectureship at University of
 Bristol; Tate a lectureship at DMU; Bernardi a lectureship at University of Liverpool; Reid and
 Karkour teaching fellowships at the University of Birmingham; Jones a postdoctoral fellowship at
 University of Exeter; Wisthaler a postdoctoral fellowship at University of Neuchâtel. Of our DL
 students: Hicks was awarded a full-time lectureship in Ritsumeikan University College, Kyoto;
 Johnson in Dublin City University. Perois received the ASIS Security Book of the Year Award
 2020 for a book developed from his thesis.

 Promoting equality and diversity
 Historically, and in line with the sector, our unit has performed poorly in terms of equality and
 diversity but has shown an improving trend thanks to measures we have taken in our hiring,
 support, and promotion strategies. Of seven new appointments made during this period, three

                                                  8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been women and two BAME. In terms of gender balance, the proportion of women has
 remained constant, but the balance in terms of promotion and appointment to more senior roles
 has improved (see below).

                      Staff make-up                         2016*      2020
                      % female                              40%        40%
                      % BAME                                5.33%      6.67%
                      % with declared disability            9.33%      5%
                      % female professors                    29%         40%
                      * collection of full range of EDI data at unit-level began
                      in 2016

 We recognise that Politics and International Relations cannot reach its full potential unless it
 commits to advancing equality, in particular by addressing the loss of women in the career
 pipeline and the absence of women from senior academic, professional and support roles. For
 the School, this means tackling the relative under-representation in senior roles. We have
 appointed McLaren as Professor of Politics and she has a leadership role as Director of
 Research and Chair of the School Research Committee. Brace is currently Deputy Head of
 School. The School is committed to removing the obstacles faced by women and other groups
 with protected characteristics at major points of career development and progression. We have
 used the University’s new career map (IES 3.2) to make sure that citizenship is fully rewarded in
 promotion; this acknowledges that citizenship often forms a greater part of the workloads of
 women and minority staff and incentivises good citizenship regardless of gender or ethnicity to
 address this imbalance. To identify inequalities in career progression, the School collects
 equalities data on grant applications and awards and publication, which are used by the
 research team to identify areas for improvement, such as our programme of writing workshops
 and retreats, grant-writing support, the introduction of formal research mentoring, and the
 introduction of informal mentoring and research support lunches.

 Equalities improvement forms part of our current and future strategy. Our School has formally
 adopted a strategic plan to work towards an Athena Swan Bronze award and appointed an
 Inclusion and Diversity Champion. In 2019, we appointed a team, with staff representation from
 across all career roles and stages and including students, to assess our workload planning
 process and review all equality of opportunity processes within our School. Our Athena Swan
 Self-Assessment Team (ASSAT) meets regularly, liaises with our University Equalities and
 Diversity Unit, and reports to our Staffing Committee and School meetings. In 2020, the team
 launched a staff survey aimed at identifying equalities issues and is developing an action plan to
 address them.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our unit has significantly increased its grant capture over the period: our income per year now
 averages more than our entire REF2014 census period income, growing from £5,075pa to
 £363,544pa. Our research grant income per FTE figures shows an extremely positive trend,
 growing from £4.7k pa/FTE last period to £15.6k pa/FTE. Success in grant capture has enabled
 us to develop our research through the appointment of research associates and postdoctoral
 fellows and to produce world-leading research with impact.

                                                   9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                      Grant income/FTE (000’s)

 These improvements are largely attributable to success in realising our strategic aim of
 strengthening research-support structures. As a relatively small unit, we have experienced
 annual fluctuations in our income that reflect the impact of a few large grant awards. However,
 our income in all years of this census period has been substantially higher than the average
 across the previous one. Grant capture in the final period of this cycle (e.g. Futter’s ERC award)
 will lead to a significant increase in the coming years. Our aim for this census period and beyond
 has been to increase the range and diversity of funding sources to ensure long-term
 sustainability. We have implemented multiple measures (detailed below) to support this aim and
 seen a steady increase in the number of grant applications, the number of colleagues applying,
 and the range of funding bodies applied to (reaching 14 bids from 11 staff to 9 bodies in
 2019/20).

 Organisational and operational infrastructure
 Infrastructure supporting grant capture and impact development is provided at University,
 College and School levels. The Research Enterprise Division (RED) has staff with
 subject/disciplinary expertise to identify funding opportunities and support grant-writing. Impact
 co-ordinators have been appointed at the College and School levels with time allocated to
 support impact-related activities, and these are supported by full-time impact support staff in
 RED. The School holds Annual Research Meetings with all staff to discuss grant and impact
 opportunities, support publication, and develop individual research and personal development
 strategies.

 Organising our Unit into three clusters has provided continuity in developing research projects
 and in taking forward our strategic aims. Grant bids are always reviewed by at least two other
 cluster members. Larger bids (over £150,000) are also reviewed by staff across the School, to
 maximise the chances of grant success. Support is also provided through the key funder working

                                                 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups (AHRC, ESRC, and Leverhulme Trust), on which the School has representatives. Grant-
 writing workshops have been introduced and all researchers (including RAs) have access to
 School and College Research Development Funds (SRDF and CRDFs) offering additional
 funds, above their individual research allowance, of up to £5000pa each. Applications can be
 made to support activities including impact (alongside IAA funding), knowledge exchange, and
 enterprise activities, as well as grant capture and speculative work. Preference is given to ECRs
 and those making their first large grant application. The University has a Research Equipment
 and Infrastructure Fund (REIF), which supports larger infrastructure projects. For, example, our
 unit used REIF funds to purchase and renew a subscription to the FACTIVA database (£30k) in
 support of Morales’ research. A University-wide implementation of the Figshare platform has
 enabled our researchers to publish datasets and archive material and make them open access
 and discoverable (such as artefacts gathered as part of Garner’s Leverhulme project) (IES:2.6).
 PGRs are given secure space, with shared desks and IT equipment. A PGR reading room in the
 Library is provided by the Doctoral College. Institutional commitment to the research conducted
 by our Unit is reflected in the match investment provided to install an ESRC-funded SafePod,
 which will provide access to sensitive or confidential datasets for research purposes.

 External grant capture is emphasised in our annual personal development review process and
 our study leave approval process. Within the School, a proportion of income from grant funding
 is reinvested into seed funds supporting future grant-capture and impact development. These
 measures have seen significant increases in successful applications and in numbers applying.
 For example, Futter’s £1.2m ERC grant, which will allow him to further investigate the impact of
 cyber threats to the security of nuclear weapons (ICS2), was supported by College funding
 (£1,087) to hire a grant-writing consultant and by internal peer review. The RDF provided Baker
 and Shiraz with funding (£2,500 and £3,335 respectively) to conduct international fieldwork,
 leading to articles published in Political Psychology and International History Review, the former
 showing the importance of empathy to de-escalation of conflict, and the latter how the takeover
 of the Dominican Embassy in Bogota in 1980 marked a new trend towards highly visible,
 performative security ‘spectaculars’ that then prompted the creation of modern ‘fortress’
 embassies. Both Bowen’s Edinburgh University Press book and impact work within the UN and
 European Space Agency on spacepower and space warfare have been supported by these
 funds (£8,987).

 Our key grant successes include the following: Futter received £1.2m ERC Consolidator Grant
 (2020-22) and an ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship (2013-16), which allowed him to develop a
 framework for understanding and addressing the implications of the emerging cyber-nuclear
 nexus, culminating in the publication of his award-winning Hacking the Bomb (ICS2). Clements
 was awarded an AHRC grant in 2019 for the project, ‘Roman Catholics in Britain: Faith, Society,
 & Politics’ (£115,055). Schwarz received a British Academy grant in 2017 for her project, ‘Moral
 Agency and Meaningful Human Controls’ (£8,464). This project developed insights into the
 ethics of autonomous military technologies, culminating in the publication of Death Machines:
 the Ethics of Violent Technologies (Manchester University Press, 2018). Morales secured a
 European Council Starting Grant for ‘RESPONSIVEGOV’ employing a post-doctoral researcher
 (Luhiste) and two PhD students, to study government responsiveness to public opinion (2011-
 17, £997,000 awarded, income of £921,603 to Leicester in the census period). Morales was PI
 for a three-year project (PATHWAYS, 2014-17 £429,785 to Leicester) on the integration of
 migrants funded by the ESRC, Dutch NWO, French ANR, and German DFG under the Open
 Research Area (ORA) scheme. The University of Leicester was the lead partner for the British

                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team, which also included researchers at the University of Manchester. Morales also led a
 Horizon 2020 Framework Programme funded project (ETHMIGSURVEYDATA, £123,844), to
 consolidate scattered comparative survey data on integration of ethnic and migrant minorities.
 Whitaker was PI for a Leverhulme Trust funded project (2014-16) with Prof Simon Hix from the
 LSE and employing a post-doctoral researcher within the unit (£56,399). Whitaker and Lynch
 were Co-Is on an ESRC Brexit Priority project on UK party and parliamentary responses to
 Brexit (led by Law). Garner (PI) received a Leverhulme Trust grant for a two-year project (2017-
 19, £117,123), which included the funding of a full-time research associate (Okuleye, a former
 PhD student in the School), which culminated in his Oxford University Press book on the
 influence of the ‘Oxford group’ of scholars on the emergence of the animal rights movement.

 Impact-related activities are supported through School funding of speculative and early-stage
 impact development, or through collaboration with commercial, public sector and social
 enterprise partners. The School has supported this with impact-specific training around research
 strengths; for example, through workshops on engaging with Parliament, run in conjunction with
 the Parliamentary Office of Science & Technology. School funds are augmented by College- and
 institutional-level impact funding aimed at developing relationships with commercial, public
 sector and social enterprise partners. In total, over £85k of School funding was distributed
 amongst eleven researchers, at all career stages. Nine researchers (including 4 ECRs, 3
 women, and 1 BAME staff member) received an additional 23 awards from the College, totalling
 over £56k, to support research and impact-related activities (see §1 for details of projects).
 These approaches have produced tangible results. For example, Futter’s research on the cyber
 threat to nuclear weapons (ICS2) has shaped public attitudes and informed public policy in the
 UK, changing working practices and understanding in NATO, and amongst industry
 professionals. It has been used by leading US think tanks seeking to shape the climate of ideas
 around the Trump Administration’s nuclear weapons policy and by pressure groups working on
 global nuclear risks. Dover’s research has been an important element in the professionalisation
 of intelligence analysis in domestic and international intelligence agencies (ICS1). Bowen’s
 research has been cited by leading UK and European space policymakers as having directly
 changed and influenced British and European space policy and thinking about space politics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Partnerships and Networks
 Our staff are active in international and national research networks and professional
 associations, making significant contributions to disciplinary development. These contributions
 include: the founding of three and convening of eight scholarly networks; more than two dozen
 editorial positions; reviewing for seventeen prestigious funding bodies across Europe; and
 delivering over 170 invited talks and keynotes across the globe, demonstrating the esteem in
 which they are held nationally and internationally.

 Brace is a founding member of the Wollstonecraft Society, an international network with
 members from the US, Turkey, Sweden and UK that works to promote engagement with the
 legacy of Mary Wollstonecraft. Staples is a member of the European Network on Statelessness.
 Cooke is an Associate Fellow of the Sir Bernard Crick Centre for the Public Understanding of
 Politics and sits on the Research Advisory Committee of the Vegan Society, UK. Futter is a
 member of the Euro-Atlantic Younger Generation Leaders network (a network of 80 members
 drawn from across the Euro-Atlantic to provide advice and suggestions to global leaders on

                                                12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pressing security challenges). Futter co-founded and convened the BISA Global Nuclear Order
 working group from 2012-17. Dover convenes the PSA’s Security Intelligence Studies Group
 (SISG) and has been on the National Police Chiefs Council Intelligence Research and Practice
 Committee since 2018. Clements has been co-convenor of the PSA’s Politics and Religion
 specialist group since 2013 and is their treasurer. Clements is a member of the advisory group
 for the ‘Science and Religion: Mapping the Landscape’ project, Theos think-tank and the
 Faraday Institute for Science and Religion, funded by the Templeton Foundation. Strachan-
 Morris is Vice Chair (International), of the International Association for Intelligence Education, is
 a board member of its Europe Chapter, and sits on its Intelligence Education Certification
 Committee. Phythian has played an active role in the ISA’s Intelligence Studies Section and
 chaired its Distinguished Scholar Award Nominating Committee in 2016 and 2017. He was a
 member of the PSA Accreditation Working Group in 2016. Bowen established and convenes the
 Astropolitics Collective, a group for UK academics working on space politics.

 Disciplinary Contribution
 Phythian is a series editor of the Georgetown Studies in the History of Intelligence book series
 and senior editor of Intelligence and National Security. During his editorship the journal has
 increased from 6 to 7 issues per year, has been included in the SSCI, and has seen a marked
 improvement in its data profile, for example in terms of altmetrics and downloads. Dover is an
 editor of the Hurst Intelligence Studies book series and on the editorial board of the Journal of
 Intelligence History. Johnson is associate editor of Critical Military Studies. Whitaker is reviews
 editor for Government and Opposition. Futter sits on the editorial board of The Non-proliferation
 Review and Political Research Exchange. In addition, staff have served on over a dozen further
 journal editorial boards, including: Crime, Law and Social Change; Journal of Animal Ethics;
 International Journal of Intelligence, Security and Public Affairs; New Middle Eastern Studies;
 Social Movement Studies; Society and Animals, and the Journal of Contemporary Research.

 Staff further contribute to the discipline by reviewing for funding bodies. McLaren has served as
 Independent Expert to the European Commission’s Research Directorate General on Horizon
 2020 programmes (H2020-INT-SOCIETY-2015) and was invited to serve on the European
 Commission's DG Research and Innovation (Unit A.6 'Science Policy, Foresight, and Data')
 Trust at Risk expert group and as Vice Chair for the Research Executive Agency of the
 European Commission. She has refereed for the Fund for Scientific Research (FNRS) Belgium,
 and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DSG). Brace sat on the ESRC Peer Review
 College, 2012-2016 and was a judge for the PSA’s Ernest Baker prize for the best thesis in
 political theory, 2018. Phythian was an ESRC Grant Assessment Panel member (Panel B),
 2010 – 2014; a member of the Commissioning Panel, ESRC ‘Understanding, Countering and
 Mitigating Security Threats Research and Evidence Hub’, in 2015 and then as a reviewer of the
 scheme at the end of 2017, as well as reviewer for the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships in
 2018. In 2019-20 he served on the International Assessment Board for the government of
 Ireland’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme. Futter has served as a reviewer for the ERC, ESRC,
 British Academy, and Leverhulme Trust. Clements has acted as a Reviewer, ESRC Research
 Grants (Open Call), 2018, and Staples as a reviewer for the ERC Consolidator Grant, April 2018
 and the ESRC Trust and Global Governance call, September 2018. She has also reviewed for
 the ERC Starting Grants call. Garner has acted as a reviewer for the Leverhulme Trust, and
 Cooke for the AHRC and ERC.

 Keynote lectures delivered include:

                                                  13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Bowen: the Chief of Air Staff Fellowship conference (2019); RAF College Cranwell
        (2020);

       Dover: NATO Intelligence Tradecraft Conference (2019); National Crime Agency,
        National Intelligence Analysts Conference (2017, ICS1);

       Garner: International School of Philosophy, Leusden, Holland (2016); Eurogroup for
        Animals Annual General Meeting, Brussels (2016);

       Johnson: European Workshops in International Studies, Groningen (2018);

       Phythian: National Security Studies Institute, University of Texas, El Paso (UTEP)
        (2017); Education, Security and Intelligence Studies colloquium, University of Oxford
        (2017);

       Strachan-Morris: National Counter Terrorism Border Policing Conference, Newcastle
        (2019).


 Awards and Prizes
 During this period, our staff have been recognised for their contributions to the field. Garner and
 Phythian were elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Garner is a Fellow of the
 Royal Society of Arts. Phythian's book, Principled Spying: The Ethics of Secret Intelligence,
 was a finalist for the AFIO 2018 book award "Best Intelligence History of 2018”. Phythian was
 awarded the ISA Intelligence Studies Section Distinguished Scholar Award in 2020. Bowen was
 a Visiting Scholar at the Space Policy Institute, George Washington University (2014). Futter
 has held fellowships at the Norwegian Nobel Peace Institute (2017) and the James Martin
 Center for Non-Proliferation Studies, Monterey (2015). His book, Hacking the Bomb, was a
 finalist for the 2019 PROSE Award in Government and Politics of the Association of American
 Publishers and Winner “Pole D’Excellence Cyber, Literary Award 2019”. Whitaker held a
 Visiting Fellowship at the Australian National University (2019). Shiraz has held fellowships at
 Centro de Recursos para el Análisis de Conflictos (Conflict Analysis Resource Centre, CERAC),
 Bogotá – Latin America’s leading conflict research centre - and Escuela Superior de Guerra de
 Colombia (Colombian War College).

 Engagement Beyond Academia
 Our relationships with governments, professional groups, and NGOs demonstrate our strength in
 connecting research with users and beneficiaries to deliver social and economic benefits. Key
 beneficiaries have included professionals working in the police and intelligence community, UK,
 European, and US policymakers involved in nuclear and space policy, and officials of the UK
 Parliament.

 Members of the ISSS cluster have worked closely with the National Police Chiefs Council
 Intelligence Practice Research Consortium (IPRC) since 2013. The IPRC identifies research that
 is of use to law enforcement and brings it to the attention of the relevant agency in support of the
 aims of the Evidence Based Policing initiative. Dover, Phythian and Strachan-Morris have all
 been members of the IPRC, attended its meetings regularly and contributed to its work, including
 via commissioned research. Membership of this organisation is an important means of achieving
 impact as well as improving links between academia and professional practice. The success of

                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this approach can be seen in Dover’s Impact Case Study (ICS1), and in Strachan-Morris’s
 engagement with ACPO Criminal Records Office (ACRO) to provide advice on post-Brexit
 intelligence sharing on foreign national offenders. ISSS, as part of the University’s
 internationalisation strategy, has developed strong links with institutions in Pakistan (National
 Defence University at Quiad i-Azam, Strategic Vision Institute, and International Security Studies
 Institute). As a result, we have several PhD students at Leicester on Pakistan Education
 Commission Funding, along with a post-doctoral researcher, working on nuclear politics.

 We have been active in providing research-led practitioner training for government and
 international agency professionals. We designed and delivered the first strategic intelligence
 programme (at postgraduate level) to a residential cohort of intelligence officers, drawn from the
 Five Eyes alliance partners in July 2017. Dover co-wrote the FVEY Criminal Intelligence
 Advisory Group strategy for professionalisation through education, helping to create an
 international career path for law enforcement intelligence officers (ICS1). The Unit’s
 postgraduate Distance Learning programme in Intelligence and Security (led by Strachan-
 Morris) has become a de facto standard for experienced defence, intelligence and security
 officers and the Unit’s partnership with the NATO Defence College in Rome has ensured that
 our programmes are the postgraduate level conclusion to NATO’s Advanced Staff Course.
 Dover was decorated by the National Crime Agency in February 2018 for his work designing its
 career pathway. Dover was commissioned by the Professional Head of Intelligence Analysis in
 the UK to develop CPD and education of strategic analysts in Whitehall in 2018 (ICS1).

 In addition to these practitioner-focussed activities, staff from each of our clusters have been
 active in research-led engagement with external organisations in line with our impact strategy.
 Futter participated in several Track II diplomatic dialogues in the US (2016, 2017, 2018); Russia
 (2017); UAE (2016); India (2016); and China (2014). In addition, he was a member of the Cyber
 Threats and Nuclear Weapons task force at the Nuclear Threat Initiative based in Washington,
 DC (2016-17). Phythian has given invited talks to intelligence practitioners inside GCHQ, at the
 Swedish Defence University, and at the Norwegian Defence Intelligence School. As part of their
 ESRC Brexit Priority grant, Lynch and Whitaker work closely with their impact partner, the
 Industry and Parliament Trust (IPT). In collaboration with the IPT they have run a series of
 events in Parliament bringing together representatives from business, charities and the public
 sector, with parliamentarians and academics. These include meetings on climate change, trade,
 data protection and the EU Withdrawal Bill. They have presented their research findings to
 Parliamentary staff at two events: an ESRC Brexit Research for Policy event and an IPT
 workshop for Parliamentary staff on Parliamentary Procedure Post-Brexit. The project also
 organised a public event ‘What would a good Brexit look like for Leicester and Leicestershire?’
 as part of the ESRC’s Festival of Science in November 2017 involving Lord Wolfson (CEO of
 Next) and Rory Palmer MEP. Shiraz has advised Tower Hamlets Council on their Serious and
 Organised Crime Profile. Clements’ work on religion and politics led him to collaborate with the
 think-tank Theos, resulting in a co-authored report in 2014 ‘Voting and Values in Britain: Does
 Religion Count?’ (covered by the BBC and broadsheet newspapers). Clements’ research on
 religious beliefs in Britain was featured in an article and editorial in The Times in January 2015,
 cited in Prospect magazine, and in a BBC website news article in September 2017. Garner
 produced a co-authored report for the Centre for Animals and Social Justice think-tank entitled
 ‘How to protect animal welfare’ in February 2016. Bowen and Futter’s research in space and
 nuclear security policy has led to the School being invited to affiliate with the EU Non-
 Proliferation Consortium, a network of think tanks and research centres across the EU.

                                                 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our staff frequently provide evidence to parliamentary committees and groups. Bowen gave oral
 evidence to the House of Commons Exiting the European Union Committee as part of their
 inquiry on the progress of the UK’s negotiations on EU withdrawal in May 2018. In 2020, at the
 invitation of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, Bowen submitted
 comments to the Group of Government Experts on preventing an arms race in space. In 2020,
 Bowen answered questions from the Defence Select Committee on space policy and the
 Integrated Review. Futter gave oral evidence to the House of Lords International Relations
 Committee as part of their ‘Foreign Policy in Changed World Conditions’ inquiry in July 2018 and
 his written evidence to the House of Commons Defence Select Committee has been cited in the
 reports of inquiries into ‘Flexible Response? An SDSR Checklist of Potential Threats and
 Vulnerabilities’ in 2015 and ‘Deterrence in the 21st Century’ in 2014. His work has also been
 cited in a House of Commons Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST) Note on
 Nuclear Security (October 2016) (ICS2). McCormack submitted written evidence to the Joint
 Committee on National Security Strategy’s inquiry on the UK national strategy in a digital world
 in March 2017; and to the House of Lords International Relations Committee inquiry into Foreign
 Policy in Changed World in March 2018. She gave written and oral evidence to the ‘Role of
 Parliament in the UK Constitution: Authorising the Use of Military Force’ Inquiry by the Public
 Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee in 2019. Cooke submitted written evidence
 to the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee on the Draft Animal Welfare Bill inquiry
 (2018). Dover and Phythian’s written evidence to a Business, Innovation and Skills select
 committee inquiry was cited in the committee’s report on ‘The Use of UK-Manufactured Arms in
 Yemen’ in September 2016. Dover also provided written evidence to the Home Affairs
 Committee in 2018. Futter (ICS2) has briefed the Cabinet Office (2018), the Top-Level Group of
 Parliamentarians for Nuclear Disarmament (2016), and the NATO Data Fusion Centre (2018). In
 2020, Dover submitted evidence to the UK Parliament Defence Committee Inquiry into The
 Security of 5G (ICS1). Phythian briefed Emily Thornberry MP, then Shadow Defence Secretary,
 in Westminster, April 2016, in context of the Labour Party defence review. Bowen has advised
 the Director of Space, MoD in the UK’s Defence Space Strategy and the Prime Minister’s Policy
 Unit on the Integrated Defence Review.

 Conclusion
 The strong contributions that our research has made to the development of the discipline, as
 well as to governments, NGOs and society, provide concrete evidence of our flourishing
 research environment. Our commitment to the development of our PGRs, ECRs and to gender
 equality are evident in the successes of the UoA’s PGRs, ECRs and female researchers. Our
 multi-layered research infrastructure means that research and impact are fully integrated into the
 Unit’s working culture, creating an environment that enables delivery of world-leading research
 in our core areas of international security, normative theory, and in our pursuit of empirical
 analyses of institutional- and individual-level political behaviour. Our research structures and
 culture have developed significantly in the period under review and provide a robust framework
 and stimulating environment for research currently underway, fostering impact based on that
 research, and for the development of new research and impact focused on Africa and the Global
 South which aligns with the University’s future investments.




                                                16
