Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 15 (Archaeology)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    a. Overview.

 Since REF 2014 the UCL Institute of Archaeology (IoA) has strengthened its outstanding research
 environment through investment in both facilities and people. We see archaeology as an
 internationally inclusive endeavour and undertake research in every continent of the world except
 Antarctica. We have developed our infrastructure to support high quality collaborative research
 projects, appointed a number of early career staff, and expanded the scope of our expertise. Our
 institutional level research networks, three organisational sections, extensive collections, and well-
 equipped laboratories, enable the IoA to engage with world-wide heritage and archaeology
 practitioners, and to exemplify the UCL mission of integrating education, research, and impact that
 is global in scope.

 Our research includes archaeological fieldwork, laboratory analysis, scholarly synthesis, and the
 study of heritage stakeholders and audiences, approached from an exceptionally diverse range of
 theoretical and methodological perspectives. We have an extensive network of external partners
 in the UK and overseas (Fig. 1); we have 15 active research projects in the Americas, 20 in Africa,
 44 in Asia and the Middle East, three in Australasia and the Pacific, 47 in Britain and Ireland, and
 27 in mainland Europe. Our published outputs (2014-2020) reflect this scale, with IoA staff having
 authored or edited 100 books, including journal special issues, 1104 journal articles, and 429 book
 chapters and proceedings papers (plus a large number of commissioned professional reports and
 digital resources such as datasets). We aim: to be internationally pre-eminent in the study, and
 comparative analysis, of world archaeology; to be at the forefront of international research in
 archaeological sciences; and to develop theory, method and practice in the study and
 management of cultural heritage in its social, political and economic contexts.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fig. 1 Global reach of IoA research collaboration. Shading = number of journal articles featuring a
 co-author from that country during the current REF period; orange crosses = countries where IoA
 was involved in a collaborative project in 2020.

    b. Unit structure.

 The IoA forms part of the Faculty of Social & Historical Sciences. Administratively we are
 organized in three Sections (Archaeological Sciences, Heritage Studies, and World Archaeology),
 with Section leaders who sit on the Institute’s Senior Management Team (SMT). We house four
 research centres, which coordinate and provide support to research activities as indicated: the
 Centre for Applied Archaeology (CAA), Centre for Critical Heritage Studies (CCHS), International
 Centre for Chinese Heritage and Archaeology (ICCHA) and International Centre for Silk Roads
 Archaeology and Heritage (ICSRAH). In addition, we operate a system of formal research
 networks (currently thirteen) involving staff and external partners, which underpin research
 collaborations on focused themes and report annually to our Research Committee.

 The Institute building on Gordon Square houses 77 research and teaching staff. It is home to our
 centres, labs and core collections, and has dedicated teaching/meeting and exhibition spaces. It
 hosts grant-funded staff projects and their teams, and welcomes visiting and honorary staff who
 enrich the research environment. The Institute organises numerous seminars, conferences and
 training events each year (with 6-8 afternoon/evening lectures and weekend meetings in a typical
 week in term-time). It is a vibrant intellectual space, and a hub in London and the wider UK for
 research dissemination, training, and professional co-ordination in archaeology.

 Archaeology South-East (ASE) is our commercial arm and undertakes ~£5M worth of archaeology
 in London and Southeast England each year. It is wholly owned by UCL and ranks among the
 largest and longest established archaeological service units in the UK. It has 85 core members of
 staff and a similar number of fixed-term field archaeologists, with three offices in Essex, East
 Sussex and London. Its numerous field projects and engagement with stakeholders and
 developers provide employment opportunities for UCL graduates, student placement and
 apprenticeship opportunities and potential datasets for research. ASE contributes 5% of its annual
 turnover to the IoA; its Director (Perring) sits on the IoA SMT, its staff publish monographs and
 articles in peer-reviewed journals, and it is engaged internationally, for example through its survey
 of wall paintings in Shanxi Province, China.

 In 2011, UCL opened a campus in Doha, Qatar, with an emphasis on heritage, archaeology and
 conservation and, although administratively separate from the IoA, synergies were strong. In its
 2015 Global Engagement Strategy, UCL decided to close its three overseas campuses. However,
 Rehren, who had been seconded as the Director of UCL Qatar, returned to the IoA. Research in
 the Middle East and North Africa at a university level is now sustained through our membership of
 the Middle East Research Centre, under the UCL Institute of Advanced Studies.

 Integration within UCL. The Institute collaborates with many other Departments and Centres. We
 share lab space and facilities with Geography, Genetics, and Forensic Science and have active
 research collaborations with Digital Humanities, Slade School of Art, and Anthropology. We
 participate in UCL’s rich interdisciplinary networks and programmes; our own CCHS is an inter-
 faculty initiative linked to the Institute for Advanced Studies, and with Anthropology, Geography
 and History we are co-founders of the new UCL Anthropocene initiative. Our CCHS small grants

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scheme provides seed funding for projects, networking activities and events across the whole of
 UCL: this constitutes 25 awards, totalling £50k, in the REF period and represents a significant
 source of funding for PhD and postdoctoral researchers. Our materials analysis laboratories
 provide facilities for researchers from across the university (e.g. Engineering, Medical Physics,
 Earth Sciences, Chemistry, Surgery). We have benefited regularly from competitive awards from
 central and faculty-level strategic funds for our research facilities (£1.19M during the REF period),
 for publication, for priming new research projects, and for organizing events. Our research activity
 is facilitated not just by our own 21 professional and technical staff, but also by highly experienced
 research facilitators in the UCL European office, in UCL Libraries, in UCL Culture (museums and
 collections), in our Faculty, and the Office of the Vice Provost (Research).

 c. Research strategy

 Overview: thematic and regional priority areas.

 IoA research strengths are focused on nine major research themes, pursued collaboratively on a
 global scale (Fig. 1). An individual researcher may work within more than one theme and
 collaborations between staff can result in cross-thematic approaches. We make major
 contributions to all of these themes and strive to be among the agenda-setters in these areas.

 Human Evolution includes primate archaeology (Proffitt), world-leading research on early stone
 tools and on early modern human occupation (Shipton), the evolution of hunter-gatherer sociality
 and cognition (Wengrow, Shipton), and work on world-renowned sites and assemblages in
 Pleistocene Europe (Parfitt, Pope, Roberts, Stevens), West Asia (Garrard) and the Americas
 (Arroyo-Kalin); this research theme is supported by a small lithics laboratory and a recently
 established archaeological stable isotope laboratory, as well as by collaborations with the Natural
 History Museum. Two ERC grants have supported research in this area.

 Domestication, Niche Construction and Agricultural Transformations includes sub-themes on the
 domestication of animals and plants (Fuller, Martin), human demography and migration
 (Shennan, Steele), and environmental transformations and sustainability (Fuller, Arroyo-Kalin).
 Archaeological science research includes archaeobotany (Fuller), zooarchaeology (Martin), and
 geoarchaeology (Macphail, Arroyo-Kalin, Zhuang), each with dedicated laboratories and
 extensive reference collections. The recently established isotope laboratory and upgraded
 Scanning Electron Microscope have expanded our analytical capacity and helped maintain their
 world class status (Stevens). Active field research projects are being undertaken in China (Fuller,
 Zhuang), Southeast Asia, South Asia (Fuller), Western Asia (Martin, Wright), Europe (Sommer),
 Western and Eastern Africa (MacDonald, Reid), North America (MacDonald), Central and South
 America (Arroyo-Kalin), while laboratory research has included methodological developments
 and large-scale database construction, analysis and synthesis. We have had three ERC grants in
 this area, as well as recent support from NERC, AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust.

 Environmental Change, Sustainability and Cultural Adaptation is a broad theme with which many
 research projects engage, using our dedicated dendrochronological, geoarchaeological, soil
 micromorphological, and GIS and spatial computing laboratories. It involves work on coastlines,
 hydrological systems, salinization, and anthropogenic soils, and addresses past and current
 concerns about environmental fragility, resilience, risk perception, land-use and the origins of
 anthropogenic climate change (Arroyo-Kalin, Bevan, Bridge, Fuller, Graham, Macphail,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Schadla-Hall). It includes our research defining an “Anthropocene” and its implications for
 sustainability science, heritage, museums, and the environmental humanities (Harrison). We are
 researching these issues in the UK, the Americas, China, India, the Mediterranean, and the
 Pacific. Support has come from the AHRC, British Academy, and Leverhulme grants.

 Material Culture, Technology and Exchange carries research beyond artefact typology to
 technology and the practices of production, and uses our Wolfson Archaeological Science
 Laboratories for materials analysis of lithics (Quinn, Wright), metals (Charlton, Radivojevic,
 Rehren), glass (Freestone, Rehren), ceramics and other artificial materials (Freestone, Quinn,
 Sillar, Sparks, Whitelaw), as well as imaging of organic remains (environmental, artefactual, and
 for conservation treatments). There is a developing strength around the interface between
 materials analysis and conservation science (Freestone, O’Grady, Peters, Sully). Work has
 focused widely from China and Central Asia to West Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, Europe and South
 America. This thematic cluster has trained large numbers of PhD students, and has hosted 10
 Marie Curie-Skłodowska postdoctoral researchers over the past five years (e.g. Dikomitou-
 Eliadou, Gandon, Mise, Sanchez-Ramos), and others funded from other sources. We have
 particular strengths on Silk Roads (overland and maritime routes connecting East Asia and
 Southeast Asia with South Asia, Persia, the Arabian Peninsula, East Africa and Southern Europe)
 and Mediterranean regional archaeologies, in which trade processes were central, as well as more
 limited research around the Indian Ocean. Our recently established ICSRAH (Williams) is linked
 to this theme.

 Human Remains and Forensic Anthropology includes research on human skeletal remains, from
 the evolution of human dentition (Hillson), to the study of health and variation in past populations
 (Hassett), to the forensic application of these methods (Rando). This research area has trained
 large numbers of MSc and PhD students, some of whom go into professional crime scene forensic
 investigation, while others have researched past human populations and their health. Major
 funders have included the Wellcome Trust, AHRC and Leverhulme.

 Civilization, Inequality and Political Organization are themes that emerge from our comparative
 approach to past cities, states and empires. Such research considers the rise, the organization
 and the collapse of complex societies, from the earliest civilizations in Mesopotamia (Altaweel,
 Wengrow), Egypt (Bussman, Naeser, Quirke, Stevenson), the Indus, China (Fuller, Zhuang),
 Africa (MacDonald, Reid), the Mediterranean (Bevan, Fenwick, Riva, Whitelaw) and the
 Americas (Graham, Oliver, Sillar) as well as later states and empires in these regions (King),
 Europe (Gardner, Perring, Reynolds) and Southeast Asia (Shaw). A major theme is how
 inequality emerged and how shifts in political organization are reflected in the material record. Our
 research in this area includes ancient languages (Egyptian) and manuscripts, and extends into
 the medieval period in Europe and Islamic period in the Mediterranean and Central Asia. This
 research has received support from ERC, AHRC and Leverhulme grants.

 Ritual Practices, Organized Religion and Belief has two major thematic foci. One is concerned
 with integrated studies of the materiality and history of religions, including Buddhism, Hinduism,
 Islam, Christianity and syncretism, as well as the religions of classical Greece and Rome and
 Ancient Egypt and Nubia (Bussman, Fenwick, Naeser, Quirke, Shaw, Tanner). A key focus is
 how belief and faith structure the materiality of past societies: their landscapes, monuments,
 settlement and other material practices. Secondly, regarding construction and use of ritual and
 cosmological landscapes, we research many iconic ancient heritage landscapes (e.g. Hamilton,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Parker Pearson), including those of Stonehenge, Madagascar, Rapa Nui, the Terracotta Warriors
 of the Qin Emperor’s mausoleum, and early Buddhist monuments of central India.

 Critical Heritage and Museum Studies. We are world leaders in developing critical perspectives
 on the interpretation of cultural heritage, from prehistoric sites and art to standing monuments,
 industrial sites and the heritage of the Anthropocene (Butler, Harrison, Moshenska, Moussouri,
 O’Grady, Peters, Sterling, Stevenson, Sully, Williams). This strength is reflected in recent grant
 successes (e.g. AHRC Priority Area Heritage Fellowship, Harrison), and extends from the most
 ancient human past to the present and planning for the future, for example through Harrison’s
 Heritage Futures project, which includes engagement in natural (seed banks, DNA banks) as well
 as cultural collections. This research uses our conservation laboratories, working with objects and
 standing buildings, and is engaged not just with the science of preservation but also the underlying
 ethics and philosophy of past and present cultural conservation. We have an active research
 network on the history of archaeology (Moshenska), including archival research into the IoA’s
 own role in disciplinary history. We undertake research into the relationship between heritage,
 museums and the development of concepts of race and culture (Harrison, King, Quirke,
 Stevenson), and the implications of the disciplinary histories of these concepts in relation to
 contemporary racial and social inequalities. Our researchers curate exhibitions working with
 museums and other heritage institutions (e.g. the Heritage Futures exhibition at Manchester
 Museum, Stevenson and Quirke’s work with the Petrie Museum, and Reimaging Museums for
 Climate Action currently in development with Glasgow Science Centre for COP26), in particular
 assisting their engagement with Sustainable Development Goals (Harrison, Moussouri,
 Williams). Moussouri undertakes world leading audience and practitioner research in museums
 and other institutional contexts, which has led to significant policy impacts in the UK and
 internationally.

 Innovation in Archaeological Methods, Theory, Science and Applied Archaeology. All our research
 themes involve, to varying degrees, fieldwork, laboratory analysis and working with museum
 collections. We strive to use the latest methods and approaches, building on our scientific
 strengths. Our strength in computational methods and archaeological data science contributes to
 all research strands (Altaweel, Bevan, Lake, Lockyear, Shennan, Steele). Through ASE, the
 IoA is on the frontline of documenting, excavating, and preserving UK heritage to the highest
 international standards (Perring). Archaeological theory explicitly informs all other themes but also
 includes our world leading work on Darwinian approaches to material culture and archaeological
 traditions (Shennan); our work is also influential in the fields of art history and social theory
 (Tanner), sensory archaeology (Hamilton), and cultural memory and landscape (Parker
 Pearson).

 COVID response. We continue to develop additional support for research adversely affected by
 Covid-19, including not only remote access to specialised data analysis software in the Wolfson
 and GIS labs, but also remote operation of the electron microscopes. Additionally, the UCL
 COVID-19 Career Support Scheme has mitigated some of the lost productivity caused by the
 pandemic, by alleviating personal pressures such as child-related expenses and providing one-
 off funding for up to 30 hours administrative support for staff in their work.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research strategy 2021-2029.

 Our priorities for the next period include: the realisation of our full strength in comparativism,
 particularly through strengthening our presence in Asia; to further develop our research facilities
 to enable further cross-disciplinary collaborations; to expand our activity in the field of heritage
 studies; and to address proactively the under-representation of BAME staff and students, and the
 gender imbalance at Professorial level.

 Our ambitions in the field of Heritage are led by CCHS (directors: Moussouri, Harrison). CCHS
 operates as an inter-faculty research centre led by the IoA in partnership with the University of
 Gothenburg. It aims to lead the way in defining a new field of critical heritage studies which
 identifies and interprets evolving, multi-scalar forms of heritage and identity, and addresses issues
 of heritage justice. The School for the Creative and Cultural Industries at the new UCL East
 campus in Stratford, East London, will draw together research, learning, public engagement and
 enterprise to generate new skills and practices. It includes a conservation studio, exhibition space,
 and object learning studio and will have access to partnerships with the V&A and the Smithsonian
 Institution. There is planned recruitment of four new research-active staff in Archaeology which,
 with the new conservation and collections space, enables us further develop our vision in heritage.

 We intend to strengthen our research in Asia through the activities of our research centres. ICCHA
 (director: Fuller), is an association between Peking University and the IoA, facilitating
 collaboration and exchange with researchers in China, providing a venue for conferences, regular
 seminars and supporting funding applications. Long-term projects include Imperial Logistics
 (Bevan, Hamilton, Quinn, Rehren) and the Early Rice Project (Fuller). ICSRAH (director:
 Williams) was recently established as a collaboration with Northwest University, Xian. It aims to
 undertake comparative research to explore the East-West movement of ideas across Asia, and
 the Southern and Maritime Silk Roads. The CAA (director: Perring) is also active in the region
 through the Shanxi Digitisation Project.

 Following significant investment in both infrastructure and staff, we are looking to consolidate our
 facilities and build laboratory-based collaborations in archaeological materials science,
 environmental science and computing. We see further opportunities in developing inter-
 departmental and inter-institutional partnerships, especially relating to isotopic, biomolecular and
 forensic sciences and genetics. Shennan and Thomas (UCL Genetics) have obtained an ERC
 Synergy grant of ~€10M for the project “From correlations to explanations: towards a new
 European prehistory (COREX)” , which will run for six years from May 2021. It is a collaboration
 with archaeologists from the University of Gothenburg and geneticists from the University of
 Copenhagen.

 We have established new EDI structures to address BAME representation, and see the
 recruitment of four new IoA lecturers at UCL East as a key opportunity; we will work with UCL’s
 Fair Recruitment Specialists to ensure that the positions are fully open to under-represented
 groups.

 d. Impact strategy

 Archaeology can attract an immediately positive response from the public and offers many
 approaches to engagement. We take advantage of these in our interactions with our audiences,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 but our responsibility as a discipline is both broader and deeper. We need to ensure that heritage
 is properly understood, appropriately preserved and used to achieve socially positive outcomes
 and this requires a variety of pathways to impact. A diversity of approaches ensures that our
 research work has impact both in the UK and internationally, from policy development, advice and
 guidance, knowledge exchange through training heritage professionals, to engaging the public in
 active research programmes.

 We have sought to increase our presence in the field of cultural heritage policy through our work
 with the Heritage Futures project, our AHRC Heritage Priority Area Leadership Fellowship and its
 associated Follow-on-Funding project (see impact case study [ICS] ‘Heritage Futures’). We share
 our research in cultural heritage management, museum studies and the use of new digital media
 with cultural heritage professionals and policy makers internationally, via workshops, meetings
 and publications, including consultancy work (for example, ASE’s ‘Education Cultural & Creative
 Knowledge Alliance for Tomorrow's Entrepreneurs’ [EDUCCKATE] project, and ICS ‘Heritage
 Futures’). This enables us to support innovation and best practice in museum conservation and
 heritage, exhibition design and display (ICS ‘BigPicnic’), and to improve the conservation and
 interpretation of archaeological sites open to the public. We publish guidance on best practice in
 impact-producing activity, including textbooks on public archaeology (Moshenska, ed., Key
 Concepts in Public Archaeology) and on museum learning (Moussouri, co-author, Museum
 Learning). In addition, we have engaged more widely and intensively with a broader set of online
 audiences by expanding our use of social media, including Twitter (@UCLarchaeology), Instagram
 (@uclarchaeology), and podcasts (https://soundcloud.com/user-382553721).


 We provide specialist CPD scientific training for UK and overseas archaeologists and have
 authored market-leading archaeological textbooks and lab and field manuals (former and current
 IoA staff have authored seven of the Cambridge Manuals in Archaeology). The EDUCCKATE
 project sustained and enhanced our impact among cultural heritage professionals and
 museum educators by training 21 members of the academic staff of European universities who
 incorporated lessons learned from the project into taught degrees in the cultural and creative
 industries.

 We apply our work on the theory and practice of community and development archaeology to
 benefit local communities in many areas of the world in which we conduct fieldwork, enhancing
 tourist experiences and increasing visitor numbers, raising awareness of cultural heritage, and
 informing local planning decisions. For example, we have developed our involvement in regional
 heritage policy and community engagement in the Middle East and East Asia through our work on
 the archaeology and heritage of the Silk Roads (ICS ‘Silk Roads’). The advice and practice we
 provide in ASE’s commercial activities are research-based and aligned with current standards. We
 aim to improve the integration of ASE and IoA research activities to sustain and consolidate good
 practice.

 We are very conscious of our catchment in London and its environs and support amateur fieldwork
 in and around the city (e.g. Moshenska’s Hendon project and Lockyear’s work in Hertfordshire).
 We are committed to involving diaspora communities in the management and interpretation of
 transported elements of their cultural heritage (e.g. Sully’s Hinemihi project), and we work with
 London schools whose pupils we introduce to archaeology in open days and community outreach
 projects (we led in instigating a now highly successful and well-established annual UK University
 Archaeology Day). To promote inclusion, we provide teachers and museum educators with

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources aimed at specific age and subject groups: for example, ‘Building Bridges’, the latest
 project from Moussouri’s long lasting Science Museum collaboration engaged with
 underrepresented audiences (mainly from BAME and urban working class backgrounds) looking
 at issues of science capital and identity. More broadly, we have used our extensive existing
 programmes of community archaeology to expand local networks of amateur ‘citizen scientists’,
 including among those monitoring the archaeological impacts of coastal erosion (ICS ‘CITiZAN’)
 and helping to digitize museum collections (ICS ‘Micropasts’).

 We disseminate primary research results in traditional broadcast and new digital media, and
 interpretation of larger processes of social, economic and environmental change on TV, radio and
 the internet (e.g. Parker Pearson’s media work on Stonehenge); contribute to a range of national
 and international museum exhibitions; and disseminate our research in our Open Access journals
 and on our websites.

 e. Research Ethics and Open Access

 Research ethics in staff and students’ work is covered by UCL and IoA policies on work with
 human subjects, on the illicit trade in antiquities, and on responsible and efficient practice in
 fieldwork and conservation (including the treatment of human remains). Research involving human
 subjects must be approved by UCL’s Research Ethics Committee, and for more specialized
 matters, the IoA Ethics Committee. Staff and students are protected by, and subject to, UCL’s
 policies on intellectual property rights (including copyright) and on Open Access archiving on UCL
 Discovery. Our researchers must also comply with UCL’s ‘Code of Conduct for Research’, which
 stipulates (for example) fair expectations for co-authorship.

 We strongly support the move to Open Access and took early advantage of the new open access
 series offered by UCL Press; our staff and honoraries have published 10 free-to-download
 volumes in this series since 2015. Ubiquity Press, an open-access publisher and UCL enterprise
 start-up co-founded by Institute PhD student Brian Hole, is a spin-off which maintains strong
 Institute ties. Its portfolio includes Present Pasts, a journal which during much of the REF period
 was produced by members of the Institute’s Heritage Studies Section; Journal of Conservation
 and Museum Studies (editor-in-chief O’Grady); Bulletin of the History of Archaeology (editor-in-
 chief Moshenska); Silk Roads Archaeology and Heritage (Williams) and our in-house journal
 Archaeology International (Stevenson; recently moved to UCL Press). UCL Press also publishes
 Papers from the Institute of Archaeology, a peer-reviewed open access journal edited and
 produced by our postgraduate students. Meanwhile during the REF period we have uploaded
 1,123 items to UCL Discovery, our institutional repository, with 205,455 downloads. Our research
 projects also generate open-archived datasets and software (e.g. the EUREVOL datasets on UCL
 Discovery, 18,884 downloads by users from 55 countries, and the rcarbon software package on
 GitHub). ASE out-of-print publications are freely available on-line, and ASE is strongly committed
 to maximising open access to its grey literature reports (see section 4c).

 2. People

 a. Staffing strategy and staff development

 In terms of research activity, by the end of the REF period the IoA had 51 staff on academic
 (research and teaching) contracts, 15 research fellows (some on project grants and not Category


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A-eligible), 118 PGRs, 15 professional services staff and six technical officers. In addition, there
 are two Category A-eligible staff on research fellowship contracts with ASE. Of the 51 on academic
 contracts (48.9 FTE), eight are Lecturers, 26 are Associate Professors/Readers, and 17 are full
 Professors.

 Staff research. A workload scoring system quantifies teaching and administrative duties to ensure
 that Category A staff have protected research time. New members of academic staff have a
 designated mentor, and initially low teaching and administrative loads. They attend
 comprehensive UCL courses for new lecturers (leading to fellowship of the HEA) and are favoured
 in the allocation of Institute research and conference funds. Post-probation, formal staff appraisals
 take place every year; they include agreeing research objectives and identifying needs for
 research leave. The Institute encourages academic staff with well-defined research plans to apply
 for sabbatical leave on a one in seven (term or year) basis. In addition to the qualification period,
 research active academics returning from maternity, adoption, extended carer's, or long-term
 sickness leave are automatically entitled to one term of Returners Sabbatical Leave without
 teaching commitments. During the REF period 27 staff had sabbaticals of one term or more, and
 four staff obtained external funding that gave them full teaching relief for a year or more.

 Each full-time permanent member of lecturing staff receives an annual Faculty research allocation
 of £1000. This can be used for research-related expenditure, conference participation or impact-
 related activities. Staff are strongly encouraged to develop their research through grant
 applications, supported by UCL’s research facilitators. Workshops on grant application are held
 regularly, and details of schemes as well as examples of successful applications circulated. The
 Chair of Research Committee and the relevant Section Head critically review all grant applications
 before submission. Additionally, IoA internal funding since 2014 has supported 31 staff and 50
 PGR projects, and 25 staff and 40 PGR conference presentations. This complements PGR
 funding available from UCL Doctoral School.

 Staff development: training, progression/promotion. The Directorship of the IoA transferred from
 Shennan to Hamilton (now in a second term), who sits on the UCL Provost’s Leadership Forum.
 The Institute strongly supports the aim of members of staff to achieve promotion. This is discussed
 in staff appraisals; each year the Institute’s promotions committee looks at the complete list of
 academic staff, not simply those who have put themselves forward, identifying those with a strong
 current case and those who need to do further work to be put forward. The Director then meets
 with the relevant staff to discuss how they can achieve their goals. Since 2014 there have been
 19 promotions to Senior Lecturer/Reader/Associate Professor and eight to full Professor.

 Recruitment, 2014-20. Our staffing strategy has been to consolidate and renew. We have taken
 the opportunity of four Professorial departures to refresh our earlier-career staff cohort and have
 simultaneously improved gender balance. Broodbank left for Cambridge, and our Mediterranean
 interests were extended by the appointment of Fenwick, who brings new expertise in Islamic and
 North African archaeology (and has recently become Director of the Society for Libyan Studies).
 Basu was replaced by King in Heritage Studies, and our growing activity in this field was further
 strengthened by the appointment of Stevenson as a new Senior Lecturer in Museum Studies.
 Stevenson also contributes to our coverage of Egyptian archaeology, following the retirement of
 Jeffreys. Martinon-Torres was replaced as a strategic expansion by two new lecturers in
 archaeomaterials: Charlton with strong interests in analytical instrumentation and iron metallurgy,
 who manages the Wolfson Laboratories, and Radivojevic who has research interests in bronze

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 metallurgy and Central Asian and Southeast European archaeology. De la Torre was replaced by
 another expert on early stone technology, Shipton.

 Bussmann was replaced as Lecturer in Egyptian Archaeology by Naeser. Rando was appointed
 Lecturer in Bioarchaeology and Forensic Anthropology, in recognition of the growth in that field at
 IoA; another strategic appointment, Stevens, brought expertise in biomolecular archaeology as
 our new Lecturer in Isotopic Archaeology. The retirements after long service of Griffiths, Merkel
 and Tubb enabled us to take these strategic initiatives; we also greatly regretted the death in
 service of Laidlaw. We were joined among our senior professional staff by Bone as IoA
 Department Manager, replacing Brown. Finally, Rehren rejoined us from his secondment to UCL
 Qatar, then accepted a post in the Cyprus Institute; however, he remains a valued IoA staff
 colleague at 0.2 FTE.

 b. Support for PGR students

 Postgraduate research students (PGRs) are our future, valued as a vital element of the IoA’s
 research community. In the seven completed academic years 2013/14-2019/20 147 PhDs were
 awarded, an average of 21 per year. Meanwhile new registrations remained stable at just over 25
 per year, about half with grant funding. MPhil/PhD applicants are normally required to have a
 Master’s degree at distinction level and selection is rigorous. Many are recruited from the Institute’s
 own taught Master’s programme (the largest in the country, with 18 degrees and up to 250
 students, about half from overseas, each year). The Graduate Research Student Sub-Committee
 reviews projects and supervision arrangements for all starting PGRs and receives progress
 reports annually. Research students have a primary and at least one secondary supervisor, with
 additional supervisors as appropriate. Supervisors are required to undertake UCL training; primary
 supervisors must have been a member of staff for three years and have previous experience.

 All research students are offered bench or desk space in dedicated research rooms with
 computing facilities. Structures are in place to support full-time students in completing within four
 years (or the part-time equivalent). In addition to monthly supervisions, monitoring of student
 progress is done through UCL’s on-line Research Student Log. Students submit six-monthly
 reports (plus an extra one at month three) for discussion and approval by the supervisory team.
 Each student has a first-year review, including a written submission and presentation, and second
 year students apply to upgrade from MPhil to PhD. This requires a 15,000 word paper and a 30-
 minute presentation, followed by questions. A panel chaired by the Graduate Tutor decides
 whether the upgrade is successful or more work is needed. In the latter case, detailed feedback
 is given. A third-year interview, and a fourth-year one if necessary, follow the upgrade to track
 progress and identify support needs.

 The Institute provides extensive training for PGRs, with a dedicated first-year induction course. In
 addition, UCL’s Doctoral School runs a Skills Development Programme providing training to
 support research and to enhance skills and employability. Students have access to academic
 writing assistance and are encouraged to attend IoA Master’s courses, or others such as language
 courses available within UCL. They are given the opportunity to gain teaching experience as
 PGTAs on undergraduate courses; the Institute organizes compulsory training for all prospective
 PGTAs, taught by members of UCL’s Arena Centre for Research-Based Education.




                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Use of our laboratory facilities by PGRs is encouraged and they do not have to find funding to
 support in-house analysis. The Institute also funds essential access to equipment in other
 departments (e.g. Chemistry). For advanced equipment students must attend the appropriate
 Masters-level training course, and there is mandatory on-line generic as well as in-person lab-
 specific Health and Safety training.

 Students who need to carry out fieldwork which their funding body does not cover, and those
 without grants, are able to apply for assistance to the Institute’s Grants Committee. In the
 REF2021 period, it awarded c.£40k to support student research, mainly fieldwork. Students may
 also apply for funding to attend conferences and meetings.

 Activities initiated by PGRs are strongly encouraged and funded where possible, and they are
 encouraged to play active roles in our internal networks and on relevant committees. PGRs have
 organized seminar series, one-off thematic conferences, and an annual Graduate Student
 conference. They run an annual peer-reviewed open access journal, Papers from the Institute of
 Archaeology. This provides authors with experience in publishing articles early in their careers;
 extra emphasis is placed on peer feedback and editorial assistance. Students are also encouraged
 to publish in other Institute open access publications and research blogs.

 All UCL PhD theses are required to include a 500-word impact statement, and the preparation of
 these is raising awareness of impact among students and in discussion with their supervision
 teams. In 2018 we established with BAR Publishing a PhD series, designed to offer the Institute’s
 PhD students the opportunity to publish theses in a more or less unaltered state. To date five have
 been published in this way.

 Of those who completed PhDs in the REF period, 19 went on to lecturing posts, 10 to teaching
 fellowships, 40 to post-doctoral research positions, 17 to the museum sector, 13 to other
 archaeology/heritage related employment and 9 are freelance specialists/conservators in
 archaeology-related fields.

 c. Supporting and promoting equality and diversity.

 The IoA is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion. The IoA Women’s Forum and a new IoA
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Forum created in 2016 meet regularly to identify issues and
 monitor progress on key student and staff EDI issues (including but not restricted to gender, race,
 ethnicity, disability and sexual identity). The Women’s Forum is co-ordinating our application for
 an Athena Swan Bronze Award due to be submitted in May 2021. IoA also contributes to the SHS
 EDI Strategic Board, as well as Faculty strategic initiatives on Difference, Diversity & Inequalities
 and Liveable Working Lives. In 2020, we established a formal staff-student EDI Committee as part
 of the management structure of the IoA, to complement the Forums and to be responsible for
 delivering the IoA’s EDI strategy which aims to diversify the student and staff body and to ensure
 an inclusive departmental culture which allows all staff and students to achieve their potential.

 The IoA’s strategic priority is to increase our staff profile, particularly the proportion of BAME staff,
 who are currently under-represented in all roles, and to address the under-representation of
 female academic staff, particularly at professorial level. The IoA has 51 staff (37% female) on
 academic contracts (research and teaching). Since 2014, we have increased the proportion of
 female academics from 25% to 37% (seven of the nine new lecturers appointed are female, when

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 only of one of the eight departures had been of females). Improved mentoring and support for
 promotion has directly increased the proportion of female staff at Associate Professor/ Reader
 level from 25% to 46% (12 female staff; 14 male staff). The IoA now has its first female Director
 (Hamilton). However, female staff are still under-represented at professorial level, such that in
 2019/20 only 2 of 17 (12%) Professors were female, significantly below UCL’s average of 29%
 female Professorial staff. We aim to increase female representation at Professorial level through
 mentoring, continued support in the promotions process, and access to leadership development
 opportunities. Since 2015, the proportion of BAME staff has increased from 5% to 11%: our
 strategic aim to increase BAME recruitment among staff is being addressed by advertising posts
 in targeted networks, by reviewing the wording of job adverts, and by making use of UCL’s Fair
 Recruitment Specialists.

 The IoA is committed to creating an inclusive departmental culture. The Women’s Forum has led
 on initiatives, including new mentoring policies, fair distribution of workloads and organizing
 academic career workshops for Research Fellows (RFs), those on teaching contracts and PGRs.
 The two Forums collaborate on many initiatives aimed at enhancing the visibility of minority and
 female professional role models in archaeology, including a Decolonizing the Curriculum initiative,
 displaying photographs in the IoA of prominent women archaeologists, and annual events to
 celebrate International Women’s Day; LGBT+ History Month; Black History Month, and Disability
 Month. Trowelblazers!, an associated initiative to promote awareness of pioneering women
 archaeologists, held a more outward-facing one-day Wikipedia edit-a-thon at IoA in 2019.

 Mental and physical well-being, training and support are actively promoted within IoA. In 2018, we
 introduced a Fieldwork Code of Conduct to prevent sexual harassment and bullying. The UCL
 Provost commended ASE for its work in 2019 in developing a bullying and harassment training
 course, ‘Where Do You Draw The Line?’; the sessions have been recognised nationally by the
 Chartered Institute for Archaeologists. All IoA staff were required to take this course in 2019. Two
 professional staff are Inclusion Leads, two academic staff are Mental Health First Aiders, two
 professional staff are UCL Wellbeing champions, and we also benefit from a qualified therapy dog
 (Indy), who has a large social media following.

 We used UCL EDI impact assessments of our draft output selection to ensure that our submission
 reflects the composition of the workforce. Our outputs review panel consisted of 15 academic staff,
 including most IoA professors, and four non-professorial staff (of whom three were women,
 enhancing gender balance). Anyone with decision-making responsibilities for the REF at UoA level
 was required to attend a REF-specific equalities training event delivered by the UCL EDI team. Our
 submission includes proportionally slightly more staff from non-UK/EU/EEA nationalities (25%)
 than the institution-wide average, but proportionally slightly fewer women (40%) in line with our
 staff profile, and we will continue to work to redress the latter imbalance in the next REF cycle
 through recruitment. Staff selection for this REF consisted in identifying independent researcher
 status from among our postdoctoral staff, which was done by rigorous review of project funding
 applications and by consulting with the fellows themselves; overall, the likelihood of women being
 selected was roughly equal with that of men. The two BAME staff selected for submission in this
 way (out of four in the postdoctoral and academic staff pools) also contributed disproportionately
 highly to the output pool.

 Promoting research integrity is an important component of our EDI work, inasmuch as it addresses
 positional responsibilities in professional researcher relationships, and also supports positive and

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ethical relationships between researchers and their subjects. The UCL Statement on research
 integrity promotes honesty in all aspects of research; rigour, in line with prevailing disciplinary
 norms and standards; transparency and open communication; and care and respect for all
 participants in and subjects of research, including humans, animals, the environment and cultural
 objects. We address these priorities in our researcher training initiatives, especially via mentoring,
 and in the supportive culture of our Sections, in the work of our IoA Ethics Officer and Research
 Ethics Committee, which reviews ethical aspects of research proposals and escalates them to
 College level where needed, and by embedding the UCL Research Integrity Training Framework
 in our new researcher induction programmes.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income

 Grants from previous period carried over, and new income. In our REF2014 submission we noted
 that income from grants already won would guarantee the Institute £8M in the current REF period.
 In addition, staff won a total of c.£16M of new external research grant income during this REF
 period, including: £2.89M from the Arcadia Fund to Williams for work on ‘Archaeological Sites,
 Monuments and Landscapes in Central Asia’; £1.62M from the AHRC to Harrison for the
 ‘Assembling Alternative Futures for Heritage’ project, and a further £1.04M from the same source
 to Harrison for his Heritage Priority Area Leadership Fellowship; £1.2M to Fenwick for her ERC
 Starting project EVERYDAYISLAM; £1.25M to Stevens for her ERC Consolidator project UP-
 NORTH, transferred from Cambridge; £638k to Fuller from the NERC for his project ‘The impact
 of intensification and deintensification of Asian rice production’; and £536k to Wengrow and
 Hassett for their project ‘Radical death and early state formation in the Ancient Near East’.
 Including these, the Institute received new grants to a total of £4.36M from the AHRC, £4.48M
 from the ERC and other European Union sources, £3.07M from the Arcadia Fund, £1.79M from
 the Leverhulme Trust, £1.35M from the British Academy, and £1.92M from a wide range of other
 sources. This included 10 Marie Curie-Skłodowska Fellowships and five British Academy
 Postdoctoral, Newton, and Mid-Career Fellowships. The IoA has also received generous support
 from UCL infrastructure funds for maintaining and updating our scientific laboratories (£1.19m),
 and from other internal UCL funds for individual research projects (£51.4k).

 ASE income, UCL East set-up costs, and UCL-Q investment by Qatar. ASE has earned an
 average of £5.2M annually during the current REF period in commercial funding, and additional
 external grant-funded ASE projects have included £831k from the Arcadia Fund for ‘Survey and
 Digital Documentation of Endangered Temple Wall Paintings in Shanxi Province, China’ (PI:
 Perring). ASE contributes 5% of its annual turnover to the IoA, equivalent to c.£260k per annum.
 The set-up costs of our new facilities and space at the UCL East campus will amount to a very
 substantial internal investment by UCL. Meanwhile, the Qatar Foundation, UCL contract partner,
 met all upfront costs for UCL Qatar; by the end of the contract in 2020, a total investment of
 c.£90M.

 b. Infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research

 The Institute has outstanding facilities for an unparalleled range of archaeological research,
 including libraries, laboratories, equipment, collections and support personnel, the benefit of which
 is reflected in staff publications and PhD research. To sustain this infrastructure we have invested


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in new labs, maintained or upgraded our existing provision, and we have ensured that staff –
 including new teams funded by large project grants – have appropriate provision through efficient
 use of office space in the Institute building. The Institute’s Facilities Committee continues its five-
 year strategic programme for the updating of its equipment and laboratories. Major pieces of
 equipment have resulted from successful bids for UCL Faculty and College funding.

 Laboratories. Our labs and lab facilities are overseen by an academic manager (Charlton), a
 Senior Technical Officer, a Safety Officer, and a Facilities Committee. Our Safety Working Group
 reports to the Facilities Committee. The exceptional scale of our facilities is shown in Table 1: they
 have a footprint of 773 m2, about one fifth of an acre.



  Laboratory/suite      Function/instrumentation                           Area m2


  Wolfson materials     Electron microscopy, microprobe, LA-ICP-MS,          160
  analysis              XRD, FTIR, pXRF, optical microscopy, lithics,
                        metallographic, petrographic sample prep
  Biomolecular          Sampling & preparation of biomaterials for            65
  archaeology           isotopic analysis; ancient DNA extraction; Maldi
                        ToF mass spectrometry;
  Environmental         archaeobotany, archaeozoology, forensics,            237
  archaeology           soils, sediments, cold storage area
  Conservation          conservation workstations, benching,                 143
                        microscopes, extraction and consolidation
                        equipment
  AGIS labs             Archaeological geographical information               47
                        systems - specialist computer workstations
  Digital Heritage      Imaging, VR, photogrammetry etc                       91
  Miscellaneous         technician offices, balances, storage etc             30
  External wet area     large cutting equipment; potters wheel etc


  Total area, m2                                                             773


 Table 1. Lab space and function within the IoA building.



 The Wolfson Archaeological Science Laboratories are one of the best-equipped university-based
 archaeological science laboratories in Europe and, since 2014 we have drawn on central UCL
 funding to achieve significant refurbishment and upgrade. In addition to our strength in artefact
 analysis and materials, we have continued to expand our capabilities in bioarchaeology.

 We have updated our electron microscopy laboratory by the purchase of a new Zeiss variable
 pressure SEM with EDS and the procurement of new X-ray analysers for our existing Hitachi SEM,
 and update to the software and computer system for our JEOL electron microprobe (2018-19:
 £281k). These changes have allowed both a major improvement in data quality and throughput,
 and operation free of liquid nitrogen (previously a significant health and safety issue). A new Laser
 Ablation-ICPMS for the analysis of trace elements in ceramics, glass, stone and slag inclusions in
 iron (2020: £295k), a portable Raman spectrometer (£45k) and a new x-ray cabinet (£75k) were

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 added to our other in-house facilities which include three portable X-ray spectrometers, an X-ray
 diffractometer for the analysis of stone, ceramic and pigments, and an FTIR spectrometer for
 pigments and organic media. An office was converted into a dedicated optical microscopy lab for
 metallography and petrography with research grade microscopes, and we have extensive sample
 preparation facilities, and a sedimentology lab. This general analytical infrastructure was
 enhanced by other new equipment including a large encased abrasive cut-off saw and electrical
 supply (£32k), a micro-hardness tester (£14.4k), benchtop exhaust ventilators for the
 sedimentology and preparation labs (£5k) and a UV resin curing unit (£1k). We now have state-
 of-the-art in-house facilities for investigation of archaeological materials, while our staff access
 radiogenic isotope analysis (Sr, Pb, Nd and Hf) through collaborations with universities in London
 and abroad. In collaboration with the appropriate specialists we access synchroton techniques at
 Harwell Campus (Diamond and ISIS).

 In-house we maintained our Biomolecular Archaeology Research Laboratories with facilities for
 the extraction of carbon and nitrogen for isotopic analysis. We acquired a Maldi TOF mass
 spectrometer (£144k) to enable species analysis from bone collagen, which offers the possibility
 of collaborations with the British Museum and the UCL Crick Institute, as well as a -80oC freezer
 (£14k) to support the laboratory. Our aDNA Lab, a collaboration with Genetics and Forensic
 Science, has meanwhile been used: to develop forensic testing tools; to study aDNA in crop
 species from the UCL Petrie Museum and elsewhere; and as an extension lab for other aDNA
 projects in collaboration with the University of Cambridge.

 The IoA makes an equal financial contribution with UCL’s Departments of Geography and
 Chemistry towards the Bloomsbury Environmental Isotope Facility, which has established a new
 laboratory in the UCL Kathleen Lonsdale building. For this joint use, we leveraged Faculty funding
 to acquire an IsoLink interface to improve our 13C/12C measurement capability (£55k). In 2020 we
 again received significant funding from Faculty, enabling us to acquire a Thermo Fisher DELTA V
 Advantage Mass Spectrometer including universal triple collector, HD collector and computer
 package with ISODAT software suite and ConFlo IV Universal Interface for all Continuous Flow
 peripherals, for our shared use (£145k). We also acquired with Faculty funds startup equipment
 for a new Experimental Taphonomy facility (£9k).

 Other Institute laboratories. In 2019 we refitted our photography lab as a new Digital Heritage
 Imaging and VR Lab, equipped with new virtual and mixed/augmented reality equipment (Oculus
 Rift and Microsoft Hololens headsets plus VR-ready PCs and iPads), and with multispectral
 cameras, drones, and software for photogrammetry applications (total: £50k). This lab also has
 the full range of conventional photographic facilities. Our Conservation Research Laboratories
 offer a range of specialist equipment, including air abrasive units, X-radiography, traditional and
 digital microscopy and an oxygen gas analyser, and conservation research also makes extensive
 use of the Wolfson laboratories. Research in zooarchaeology and human remains is supported by
 excellent reference collections housed in our Osteological Laboratory. We have converted an
 office into an ancillary Zooarchaeology Lab. The Palaeoecology Laboratory contains its own
 microscopy units and an outstanding archaeobotanical reference collection. The Lithics
 Laboratory has metrical, photographic and optical instrumentation, and houses Palaeolithic
 collections from Europe and Africa. The Archaeological Geographic Information Systems (AGIS)
 Lab offers specialised facilities unavailable on the general UCL network, to support staff and
 student research; an upgrade of the AGIS laboratory (2017, c.£25k) included 12 new HP EliteDesk
 800 G3 PCs with 27" QHD monitors, i7-7700K CPUs and nVidia GTX 1080 graphics. Access is

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also available to specialised equipment in other parts of UCL, e.g. 3D laser scanning in Geomatic
 Engineering.

 Fieldwork equipment. The Institute has extensive fieldwork equipment, including a minibus, digital
 cameras, resistivity and magnetic susceptibility meters, a fluxgate gradiometer, total station,
 differential GPS, drones, and surveying software. In addition we have access to ASE equipment,
 including 4x4 vehicles, total stations, differential GPS, and geophysics equipment.

 Collections. The Institute has outstanding archaeological collections, researched by staff and
 students and a basis for applied research in Heritage Studies. Continued investment has made
 them more accessible to both scholars and the public, in physical and digital form. The Keeper of
 Institute Collections (Sparks) is supervising their cataloguing to make them accessible for
 teaching and research, and a Collections Manager is responsible for their use in teaching. The
 UCL Petrie Museum of Egyptian Archaeology co-works with the IoA to develop access for teaching
 and research (including online) to its collection of around 80,000 objects, recognized by the UK
 government as ‘of outstanding importance’. In conjunction with the IoA, it has continued to develop
 innovative research and impact projects, including the 'Papyrus for the People' project, which won
 the Society for Museum Archaeology's Annual Award for Excellence in 2019.

 Library collections. The Institute of Archaeology library has one of the finest archaeological
 collections in the world. It supports staff and research students with research material covering all
 aspects of archaeology, conservation, museum studies and cultural heritage worldwide, and
 provides access to researchers from elsewhere in the UK, Europe and the rest of the world. UCL
 has spent c.£193k on Archaeology Library acquisitions from Aug 2014 to the present. The IoA
 Library also holds the Yates collection of classical archaeology of Greece and Rome and the
 Edwards Egyptology collection. It houses c. 70,000 books and 800 journals on the open shelves
 with c. 40,000-50,000 items in store. UCL Library subscribes to a wide-range of electronic
 resources (e-journals, databases), with UCL Discovery providing our own open access repository.
 Overall, UCL Library Services in one recent year (2018/19) spent £8.8 million on e-resources,
 including access to 75,000 electronic journals. UCL is also fortunately situated in Bloomsbury with
 ready access to the British Library and a wide range of specialist libraries and collections.

 Support staff
 The Institute currently has 16.3 FTE core-funded administrative and technical staff with a further
 3.0 FTE technical and administrative support provided for individual projects enabled by direct
 cost funding from their grants. Of the 19.3 FTE staff, 6.0 FTE administrative staff directly support
 research (Bone, Bremont, Carroll, Dullaghan, Pang, Rynsaard, Sandford Smith, Williams).
 Laboratory facilities are supported by 4.9 FTE technical staff who directly support research
 (Benzonelli, Bond, Fremondeau, Grego, Gregory). One 0.3 FTE member of staff supports
 publications (Cutting). Photography, AV and digital imaging are currently supported by 0.5 FTE
 technical staff (Walton) with additional Faculty-level support for IT.

 c. Infrastructure and facilities pertaining to research impact

 A number of central teams in UCL provide advice, support and resources to facilitate impact. They
 are focused on specialist areas such as Public Policy, Culture, Innovation, Enterprise and
 Consultancy and are directly accessible to individual researchers. The Research Impact Curation
 Service maintains a searchable database of UCL case studies as examples of good practice.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Within the IoA, we host a number of facilities that enable our research-related public engagement
 and interaction with external stakeholders. The Institute itself has meeting and seminar rooms and
 a large lecture theatre, enabling us to host training days, workshops, summer schools, and
 seminars throughout the year. Our special collections are a specific focus for outreach, housed in
 the Institute itself and also in the Petrie Museum. We make active use of social and traditional
 media, including Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, as well as appearances and consultancy for
 radio and television and print journalism. We also host and support a variety of initiatives in citizen
 science. Our in-house publishing activities include open access journals, with one (Archaeology
 International) aimed at a general as well as specialist readership. Our collaborative relationships
 with external partners are consolidated through our 13 thematically-defined Research Networks
 and through our Honorary associates. ASE also holds regular on-site and headquarters events
 and open days to disseminate the results of its commercially-funded and other work.

 IoA facilities enable us to interact on campus with a range of stakeholders. For example, we
 convene a Heritage Policy Group, with the explicit aim of thinking critically about current
 archaeology/heritage policy issues in the UK and beyond, and involving dialogues with cultural
 heritage professionals and policy makers (see ICS ‘Heritage Futures’). Audiences in London
 and its environs participate in our regular hosted meetings of regional special interest groups,
 e.g. the regular ICCHA ‘China Nights’ and our annual workshops such as ‘Maya on the Thames’.
 In addition we host meetings for external organisations which attract a broad audience, including
 the Anglo-Israel Archaeological Society, the British Museum Medieval Seminar Series, the
 Accordia Lectures on Italian Archaeology, the Central Asian Seminar Group, the Society of Libyan
 Studies, and TrowelBlazers, as well as occasional meetings for a range of other organisations.
 Their organisation frequently involves our early career researchers and PhD students, bringing
 them together with the wider audiences for their research. UK and overseas archaeologists
 have benefited from our workshops and short courses, such as the annual Soil Micromorphology
 and Ceramic Petrology summer schools. Our offices at the Institute also enable us to host major
 impact-generating projects such as the Arcadia Fund project on ‘Archaeological Sites, Monuments
 and Landscapes in Central Asia’, closely associated with ICSRAH, and benefiting heritage
 policy-makers and museums-sector partners in in the Middle East and East Asia (see ICS
 ‘Silk Roads’). Our network of Honorary associates enables us to develop interactively, learn from,
 and disseminate new models of best practice, for example in museums interpretation and
 education (ICS ‘Big Picnic’) and in supporting amateur archaeology and citizen science (ICS
 ‘CITiZAN’ & ‘Micropasts’).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Institutes and Centres (incl. DTCs). International research centres based at the IoA include the
 CCHS (in partnership with the University of Gothenburg), the new ICSRAH (in partnership with
 NorthWest University, Xi'an) and the ICCHA (in partnership with Peking University). These
 organize conferences and exchanges, support funded collaborations, and provide focal points for
 graduate research study. We also participate in London and regional inter-university collaborations
 through Doctoral Training Centres such as the AHRC London Arts and Humanities Partnership
 and the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Science and Engineering in Arts, Heritage and
 Archaeology. Internationally, we participate in the CHEurope Marie Curie-Skłodowska Innovative


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training Network, and we are currently establishing a doctoral training and exchange programme
 with the Archaeology Centre of the University of Toronto.

 Multi-institutional grant-funded research projects. We have a number of key overseas academic
 partners, with whom we apply for funding for collaborative projects. An example of this is work
 with Peking University supported by the IoA-based ICCHA. Fuller’s NERC-funded research as PI
 on the prehistory of rice agriculture was facilitated by the work of project partner Ling in Peking
 University, who established collaborations and archaeobotanical sampling programs in Zhejiang,
 Jiangsu, Yunnan and Guangdong. Our links with Peking University also enabled Zhuang’s
 Newton Fellowship project on the geoarchaeology of late Neolithic Chinese floodplain agriculture.
 ICCHA has meanwhile provided a framework to support our British Academy-funded work on the
 Terracotta Army (Martinon-Torres, Bevan, et al.), through a collaboration with the Museum of
 Emperor Qin Shihuang's Mausoleum. ICCHA has also supported Tanner’s Major Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship project on the Axial Age and the institution of art in ancient Greece and
 China, as well as Butler’s work as PI on ethnic heritage in the contemporary craft economy in
 China (involving collaborations with the National Ethnology Museum in Beijing, Yunan Minzu
 University in Kunming, V&A Shenzhen, and factories manufacturing high-end and low-end
 museum products in Jingdezhen and Yiwu). Thus, the creation of an IoA-based Centre (ICCHA),
 and the strategic establishment thereby of a key collaboration link in Beijing, has enabled a very
 diverse range of grant-funded archaeological projects. Similar accounts could be given of the
 effectiveness of CCHS.

 Fieldwork partnerships. All our fieldwork projects involve collaboration with local partners and
 regional authorities, and the vast majority also involve partners from other academic institutions
 with complementary expertise and facilities. We consider it vital to support these essential
 grassroots collaborations. An example is the work of Fenwick on the archaeology of North Africa,
 focusing on the early Islamic period. Her work as PI at Volubilis, Morocco, is funded by joint awards
 shared with colleagues in the Institut National des Sciences de l’Archéologie et du Patrimoine
 (Morocco) while further investigation of the wider western Sahara is funded by a grant to Mattingly
 in Leicester with Fenwick as Co-I. Meanwhile she is also involved as PI in collaborative work in
 the Medjerda Valley (Tunisia), funded in collaboration with colleagues from the Tunisian Institut
 National du Patrimoine, the Deutsches Archäologisches Institut in Berlin, the University of York,
 and the Cyprus Institute. Specialist analyses for each project also bring in colleagues from a wider
 network of collaboration. This kind of pattern is typical of our long-term overseas fieldwork; other
 examples would include Graham and Williams.

 Partnerships with research leaders elsewhere in the archaeology and heritage sectors. We
 maintain excellent collaborative relationships with many national and regional non-university
 research hubs in the UK archaeology and heritage sectors. In London, these include the British
 Museum, the Science Museum and the Natural History Museum. We undertook a one-year joint
 project with the British Museum (2017-18) to strengthen that relationship. This involved articulating
 our existing collaborations to enhance their visibility and impact, and defining future strategic
 initiatives in knowledge exchange, training, public policy, and research. The project organized
 workshops and conferences and inventoried numerous current collaborations, including existing
 grant-funded field and lab work, and collaborative doctoral awards (e.g. ICS ‘Micropasts’, a close
 collaboration with the British Museum). Initiatives included more activity in joint discussion forums,
 facilities-sharing, joint grant applications, and staff exchanges and student placements to facilitate
 the Museum’s collections documentation, interpretation and management. Outside London, we

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have partnerships with many regional museums as well as collaborative doctoral awards with e.g.
 the Natural History Museum Oxford, the Tate, the British Museum, English Heritage, the Mary
 Rose Trust. Collaborations with other major national and international heritage institutions include
 the Arts Council, National Trust, Historic England, and major international bodies such as
 ICOMOS, UNESCO, IUCN through Heritage Futures.

 Another indication of the range of our collaborations is our record of long-term academic visitors,
 of whom we received 48 during the REF2021 period for visits of one month or more (average stay:
 six months; 17 from Europe and 31 from other overseas countries), as well as hundreds of visits
 of shorter duration.

 IoA Research Networks. Networks bring together UCL and external researchers in areas with
 high levels of common activity or interest, and their achievements are reviewed annually. For
 example, the IoA History of Archaeology Research Network mobilises the critical evaluation,
 examination and presentation of archival material and object collections. It is co-ordinated by
 Thornton, a former IoA postdoc and now Honorary Fellow, and has 26 IoA members (including
 lecturing and collections management staff, postgrads, and Emeritus colleagues) and 15 external
 members (all professionals in the museums and university sectors). It meets regularly for
 seminars, and its core team includes Moshenska, co-Editor in Chief of the Bulletin for the History
 of Archaeology (an international peer-reviewed journal now hosted online by the IoA). This
 composition enables synergies which support and enhance the research activity of each individual
 member. Other formal research networks cover topics as diverse as Ceramic Technology; the
 Archaeology of Human Evolution; and Islamic Archaeology.

 The role of Honorary IoA Associates. We currently have 17 Emeritus staff and c. 125 Honorary
 associates. The Honorary status enables us to recognize key partnerships, and also where
 appropriate to support the career progression of recent postdoctoral colleagues by giving them an
 affiliation as they seek their next professional appointment. Honoraries include key individuals
 developing new research collaborations with our staff. For example, honorary Visiting Professor
 Scull, an independent archaeological and heritage consultant (and former IoA lecturer), who
 works closely with Reynolds, successfully applied for a three-year Leverhulme grant (£264k) for
 a project on 'Lordship and Landscape in East Anglia CE 400-800', administered by UCL. Honorary
 Senior Lecturer Milne, former member of IoA staff (retired 2017), has kept close ties with the IoA
 in the development of the CITiZAN citizen science coastal monitoring programme, initiated 2015
 (see ICS ‘CITiZAN’).

 b. Contributions to the discipline or research base

 Our staff make a major contribution to supporting the discipline through editorial activities,
 conference organization, service on national and international bodies, and peer review and
 external examining. The numerous invitations to take part in these activities are a reflection of the
 high regard in which Institute staff are held. These activities are encouraged by the Institute and
 acknowledged in our workload system.

 Among our staff have been the editors-in-chief or managing editors of leading journals including
 Archaeological and Anthropological Sciences (Fuller, Shennan), Azania (MacDonald), J.
 Egyptian Archaeology (Naser), Public Archaeology (Schadla-Hall), Journal of Contemporary
 Archaeology (Harrison), Journal of Archaeological Science (Rehren), Conservation and

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management of Archaeological Sites (Williams). Staff have served as associate editors or on the
 editorial advisory boards of over 100 specialist journals and book series during the current REF
 period. The IoA publishes print books in two well-established series, the General series (editor
 emeritus professor Whitehouse) and the Critical Cultural Heritage series (editor Butler),
 published by Left Coast Press until December 2015, then by Taylor & Francis from August 2016.
 In the REF period we published 11 books in the General Series and five in the Cultural Heritage
 Series. ASE has its own peer-reviewed Spoilheap series launched in 2009 as a joint venture with
 Surrey County Council, intended to provide a publication outlet for the results of archaeological
 investigations across south-east England; in this REF period it published 12 site monographs and
 four Occasional Papers.

 IoA staff were on the organising committees of 142 conferences and meetings, and organised or
 chaired another 75 sessions or workshops at international conferences, during this REF period.
 Highlights of over 40 conferences hosted at UCL include UK Archaeological Sciences 2017 (three
 days, 190 participants), TAG 2019 (three days, 500 participants), and the 2020 Association of
 Critical Heritage Studies 5th Biennial Conference (five days, 1100 participants). In addition, staff
 have given more than 800 conference presentations (including over 100 invited lectures,
 plenaries, and keynotes), seminars and workshop talks at meetings and in research institutions
 around the world.

 Our staff served during the REF period on the Boards or Committees of a wide range of national
 and international learned and advisory bodies [c. 60], including: the British Institute for the Study
 of Iraq (Altaweel); British School at Athens (Freestone, Riva, Whitelaw) and at Rome (Riva);
 Society for Libyan Studies (Fenwick, Macdonald); Council for British Research in the Levant
 (Garrard, Martin); Royal Numismatic Society (Lockyear); British Institute in Eastern Africa
 (MacDonald); Palestine Exploration Fund (Martin); Prehistoric Society (Parker Pearson); Society
 for Archaeological Sciences (Rehren); British Academy Archaeology Section (Shennan); Anglo-
 Peruvian Society (Sillar); Anglo-Israel Archaeological Society (Sparks); ICAHM (Williams);
 Institute of Field Research (Williams); NERC Peer Review College (Fuller) and AHRC Peer
 Review College (Bevan, Harrison, Lake).

 Our staff includes national advisors on heritage in relation to heritage research strategy (e.g.
 to UK Research & Innovation especially in relation to the Global Challenges Research Fund
 [Harrison]) and natural and cultural heritage conservation/management policy and practice
 (National Trust [Sully, Harrison], Historic England [Harrison], Natural England [Harrison]). We
 have hosted the AHRC Heritage Priority Area Leadership Fellow since 2017, driving AHRC
 Heritage research strategy and collaborating with Independent Research Organisations (IROs) as
 well as leading on their heritage related contributions to the United Nations Climate Change
 Conference (COP26) (Harrison). We also advise the European Commission’s Joint
 Programming Initiative on Cultural Heritage and Global Change (Harrison). Our staff act
 as international advisors for: the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS) (e.g.
 on conservation strategies [Williams]; and in relation to their strategy on climate
 change adaptation and mitigation for the heritage sector [Harrison]); UNESCO (e.g. on Silk
 Roads heritage [Williams] and future heritage [Harrison]); the International Centre for the Study
 of the Preservation and Restoration of Culture (ICCROM) (Sully); the International Union for
 Conservation of Nature (IUCN) (Harrison); the International Council of Museums (Peters); the
 World Monuments Fund (Williams); and the Getty Conservation Institute (O’Grady, Riva).



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IoA staff are individually advisors to more than a dozen national government organizations
 including: Easter Island (Mau’ Henua Indigenous People’s Community); National Museums of
 Kenya; National Corporation for Antiquities and Museums Sudan; Sulemaniyah Museum and
 Antiquities department. We are represented on the Trustee Boards of major museums, e.g.
 National Museum of Egyptian Civilization (Cairo; Quirke); National Museum of the Royal Navy
 (Schadla-Hall). Various staff contribute to/are committee members of UK national organisations
 (e.g. Chartered Institute for Archaeologists, University Archaeology UK, British International
 Research Institutes).

 c. Commercial activity and its contributions to research

 During this REF period we have further integrated ASE into the IoA’s research activities. ASE’s
 Director (Perring) is now a member of the IoA SMT and also of the Standing Committee of the
 IoA Research Committee. ASE undertakes research publications and has staff undertaking major
 research projects (Pope, Perring).

 As part of its strategic plan, ASE is developing digital architectures of data management and
 publication to overcome the long-standing limitations of commercial archaeological practice. ASE
 research is disseminated through a combination of digital and print outputs: the main output is the
 fully-refereed SpoilHeap imprint which includes a monograph and an occasional paper series
 (overall, 16 items in this REF period). To date, all out-of-print volumes have been made available
 for free download. During 2021, it is intended that all volumes printed before 2020 will be made
 freely available for download via UCL Discovery. Much of ASE’s regionally-based research is
 reported through county-based journals, with more significant national and international research
 submitted to national, international, and period specific journals. Over 50 contributions have
 appeared from 2014-2020. ASE staff are also regular contributors to Archaeology International.
 Further avenues for dissemination have included popular print and digital media such as British
 Archaeology and Current Archaeology as well as regional, national and international news
 platforms.

 Dissemination of ASE research is amplified by digital media, such as the podcast series
 Archaeology South-East Digs Deeper (https://www.ucl.ac.uk/archaeology-south-east/podcast)
 and the 3D modelling platform (https://sketchfab.com/ArchaeologySouth-East). ASE has
 produced 3050 grey literature reports (mainly for planning-led purposes) during the REF period.
 In accordance with our commitment to open access, these are being uploaded to the ADS website
 and become freely available. About 850 of these are on the web at the time of writing, the main
 delay being due to the approval needed from county HERs. More recent reports are meanwhile
 made available to researchers upon request. Digital specialist data and archive material is
 regularly provided to students, PhD candidates, academic researchers and national heritage
 bodies (such as Historic England) for both regional and national syntheses.

 ASE is additionally preparing its digital documentation of archaeological sites, historic buildings,
 and primary archives for open-source publication. The Arcadia Fund-supported Shanxi Digital
 Documentation project is being used to pioneer ASE use of photogrammetric recording of historic
 buildings (https://shanxi-project.org/sites/) The data and metadata from these building-surveys is
 stored in Arches, an open source heritage data platform. In a parallel exercise, ASE is assembling
 all field archaeological data into a customised interrelational database, ASEBase
 (http://www.archaeoscope.org/asebase/index.php). This holds, catalogues and cross-references

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 all ASE site records, survey data, finds catalogues, etc. (including GIS and Harris Matrix outputs,
 linked directly to the underlying context and survey data). The database and related applications
 are being developed for future use as a research resource supporting open-access dissemination
 of all primary data. The goal is to allow researchers to navigate between works of synthesis (open-
 access published reports), underpinning works of post-excavation analysis (detailed assessments
 contained within grey literature and catalogues), and primary field records (collected digitally
 through access via a web interface to the relevant parts of the ASEBase).

 Looking Forward

 In the REF2021 period we have consolidated our outstanding research environment by investment
 in people and infrastructure. We have expanded our specialisms and improved our gender
 balance. We have taken initiatives which will allow further improvements over the next cycle, for
 example involvement at UCL East, our new EDI structures and the updating of our analytical
 facilities. We see many opportunities ahead and anticipate a decade which is exciting and
 rewarding, where we will generate research which is both broader and deeper, and accessible to
 more people, at home and abroad.




                                                                                            Page 22
