Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth
 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction
 During the REF 2021 period, the 36 academics who comprise the University of Plymouth UoA 12
 have made significant progress in research activity. Highlights include:
     • an increase in annual research income from £0.9m in 2013/14 to £2.3m in 2019/20
        (Section 3);
     • publication of 17.0 outputs per member of staff, 36.0% of which were in the top 10% of
        journals by CiteScore (SciVal 08/01/2021), with highly cited outputs in wave & offshore
        wind energy, nanoparticles, and neural networks (‘REF2’);
     • being awarded leadership of large research networks (e.g. UK Supergen Offshore
        Renewable Energy hub) and multi-partner research projects (e.g. EU Diagnostic Tools
        for Early Stage Alzheimer's Disease) (Section 1);
     • being awarded an EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership in Offshore Renewable Energy
        and Health Technology;
     • being ranked first in the UK and 8th globally, in marine/ocean engineering in the
        Academic Ranking of World Universities during the REF 2021 period;
     • securing significant investment in infrastructure (e.g. £50m New Engineering & Design
        Facility) and equipment (e.g. UK Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Testing Capability)
        (Section 3); and
     • commercialisation of research findings (e.g. PulsiV Solar Ltd, based on novel power
        conversion technology) (Section 1).

 Structure of the unit
 Figure 1 illustrates organisational changes made during the assessment period, providing
 context for the merger of the REF 2014 UoA 13 and UoA 15 into the REF 2021 UoA 12.




 In 2014, Civil and Mechanical Engineers were members of the School of Marine Science and
 Engineering, which co-located marine-themed scientific and engineering disciplines, marine
 being one of the University’s strengths. This encouraged cross-disciplinary collaboration as
 exemplified by the SOWFIA, MERiFIC and THESEUS projects which combined engineering,
 environmental science, marine science, and renewable energy policy. However, to enhance the
 external visibility of Engineering, the School separated in 2017 into the more cognate Schools of
 (i) Engineering and (ii) Marine and Biological Sciences. Two years later, the School of


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering merged with the School of Computing, Electronics and Mathematics (which had
 been the home of the Electronics Engineers) to form the current School of Engineering,
 Computing and Mathematics (SECaM). This created a synergistic mix of academic disciplines
 and strengthened research through new interdisciplinary collaborations, aligned with challenges
 of the fourth Industrial Revolution, and EPSRC priority areas of clean growth, digitalisation,
 autonomy, and health technology, aligned to University research institutes.

 Strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period
 The over-arching research and impact strategic aims of the unit were as follows:
 1. Create effective research environment, grow our research culture, and nurture research
 strength and breadth.
 2. Make space for research and development.
 3. Invest in facilities to support research and development.
 4. Grow PGR through new and innovative funding streams.
 5. Grow research impact through industry and regional partnerships.
 6. Pursue synergetic research partnerships and collaborations with other universities and with
 regional, national and international organisations and businesses.

 Review of the research plans described in REF 2014
 The vision for Civil and Mechanical Engineering in REF 2014 UoA 15 was to build upon critical
 mass in key areas and to increase interdisciplinary collaboration. Specifically the ambition was to
 have greater national and international presence in the areas of marine systems and energy
 generation technology. Investment into infrastructure and equipment in the previous period,
 including the world-class COAST (Coastal, Ocean And Sediment Transport) Laboratory in 2012,
 designed by Greaves, Simmonds and Raby, were instrumental in achieving this ambition.
 Directly arising from this laboratory and the complementary research activities, Greaves now
 leads the UK’s Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy hub. Opportunities unlocked by research
 into novel applications of friction processing and optimisation of structural performance (James),
 strengthened collaboration with industrial partners leading to cost benefits and improved creep
 condition monitoring in thermal power plant. The COAST Laboratory and solid-state joining
 research have both led to Impact Case Studies (ICSs), demonstrating tangible and significant
 industrial gains from our investment and research expertise. Furthermore, investment in
 collaborative research across disciplines e.g. materials and manufacturing in wave energy, has
 led to funding in the area of materials for: the marine environment (Summerscales) and in
 marine renewable energy applications (Cheng).

 The vision for Electronic Engineering in REF 2014 UoA 13 was to unify nanoscience and
 technology research groups to create multidisciplinary collaborations and training of research
 students, particularly in graphene electronics, biosensors and spintronics. This has been
 achieved by (i) the creation of SECaM, (ii) the planned move into a New Engineering & Design
 Facility (Section 3), and (iii) most significantly by a major research transition, where Pan has
 overseen the shift in focus from information storage technology to nanomaterial and device-
 based interdisciplinary research, including graphene biosensors for disease diagnosis (notably
 gaining substantial funding from EPSRC and EU for dementia diagnosis (Ifeachor)). As a critical
 part of the group’s research capability, the Wolfson Cleanroom was re-launched as the Wolfson
 Nanomaterials and Devices Laboratory (Section 3).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 The launch of SECaM in 2019 provided an opportunity to revisit its research and impact strategy
 for the next 5 years. The professional disciplines are changing to embrace new opportunities in
 digitalisation, materials technology, artificial intelligence, robotics, etc., emerging in the 4th
 Industrial Revolution and identified in the UK Industrial Strategy. As a result, the following 4 aims
 were added to the 6 on-going above-mentioned ones:
      • Collaborate across disciplines for the Digitalisation and Industry 4.0 drivers, taking a
          whole-systems approach to sustainable development and the mitigation of climate
          change and biodiversity emergency. Recent success (June 2020) came with seedcorn
          funding from the UKRI Strength in Places Fund bid, bringing together robotics, data
          analysis, hydrodynamics, structures and materials in Offshore Renewable Energy.
      • Create a beacon for equality, diversity and inclusion, encouraging representation from
          across society in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (see Section 3).
      • Align our research with the strategic direction of the University: mapping to the Marine
          Institute, the Sustainable Earth Institute and the Institute of Health and Care Research.
      • Create an environment for research impact generation by establishing an Industrial
          Strategy Group comprising representation from industry leaders and end-users (e.g.
          AECOM, Met Office, Network Rail) to identify emerging priorities.

 Research structure
 Since August 2019, the new School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics (SECaM)
 comprises nine research groupings, four of which are within UoA 12 (Figure 2).




           Figure 2: Research groupings within SECaM and the sub-set within UoA 12.

 Descriptions of the research groups follow, including more details of how the research and
 impact strategic aims have been achieved. N.B. Due to our interdisciplinary research, some staff
 are members of multiple groups.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coastal, Ocean and Sediment Transport (COAST) Engineering (Collins, Dai, Greaves, Hann,
 Kyte, Miles, Pemberton, Raby, Ransley, Simmonds, Stripling)
 This group tackles climate change threats to energy security and coastal infrastructure, providing
 sustainable solutions to real-world challenges. The COAST Laboratory (Section 3), the key
 facility in the £19m Marine Building, has been transformational for UoA 12. Together with a
 targeted research strategy, the facility has greatly enhanced collaborations, both nationally and
 internationally (Section 4), and led to the COAST Engineering Research Group being recognised
 as a key player in the UK offshore renewable energy (ORE) sector. Membership also includes
 the DesignFlow consultancy group (Kyte) https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/designflow that
 conducts Computational Fluid Dynamics for commercial clients; this strategic engagement with
 industry has resulted in research collaborations e.g. Subsea Decommissioning Pile Cutting
 System - Embedment Cutting Head, and Wave Energy Converter for small communities.
 Membership also includes the Defra-funded Plymouth Coastal Observatory whose data
 collection along the coast supports the Environment Agency, maritime local authorities etc. This
 strategic collaboration has been valuable in supporting the group’s research projects e.g.
 ENFORCE (doi.org/10.1016/j.coastaleng.2016.04.009). The research group is part of the cross-
 school Centre for Coastal and Ocean Science and Engineering (C-COSE), one of the largest
 groupings of coastal science and engineering in Europe. C-COSE provides COAST Engineering
 with opportunities for collaboration and equipment-sharing with its two other research groups
 (Coastal Processes and Marine Physics).

 The research group has secured competitively-awarded internal investment for topics including:
 extreme responses in coastal engineering on steep structures; evaluation of a new hybrid
 wave/wind energy converter; structural performance of floating marine energy devices; impact of
 marine energy converters; and development of COAST Laboratory wind generator for testing
 offshore wind devices. This last project led to the EPSRC-funded Extreme Loading on Floating
 Offshore Wind Turbines (FOWTs) under Complex Environmental Conditions project (below) and
 the recent EPSRC UK Floating Offshore Wind Turbine Test Facility grant (Hann) (Section 3).

 External award highlights during REF 2021 are given in Table 1.

                   Table 1: Examples of COAST Engineering research projects.

  Topic         Project name                  Funder            UoP Award        UoP PI
                Supergen Offshore
                Renewable Energy Hub
                                              UKRI              £3,710k          Greaves
                (incl. Supergen Leaders
                call)
                MaRINET2 - Marine
    Cross-
                Renewables Infrastructure     H2020             £2,656k          Greaves
    cutting
                Network
   Offshore
                ICE - Intelligent
  Renewable
                community energy for
   Energy                                     EU Interreg       £245k            Miles
                isolated territories in
                English Channel
                PRIMaRE - Partnership for
                Research in Marine            EPSRC             £241k            Greaves
                Renewable Energy

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                PORTOS - Ports towards
                                             EU Interreg   £199k         Simmonds
                energy self-sufficiency
                C-FLOOD - Compound
   Natural      flooding from tropical
   Hazards      cyclone-induced sea surge    NERC/DFID     £87k          Raby
                and precipitation in Sri
                Lanka
                Extreme loading on
   Offshore
                floating offshore wind
    Wind                                     EPSRC         £390k         Hann
                turbines under complex
   Energy
                environmental conditions
                MTG tidal raft platform
                concept followed by MTG      Innovate UK   £93k, £256k   Greaves
     Tidal
                platform concept 2
    Energy
                TIGER - Tidal Stream
                                             EU Interreg   £221k         Miles
                Industry EneRgiser
                WETFEET - Wave Energy
                Transition to Future by
                                             H2020         £213k         Greaves
                Evolution of Engineering
                and Technology
                Wave energy converter for
     Wave                                    Innovate UK   £99k          Kyte
                small communities
    Energy
                Can individual wave
                energy converters
                effectively share power      EPSRC         £124k         Hann
                take offs to reduce costs
                within arrays?
                STORMLAMP - Structural
                behaviour Of Rock
                Mounted Lighthouses At       EPSRC         £453k         Raby
                the Mercy of imPulsive
                waves
                L&R – A zonal CFD
                approach for fully
                nonlinear simulations of     EPSRC         £446k         Greaves
                two vessels in Launch and
     Wave-
                Recovery operations
   Structure
                Collaborative
  Interaction
                Computational Project in
                                                           £276 and
                wave Structure Interaction   EPSRC                       Greaves
                                                           £313k
                (CCP-WSI and CCP-
                WSI+)
                ENFORCE - Extreme
                Responses using
                NewWave – Forces,            EPSRC         £179k         Raby
                Overtopping and Runup in
                Coastal Engineering


                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The group supports the growth of the emerging offshore and marine renewable energy industry
 in the UK, which is the basis of Greaves’ ICS: Enabling the growth of the emerging Offshore and
 Marine Renewable Energy industry in the UK through increased technological understanding.
 The ICS arises from UoA 12’s strategic aims (to invest in facilities, to generate research impact
 through industry and regional partnerships, and to pursue collaborations with other universities
 and organisations/businesses). It consists of interwoven elements: the COAST Laboratory,
 research leadership (Greaves’ directorship of the Supergen ORE), collaborative partnership,
 and education/public/policy impact. Since July 2017, Greaves has led the £9m, 4-year Supergen
 ORE https://supergen-ore.net/, developing the strategy and consortium for the new ORE Hub
 that brings together Offshore Wind and Marine Energy sectors. The hub connects cutting-edge
 research, partners and shared strategy with policy makers to accelerate development of the
 emerging ORE and Marine Renewable Energy industries.

 The group is also at the forefront of wave loading of rock lighthouses through the STORMLAMP
 project, the subject of another ICS, by Raby: Provision of tools, techniques and international
 standards guidance for the maintenance of historic rock lighthouses under extreme wave
 loading. The project built on strategic investment of a PhD studentship at the end of the REF
 2014 period.

 Further selected research and impact highlights evidenced by REF 2021 outputs include:
    • Offshore and Marine Renewable Energy
            o Consultative responses to Government on low-carbon electricity generation
                (Greaves);
            o Wave Energy Roadmap and Innovation Position Paper (Greaves);
            o Understanding of Vessel-to-Vessel transfer at sea (Pemberton);
            o Understanding of current/wave effects around windfarm monopile foundations
                (Miles);
            o Predictions of tidal turbine performance, wake field and scour (Dai); and
            o Understanding of extreme loads on wave energy converters (Hann and Ransley).
    • Coastal Engineering
            o Flood-risk fieldwork, winning Horizon Impact Award for multidisciplinary research
                (Simmonds); and
            o Motion predictions of water-borne debris, pollutants and sediment in waves
                (Raby).
    • Marine hydrodynamics
            o Benchmarking of wave-structure interaction computational models through Blind
                Tests (Greaves, Ransley); and
            o Quantitative metrics for evaluation of wave basins (Collins).

 Nanotechnology & Electronics (Ahmed, Ambroze, Asad, Awan, Chaudhuri, Davey, Ifeachor,
 Jenkins, McCulloch, Pan)
 This research group brings together expertise in nanomaterials and devices, signal processing,
 artificial intelligence (AI) and data science, and their applications in healthcare, sensing,
 communication, audio, renewable energy, and clean water technologies. The group exploits
 interdisciplinary research opportunities at the interfaces of nanotechnology, electronics and other
 disciplines, with a focus on Ageing Society, Clean Growth and AI/Data-driven technology. This
 has led to major multidisciplinary research projects (Section 4). The Wolfson Nanomaterials and
 Devices Laboratory, a clean room-based nanomaterials and devices facility (Section 3), is an
 important resource for many of the projects. The group has strong links with the Medical school,
 Business School, the NHS, industry and with India via Global Challenge Research Fund
 workshops and a visiting professor appointment.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The group has secured competitively-awarded internal investments on topics including:
 graphene-based sensors for early detection of Alzheimer biomarkers; graphene antennas and
 multifunctional sensors; graphene solar cells; breath-based non-invasive diagnosis of
 Alzheimer’s disease; biomarkers of Alzheimer’s disease by statistical learning; graphene oxide
 biopolymer aerogels for removal of lead from drinking water; portable device for multiplexed
 detection of water-borne pathogens and heavy metals using functionalised nanomaterials.

 External award highlights during REF 2021 are given in Table 2.

        Table 2: Examples of Nanotechnology & Electronics research themes and projects.

      Topic        Project name                Funder             UoP Award        UoP PI
                   AiPBAND An Integrated
                   Platform for Developing
                                               EU H2020           £586             Pan
                   Brain Cancer Diagnostic
                   Techniques
  Biosensors       BBDIAG Blood
  and Disease      Biomarker-based
  Diagnostics      Diagnostic Tools for        EU H2020           £568k            Pan
                   Early Stage Alzheimer’s
                   Disease
                   Novel Point-of-Care
                   Diagnostic Techniques       EPSRC              £581k            Ifeachor
                   for Dementia
                   High power factor single
                   phase rectification         KTP – Fairford
                                                                  £96k             Ahmed
                   techniques with reduced     Electronics Ltd
   Solar Cells     line current harmonics
   and Energy                                  US Defense
   Conversion      Development of a new        Advanced
                   type of quantum thruster    Research           £915k            McCulloch
                   for satellites              Projects
                                               Agency
                   QoE-Net Innovative
  Communica-       Quality Of Experience
                                                                                   Ifeachor (Co-
     tion          Management in               EU H2020           £390k
                                                                                   I) UoA 11 PI
                   Emerging Multimedia
                   Services

 This group has demonstrated impact in improved efficiency power conversion approaches,
 developed in Ahmed’s research, leading to spin-out company PulsiV Solar Ltd. The company
 has developed power conversion products including a new micro-inverter technology (with
 Robert Bosch GmbH) for solar panels, which can extract 30% more energy compared with
 existing micro-inverters. It has applications for white goods, portable tools, electric vehicles etc.
 PulsiV has received equity investment £1m+, product development support of £250k from
 Innovate UK and the granting of five patent families on renewable energy and energy converters.

 Further selected research and impact highlights evidenced by REF 2021 outputs include:

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Biosensors and Disease Diagnostics
            o Development of graphene sensors for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease,
                cardiovascular disease, and cancer (Awan);
            o Technique for large-scale inexpensive production of ultrahigh sensitivity
                graphene-based biosensors for medical applications (Davey);
            o Biomarkers for accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease, embedded in a
                diagnostic point-of-care device (Ifeachor);
            o Electroencephalogram (EEG)-based methods for dementia assessment
                (Ifeachor); and
            o Patent for point-of-care devices for blood biomarker-based diagnostics of
                diseases including Alzheimer’s disease and brain cancer (Pan).
    •    RF Sensors and Technologies
            o Log-normal model solution technique for indoors ultra-wide band channel, leading
                to a UK patent (Ambroze); and
            o Sound, symbolic-numeric, deductive approach for formally verifying the global
                convergence property of a ring oscillator (Asad).
    •    Solar cells
            o Graphene-based solar cell with enhanced power conversion efficiency (Jenkins);
                and
            o A technique to enable pristine monolayer graphene to be transferred to silicon,
                relevant to graphene field-effect transistors and solar cells (Jenkins).

 MAterials and STructures (MAST) (Awan, Besinis, Chaudhuri, Cheng, Cree, Durndell,
 Easterbrook, Graham-Jones, Hatton, James, Jenkins, Kim, Kyte, Li, McCulloch, Meng,
 Pemberton, Rizvi, Robotham, Summerscales)
 MAST brings together researchers from the civil, marine, mechanical, structural, electronic
 engineering, health and process engineering disciplines. The strategic objective of MAST is to
 become a leading research centre for durable materials and structures in applications covering
 sustainable energy, the marine environment and medical technology.

 External award highlights during REF 2021 are given in Table 3.

            Table 3: Examples of Materials & Structures research themes and projects.

        Topic     Project name               Funder            UoP Award     UoP PI
                  PRIGeoC - Partnership
                  for research in            EU 2020           £126k         Li
                  geopolymer concrete
                  Tailor-made recycled
   Civil and                                 EU H2020          £103k         Cheng
                  aggregate concrete
   Structural
                  RESET - Reliability and
   Materials
                  safety engineering and
                  technology for large       EU H2020          £98k          Li
                  maritime engineering
                  systems.
                  INdIGO -
                  Channel|Manche
  Composites      Circular Seas -            EU Interreg       £337k         Graham-Jones
  Engineering     Innovative fishing Gear
                  for Ocean



                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                   2 Seas Mers Zeeën
                   SeaBioComp - Bio-             EU Interreg      £276k         Summerscales
                   based materials
                                                 KTP – Alan
                   Composite repair kit
                                                 Harper           £148k         Summerscales
                   solutions
                                                 Composites
                   Atlantic - CircularSeas
                   Recycling waste plastics      EU Interreg      £144k         Robotham
                   for additive manufacture
                   Development of IoT
                                                 Korea Agency
                   structural health
    Surfaces                                     for
                   monitoring system
      and                                        Infrastructure   £93k          Li
                   integrated with self-
    Coatings                                     Technology
                   sensing concrete
                                                 Advancement
                   structures for smart cities

 The group has demonstrated impact and global reach through James’ ICS: A transformation in
 creep monitoring for high temperature, high pressure components in power generation and
 chemical process plant in South Africa. ICS support included hosting visiting collaborators and
 providing dedicated administrative staff for dissemination. Impacts include savings of millions of
 pounds in delayed procurement costs of power generation components by ESKOM, as well as
 increased power generation availability.

 Further selected research and impact highlights evidenced by REF 2021 outputs include:
    • Concrete
            o Constitutive model of recycled aggregate concrete leading to improved building
                sustainability (Cheng); and
            o Model of chloride penetration in concrete, applicable to chloride removal from
                concrete using electrochemical methods (Li).
    • Steel
            o Methodology for investigating buckling behaviour of steel building elements under
                fire conditions (Kim); and
            o Engineering tool to predict the critical stress in distortional buckling of cold-formed
                steel (CFS) beams, now used for designing CFS zed-, channel- and sigma-
                section beams (Li).
    • Composites
            o Models of the effect of composite fibre lay-up on flexural failure mechanisms,
                leading to improved design (Meng);
            o Numerical simulation technique that coupled moisture diffusion and stress
                concentration to identify failure mechanism of composite materials (Rizvi); and
            o >98% reduction in styrene levels using in-mould gel-coating, lowering exposure
                and environmental release of styrene (Summerscales).
    • Nanomaterials
            o Successful application of a novel antibacterial nanocoating to dental implants,
                reducing infection risk (Besinis) (biomedical engineering was a strategic priority
                area during the REF 2021 period);
            o Determination of the performance of carbon nanotubes for (electrically
                conducting) self-sensing smart nanocomposite material (Cree) and self-heating
                nanocomposites to oil and chemical plant walls (Graham-Jones); and
            o Identification of a new pathway to achieve modular catalytic cascades in organic
                synthesis (Durndell).

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Material failures
            o Cost-effective crack repair procedure for turbine blades and disc failures (James);
                and
            o Determination of ice internal friction parameters of relevance in circulation
                models, to inform decisions about flood defences, building regulations, and
                residential development (Hatton).

 Autonomous Marine Systems (AMS) (Dai, Khan, Pemberton, Rizvi, Sharma, Sutton, Wan)
 This group is a focus for interdisciplinary studies and inter-school collaborations, particularly with
 the Centre for Robotics and Neural Systems (CRNS), but also with other universities and
 industrial partners nationally and globally. Specifically the group considers the application of
 Artificial Intelligence techniques to the navigation, guidance and control of autonomous vehicles,
 wave energy devices, and marine propulsion systems. The group has been expanded to include
 the Maritime Navigation Group to bring in expertise in meteorology and navigation techniques,
 maritime operation laws, position determination (including celestial navigation), ship
 construction, stability, and cargo operations. The group are contributors to the ERDF-funded
 Smart Sound project https://www.smartsoundplymouth.co.uk/Home, to Marine-I (Section 4) and
 they support large regional bids in ORE. They have been active in pursuing seedcorn projects in
 support of Global Challenge Research Funding (GCRF) bids (Table 4).

 Internally-awarded GCRF support was secured by Sharma for a marine monitoring and
 forecasting system to support sustainable deep sea fisheries in the Indian Ocean (Section 4).

 External award highlights during REF 2021 are given in Table 4.

         Table 4: Examples of Autonomous Marine Systems research themes and projects.

        Topic      Project name              Funder           UoP Award         UoP PI
                   Hybrid Set-theoretic
                   Approaches for            EPSRC (First
                                                              £91k              Wan
  Control          Constrained Control       Grant)
  Systems          and Estimation
                   Develop enhanced
                   automation, mobile
  Sensor                                     KTP – AB                           Khan and
                   navigation and
  Fusion &                                   Precision        £183k             Sharma (co-
                   situational awareness
  Navigation                                 (Poole) Ltd                        Is)
                   for remotely operated
                   vehicles
  Guidance &       Variety of seed corn
                                             RAEng/Royal                        Sharma and
  Path             projects during this                       £44k
                                             Society                            Wan
  Planning         period (see Section 4)

 The strategic ambition for greater national and international presence in marine systems has
 progressed, as evidenced by securing the hosting of the CONTROL conference hosting in 2020
 (Section 4), as has the collaboration in health with Khan as the Co-Investigator on the EU
 ERDF-funded project: ehealth Productivity and Innovation in the Isles of Scilly and Cornwall.

 Selected research and impact highlights evidenced by REF 2021 outputs include:



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         •          Algorithm to determine trajectory with dynamic obstacles and spatially variable ocean
                    currents, to prevent collisions at sea (Khan);
         •          Development of the UK’s first electric sea-going passenger boat in an ERDF-funded
                    project, working with six organisations across Europe and the Marine Business
                    Technology Centre (Section 4) (Pemberton);
         •          Proof that a weighted-interval Kalman filter is superior to a traditional Kalman Filter in
                    terms of track deviation, energy consumption, waypoints missed and distance travelled
                    (Sharma);
         •          Exact polytopic set computation for nonlinear discrete-time systems, leading to research
                    on bounding uncertainty evolution and robust control (Wan); and
         •          Platooning control for a fleet of sailboats to maintain constant time headway and avoids
                    collisions, useful for long-duration ocean exploration (Wan).

 Support for interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research in the University is facilitated through the 3 strategic Institutes (more
 detail in REF5a):
     • Marine Institute - advances knowledge and understanding of our seas and coastlines.
     • Sustainable Earth Institute - focuses on cutting-edge research and innovative
          approaches that build resilience to global challenges.
     • Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research - integrates basic and applied science,
          transcending barriers between professions and between health and social care.

 Each UoA 12 research group has strong connections to one or more of the Institutes as shown
 in Figure 3. This ensures agility in applying for interdisciplinary research funding e.g. GCRF.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Healthcare (AI-based technology)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Solar Cells & Energy Conversion
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sensor Fusion & Navigation
                                                                                                                    Wave-Structure Interaction




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Healthcare (miscellaneous)
                                                                                                                                                 Civil & Structural materials




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RF Sensors & Technologies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Guidance & Path Planning



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Clean Water Technology
                                                                                                                                                                                Composites Engineering
                                                                Offshore wind energy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Surfaces & Coatings
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Structural Integrity
                          Cross-cutting ORE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Control Systems
                                              Natural Hazards




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Communication
                                                                                                      Wave Energy
                                                                                       Tidal Energy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Audio
        Marine
            Sustainable
               Earth
 Health and

  Research
    Care




                              Figure 3: Mapping of UoA research topics to the trans-disciplinary institutes.

 Examples of interdisciplinary working are as follows:
    • Members of UoA 12 have developed strong collaborations with the Medical and Business
       Schools in EU H2020 and EPSRC projects (Pan and Ifeachor). Besinis organises
       regular meetings (seminars and ‘speed-dating’) to identify specific common research

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        themes across disciplines between SECaM, the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, and
        the School of Biomedical and Healthcare Sciences, particularly in Health Technology, an
        area of strategic cross-disciplinary growth (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-
        for-health-technology). The forums are particularly beneficial for scoping joint PhD
        applications for the EPSRC-funded Doctoral Training Programme that covers
        Health/Medical Technologies (in addition to Offshore Renewable Energy) (Section 2).
        Also, through the EU-ERDF EPIC 2 project, members of UoA 12 are partnered with the
        Medical School on the eHealth Productivity and Innovation in Cornwall and the Isles of
        Scilly, providing research support in digital health and care to Cornish industries.
    •   UoA 12’s current collaborations on preventing plastics pollution in the marine
        environment complements the work of both the Marine Institute and the Sustainable
        Earth Institute. Three projects (INdIGO, SeaBioComp, CircularSeas) underpin this work
        and align with the Preventing Plastics Pollution project in the School of Biological and
        Marine Sciences in the same faculty.
    •   UoA 12’s research has benefitted from membership of the Centre for Coastal and Ocean
        Science and Engineering e.g. the STORMLAMP lighthouse project had input from the
        Marine Physics research group on the design of a stereo camera system for the Wolf
        Rock lighthouse, and it used the Coastal Processes group’s drone to obtain Wolf Rock
        lighthouse topography for scale-model building in the COAST Ocean basin.
    •   Civil Engineers within UoA12 have growing collaborations with Earth Sciences in natural
        hazards e.g. NERC-funded SENSUM grant (smart SENSing of landscapes Undergoing
        hazardous hydrogeologic Movement), using COAST Laboratory facilities.
    •   We also collaborate across disciplines through the New Engineering & Design Facility
        (Section 3) which is being developed jointly with Arts and Architecture (e.g. digital design
        and manufacture (Robotham, Cree) and with Earth Sciences (e.g. landslide/tsunami
        natural hazards, Raby).
    •   Finally we are also building on ORE with a collaboration in offshore subsea systems
        (using the NEDF virtual engineering suite) with the ORE CATAPULT, with strong links
        with COAST through simulation and visualisation, prototype design, fabrication and dry
        testing (Greaves, Hann, Meng).

 Further evidence of the interdisciplinary nature of the unit is provided in Figure 4.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 4: Journal paper outputs from UoA 12 by discipline during the REF 2021 period (SciVal).

 Open research and reproducibility
 We follow the Institution’s procedures (REF5a) e.g. UoA 12’s Collaborative Computational
 Project in Wave Structure Interaction (CCP-WSI) which has a key goal to bring together the WSI
 community to place code development activity on a firm and sustainable footing within the
 context of a single central code repository. The resulting computational facility is open to all
 groups, and complements corresponding national laboratory facilities. Regular meetings are held
 for software development, and the CCP-WSI achieves reducibility by running blind tests of
 software on physical model benchmark cases. These activities have been organised through
 special sessions of international conferences and published as journal papers e.g.
 https://doi.org/10.17736/ijope.2019.jc748.

 Research integrity
 As a unit we adhere to the University’s approach to research integrity covered in REF5a and the
 EPSRC Framework for Responsible Innovation. Where research requires ethical approval, this is
 obtained from either the Faculty of Science & Engineering Research Ethics and Integrity
 Committee or a relevant national committee (i.e. the Health Research Authority for our medical
 engineering activities). Where internal research funding is distributed e.g. small travel or
 equipment grants, or PhD studentships, this is undertaken by the School Research Committee.
 The Committee comprises research group heads, with additional representation from ECRs,
 PGRs, Research and Innovation department, Library etc. All academic members of staff rank
 applications, with the decision then ratified by the Committee.

 2. People

 i. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The University holds the EU Commission HR Excellence in Research Award for upholding the
 principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. UoA 12’s
 strategies to support career development include:
    •   membership of a research group to create a supportive and rich research environment
        for all academic staff, postdoctoral researchers, PhD and Masters students through
        regular meetings, opportunities for presentations and research proposal development;
    •   providing funds in support of impact activities e.g. during REF 2021 the School’s
        Research Impact Leverage Fund was used to support five academics in the development
        of potential ICSs (from which three were ultimately selected) and a future one (the
        Coastal Marine Applied Research consultancy were commissioned to model tsunami risk
        in the SW UK in support of Raby’s ongoing tsunami hazards research
        doi.org/10.1680/jcien.17.00043);
    •   access to the University’s Research and Development Solutions Fund (£200k), designed
        to stimulate industrial collaborations and knowledge transfer opportunities between
        university researchers and businesses;
    •   access to the University’s Research and Commercialisation Office in support of
        commercial spin out companies e.g. PulsiV Solar Ltd (Ahmed);
    •   being a beacon for Equality Diversity and Inclusion (Part iii below);
    •   a sabbatical scheme, including industrial placements e.g. Kim visited Shenzhen
        University, China to develop a Royal Society Cost Share programme application and co-
        authored several papers;

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   recruitment of a new generation of Early Career Researchers (ECRs) supported by a
        school-based ECR forum e.g. 8/11 new academics within the REF2021 period were
        ECRs (data below); Wan, who was awarded an EPSRC First Grant, was also awarded
        an internally-funded PhD studentship;
    •   following the University’s One Team approach that nurtures outstanding teaching,
        research and development, to exploit synergies and efficiencies and share good practice
        through regular school meetings e.g. fortnightly Zoom meetings during the pandemic and
        the provision of Common Rooms;
    •   undertaking an annual Performance Development Review where academics and
        postdoctoral research staff produce a Personal Research Plan that includes short-term
        (12 months) or long-term (~3 years) research objectives regarding publications, grant
        applications, planned conference activities etc. for discussion and to identify necessary
        support;
    •   meaningful staff induction followed by a period of probation, in a process led by the line
        manager. SECaM has a comprehensive repository of information on e.g. training, H&S,
        employment terms and conditions including flexible working etc. accessible via a module
        in the University’s Digital Learning Environment;
    •   staff mentoring where all new staff are given a long-term mentor whose remit is to cover
        the whole academic mission. ECRs are offered mentoring by experienced academic staff
        members who provide independent, supportive advice on a range of issues, including
        career expectations, time management, project management, and professional research
        plans;
    •   organising twice yearly Research Planning Days (online in 2020 due to COVID-19) where
        sessions include:
           o   grant writing tips from senior staff,
           o   discussion of the latest research activities by research group leaders and
               members,
           o   research training from the University Research and Innovation office,
           o   explanation of facility access such as the Electron Microscope, COAST
               Laboratory etc.
           o   cross-disciplinary activities;
    •   providing opportunities to learn about funding mechanisms from external parties e.g. the
        EPSRC Energy team visit to SECaM in 2019, DFID/NERC visit to the Sustainable Earth
        Institute in 2019;
    •   supporting the promotion process with an annual SECaM workshop where the Head of
        School and Human Resources explain the process and highlight what makes a
        successful application, and at which recently promoted staff members share their
        experiences. During the REF 2021 period Kim was promoted to Associate Professor and
        Raby and Summerscales were promoted to Professor.
 UoA 12 comprises 36 members of staff (34.3 FTE), plus 14 research assistants/fellows
 employed across the 4 research groups. New staff appointments to this unit are on balanced
 contracts only (Teaching and Research). In the REF 2021 period these have included:
           •   Antonini – Coastal Engineering (M - ECR),
           •   Besinis – Nanotechnology and Biomaterials (M - ECR),
           •   Cheng – steel/concrete structures (F - ECR),
           •   Collins – hydrodynamics (F - ECR),
           •   Hann – offshore renewable energy (M - ECR),
           •   Jang – smart materials (M - ECR),
           •   Meng – composites engineering(M - ECR),
           •   Pemberton – marine design (M),
           •   Robotham – engineering design (M).

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 where M – male; F – female and ECR is Early Career Researcher.

 New academic appointments in September 2020: Simone Michele – Fluid-Structure interaction
 (M – ECR) and Yeaw Chu Lee – Fluid Mechanics (M). Laboratory Technician appointments
 during REF 2021: Monk (M) (a PhD graduate of the COAST Engineering Research group),
 Poulson (F) and Buriani (F). New technician appointed in September 2020: Mitchell (F).

 Members of staff previously employed as fixed-term researchers now with permanent positions
 (awarded in open competition) include:
    • Antonini (EPSRC-funded STORMLAMP Research Fellow, then Lecturer in SECaM, now
       Lecturer at TU Delft)
    • Cheng (Plymouth PhD student now Lecturer in SECaM, after Research Fellow
       elsewhere)
    • Collins (COAST Lab Research Fellow, now Lecturer in SECaM)
    • Hann (EPSRC-funded X-MED Research Fellow, now Lecturer in SECaM)
    • Meng (Plymouth PhD student, now Lecturer in SECaM, after Research Fellow
       elsewhere)
    • Ransley (Plymouth MSc graduate, then PhD student in SECaM, now permanent
       Research Fellow in SECaM)

 Whilst the groups are invigorated with early career staff, we have ensured that valuable
 experience is not lost through having:
    • Emeritus Professors (Bullock (COAST), Sutton (AMS));
    • Visiting Professors: Paul Taylor (University of Western Australia, formerly University of
         Oxford), Alistair Borthwick (University of Edinburgh, formerly University College Cork and
         University of Oxford), Robert Rawlinson-Smith (Garrad Hassan, DNV GL).

 ii. Research students
 Recruitment
 PhD studentships are widely advertised, and candidates short-listed and interviewed by gender-
 balanced panels, with reasonable adjustments made for any other protected characteristics (see
 EDI sub-section).
 Funding
 During the REF 2021 period, UoA 12 had 88 PhD completions, a 25% increase in completions
 per FTE compared to the combined units in REF 2014. Funding for PGR has come from
 strategic internally-funded studentships (with project selection criteria addressing
 interdisciplinarity and potential for impact), self-funded students, two regional FE college-funded
 students, UAE-Ocean, Iraqi Government-funded studentships, the China Scholarship Council,
 employer-funded and a growing number of Commonwealth Scholarships. In September 2019,
 UoA 12 was awarded an EPSRC Doctoral Training Programme in Offshore Renewable Energy /
 Medical and Health Technologies, contributing to its strategic aim of increasing PGR students
 from new funding streams. A newly-approved Engineering Doctorate scheme should also attract
 industry-funded PhD projects.
 Monitoring and Support
 UoA 12 PGR students have dedicated desks in shared or open plan offices. They have access
 to advanced facilities (Section 3), ICT and extensive electronic and physical library facilities.
 They typically meet with their supervisory team (Director of Studies plus at least one further
 supervisor) on a weekly basis, and are involved in their research group for: (i) collegial support
 e.g. the COAST Engineering Research Group has informal Friday breakfast meetings (on Zoom

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the pandemic), with the option to join a student-led WhatsApp group, and (ii) opportunities
 to attend regular presentations by guest speakers and group members. Formal monitoring, by
 the Doctoral College, uses the GradBook system, which requires periodic progress reports to be
 lodged by PhD supervisors and students. Students undergo a rigorous transfer process from
 MPhil to PhD at 12-15 months, which in SECaM has a policy of mixed gender assessment if
 requested by the student; this extends the university policy of gender-balanced PhD
 examinations.
 The Doctoral College runs inductions for new students, providing cohort development,
 networking opportunities and mentoring. Connectivity between the students and the Doctoral
 College is ensured by a staff Postgraduate Research Coordinator for each school (Sharma in
 SECaM). The coordinator offers tailored support for subject areas and provides additional
 pastoral support where necessary. Students have representation via the SECaM Research
 Committee, attendance at the Research Planning Days, PGR survey feedback, and through
 membership of the Postgraduate Society.
 Skills Development and Career Preparation
 PGR students, with support from their supervisors, select training courses from the Doctoral
 College’s comprehensive Researcher Development Programme. This programme is supported
 by UKRI, Vitae and employers and has four domains:
    •   Knowledge and Intellectual Abilities e.g. LaTeX, Matlab, Python.
    •   Personal Effectiveness e.g. Working with feedback and setbacks, Preparing for the viva,
        Careers.
    •   Research Governance and Organisation e.g. Research integrity, Project management.
    •   Engagement, Influence and Impact e.g. Using the media to publicise research,
        Introduction to podcasting.
 Engineering students also benefit from connections gained through research networks e.g. the
 Supergen ORE provides a large industry network, particularly with SMEs including Marine-i
 (https://www.marine-i.co.uk/) and PRIMaRE (Section 4). Examples of PhD collaborations during
 REF 2021 include DNVGL, Pelamis and Wave Roller, and CASE studentships with Arup and HR
 Wallingford. Additionally we have collaborated with Ocean University China in PhD exchanges
 since 2017 (Section 4). Finally, our engineering students also have access to collaborative
 environments provided through the three University Research Institutes, which run periodic
 research events.

 iii. Equality and diversity

 SECaM has strong leadership on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) from the Head of
 School, Greaves, who was awarded an OBE in 2018 for services including Equalities (Section
 4). The school follows the University’s policies to provide equality of opportunity for staff and
 students, applicants and visitors, and its REF 2021 Code of Practice as a minimum. In line with
 the University’s EDI policy, full support is provided for staff, PGRs and spouses during
 pregnancy, nursing, adoption, and for compassionate and religious purposes. During the REF
 2021 period, the collegiate nature of the unit has led to staff members altruistically covering for
 colleagues over extended periods of time. The university has robust wellbeing support for staff
 and students for advice, including during the pandemic lockdown on a wide range of issues
 including domestic abuse, parenting, LGBT support, sex and relationships advice and disability
 support.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An ambitious strategic priority for SECaM is to become a beacon for EDI; both schools that
 merged to form SECaM have the Athena Swan charter Bronze, and the combined school
 successfully achieved the same award in October 2020. SECaM is now working towards the
 Silver award, and we are inviting staff from Silver Award holding departments, and from external
 groups and societies, such as Women’s Engineering Society, the British Computer Society, and
 Women in Mathematics of the London Mathematical Society, to share best practice in
 developing and implementing actions. The implementation of the Bronze action plan should
 ensure that the School is well-placed to apply for a Silver award in 2023.
 Figure 5 shows that despite having a fairly low representation of women (17%), and with
 considerably more women employed at Assistant Professor than at Associate Professor
 compared with their male colleagues, 25% (2/8) of the women in UoA 12 are employed at
 professor level, compared to 19% at professor level for male members. Also notable are that
 22% of the REF 2021 outputs are attributed to women and 2/3 of the ICSs. N.B. Outputs and
 ICSs followed the University’s processes, which included internal and external reviews,
 irrespective of seniority or other forms of difference. BAME members, who make up 42% of UoA
 12 (c.f. 17% in UK HESA data 2018/19), are also disproportionately represented at Assistant
 Professor when compared with their white counterparts, though again not at professorial level,
 where they make up 50%. Of note is that each of the four research groups is led (or co-led)
 either by a female or BAME member of staff. With their seniority, the professors and research
 group leaders positively influence the culture and act as inspirational figures for junior members
 of staff. In UoA 12, flexible work patterns are offered, but 92% of staff work full-time compared to
 a UK-wide figure (HESA data 2018/19) of 82%; however, since 83% of the unit is male, this may
 skew the situation.




              Figure 5: Breakdown of gender and ethnicity at different career grades.

 During REF 2021, our efforts to address the challenge of under-representation of women in
 engineering, which particularly affects the Southwest region, are supported by several initiatives,
 including the Plymouth STEM forum, Women in STEM Plymouth and 500 Women Scientists. In
 2017 we hosted the Women in STEM conference and in 2020 Greaves was named in the Top
 50 Women in Engineering 2020: Sustainability by the Women’s Engineering Society. In
 accordance with the 2018 Athena Bronze action plans we publicised vacancies through female
 networks, such as Women in Science & Engineering and Women’s Engineering Society. The
 percentage of female applications to STEM vacancies in SECaM is increasing, with 12% in


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017/18, 13% in 2018/19, and 18% in 2019/20. Since 1 August 2018, there were 24 new
 appointments (25% female) to academic positions in SECaM, which is an increase compared to
 17 new appointments (12% female) in 2017/18. In UoA 12, 2/3 of the new technician
 appointments were to women. We are also implementing action plans to support women in their
 careers and to encourage more girls to study engineering. For example, we presented and
 hosted an exhibition stand with a wave energy demonstration tank at New Scientist Live 2018.

 In an effort to address all protected characteristics:
     • SECaM have appointed an EDI champion to the School Management Team and ensure
         that recruitment to School leadership roles is transparent and open to all and that deputy
         Chairs (of a different gender to the Chair where possible) are appointed to senior
         committees;
     • SECaM has a dedicated EDI page to update staff and students on news and events
         https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/schools/school-of-engineering-computing-and-
         mathematics/equality-diversity-and-inclusion;
     • EDI is a standing item on the School Research Committee agenda, the body which
         disburses internal funds and PhD studentships;
     • there is mandatory training for all staff and PGRs on EDI (supported by documentation
         provided by the Advance HE Equality Challenge Unit) and on Unconscious Bias;
     • all advertisements for staff and PGR include the text: applications from people who are
         currently under-represented in our university community, and from suitably qualified
         people with disabilities;
     • there is gender representation on all recruitment panels and in PhD transfers and vivas,
         as mentioned in the above sub-section; and finally,
     • an EDI support strategy is a key feature of the EPSRC-funded ORE Supergen hub,
         where lack of diversity in energy research is an issue, and in the newly-awarded DTP.
 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Income
 During the REF 2021 period the research activity of UoA 12 staff increased. Figure 6 shows
 annual income (REF4b data) for the REF 2014 (upper charts) and REF 2021 (lower chart)
 periods. It shows a virtually year-on-year increase in research income during the most recent
 REF period, particularly from the BEIS Research Councils. Total income in the REF 2021 period
 is £9.636m.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                   Figure 6: Research income for the REF 2014 and REF 2021 periods 1.
    Facilities
    COAST Laboratory
    The COAST Laboratory (www.plymouth.ac.uk/coast-laboratory) is a state-of-the-art facility for
    the study of wave and current interaction with offshore and coastal structures using medium-
    scaled physical modelling. It gives developers access for testing and expertise to shorten time-
    to-market and reduce prototyping costs. It consists of the 35m x 15.5m x 3m Ocean Basin, a
    15m x 10m x 0.5m Coastal Basin, two 0.6m wide wave flumes and various smaller
    hydrodynamics facilities. Since opening in 2012, COAST has been instrumental in the UK
    maintaining its world leading position in the ORE sector, playing a key role in testing novel ORE
    devices and platforms through UK and international collaborations. The facility is available for
    international access by academic researchers via the EU-funded Marinet, Marinet2, and
    Hydralab schemes. Through these schemes and private contracts, 69 industrial projects for 41
    businesses have been undertaken. There is a global interest in the facility, with commercial
    users hailing from Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway,
    Portugal, Sweden, UK, and the US. Over the past 6 years, one of our research and impact
    strategies has been to develop the capability to generate wind over the Ocean Basin in the
    COAST Laboratory. We undertook this, first through internal investment and recently (October
    2020 announcement) through £1.1m EPSRC funding for the UK Floating Offshore Wind Turbine
    Test Facility. The successful development of the facility will enable scale testing to meet the
    2019 Offshore Wind Sector Deal commitment to build up to 30GW of offshore wind devices by
    2030 and achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.

    High Performance Computer Centre
    This provides supercomputer access for nine research areas across the university including the
    topics of Coastal Engineering and Marine & Offshore Renewable Energy, complementing the
    COAST Laboratory physical modelling. The most recent additions to the cluster include 320



1
    Some years show small negative values as the University’s financial statement include costs as well as income.

                                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cores using Intel Xeon E5-2650 (SandyBridge) 8 core 2.60GHz processors. The facility
 underpins the CCP-WSI and Big Data research.

 Wolfson Nanomaterials and Devices Laboratory
 This is an essential facility for undertaking research in nanoscience and nanotechnology with
 equipment for thin film deposition, microfabrication and characterisation of nanomaterial-based
 devices. It puts the University amongst only a few UK universities which have such high-level
 research facilities.

 Marine Business Technology Centre (MBTC)
 Staff from the AMS research group, are involved in the MBTC project, headquartered from
 Oceansgate in Plymouth, the UK’s only Marine-dedicated Enterprise Zone. MBTC offers in-depth
 product testing and development of marine-related technologies. Members of the research group
 were involved in securing a state-of-the-art unmanned marine vessel, the C-Worker 4,
 developed and supplied by L3Harris. Sharing of marine facilities is also possible through the
 NERC pump-primed Marine Research Plymouth project, a partnership between the University,
 the Marine Biological Association and the Plymouth Marine Laboratory which aims to ‘further
 strengthen the partnership to grow marine science and technology in Plymouth through the
 sharing of resources, the coordination of marketing and knowledge exchange and the
 exploitation of complementary research skills and facilities’.

 New Engineering & Design Facility
 On the basis of the business case for a state-of-the-art engineering building, developed as part
 of the research and impact strategy, the University is investing in the £40m landmark New
 Engineering & Design Facility. The research vision is to: re-equip laboratories with advanced
 resources that will enable our engineering research to underpin the fourth Industrial revolution;
 create the attractive environment necessary to attract and retain high-calibre, research active
 staff; and develop new inter-disciplinary activities. This facility, which will be available in Q2 2023
 expands the floor area of the engineering labs from 2400m2 to approximately 5000m2. There will
 be £11m in new equipment to provide additional capabilities over and above those in existing
 labs (precision manufacturing, materials characterisation, composites, control/autonomous
 systems, energy/sustainability, structures/materials testing) with the following new facilities:
     • Control and Autonomous Systems Laboratory for the testing of autonomous vehicles with
         6-DOF motion platform and water tank.
     • Virtual Engineering Suite to enable 3D immersive virtual reality and augmented reality
         simulations linked to hi-fidelity physics-based computer-aided simulations of advanced
         engineering technologies and environments, involving interaction with “big data” sets.
     • Energy and Sustainability Laboratory with new wind tunnel for ORE research and
         structures environment chamber.
     • STEAM2 Room for promoting collaborative working in mixed-use and social space,
         supporting serendipitous interaction between students, researchers and academic staff.

 Staff members have also performed and led experiments, in collaborative research projects at
 nationally and internationally leading strain scanning facilities, such as the Diamond Light source
 near Oxford (Awan), and the Institut Laue Langevin and European Synchrotron Radiation
 Facility in Grenoble, France (James).




                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 The breadth of our collaborations is indicated by the co-authored research outputs illustrated in
 Figure 7, which shows, for example, that 60% of outputs are co-authored with international
 researchers and that 5% involve industrial collaborators.




             Figure 7: University of Plymouth UoA 12 collaboration data from SciVal.

 Figure 8 provides a breakdown of outputs by collaborator country. There were also single
 outputs arising from collaborations with: Bangladesh, Brazil, Croatia, Hong Kong, Iran, Oman,
 Pakistan, Taiwan and Turkey.




             Figure 8: Geographical distribution of UoA 12 outputs (SciVal, 16/11/20).

 Many collaborations are underpinned by state-of-the-art facilities e.g. since 2012, the COAST
 Engineering research group’s research profile and portfolio grew significantly, with 18 research
 projects of over £41m underpinned by the COAST laboratory, resulting in 60+ publications
 concerning ORE, sediment transport, and wave impacts on structures. The EU-funded Hydralab,
 Marinet and Marinet2 access to infrastructure projects have also led to collaborations e.g.
 WETFEET and joint PhD with UCC. Additionally the facility has hosted more than 50 public

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement events and has featured in several media outputs (Section 4). The Wolfson
 Nanomaterials and Devices Laboratory facilities and the research portfolio in graphene
 biosensors have played a key role in helping to secure three major research projects (EPSRC
 EP/M006301/1 and EU H2020 BBDiag and AiPBAND) with total funding of over £8m, and
 involving about 30 collaborators from UK, Europe, China, and the US. Industrial collaborations
 arising from the Wolfson Laboratory include a proof-of-concept investigation of Perovskite solar
 cells funded by Advanced Nano Industry of France. Collaborative research between academics
 in engineering and medicine takes place in the University’s Plymouth Electron Microscopy
 Centre (e.g. Besinis).

 Our influence within national and international consortia has also grown through the REF 2021
 period, evidenced by leading the following UKRI-funded projects, arising from our strategy to
 pursue collaborative research:
     • The £9m ORE Supergen Hub, bringing together two hubs in Marine and Wind previously
         led by Edinburgh and Strathclyde universities. The consortium universities are
         Edinburgh, Oxford, Manchester, Exeter, Hull, Southampton, Warwick, Strathclyde and
         Aberdeen. The role of the hub is to provide leadership for ORE research in the UK.
     • PRIMaRE (Partnership for Research in Marine Renewable Energy), with the universities
         of Bristol, Bath, Southampton, Exeter, Cardiff, plus the Plymouth Marine Laboratory and
         Marine Biological Association. Plymouth organised the annual PRIMaRE conference in
         2020, a two-day virtual meeting with contributions from 32 speakers, and about 200
         international delegates e.g. the UK, the US, Europe, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, India,
         Mexico, Brazil and Australia.
     • CCP-WSI+ (Collaborative Computational Project on Wave Structure Interaction) for
         sharing and future-proofing EPSRC-funded code developments in wave-structure
         interaction.

 Furthermore, Plymouth is scheduled to host the European Wave and Tidal Energy Conference in
 2021, bringing about 600 delegates to Plymouth, and were scheduled to host the 13th United
 Kingdom Automatic Control Council International Conference on Control, postponed due to
 COVID.


 Academics from UoA 12 are also developing collaborations for GCRF via seedcorn grants e.g.


 RAE Frontiers of Engineering for Development:
    •   Ahmadu Bello University, Nigeria (Kim);
    •   Nelson Mandela University, South Africa (Kim);
    •   Universiti Sains Malaysia, Malaysia and CSIR, South Africa (Wan);
 RAE Newton Research Collaboration:
    •   NIT, India (Sharma);
 Royal Society International Exchange:
    •   Zhejiang University, China (Sharma);


 Newton Fund Workshop Grant:
    •   Nanomaterials for water and affluent purity for life (Jenkins).




                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Additionally, Kim is an RAEng Frontiers Champion for Recycled Aggregate Concrete in SE Asia.


 We have Memoranda of Understandings arising from our strategy to support international
 collaborations e.g. Ocean University China (10 PhD students per annum); Harbin Institute of
 Technology, China (establish a joint lab on Autonomous Intelligent System at HIT for
 collaboration in autonomous intelligent systems); and Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang,
 Malaysia (promote further research and education collaboration in the fields of engineering and
 marine conservation). We also have an agreement with Southwest Jiao Tong University to send
 PhD students funded by the China Scholarship Council, and we are applying for International
 Cooperative Program for Innovative Talents administered by the China Scholarship Council.
 Finally, we have a formal agreement with UAE-Ocean for the development, establishment and
 operation of a UAE oceanographic centre which has led to a number of PhD studentships.

 Regionally, staff from UoA 12 are supporting the City Council’s ambitions, e.g. the Marine
 Business Technology Centre (Section 3) and Mayflower 2020 (Quatercentenary of the Pilgrim
 Fathers leaving Plymouth for the United States) involving development of autonomous sailing
 ship (Wan, Sharma). Academics are actively involved in Marine-i/Marine-i2, funded by the
 European Regional Development Fund to connect business with university expertise and
 facilities for local economic benefit (e.g. Greaves, Hann, Sharma). Pemberton is working with
 regulatory bodies on a high-profile MarRI-UK project which is converting an existing network of
 passenger ferries to be all-electric to meet the UK Government’s Clean Maritime Plan.
 Investment for the New Engineering & Design Facility supports the Plymouth Manufacturers’
 Group, which has 59 members from Plymouth and the surrounding area with a collective
 turnover of £1.6 billion, contributes 15.3% to the local economy, and employs 12,000+ people.
 The University Vice Chancellor is also board member of The Heart of the South West Local
 Enterprise Partnership, which is seeking inward investment in precision engineering and
 advanced manufacturing, including in the aerospace, nuclear, marine and agri-tech sectors.
 Finally, Sharma is a founding member of the Future Autonomous at Sea Technologies Cluster,
 which provides collaborations with leading industrial and academic partners specialising in the
 delivery of innovative marine autonomous solutions, such as: surface and sub-surface
 autonomous systems, advanced manufacturing, smart ports and cyber security.

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base include:
     • Journal Editorship e.g. Editor-in-Chief of Source Code for Biology and Medicine
         (Ifeachor); Co-Editor of International Journal of Fatigue (James); Associate Editor of
         Proceedings of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, Part M: Engineering for the
         Maritime Environment (Sharma); Associate Editor of Frontiers in Built Environment:
         Coastal and Offshore Engineering (Simmonds).
     • Journal Editorial/Advisory Board Member e.g. Engineering Failure Analysis (James);
         Ships and Offshore Structures (Rizvi); Cement and Concrete Composites (Li); Editorial
         Board of IET Journal for Science and Technology (Ifeachor); Composites Part A
         (Summerscales); Proc. ICE Engineering and Computational Mechanics (Greaves);
         Biotechnology & Bioengineering (Chaudhuri); Journal of Sailing Technology (Graham-
         Jones).
     • Journal Guest Editorship e.g. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A:
         Environmental Loading of Heritage Structures (Raby); Micromachines: Functional
         Materials Based Microsystems (Jenkins); Applied Ocean Research Special Issue on
         Wave Energy Utilization (Greaves); Journal of Marine Science and Engineering: Big
         Data Analytics for Marine Shipping and Ship building Industries (Rizvi).



                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Conference Organising Committee e.g. Control 2020 (Khan), Board and Technical
        Committee of EWTEC and the Host for EWTEC21 (Greaves), Local organising
        committee for EWTEC21: Collins, Hann, Meng, Miles, Ransley, Simmonds.
    •   Conference Technical Programme Committee e.g. IEEE ICC CSMA 2018-date (Khan).
    •   Conference Session Chair e.g. IntelliSys 2019 (Khan); International Association for
        Dental Research, 2014, 2015 (Besinis), Inaugural member of the World Association of
        Natural Fibers Research – Portugal (Summerscales).
    •   Invited keynotes or plenary lectures e.g. 5th Int. Con. On Durability of Concrete
        Structures, Shenzhen (Li); RILEM (Concrete Modelling Symposium 2018) (Li); Annual
        FDI World Dental Federation, Buenos Aires, Argentina (2018) (Besinis); Antibacterial
        Biomaterials workshop; Lancaster, UK (2018) (Besinis); 1st Virtual European
        Conference on Fracture 2020 (James); 8th International Conference on Materials
        Structure & Micromechanics of Fracture, Brno, Czech Republic 2019 (James); NANO-
        15, Tamil Nadu, India (Jenkins); ICNAN ’16, Vellore, India 2106 (Jenkins); International
        Conference on Sonar Systems & Sensors, Kerala, India 2018 (Summerscales); 4th
        China International Composites Technology Conference, Guangdong, China 2019
        (Summerscales); 1st International Lighthouse Symposium, University of Hong Kong,
        2017 (Raby).
    •   Invited membership for international workshops e.g. EPSRC-funded Sweden-UK Ocean
        Energy Technology Workshop (Greaves); EPSRC UK-China Marine Energy Workshop
        (Greaves); RCUK UK-Hong Kong Newton Fund Sandpit (Greaves, Hann); British
        Council/Newton Fund China-UK workshop on Coastal and Offshore Renewable Energy
        Systems under Extreme Events in Dalian, China (Raby) (2019). UKRI US delegation to
        International Partnering Forum in Offshore Wind, New York 2019, leading to organisation
        of Supergen ORE workshop with US academics at University of Massachusetts in
        Amherst, and new research collaborations between UoP and UoMass (Greaves).
    •   Participation on International grants committees e.g. Academy of Finland (James);
        European Metrology Programme for Innovation and Research (Awan); German
        Academic Exchange Service (Greaves); H2020 Marie Sklodowska Curie Career-FIT ~
        Enterprise Ireland (Summerscales); Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research
        (Greaves); Norwegian Research Council (Li); Portuguese Foundation for Science &
        Technology (James); Singapore A*STAR Science & Engineering Research Council
        (Greaves); US DOE Water Power Technology Office Foundational Research Funding
        (Greaves).
    •   Participation on National grant committees e.g. EPSRC Peer Review College (Awan,
        Chaudhuri, James, Jenkins, Greaves, Li, Summerscales); NERC Constructing a
        Digital Environment Demonstrators call (Sharma); expert reviewer for UKRI Strength in
        Places Fund (Rizvi); NERC Pool of Technologies Reviewers (Greaves); Royal Society’s
        research Grants Board 20K (Physical Sciences) (Greaves).
    •   Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees e.g.
        Athena Swan panellist for Equality Charter Unit (Khan); subcommittee UK Engineering
        Professors Council for Research, Innovation and Knowledge Transfer (Li); RCUK Energy
        Programme’s Scientific Advisory Committee (Greaves); UKRI Collaborative
        Computational Projects Steering Committee (Greaves).
    •   Reviews for overseas grant organisations e.g. Flanders Innovation & Entrepreneurship
        Agency, Belgium (Pemberton), International Research Infrastructure Belgium (Raby),
        Research Council of Norway (Sharma), Swiss National Science Foundation
        (Summerscales), National Research Foundation of South Africa (James), Natural
        Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (James, Summerscales),
        National Centre of Science and Technology Evaluation, Republic of Kazakhstan
        (James), Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (Raby), Sultan Qaboos
        University, Oman (Summerscales).
    •   PhD/EngD Examinations during REF 2021 e.g. UK: Birmingham (Li), Bristol (Raby),
        Cranfield (James), Exeter (Awan), Imperial (Summerscales), Leicester (Li), Liverpool
        (James), Manchester (Greaves, Li, Pan, Raby), Nottingham (Simmonds,
        Summerscales), Oxford (James), Sheffield (Li, Summerscales), Southampton


                                                                                         Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (Greaves, James), UCL (Dai, Raby); International: Auckland (Raby), Bologna
        (Greaves), Delft University of Technology (James), Groningen (Greaves), Australia
        National University (Li).
    •   Fellowships e.g. Royal Academy of Engineering (Greaves); Institution of Structural
        Engineers (Li, Kim); Institution of Civil Engineers (Greaves, Kim, Raby); Institute of
        Physics (Cree); Institute of Materials Finishing (Cree), Institute of Materials, Minerals &
        Mining (James, Summerscales), British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing
        (Summerscales).
    •   Prizes e.g.
            o James: recipient of 2020 Robert Moskovic award from Technical Committee 12 of
                the European Structural Integrity Society, in recognition of an outstanding
                contribution to Fatigue and Fracture of Structural Alloys and Materials.
            o Robotham: Royal Academy of
                Engineering President's Special
                Award for Pandemic Service, in
                recognition of the design for a low
                environmental impact protective face
                shield for frontline staff. Robotham (PI
                for CircularSeas project (Section 1)),
                developed a recyclable face shield,
                liaising with the university’s Centre for
                Health Technology, International
                Marine Litter Research Unit and
                Research and Innovation Directorate.
                Prestige Packaging turned his concept
                into a high-speed manufactured
                product. Within a month it had BSI approval for healthcare workers, first
                responders and other personnel, with 20,000 initially manufactured, and the
                potential for 100,000 shields/week.
            o Chaudhuri: Institution of Chemical Engineers Davidson Medal, 2017, for
                mentoring early career chemical engineers.
            o Wan and team: ‘Second Prize’ in the World Robotic Sailing Championship in
                2019, building on third place in 2018, developing autonomous sailboats for
                teaching, research and PhD student training.
    •   Media prominence e.g.
            o Institution of Civil Engineers 2020 President Inaugural address video (Greaves,
                Raby);
            o Institution of Civil Engineers promotional video https://www.ice.org.uk/news-and-
                insight/latest-ice-news/engineering-plymouth-film-launched;
            o UK’s first sea-going electric ferry sets sail in Plymouth
                https://www.itv.com/news/westcountry/2020-10-13/uks-first-sea-going-electric-
                ferry-sets-sail-in-plymouth (Pemberton);
            o The One Show feature https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vk4TRXxR7Vk
                (Simmonds);
            o TEDx talk How quantised inertia gets rid of dark matter
                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fnNKC82wUmY (McCulloch);
            o Panellist on NetZero on Mariella Frostrop Times Radio (Greaves);
            o National Geographic Drain the Bermuda Triangle documentary (Raby);
            o Channel 5’s The Secret Life of Lighthouses (Raby);
            o BBC Weather World feature (Greaves);
            o BBC Radio Devon Interview ICE 200 Lighthouses, Bridges and Breakwaters
                exhibition (Simmonds).
    •   Visiting professor positions e.g. Adjunct Professor VIT University (Jenkins); Hon. Visiting
        Professor, Saveetha University, India (Graham-Jones, Jenkins); Affiliate Professor, BS
        Abdur Rahman, Visiting Professor, University of Bath (Chaudhuri), Advisory Professor,
        Southwest Jiaotong University, China (James).


                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Published books e.g.
            o Wave and Tidal Energy, John Wiley & Sons Ltd, edited Greaves and Iglesias;
            o Reeds Vol 4: Naval Architecture for Marine Engineers, by Pemberton and Stokoe
                 (recommended Marine Engineering reading for MCA qualifications);
            o Marine Composites: Design and Performance (Woodhead Publishing Series in
                 Composites Science and Engineering), edited Pemberton, Summerscales,
                 Graham-Jones, Sharma, Subudhi;
            o Navigation and Control of Autonomous Marine Vehicles. Institution of Engineering
                 and Technology, edited Sharma and Subudhi;
            o Marine Applications of Advanced Fibre-reinforced Composites, Elsevier,
                 Woodhead Publishing, edited Graham-Jones and Summerscales.
    •   Invitation for Chair appointments e.g. University of Edinburgh Chair in Renewable
        Energy, 2019 (Greaves).
    •   Report authorship e.g. Position paper on electroencephalographic biomarkers in
        dementia diagnosis for International Society to Advance Alzheimer’s Research and
        Treatment Electrophysiology Professional Interest Area
        doi.org/10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2019.09.008 (Ifeachor).




                                                                                       Page 26
