Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool



 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The Department of Communication and Media at the University of Liverpool has more than tripled
 its research active staff from 7.5 FTE eligible staff in 2013 to 28.6 FTE in 2021. Our interdisciplinary
 research in online political communication, digital inequalities, global urban events, visual media
 and LGBTQ+ diversity has enhanced community resilience and participation in media, and
 impacted on policy and practice at national and international levels. Our research and impact
 strategy sets out to support and nurture Early Career Researchers (ECRs), strengthen
 collaborations with partners within and beyond academia, and pioneer new analytical approaches.
 This ambitious vision has fostered new specialisms in photography, cultural labour and media arts
 and developing impact projects on topics such as online incivility and misinformation.


 One of five departments within the School of the Arts (SotA), Communication and Media was
 identified by the University in 2016 as a priority for expansion. Our policy of appointing high-
 potential early career staff (32% of Cat. A. staff in the submission are ECRs) has been supported
 by the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. The Faculty identified the Unit for major
 investment in the first wave of a Faculty scheme of ‘tenure-track’ Derby Fellowships, intended to
 attract highly talented researchers, resulting in the appointments of Mahoney and Rossini. We
 have also invested significantly in senior leadership, and an audit in 2017 of existing research in
 the Department led to the launch of two new research groups, ‘Culture, Space and Memory’ and
 ‘Discourse and Society’, in addition to our existing groups ‘Media, Politics and Society’ and ‘Screen
 and Film Studies’. With every member of staff joining a research group at point of recruitment, the
 groups provide a sustainable and robust structure to underpin our research ambitions.


 This systematic recruitment strategy, coupled with a strengthened focus on equality, diversity and
 inclusion, has produced an international, interdisciplinary body of staff with a good gender balance.
 Our cultural diversity supports a strongly international emphasis, enabling our research to address
 key contemporary issues such as migration, populism and nationalism, Brexit and European
 identities, digital exclusion, COVID-19 and climate change. It facilitates our engagement with
 global communities from Eastern Europe to the Global South, in our ethnographic work and
 studies of global film, international journalism and world news. Staff diversity also informs our
 strong specialism in issues of gender and sexuality, notably LGBTQ+ inclusivity and online
 othering, intimacy and relationality in gay film, postfeminism and queer representation in television


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and online. Our diversity of academic backgrounds enhances interdisciplinarity in the Unit,
 enabling us to pioneer new methods, and linking the close analysis of media representations and
 cultural practices with new computational and machine learning techniques for multimodal and
 discourse analysis.


 1.a. Strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period
 The strategic aims for this period, set out in our REF 2014 submission, were to strengthen the
 research groups, invest in future research and impact, deepen our partnerships and extend our
 collaborations. We achieved and surpassed these goals as follows:


 1. Strengthening the existing and emergent research groups, to develop the quality of our
 outputs, to foster in-department collaborations and secure funding: each research group
 hosts events, facilitates mentorship, and cultivates collaborative projects and funding bids. Each
 is flexible and draws on a diverse range of disciplinary specialisms: the ‘Culture, Space and
 Memory’ research group houses cultural/anthropological research around memory and material
 cultures, photography, everyday life, media arts, mega-events and the spatial humanities, and
 partners with cultural organisations such as museums; the ‘Discourse and Society’ group
 (renamed Discourse, Data and Society in 2021) brings together ground-breaking work in
 multimodal studies, artificial intelligence and data analytics with expertise in critical discourse
 studies, language and strategic communication; the ‘Media, Politics and Society’ group responds
 to urgent political challenges around the spread of misinformation, online harms, digital news
 audiences, democratic deliberation, human rights and climate change; the ‘Screen and Film
 Studies’ group boasts an unusually comprehensive approach to film and screen that includes
 industrial and institutional aspects, stardom and performance, and encompasses Hollywood,
 American independent cinema, documentary, cult television, animation and virtual reality.


 The groups are distinct, but their research agendas are interlinked, informed by shared concerns
 (such as populism and politics, gender and sexuality, cultural labour, digital cultures and social
 inequalities) and with some staff contributing to more than one area. Collaboration within and
 between the research groups is facilitated by regular research events (such as 'Keyword
 Conversations' and the Media, Communication and Politics Seminar) involving both staff and
 postgraduate students and hosting international visiting speakers. These include events co-
 organised with other institutions such as the Liverpool Film Seminar, jointly hosted with Liverpool
 John Moores University (LJMU) which has welcomed around 50 world-leading international film
 scholars during the audit period.


 The groups organized six international conferences in the period, and brought four visiting
 professors under a scheme initiated to expand the Department’s visibility. The guests, from major

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 US universities, delivered masterclasses to PGRs and ECRs and held meetings to advise on
 research and career matters. The research groups have also successfully facilitated co-
 editorships and co-authorships, journal editorship and books series. The ‘Discourse and Society’
 group, for example, houses a leading international journal (Journal of Language and Politics) and
 two book series (Bloomsbury Advances in Critical Discourse Studies and Routledge Studies in
 Multimodality), while ‘Screen and Film Studies’ hosts two book series with Routledge (Hollywood
 Centenary and Cinema and Youth Cultures).


 2. Investing in future research and impact through recruitment, promotion and
 postgraduate research: this investment was targeted to attract and facilitate exciting, high
 quality, impactful research. We now have a large body of permanent staff who are active
 researchers, a third of whom are ECRs. The two Derby Fellows are accelerating innovative
 research in television-mediated histories (Mahoney) and uncivil online political discourse
 (Rossini), and a further seven ECRs have been appointed since 2017. These early career
 researchers bring new pathways to impact via their consultancy and collaborations with corporate
 actors and platforms, from Rossini’s work with WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook to Musi’s work in
 digital citizenship and AI.


 The need for sustainable leadership in a growing department, and the need to expand mentoring
 and postgraduate supervision, provided the case for more senior appointments (Henning,
 Krzyżanowski, O’Halloran), with high profile research in photography /cultural history, critical
 discourse studies and digital multimodal analysis (respectively). Our promotion strategy
 recognises and rewards impact as well as outstanding research and teaching, and has elevated
 four staff to senior lecturer and three to reader. Staff in the Unit now have significant leadership
 roles within the School of the Arts: Balabanova is Associate Dean for Research and Impact since
 2018; Tzioumakis is Director of Postgraduate Research since 2017; Thomas is Deputy Director of
 Postgraduate Research as of 2020. Additionally, Garcia directed the Institute for Cultural Capital
 (ICC) until 2018, Buse is the Dean of SoTA, and Yates is Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for
 Research Environment and Postgraduate Research. This leadership presence has enhanced our
 research and management expertise and aids our ambitious plans for future collaborative
 research and research centres.


 Since 2014 we have more than tripled our postgraduate awards, and expanded our cohort and
 capacity via reputation-building, investment and staff recruitment. The School has introduced
 annual internally funded studentships since 2017, and our students take advantage of the training
 offered by the AHRC and the ESRC (via engage@Liverpool and ‘Methods NorthWest’ and through
 our new partnership with the ESRC’s National Centre for Research Methods). Further details of
 our postgraduate successes are in section 2.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Deepening our partnerships and extending the range of our collaborations and influence:
 this is facilitated by the research groups, by School and Faculty research centres, co-taught
 programmes, and research networks. Our impact strategy embeds pathways to impact in our
 research projects and activities. This is led by an Impact Lead (Hallam until 2016, Balabanova
 until 2018, Blejmar since 2018), who mentors and supports colleagues through twice-yearly
 ‘impact conversations’, and a programme of departmental training workshops and events
 supplementing those provided at School and Faculty levels. This strategy has produced a portfolio
 of impact projects aligned with our key research areas, which will continue to develop beyond the
 current research cycle (e.g. new initiatives led by recently appointed staff Musi and Palmieri). To
 extend our reach, we are investing in open research, utilising the University’s publisher
 agreements with major journals publishers to publish our work Open Access and University-
 supported Gold OA arrangements. Where possible (e.g. in Yates' funded projects), publications
 are in open journals and data sets and reports are publicly shared.


 Our research groups play a key role in building partnerships, including collaborations with other
 research centres in the University, with other universities in the UK and abroad, with external
 cultural organisations from museums to festivals, and with international NGOs, business
 organisations and big industry partners (see sections 3 and 4). The University and Faculty
 research themes and centres have provided opportunities for the development of our research
 and impact. Our research groups directly address the University ‘Heritage’ and ‘Digital’ research
 themes and the Faculty themes of ‘Transforming Conflict’, ‘‘Slavery and Unfree Labour’, and
 ‘Children and Childhood’. We are also actively involved in the Faculty Centre for Digital Humanities
 and Social Sciences through which Yates and colleagues’ influential work on digital
 inclusion/exclusion is impacting UK, Canadian and Australian digital policy.


 1.b. Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 Against the background of major growth of our research base, our future strategic aims and goals
 involve a step-up in scale and ambition. We are now well-positioned to exert greater influence on
 governmental, social, corporate and cultural policy agendas and to better inform strategy at
 regional, national and international levels in relation to online digital media, political representation
 and urban cultural initiatives. We will continue to address urgent contemporary issues, and to
 enhance community resilience in relation to media. We plan to extend our international reach and
 impact, to collaborate across a broader set of disciplines, to develop new analytical and critical
 tools, and to initiate largescale and ambitious projects with our partners. These aims will be
 realised by:




                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Proactively building our relationships with external bodies and stakeholders, and internally,
 with new partners in different disciplines such as Computer Science. We aim to develop new, well-
 resourced and impactful infrastructural projects, with integrated postgraduate and postdoctoral
 research, specifically, to create a research centre for multimodal analysis of online media, which
 will bring together world-leading interdisciplinary teams of social scientists, computer and data
 scientists and media and communication theorists to investigate the nature and spread of
 information on online platforms. Immediately this involves the development of a Multimodal
 Analysis Platform (MAP) (detailed in section 3) and recruitment of two data scientists (appointed
 after the REF census date) to develop new analytical methodologies and enable colleagues to
 engage critically with them.


 2. Growing our cohort of PhD students, postdocs and research assistants through new
 recruitment initiatives, redoubling efforts to access funding sources and establish scholarship
 schemes and increasing BAME recruitment through outreach and targeted promotion of
 opportunities. We have begun redesigning and expanding our taught Masters provision to support
 a thriving postgraduate research culture, providing a pathway from undergraduate to high-level
 research. Our goal is to maintain and strengthen the upward trajectory of our PhD recruitment
 (see section 2), strategically building PhD supervision experience among staff, to enhance
 capacity and to share best practice, while continuing interdisciplinary joint supervisions across the
 School. We will build on our partnerships through the AHRC North West Consortium Doctoral
 Training Partnership’s Collaborative Doctoral Awards scheme, with new and existing partners
 such as Tate Liverpool, and with projects addressing cultural diversity, ethnicity and migration.


 3. Nurturing ECRs and enhancing equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) to support the
 production of world-leading research and impact by continuing to improve our processes for
 mentoring, feedback and researcher skills development, sustaining and enhancing a lively,
 transparent and open research culture for all staff. A systematic approach to building from internal
 to external funding will enable existing research partnerships to scale up and increase impact. The
 robustness of our EDI policies and practices will be critically examined by our departmental EDI
 Working Group (Needham, Whitehurst, Ruffino) which has initiated (in May 2020) projects to
 address the challenges for women academics in the Department, promote research addressing
 underrepresented groups in our student population, and allay potential experiences of exclusion
 and isolation stemming from the pandemic.


 4. Building cohesion and a shared sense of project in a rapidly expanded Department
 through the proposed research centre on multimodal analysis, internal collaborations and
 departmental research seminars. From March 2020, we have had weekly whole Department
 online meetings, which helped maintain cohesion and collegiality in the face of the COVID-19


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 crisis. The Unit is now home to two projects resulting from COVID-19 related rapid-response
 external funding calls, led by Balabanova and Musi (see section 3 and 4). Capitalising on this, we
 are devising more shared projects, drawing on our interdisciplinary expertise.



 2. People


 The Unit’s 31 staff (28.6 FTE) comprises four full-time Professors and two on fractional posts,
 three Readers, six Senior Lecturers, eleven Lecturers, one Senior Researcher and two Derby
 Fellows. Of the 31 staff, 19 are new appointments in the REF period. All are on permanent
 contracts, usually subject to a three-year probationary period. The staff profile is well-balanced in
 terms of gender and international diversity (see subsection 2c).


 2.a. Staffing strategy
 As described in section 1, the staffing and recruitment strategy has been to invest in high-potential
 early career staff, in research and impact projects extending beyond the current REF cycle, to
 expand our postgraduate research capacity and recruit researchers with international recognition
 and standing. The recruitment also set out to enhance the diversity of both staff and research, and
 strengthen the relation between research and the curriculum. Diverse disciplinary approaches and
 backgrounds, from anthropology and art history to computing and social statistics, enable us to
 meet the challenge of increasingly pervasive media. The effect has been to broaden our research
 but also sharpen and consolidate existing strengths in online political communication, digital
 inclusion and digital inequalities, global culture and LGBTQ+ diversity.


 More senior appointments bring experience and boost the international reputation of the
 Department’s research, strengthening leadership and mentoring practices and expanding our
 postgraduate supervision capacity. The appointments of Krzyżanowski and O’Halloran (Head of
 Department) brought international recognition in critical discourse and multimodal analysis. Other
 professorial appointments of Buse (Dean of SoTA ) and Henning (Research / UoA lead) enhance
 the expertise represented in the ‘Culture, Space and Memory’ group. Appointments at Senior
 Lecturer level strengthened our work in ‘Media, Politics and Society’ (Slavtcheva-Petkova) and
 ‘Film and Screen Studies’ (Needham). In this period of great change, stability and continuity were
 ensured by retaining senior staff who have moved onto fractional posts for personal reasons
 (Richardson, Krzyżanowski) and through a promotion strategy that recognises and rewards
 research and impact. Since the last REF, three internal candidates have been promoted to
 Readerships (Balabanova, Tzioumakis, Roberts) and four to Senior Lecturer (Palmieri, Haslop,
 Thomas and Turner).




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The high number of ECRs in the Department means that particular importance is attached to staff
 development opportunities, training and mentoring. All research-active staff have a research
 mentor within the Department, and benefit from the University's system for cross-disciplinary
 mentoring. ECRs also have lighter teaching loads during the first year of their appointment. They
 are part of the Faculty ECR Network, and are represented on all key committees including REF
 governance committees. Mahoney was on the University's Research Staff Association Committee
 until early 2020 and is the ECR representative on the University’s Concordat Steering Group,
 aimed at embedding the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers via an institutional action plan.


 Career development and progression is supported through biannual Research and Impact
 conversations with the Research Lead and Impact Lead, and the annual Professional
 Development Reviews (PDR) held with the Head of Department. The confidential Research and
 Impact conversations encourage staff to reflect strategically on their plans and arrange support
 where needed. The PDRs give researchers a safe and respectful context to reflect on career
 progress and facilitate research leave, promotion, and funding applications in line with the
 appraisal and career development recommendations of the Concordat. The University is a
 signatory to DORA (see REF5a, section 3.6), and our commitment to responsible metrics applies
 to our recruitment policy, promotions, PDR and peer review processes. Leadership opportunities
 enable staff to gain experience: key roles in the Department are held by ECRs (e.g. Blejmar is
 Impact Lead). Thorough induction and role handovers ensure smooth transitions. Members of the
 Department have taken advantage of internal and external programmes of Research Leadership
 training (Balabanova and Tzioumakis) and programmes aimed at diversifying leadership:
 Balabanova’s University-funded place on the Aurora Women in Leadership course supported her
 successful application to be an Associate Dean for Research and Impact for SotA.


 The Department provides systematic support for colleagues appointed on fixed-term contracts to
 cover periods of illness and parental leave or for externally-funded projects, involving them in
 Department activities while helping them build their research portfolio. At the census date, we have
 four (3.8 FTE) fixed-term research associates. Over the review period, the Department recruited
 15 fixed-term research associates and assistants to work on funded projects, Through the
 conversion of fixed-term lectureships into permanent posts, the University redeployment policy,
 and Department extension of contracts, we were able to retain researchers beyond the initial
 period (O´Rourke, Carmi) and secure permanent posts for two colleagues (Whitehurst, Blejmar).


 Departmental policy enables all staff on Teaching and Research contracts to apply for research
 and impact leave after five semesters, subject to research plans and workload considerations. Ten
 colleagues have taken leave in the current REF cycle. Further adjustments to teaching and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 administrative loads are made to support specific research and impact activities. All the processes
 for supporting research through leave, adjusted workload and research funding take into
 consideration issues of equality, diversity and inclusion (detailed in section 2c). Staff research and
 impact is also supported through several SotA, Faculty and University funds, detailed in section
 3, and the impact workshops and events mentioned in section 1.


 The Department operates a reading programme for work accepted for publication, involving a
 transparent peer review process in line with the University Code of Practice. Reviewers use REF
 assessment criteria in line with the open research and responsible metrics principles of DORA.
 Pre-publication work is also reviewed within the research groups (e.g. ‘Cake for Comments’ in
 ‘Media, Politics and Society’), to help improve the quality of outputs ahead of submission for
 publication.


 The UoA lead (Henning) gives guidance for staff on REF criteria, and updates on the reading
 programme at regular departmental meetings. Outputs submitted to the programme are peer
 reviewed by two colleagues chosen for their subject knowledge; feedback and moderated scores
 are returned to the author and can be appealed or queried. This process informs the selection of
 outputs for REF by the UoA lead and the Department’s REF governance committee. To ensure
 all subject areas are represented, the four research group leads sit on this committee, which cross-
 checks our internal review and scoring of outputs according to EDI principles. Similar principles
 and practices guide our choice of Impact Case Studies.


 2.b. Research students
 During this REF period, 15 students were awarded doctorates in Communication and Media. At
 the REF 2014 census, the Unit had 8 PGR students registered and in various stages of progress,
 this has grown to 13 (including students co-supervised with the University’s partner institution
 XJTLU in Suzhou, China) as of the 2021 census. Average PGR completions per annum have
 increased 46% since REF 2014 (from 1.1 To 1.6). The Department’s expansion and the growing
 external visibility of our research, along with renewed attention to the PGR experience, accounts
 for the recent increase in PGR recruitment: we recruited eight new students in 2019-20 alone. The
 recruitment of experienced supervisors with PhD completions has increased supervision capacity,
 as has the PGR supervisor training provided by the University’s Liverpool Doctoral College (LDC)
 (see REF5a, section 3.5).


 As with staff, the recruitment of PGR students follows EDI principles (see EDI section below). We
 are conscious that scholarships and studentships aid inclusivity, and are prioritising accessing
 further funding (see section 1b). Currently eight students (4.5 supervisions in our Department)
 receive funding from various competitive University and School schemes, the Chinese Scholarship

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Council, and XJTLU sponsored scholarships. Students benefit from the selected doctoral training
 and development courses we promote, from over 50 provided by the LDC. Additionally, they take
 PGT modules and research skills training sessions including through engage@liverpool, the
 University of Liverpool’s contribution to ‘Methods NorthWest’, a research methods collaboration
 involving a range of institutions across the North West of England and part of the ESRC North
 West Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) and the AHRC North West
 Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP) to which we contribute training sessions.
 Students have benefitted from the School’s placement scheme Liverpool Network of Knowledge
 Exchange programme (LINK) and its replacement, the LDC Placement programme: our students
 have been placed with Open Eye Gallery, a major photography gallery and archive in Liverpool,
 and Red Ninja, a design-led technology company.


 As well as following Faculty and School procedures for monitoring, progress and support, the
 Department, led by the Departmental Director of Postgraduate Research (Zappettini), supports
 PGR students to organise the annual PGR conference, which all staff attend, and conducts an
 annual progress review to follow. This process enhances colleagues’ familiarity with PGR research
 across the Department. PGR students also gain substantially from the Department’s Visiting
 Professor scheme (see section 1). This is accompanied by a symposium co-organised by PGRs
 and in which many PGRs present work.


 An important part of our approach is the integration of postgraduates into the Department’s and
 School’s research culture. Our PGR students are represented on the SotA PGR Committee and
 the Staff-Student Liaison Committee. They take part in the Department’s research seminars,
 where they meet established external speakers, get to know the staff and their research, and
 present their own research. The students also participate in monthly PGR community meetings
 (‘jour fixe’), in which staff and students focus on various issues from training and advice to research
 and impact-related debates and workshop papers.


 Given this emphasis on research environment integration, our students have been successful on
 several fronts. Funded by the PGR Support Fund, a SotA fund which covers research costs up to
 £600 p.a., they have participated in international summer schools and presented at major national
 and international academic conferences run by leading discipline bodies such as the Political
 Studies Association (PSA), the Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association
 (MECCSA), and the European Communication Research and Education Association (ECREA).
 Their research has been exceptionally well-received, with one student twice awarded prizes for
 ‘Best PhD Student Paper’. They have published articles in books such as Film Marketing into the
 21st Century (British Film Institute), engaged in collaborative projects with filmmakers (‘Heritage
 and Conflict in the Middle East’), set up the Aya Institute for Women, Politics and Media in Ghana,


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published a manual to support the switch from analogue to digital in Kurdistan, and found high-
 level employment (e.g., as government analyst in Ghana).


 2.c. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Department’s increasing cultural diversity and international orientation, our expanding
 postgraduate provision, and our research specialisms relating to social inequalities and LGBTQ+
 identities, have shaped our approach to equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF period, as well
 as our planning for the future. The energy with which we pursue these goals is also due to the
 centrality of issues of inequality, marginalisation and discrimination in much of our research.


 Balabanova, Krzyżanowski and Zappettini address questions of human rights, migration, and
 European identity; Blejmar researches the experience of children of the disappeared in Argentina;
 Mahoney, Needham, Turner and Whitehurst deal with the ways in which women, ageing and
 LGBTQ+ people are represented on screen; Way’s research focusses on popular music as a
 vehicle for protest in Turkey; Yates and Carmi study class-based inequalities in digital media use,
 in relation to the national digital inclusion agenda; and nearly a quarter of staff deal with issues
 relating to online misinformation and discrimination. Haslop and O’Rourke’s #Speakout project
 (detailed in their impact case study), addresses online harassment and hate speech in universities
 and schools. This work has led to O’Rourke joining the University of Liverpool’s Safe and
 Welcoming Campus Board, which acts to reduce harassment and hate crime within the University
 community.


 Needham leads the Department’s EDI working group, and Ruffino, Whitehurst and Balabanova
 represent the Department in the School’s EDI committee. This group was established to address
 issues of inequality, ensure an inclusive teaching and research environment and develop our
 Athena SWAN Bronze award application for 2021. Needham also sits on the Faculty’s BAME
 Education working group and Mahoney represents the Department in disability fora. An EDI
 researcher (Hair) was appointed in May 2020 to conduct qualitative research on EDI in the
 Department, using data from interviews with departmental staff and students to devise
 recommendations for future practice. Staff also engage with University-wide networks and
 initiatives such as Wellbeing Week, and the University’s Migration Race Borders network.


 Our marketing and recruitment, shortlisting and interview procedures follow EDI principles and our
 staff profile shows a good gender balance overall, 17 women and 14 men are represented in the
 UoA. Two women (Richardson, O’Halloran) and two men (Krzyżanowski, Palmieri) have led the
 Department during the REF period. Of the six Professors in the UoA, three are women. This
 gender-balanced staff base has been made possible by recruitment practices that are sensitive to
 issues of gender equality in advertising and job descriptions, and with gender-balanced short-

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 listing and appointment panels; we aim when possible to do the same with respect to ethnicity and
 disability.


 We have also been successful in diversifying internationally (48% of the submitted staff are from
 outside the UK). The staff profile does not yet sufficiently represent non-white communities (6%
 are BAME), and we are working to address this (see below and section 1b.) but staff are diverse
 in heritage and first languages, with Latin American and different European backgrounds
 alongside Anglo (UK, US, Canadian and Australian) ones. LGTBQ+ diversity, age diversity and
 different family circumstances are well-represented in the Unit (16% of staff identify as LGTBQ+).
 The diversity of background is matched by geographic diversity in our research: outputs included
 in the submission focus on cross-national and international media comparisons, Eastern European
 and Russian media and everyday life, Latin American culture and politics, North American and
 Greek films and underground culture.


 The PGR cohorts have enjoyed a good balance in terms of gender and ethnicity and between
 Home/EU and international students. Of the cohort awarded PhDs in the period, over half were
 women, five students identified as white, four Asian, and one black, five students were Home/EU
 and five were international. The cohort recruited in the REF assessment period is similarly diverse.
 Nevertheless, led by the Director of Postgraduate Research, we are taking steps towards
 decolonising and diversifying our research and supervision (see section 1b).


 The Department supports flexible and remote working, colleagues set their own academic support
 and feedback hours, and can request early/late starts and finishes on grounds of disability, health,
 or caring responsibilities. We aim to ensure that all staff have opportunities for Masters and PhD
 teaching and supervision and one research day a week is timetabled for all research-active staff.
 During parental leave we offer Keeping in Touch (KIT) days: Thomas took three of these days in
 2020 for PhD supervision and for her successful interview for the Deputy School Director of PGR
 role. In addition to University-wide arrangements, we have local practices to support parental
 leave, which have benefitted several staff (Thomas, Blejmar, Balabanova, Haslop). A detailed
 return to work meeting with the Head of Department ensures that teaching and research
 commitments are fitted around childcare needs. Recent Professional Development Reviews
 (PDRs) have enabled staff to address, for example, the difficulties of balancing parenting and work
 during the COVID crisis. This informs PDR reports and EDI working group plans, shaping our
 future EDI strategy.


 We recognize the advantages of enhanced EDI for staff and student wellbeing, for building
 community among researchers, enhancing retention and creating opportunities for collaborative
 work and global impact. In line with the University’s commitment to the Race Equality Charter, we


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plan to increase BAME representation and wellbeing in the Department through strategic projects,
 partnerships, and new funding and with EDI projects aimed at decentring our research and
 curriculum.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income rose 64% from the start of the assessment period (£170,690 in 2013-14) to the
 end (£279,547), with income diversifying from two types of sources (EU government bodies and
 UK government) in 2013/14 to seven different types of funding sources in 2019/20. This success
 is evident too in the awards the Unit gained in this REF period, which suggest a strong future
 trajectory, with over £2 million in external funding (total award value). £1.3 million of this was
 received by PIs and Co-Is in the Unit, from a range of national and international sources including
 research councils (ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC), EU bodies, UK government bodies, and several UK
 charities as well as corporations such as Twitter and Facebook. The increase and diversification
 in external funding results from several initiatives: University investment in the Unit since 2016,
 the recruitment strategy outlined above, new mentoring and review processes, and a new grant
 capture strategy initiated by Balabanova in 2018 at School level and focussing on widening the
 pool of colleagues submitting grant applications. Between the 2018/19 and 2019/20 academic
 years we saw a 56% rise in external funding awarded from £308K to £482K.


 3.a. Our funded research and impact
 The projects funded in the REF period reflect many of our areas of specialism: over £550K (total
 award value to the Unit) was won by projects on social media, including gendered online
 harassment; £900K was awarded to projects on digital inclusion, AI, everyday digital media use
 and digital identity; and nearly £450K for projects on global urban culture, community
 sustainability, and cultural heritage. Of our external funding applications made in the period (some
 pending), 55% were by women, and 23% by colleagues who are currently ECRs. Of the awards
 made, 50% were by women, and 19% by current ECRs.


 Reflecting the Faculty, Department and School’s support for interdisciplinary collaboration, several
 of our awards are collaborations with colleagues across the University: in Music, Health and Life
 Sciences; Histories, Languages and Cultures; and Electrical Engineering and Electronics. Many
 funded projects also involve inter-institutional collaboration: these include O’Halloran’s ‘Multimodal
 Rhetoric in Online Media Communications’ (£80K), a collaboration between University of
 Liverpool, University of Bielefeld, Germany, University of Bremen, Germany, and Örebro
 University, Sweden. Yates’ ESRC funded project ‘Ways of Being in a Digital Age’ (£500K in total)
 includes funding to seven other British HEIs and draws in nine international HEIs, including in


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Singapore and the USA. Garcia led projects on the cultural programme of the Olympic Games,
 with three other UK HEIs and the University of Sao Paolo, funded by the AHRC, the Newton Fund
 and the International Olympic Committee (Switzerland) to a total award value of £157K. Her ICC
 projects on other major international cultural events in partnership with LJMU were funded by the
 British Council, Culture Liverpool, Agenda 21 for Culture, the AHRC and both Universities (to a
 total of £256K).


 The ability to draw on such extensive networks for large scale international projects is not restricted
 to senior staff. Derby Fellow Rossini is Co-I on a Twitter funded project on incivility and intolerance
 on Twitter (£60k, total project value £950k), a WhatsApp project on misinformation (£37K) and a
 Facebook-funded project on social media and harm (£110K), attesting to her expertise in informal
 political talk online and including Co-Is in five countries. The research environment enables ECRs
 to build from small applications to large funding bids, devising and leading innovative projects
 supported by more experienced colleagues. For example, Musi was mentored and supported by
 Yates. Awarded £9K for her project ‘Parli: An Encyclopaedia of Opinion’ by the Paul Hamlyn
 Foundation in 2019-20, she went on to lead a fast-tracked ESRC project, ‘COVID-19: Being Alone
 Together: Developing Fake News Immunity’, awarded £330K (total award value) to the
 Universities of Liverpool and Dundee in May 2020. With Professors O’Halloran and Yates and
 Reed (Dundee) as Co-Is, this project in ‘crisis informatics’ develops AI techniques to train citizens
 and journalists to detect and flag semi-fake news.


 Haslop’s successful funding bids have also benefitted from the Department’s mentoring and
 review system. Senior colleagues commented on drafts and provided advice for his successful
 2017 HEFCE award, ‘Speakout: Calling out Harassment, Changing the Online Campus’ (£70K)
 which, together with other ongoing research in this arena, underpins one of our impact case
 studies, and for his 2018 ESRC New Investigator Award for '#Ladcultures: Social Networking
 Sites, 'Laddism' and Young Masculinities' (£260K). Through these projects, Haslop gained
 mentoring and leadership skills, working with a postdoctoral fellow (O’ Rourke) on both projects.


 The Unit supports staff at all career stages to build their grant profile through the research groups
 structure and the peer review it facilitates, the PDRs and Research and Impact Conversations.
 The School Research and Impact Team identifies appropriate funding calls and peer reviewers
 and assists with costings. The Faculty Research Development Officer provides an annual
 programme of funding support workshops, ECRs benefit from tailored workshops via the Faculty
 ECR Network and the Faculty Impact Officer gives one-to-one support in planning projects.
 Applications over £20K go to the School Peer Review panel, and the Faculty also oversees
 scoping workshops and rigorous internal peer review for postdoctoral schemes and supports bids
 to complex themed calls.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3.b. Seed funding and pump-priming
 Our success in gaining external funding in this period has been underpinned by new institutional
 funding programmes. The Unit has made good use of the School’s Research Development
 Initiative Fund (RDIF) to support a wide range of activities from conference organisation and
 attendance to research assistance, public events, overseas research visits and proof of concept.
 Our Impact Case Studies authors were supported by the Faculty Flexible Fund, a quick-response
 call supporting impact development. The University’s Overseas Development Assistance (ODA)
 Seed Fund has helped our internationalisation agenda in line with University Strategy to address
 UN Sustainable Development Goals, and the Liverpool COVID-19 ODA Rapid Response Fund
 has seed-funded our new studies of COVID-19 misinformation. We have drawn on the University’s
 Knowledge Exchange, Impact and Public Engagement (KEI) Voucher Scheme, the University's
 Industrial Strategy Challenge (pump-priming) Fund (ISCF) as well as University schemes for
 engaging graduate and undergraduate students in research. Small research expenses are funded
 by the Department’s research budget (total of £14K p.a.), as is the seminar series organised by
 the research groups, and the visiting professors programme.


 The RDIF fund has seed-funded several new initiatives. For example, Southern and Harmer
 received an RDIF award of £5K in 2018 for a proof of concept on the gendering of online abuse
 of politicians. This resulted in publications and further external funding applications. Balabanova
 and Blejmar’s project ‘Art and Transitional Justice in Argentina and Bosnia and Herzegovina’ was
 financed by the University’s ODA Seed Fund (£10K). From this, Blejmar has developed her
 ongoing project ‘Art as a Tool to Contest Abuses of Power in Latin America’ in collaboration with
 Tate Liverpool, major museums in Spain and Argentina, and the Argentine Embassy. Yates was
 awarded £19K seed funding from the ISCF for his project with Unilever, ‘Scoping Research on the
 Use of Scraped Digital Data'. Rossini and Kalogeropoulos’ project on COVID-19 misinformation
 on social media was aided by the Liverpool COVID-19 ODA Rapid Response Fund (£10K), and
 Kalogeropoulos’ research has also been supported via the Early Career Researchers and
 Returners fund (£2K).


 The KEI Vouchers (mentioned above) funded one-off events, such as Roberts’ exhibition Reel
 Stories: Liverpool and the Silver Screen with the Museum of Liverpool (2014-15, £5K), and
 ongoing partnerships such as Balabanova's work with the UN Refugee Agency (since 2013, £6K).
 The vouchers have funded Balabanova and Palmieri’s collaboration with online fashion retailer
 ASOS (£9K), which produced guidance for business interactions over social media on ethics and
 sustainability, and Palmieri’s collaboration with the UK Investor Relations Society (£10K),
 addressing how argumentation can help build trust-based relationships. Small internal schemes
 also support the initiation and conclusion of funded projects: following her AHRC Fellowship on

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the archives of the Ilford photographic company, Henning enlisted an undergraduate student via
 a University scheme to catalogue the visual materials collected; Palmieri and Balabanova
 recruited two graduate students through a similar scheme to compile a dataset of all 2019 modern
 slavery statements and human rights reports published by FTSE100 firms: this, together with the
 ASOS project, will form the basis of future funding applications.


 3.c. Infrastructure and facilities
 Our location in interconnected Georgian buildings, at 19-23 Abercromby Square, alongside other
 departments in SoTA, enables interdisciplinary exchange and shared events, usually in the historic
 Old Library housed in the same buildings. The buildings have been refurbished to provide
 wheelchair access, and a room for breastfeeding / expressing milk. PGR students are housed
 here as well, with their own kitchen facilities and social space. The University also includes the
 Victoria Gallery and Museum, with which the Department collaborates in events and exhibitions
 (e.g., Roberts for the 2019 Triangulation exhibition).


 Leveraging research grant income, the Department has invested in Qualtrics survey software,
 initially acquired through Rossini’s Facebook grant, with a wider license for colleagues and
 students purchased through Department funds. This software is being used in our UKRI COVID-
 19 projects, enabling research teams to set up comprehensive surveys to solicit feedback from
 participants. We also forge our own platforms, notably O’Halloran and Pal’s ongoing development
 of a cloud-based multimodal analysis platform (MAP), funded by O’Halloran’s Bielefeld research
 grant. This combines natural language processing, image processing and machine learning
 techniques for analysis of large multimodal datasets.


 The Sydney Jones Library supplies resources essential to our research, including newspaper
 databases (Gale OneFile, Lexis Library and Nexis), multi-disciplinary databases, including
 package subscriptions providing access to Communication and Mass Media Complete with full
 text access to over 500 journal titles, and the Library’s research data management service
 (detailed in institutional statement). The Media and Communication collections are managed by
 expert subject librarians who respond swiftly to staff recommendations for purchase. The Library
 spend for Communication and Media specific material has been approximately £172K in this REF
 period. PGR students have access to a dedicated research reading room, and the Library also
 provides them with Researcher KnowHow training.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Working with partners within and outside academia, the Unit endeavours to shape policy agendas,
 raise cultural awareness, promote inclusivity and define future directions for the field. Our research
 and impact strategy pursued has boosted our research collaborations, networks and partnerships,
 with mutual and reciprocal approaches that engage partners in collaborative research and
 practice.


 4.a. External collaborations and research and impact priorities
 Having established strong regional collaborations through our REF 2014 City in Film impact case
 study, our affiliation with the Institute of Cultural Capital (ICC), a collaboration between University
 of Liverpool and LJMU, gave us new international reach, with ICC staff returned to the Department
 when this project concluded in 2018. The UoA benefits from their research connections with high-
 profile organisations and public bodies: such as Garcia’s work with the International Olympic
 Committee and high profile events in partnership with Culture Liverpool, the British Council and
 the European Parliament, and her current role as Associate Director of the AHRC funded national
 Centre for Cultural Value (with the University of Leeds), and Yates’ collaborations and
 consultancies with the Department of Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS), Ofcom, CISCO
 and the Home Office. Their mentorship of colleagues extends and sustains this influence and
 reach. New lecturers also bring new international engagement, notably Rossini, whose ongoing
 research and impact projects involve social media giants such as Facebook, Twitter and
 WhatsApp, and Kalogeropoulos, who is closely involved in the Reuters Institute Digital News
 Report.


 The Unit is sustaining and expanding these strong international networks aided by our
 international and disciplinarily diverse staff base and supported by the infrastructure described in
 section 3. Colleagues collaborate with organisations across the world, mainly in Europe and the
 Global South: from Blejmar’s work with Argentinian Museums of Memory, and Slavtcheva -
 Petkova's collaborations with UNESCO, to Krzyżanowski’s and Tzioumakis’ high-profile work in
 Polish, Swedish and Greek contexts, to Rossini’s and Yates’ large funded projects with colleagues
 in Africa, Asia, North and South America.


 Nationally, our impact and research show the ongoing importance of community collaboration:
 Haslop’s current projects draw on his work with charities offering community and youth services
 and organisations that foster positive masculinity such as the Good Lad Initiative. Southern joins
 forces with organisations that deal with online abuse such as Reclaim the Internet and Fix the
 Glitch. The Unit has also initiated several projects with social housing organisations, community


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hubs and charities. In addition, our research engages closely with educational and cultural bodies,
 from UK HE funders and regulatory bodies to international arts organisations including major
 museums.


 In line with the University’s emphasis on Civic Engagement, the Department makes a strong
 contribution to the region. Colleagues work with numerous cultural organisations including the
 Victoria Gallery and Museum, National Museums Liverpool, FACT, Open Eye Gallery, Culture
 Liverpool, and Tate Liverpool. Exemplary here are Roberts’ collaborations with regional cultural
 institutions in spatial humanities research which directly engages with the Liverpool region’s
 distinctive character, and Balabanova’s new collaborative project (with the English department,
 funded through the UKRI-COVID-19 call), to assess the impact on mental health of restricted
 access to art and cultural institutions in Liverpool during the pandemic.


 Our ongoing partnerships also include other HEI’s, as well as non-academic collaborators.
 Internationally, we can point to Grossman’s work with the Observational Practices Lab, based at
 the Parsons School of Design, New York, and to her affiliation with the HDK-Valand Academy of
 Art and Design, University of Gothenburg (Sweden). Within the UK, Kalogeropoulos is
 collaborating with the University of Oxford on a COVID-19 news and information project funded
 by the Nuffield Foundation. He is also a project partner for Greece at the Digital News Project,
 funded by organisations including Google and the BBC. We sustain links with other Universities
 in the city through long-term projects and events: examples include the ICC’s partnership with
 LJMU; the 10-year collaborative film seminar series run by Tzioumakis and Needham also with
 LJMU; and the ‘Theorising the Popular’ international conference in 2018, organised by Way with
 colleagues at Liverpool Hope University.


 The mutual approach to researching together with our partners and co-producing knowledge is
 evident in Yates’ use of action research across a range of projects including the Nuffield
 funded project ‘Me and my big data’, and the ESRC commissioned project ‘Ways of Being in a
 Digital Age’, and Haslop’s impact work with UK HE bodies. Consultancy work arises from such
 collaborations and embeds our influence in organisations, from Yates’ secondment to the DCMS
 (where he chairs the Research Working Group on Digital Skills and Inclusion detailed in the Impact
 Case Study) and his consultancy for the Good Things Foundation, to Garcia’s consultancy for the
 British Council and Agenda 21 for Culture, and appointment as cultural attaché in the International
 Olympic Committee.


 Through our partnerships within and outside academia, the Department endeavours to enable
 both organisations and communities to better negotiate a mediatised world: through resilience in
 the face of ‘fake news’ as in Musi’s collaboration with the ARG-tech Centre for Argument


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology at the University of Dundee; enhanced strategic communication, as in Palmieri’s work
 with the UK Investor Relations Society, Balabanova and Palmieri's collaboration with ASOS
 (detailed in subsection 3a) and Motta’s work with Brixton Finishing School; by devising metrics for
 assessing ‘uncivil’ discourse online, in Rossini’s work with Twitter; strategies for dealing with online
 gendered harassment (Haslop, Southern and HE partners) and increasing representational
 visibility, e.g., Turner’s work with LGBTQ+ groups and DIVA Magazine.


 The research groups structure supports staff involvement with diverse communities, publics and
 institutions. Our engagement with media and wider publics can be highlighted through the work of
 the ‘Screen and Film Studies’ research group with groups of comics fans, 50+ women
 (Whitehurst), and LGBTQ+ television viewers (Turner). Through public talks at festivals and film
 screenings, members of the group engage with film audiences in the UK and abroad (Thomas,
 Tzioumakis, Needham). Needham’s research reaches wider publics through performance and
 installation (Nottingham Contemporary, Florence National Library, Italy). This group also takes
 advantage of press interest to disseminate their research widely, e.g., Thomas was interviewed
 about her research on stardom in Vox magazine, and for the British Film Institute (both 2019), and
 Mahoney was interviewed on BBC Radio Three for her work on WWII propaganda and
 representation (May 2020).


 The ‘Culture, Space and Memory’ group exemplifies our partnerships and collaborations at
 regional (Tate Liverpool - Roberts, Blejmar), national (National Science and Media Museum -
 Henning), and international levels (International Olympic Committee - Garcia). The benefits of
 these partnerships include impacts on museum policy and exhibitions strategy via collaboration
 with curators, and direct engagement with the contemporary arts and photography community,
 e.g. in Blejmar’s work with Argentinian artists and human rights organisations, and her exhibitions
 and workshops in Liverpool, Uruguay and Argentina, as well as Ruffino’s exhibitions with the artist
 group IOCOSE in Italy and Germany in 2019-20.


 A particular strength of the ‘Media, Politics and Society’ research group is its involvement with
 human rights organisations and NGOs, including the UN Refugee Agency (Balabanova),
 Transparency International UK (Wozniak), and UNESCO (Slavtcheva-Petkova, Wozniak). The
 group's research findings are conveyed directly to parliament: Harmer gave evidence to the
 Committee for Standards in Public Life on media coverage of the EU Referendum campaign
 (2016) and, with Southern, to the House of Lords Democracy and Digital Technologies Committee
 on the online exclusion/abuse of women MPs (2019); Kalogeropoulos and Rossini gave evidence
 to this Committee in 2019 on the challenges to democracy of encrypted and private groups in
 applications such as WhatsApp; Carmi presented at the same Committee in Feb 2020,
 representing the findings of the Nuffield Foundation project, ‘Me and My Big Data: Understanding


                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Citizens Data Literacy’ (PI Yates), one of several projects linking ‘Media, Politics and Society’ with
 the University’s Centre for Digital Humanities and Social Sciences.


 The work of the 'Discourse and Society’ group around topics such as Brexit (Zappettini,
 Krzyżanowski) and fake news (Musi, Krzyżanowski) further highlights the Unit’s international
 orientation, from visiting professor appointments to media appearances overseas, to organisation
 of international conferences. For example, O’Halloran is Visiting Distinguished Professor in the
 School of Foreign Languages at Shanghai Jiao Tong University (2017-present), and runs research
 projects with the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research (ZiF), University of Bielefeld, Germany.
 Krzyżanowski holds a Chair in the Department of Informatics and Media at Uppsala University.
 Palmieri is the organiser of the International Conference on Discourse Approaches to Financial
 Communication (2014, 2017) and director-at-large of the ‘Association for Business
 Communication’ (ABC).


 4.b. Contribution to the discipline and indicators of influence
 The Unit has capitalised on the interdisciplinary nature of the field, appointing staff who contribute
 to other disciplines (linguistics, politics, sociology, history) as well as to media and communication
 research. This cross-fertilisation of ideas is evident in the range of journals in which we publish,
 and in the external roles to which we have been appointed.


 Internal collaboration has been fostered to enhance collegiality in a rapidly expanding Department,
 to extend external networks and increase peer review experience. ECRs, mid-career and senior
 academics all engage in peer review for journals (we review for over 60 different journals).
 Colleagues regularly peer review publications and proposals for more than 20 different presses
 and review grant proposals for international funders in Europe, USA, Hong Kong, South America,
 and South Africa, as well five national bodies (ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC, BA, British Council Newton
 Fund).


 Cross-institutional collaboration is valued within the UoA, and we participate in a diverse range of
 research networks, including the Discourses of Marriage Research Group (Turner), the Women
 and Ageing Research Network (Whitehurst), the Leverhulme-funded network Childhood & Nation
 in World Cinema (Blejmar) the Subcultures, Popular Music and Social Change Network and the
 Protest Music Research Group (Way). Slavtcheva-Petkova sits on the Executive Board of the
 influential international Worlds of Journalism study as Regional Coordinator for Central and
 Eastern Europe.


 Several ECRs now hold key positions in networks and societies e.g., Harmer co-convenes the
 Political Studies Association Media and Politics Specialist Group; Rossini serves on several

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committees for the American Political Science Association (APSA) and within the International
 Communication Association (ICA); Ruffino chairs the Italian division of the Digital Games
 Research Association (DiGRA Italia); Wozniak is a member of the ICA’s Sustainability Committee.


 Disciplinary recognition of our expertise is evident in regular invitations to give plenary papers and
 keynotes across the world, helping to set research agendas internationally. In the 2019-20
 academic year, ground-breaking research by O’Halloran on the development of new digital tools
 and techniques for multimodal analysis has been showcased in plenary papers in Italy, Estonia
 and China. Similarly, Buse and Henning’s keynote invitations since arrival at Liverpool have
 helped to set the agenda for a new photography studies oriented toward material cultural practice.
 Slavtcheva-Petkova's invited talks on journalism and safety are linked to her ongoing collaboration
 with UNESCO on press freedoms. An indicator of the success of our recruitment strategy and
 mentoring policy in attracting and developing high quality researchers is that several early and
 mid-career colleagues are also invited to give keynotes, plenaries and invited papers. Supported
 by both departmental and school funding described in section 3, Blejmar, Kalogeropoulos and
 Rossini have given keynotes and plenaries at several overseas international conferences in 2019
 and early 2020 (in Sweden, Ireland, Spain and Denmark), with Rossini giving four invited talks in
 2019 alone.


 Colleagues at all career stages are engaged in field-defining work, and edited collections are one
 means to review the sub-field and set future directions. For example, Ruffino’s 2020 book,
 Independent Videogames, is the first, state-of-the-art collection of studies on games production,
 while Maartens’ co-edited Propaganda and Public Relations in Military Recruitment (2020)
 establishes a new subject area in the study of media, war and conflict. Yates’ co-edited Oxford
 Handbook of Digital Technology and Society (2020) is a comprehensive overview including
 contributions from Blejmar and Carmi; Tzioumakis' co-edited The Hollywood Renaissance (2018)
 brings fresh perspectives to one of the most studied periods of American cinema. We have
 organised six international conferences at our London and Liverpool campuses in 2018-2020
 alone, (on themes such as youth culture and screen, digital inclusion, art and archives, and political
 discourse), worked with partners to organise international conferences in the UK and abroad, and
 sit on selection committees for major annual and bi-annual conferences such as the Society of
 Cinema and Media Studies annual conference (Needham) and the International Conference of
 the European Society for Periodical Research (Buse). Our engagement with the field and
 disciplines is also evidenced in the number of journal editorial boards on which we are represented
 (more than 22) and influential book series we edit (six).


 The excellence of our research has been recognised through the award of international prizes.
 Palmieri won the 2015 Ambassador Award from the Association for Business Communication, and


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working with Holby City fans, Turner won the 2018 Fanzine of the Year award for a fanzine
 produced as part of an impact project on mental health and positive LGBTQ+ representation. The
 authority of our staff in their fields is evidenced in their advising for tenure review and professorial
 promotions in other HEIs in the US and the UK (Buse, Henning, Needham, Tzioumakis).
 Richardson was a member of the AHRC Peer Review College (until 2016) and Yates is an
 associate college member of the EPSRC.


 Despite the difficult circumstances of 2020, we are ambitious for the future of our Unit, knowing
 that we have put in place robust structures and processes that will continue to support our research
 and impact initiatives. Our collaborations and relationships, with other departments and faculties
 of the University, the international academic community, and wider sectors of society, will enable
 us to continue to exploit the strong position we have established in the seven years since the last
 national exercise in research evaluation. We have great confidence in our recent appointments at
 senior and junior levels to take our plans forward with imagination and commitment.




                                                                                                 Page 21
