Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Context

 English has been taught at UCL since its foundation in 1826; UCL was the first English university
 to give degrees in English, and the first to give degrees to women. The Department of English
 Language and Literature has always been at the heart of Arts and Humanities (A&H) at UCL,
 and has a long tradition of high achievement, particularly in literary history and editorial and
 linguistic scholarship. Since the 1960s, with such notable figures as Frank Kermode, Karl Miller,
 Rosemary Ashton, and John Sutherland, it has been renowned for reaching audiences beyond
 the university, via literary journalism and broadcasting. In the later twentieth century, Department
 members included novelists A.S. Byatt and Dan Jacobson; the tradition of creative literary
 writing amongst staff has strengthened over this review period.

 UCL English is a compact unit, allowing for a collegial research culture in which academic
 colleagues, from Early Career Researchers (ECRs) to professors, know each other’s work well.
 Established concentrations of expertise are spread across literature and language from the early
 medieval period to the present. Recent strategy has been to proactively increase, through new
 appointments, the diversity and range of the unit’s research, which is now significantly more
 interdisciplinary. The Department has been able to consolidate and grow areas such as media
 and representation, digital humanities, medical humanities, literary bilingualism and creative
 writing. It has also nurtured research in the areas of race, comparative racialisation and post-
 colonial theory, alongside gender, sexuality and identity, thereby exploiting the size and
 intellectual diversity of UCL. The university’s place at the heart of a multicultural city facilitates
 collaborations with wider communities, ranging from schools in the London Borough of Hackney
 to cultural institutions such as the BBC, British Film Institute (BFI), Globe Theatre, Victoria and
 Albert Museum (V&A), and Wellcome Institute.


 b) Structure

 The UoA consists of 31 members of the UCL Department of English Language and Literature
 (30.5 FTE), and 2 research-active staff outside the Department (1.5 FTE): Gilroy, based in
 UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS), and Adams, an independent researcher in UCL’s
 Centre for Editing Lives and Letters (CELL). Gilroy’s research commitments to literary and
 cultural studies, and Adams’s to editing and archival work, ensure close links with the
 Department. Interdisciplinarity has been extended with the recent joint appointment of Moul,
 shared with the Department of Greek & Latin. Four of the Department’s permanent academic
 staff are English Language specialists. The Department includes The Survey of English Usage,
 a pioneering centre of language research. Its databases of written and spoken English and
 ground-breaking exploration software have established it as a world-leading centre for corpus
 linguistics.



 c) Research & impact strategy

 The unit’s distinctiveness lies in our sustained commitment to the virtues of close reading and
 traditional historicist literary scholarship, while remaining at the forefront of an evolving
 discipline. We have long-established strengths in literary history, textual editing and corpus
 linguistics. The recent attraction of scholars with additional expertise in cultural and film studies
 and creative practice have richly augmented and reconfigured these core strengths.
 Exemplifying UCL’s aim of empowering curiosity-driven investigations by individual researchers,

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we support major editorial projects (often, as in the cases of Dart, Davis, Horne, extending
 beyond a single REF cycle), and the production of substantial monographs. We also embed an
 awareness of the importance of dialogue between creative and critical practice through the
 employment of scholars at the forefront of modern cultural production, whose creative outputs
 are shaped by their scholarly work: publishing poetry (Ford, Langley), novels (Sperling), and
 nonfiction films (Beaumont).

 Our research activities cluster around one centre of linguistics research, The Survey of English
 Usage, and three strands of literature research – Editions, Intercultural Exchanges, and The
 City. The literature strands are descriptive rather than prescriptive: our ambition is to allow our
 researchers a high degree of freedom to pursue their evolving intellectual interests. The content
 of the strands therefore continuously evolves with the development of our research.


 The Survey of English Usage (SEU)
 The SEU, founded by Randolph Quirk in 1959, was the first research centre in Europe to carry
 out research in corpus linguistics. The SEU gathers, describes and analyses samples of
 naturally-occurring language and its research focuses on three areas: 1) using authentic spoken
 and written data from the SEU’s two parsed corpora, The Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day
 Spoken English (DCPSE) and The British Component of the International Corpus of English)
 (ICE-GB), to study present-day English grammar and changes in English grammar over recent
 decades (Aarts); 2) corpus linguistic methodology, specifically corpus exploration and statistics
 (Wallis), and the use of large corpora to study human interactions in work settings (De Felice);
 3) Allan’s work on historical and cognitive semantics and lexicology, using electronic databases
 such as the Historical Thesaurus of the Oxford English Dictionary.

 A focal aspect of the SEU’s work (evidenced by the ICS) is its link with education policy. The
 Englicious project has had measurable impact on the teaching of English grammar in schools
 now required by the National Curriculum. From its ‘Academic Writing in English’ apps to its
 courses for teachers and Summer Schools, the SEU has brought a key tranche of the
 department’s work to wider audiences. Having attracted large-scale external funding, the SEU
 will continue to pursue its impactful work into the next REF period, developing its current
 Nuffield-funded research with UCL’s Institute of Education into the grammatical development of
 young children’s writing.


 Editions: The material and historical text
 Editions has showcased our archival and textual editing prowess, focusing our core disciplinary
 strength: the study of the literary text, in its material, cultural, and historical specificity. Our work
 in editing and on the book as a material object includes a huge range of activities. These run
 from new research on medieval manuscript culture, demonstrated by North’s editing of Old
 English Andreas and Irvine’s Humboldt Foundation award for collaboration on An Electronic
 Corpus of Old English Homilies, to early modern manuscript studies exemplified by Moul’s
 pioneering survey of neo-Latin poetry in English manuscript miscellanies. We undertake major
 long-term editing projects, such as those on Addison (OUP, Davis), Lamb (OUP, Dart), and
 James (CUP, Horne), to sustain and contribute to the reading of classic works. Recent
 appointments extend this strength into the modern period: Sperling’s work on Geoffrey Hill and
 the OED bridges linguistic and literary research; Duncan’s collection on paratexts, Book Parts
 (OUP), exemplifies our interest in book history. Through pursuing this research strand, we have
 helped define the field of modernist studies, via Ford’s work on the New York School poets, and
 his pioneering editions of John Ashbery and translations of Raymond Roussel; Jordan’s editing
 of experimentalist B.S. Johnson, and her book Late Modernism and the Avant-Garde British
 Novel (OUP); and Duncan’s monograph on the French Oulipo group of writers and artists, The
 Oulipo and Modern Thought (OUP). All these range beyond the traditional confines of high
 modernism to understand modernism’s avant-garde engagements.



                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are committed to literary-historical criticism, tracing intellectual, scientific, philosophical, and
 theological debates. Exemplary outputs include Roberts’s Edward Gibbon and the Shape of
 History (OUP) exploring Gibbon’s historical thinking. We recently appointed Ossa-Richardson,
 whose interests include science, philosophy, and the reception history of classical thought and
 literature. His History of Ambiguity (Princeton) ranges from antiquity to modernity. An established
 strength is the study of classicism, with Davis and Stamatakis working on major projects
 engaging with the legacy of antiquity. Research into the history of science is represented by
 Yao, who researches intersections between literature and the history of race science,
 anthropology, and eugenics, Langley, whose two monographs on Shakespeare are field-leading
 interventions in the medical humanities, situating literary texts in the period’s scientific context
 and Hackett, who is researching the Elizabethan mind. We have produced notable work on
 literature and religion, including Shell’s writings on literature and Christianity from the
 Reformation onwards; Horbury’s monograph on the early modern Bible (Prodigality in Early
 Modern Drama, Boydell & Brewer); and Freedman’s work on how belief and scepticism shaped
 national and poetic self-images (William Blake and the Myth of America, OUP).


 Intercultural Exchanges
 Intercultural Exchanges has developed our expertise in Anglophone literature’s global
 interactions. Much research involves translation or studies of translation (Baron, Davis,
 Duncan, Ford, Irvine), or the analysis of literature as a site of global networks of communication
 (Atkinson, Baron, Freedman, Hackett, Horne, North, Shell, Stamatakis, Stevens, Weis,
 Yao). Horne’s work on the transatlantic Henry James, Baron’s exploration of the European
 roots of intertextuality, and Atkinson’s research into the cultural impact of French novels on
 Victorian readers, exemplify this focus. Recent appointments extend the scope of these research
 activities: Duncan (2019), an expert on twentieth-century Anglo-French literary relations, and
 neo-Latinist Moul (2019), an authority on the literary bilingualism of early modernity.

 Intercultural Exchanges has more recently expanded into Intercultural Encounters, inspiring new
 work and strategic appointments in the fields of critical race studies and postcolonialism. This
 has encouraged growth in colonial and postcolonial literature, Black studies, and the intersection
 of race and gender. We are developing a collaborative relationship with UCL’s Sarah Parker
 Remond Centre for the Study of Race and Racialisation (SPRC), with Gilroy as founding
 Director (2019) and Yao as an affiliated staff member. We are creating a bridge between our
 new activities and Gilroy’s field-defining research in Black British studies, exemplified by Yao’s
 Decolonial Forum and our new series of talks and reading groups entitled ‘Race, Power, and
 Poetics’ (RPP). The RPP features BAME academics from the UK and North America working on
 issues of race across all periods of English literary studies.


 The City: London and beyond
 Focusing on the metropolis as a centre of literary and cultural activity, The City gathers staff
 working on interdisciplinary urban studies, on walking, and on the literary heritage of London.
 The strand has encouraged engagement with cultural practitioners and reinforced our cross-
 period commitment to creating new audiences for literary scholarship. While much of the
 research is London-centred, such as Ford’s work on Thomas Hardy, it also encompasses
 research relating to urban environments beyond London, for example Roberts’s work on
 responses to Roman ruins. One of the many outcomes that has taken shape from this strand is
 a forum for Londoners interested in psychogeography and urban studies through guided walks
 (Dart: Hazlitt and Lamb; Weis: Shakespeare; Beaumont: ‘Nightwalking’). As part of this project,
 we have collaborated with the Museum of London, the UCL Institute for Transport, and the
 National Hospital for Neuropathy and Neurosurgery, while developing close ties with writers,
 including Iain Sinclair and Will Self.

 Beaumont is Co-Director of UCL’s Urban Lab, a cross-disciplinary centre promoting creative
 and collaborative inquiry into urgent urban problems, and leads one of its priority areas, Urban
 Nights, bringing together researchers with an interest in the distinct ecology of nocturnal cities in

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 order to explore, at the intersection between history and comparative geography, the ways in
 which, after nightfall, we use and abuse the urban environment. Among other outcomes, this has
 led to Beaumont’s film project ‘Distracted Walking’, showcased at UCL’s Festival of Culture and
 elsewhere.


 Open Access (OA)
 We are committed to OA as a fundamental principle of Humanities research and have gone
 beyond the requirements of REF2021, depositing 122 research outputs (published between
 2014 and 2020) in UCL Discovery, UCL's institutional repository. 100% of articles and
 conference papers accepted from 1 April 2016 (not only those submitted as REF2 outputs) have
 been deposited in UCL Discovery, are gold OA, or qualify for exceptions. During the assessment
 period our researchers have consistently chosen destinations for their research that are fully OA,
 to better make our research accessible worldwide. We collaborate with UCL Press (which is
 entirely OA) and will strive to intensify our connections with it; currently, Mullan sits on its board,
 and the Press publishes the Sylvia Townsend Warner Journal, edited by Swaab.


 Impact strategy
 We aim to maximise the public benefit of our research through three main approaches:
 furthering academic scholarship; enhancing cultural contribution; engaging in public discourse.
 The UoA has a reputation for outreach and cultivation of a broad readership, academic and non-
 academic. Ford’s London Review of Books (LRB) podcasts on poetry, Yao’s broadcasts on
 BBC’s ‘Rethink’ on racist cultural perceptions, and Mullan’s Guardian Book Club events and
 podcasts, are three prime examples of the way in which we use our research to create pathways
 to impact. We also reach a greater public by diversifying our research, as in the case of the
 interdisciplinary conference ‘Trans Studies, Trans Lives’ (Yao and Horbury), which drew a large
 non-academic audience.

 Interactions with external partners further broaden the reach of our impact by fostering creative
 synergies. Mullan’s work on Austen (see ICS) has led to collaborations with the Royal Mint and
 with playwright Laura Wade; Langley’s work has culminated in a new staging of Milton at the
 Globe; and Ford’s role in the discovery of lost manuscripts of the poet Joan Murray resulted in
 new New York Review of Books editions. Horne’s series of interviews with Martin Scorsese in
 Sight & Sound emanate from his long-standing relationship with the director, while his Tales
 from a Master’s Notebook (2018) – featuring stories from authors including Colm Tóibín, Amit
 Chaudhuri, and Tessa Hadley – exemplifies research contributing directly to cultural creativity
 (see ICS). In this period Bruzzi participated in public events at BFI Southbank: a lecture and a
 roundtable discussion on documentary re-enactment, both to capacity audiences. Hackett
 disseminated current research into the Elizabethan mind via YouTube.


 Future strategy
 We will continue to pursue our diverse research specialisms, individually and collaboratively,
 during the next REF cycle and beyond, fostering a culture of intellectual freedom, diversity, and
 curiosity. Affording staff the time, intellectual space and funding to produce outputs that reflect
 international standards of excellence will remain a core component of our research strategy. Our
 guiding principle remains the belief that high levels of intellectual freedom contribute significantly
 to scholarly quality. To enable this, we have identified three priorities: a) exploiting institutional
 and external support to develop our research, both nationally and globally; b) strengthening
 equalities, especially post-Covid; c) using our London location to focus research and external
 engagement.

 a) In line with UCL’s institutional research strategy, we will traverse boundaries to increase
 engagement by, for example, pursuing awards from UCL’s Global Engagement Office in order to
 establish partnerships with international HEIs, and make our work more collaboratively
 international. This will include inviting overseas scholars, utilising existing international

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations and research networks (including those with Toronto, Chicago, the Sorbonne, and
 Göttingen), and using the resources of the IAS to host collaborative colloquia. We will also use
 Faculty Public Engagement funds, Beacon Bursary awards, and the Dean’s Strategic Fund to
 embed impact and public engagement.

 b) As articulated in UCL’s institutional environment statement, we place inclusivity at the heart of
 research and will strengthen our commitment to equalities, including an equity- and inclusion-
 based response to how the pandemic has impacted individuals in our community. We wish
 especially to link these concerns to future impact plans and to enable staff to produce impact
 from their research and cultivate case studies truly representative of our diversity. This priority
 will be reinforced by a new appointment in Colonial and Postcolonial Literatures in 2021. The
 appointee will join us in working towards an international colloquium on the theme of Intercultural
 Encounters, to be held in Spring 2022.

 c) We intend to amplify our focus on the diversity of London, by cementing our identity as a
 centre for the study of the literary history of Bloomsbury, bolstering our position at the forefront of
 urban literary studies and walking studies, and continuing to involve London libraries, archives,
 and museums in our research and impact agenda. Building on the SEU’s short courses and
 apps and our Poets Poets initiative, which brings discussions of creative practice into schools in
 disadvantaged areas and incorporated workshops that made extensive use of the holdings of
 the Petrie Museum and the UCL Art Museum, we aim to broaden our outreach activities in order
 to bring other aspects of our research to multiple communities.


 2. People

 (a) Staffing strategy and staff development

 The UoA consists of 32 members of staff, 30 of whom belong to the English Department (an
 18% increase from REF 2014), including one fixed-term postdoctoral fellow. The UoA’s standing
 has enabled it to attract leading scholars at a senior level and to ensure that staff turnover is
 relatively low. Recent appointments include Bruzzi (Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities,
 appointed in 2017), and Gilroy. While in the reporting period, no permanent academic chose to
 leave except through retirement (Weis, Rennie), additional QR funding and some expansion of
 student numbers have allowed us to appoint six new Lecturers: Langley, Sperling, Yao, De
 Felice, Duncan, Ossa-Richardson. These ECR appointments have been culturally
 transformative and we will build on their impact with the forthcoming lecturer in postcolonial
 literatures.

 Staff development and appraisal
 Supporting our staff’s development is key to the Department’s success. Our practices have
 developed within UCL’s overarching strategies and policies (REF5a) but we have also designed
 frameworks that optimise the environment for undertaking literary research and scholarship. All
 new appointees, including any on short-term contracts, are assigned a mentor, who holds termly
 formal mentor/mentee meetings in order to support strategic development, for example of
 publication proposals and grant applications. Staff are encouraged to make the most of UCL’s
 comprehensive training and development programme, and to attend events in each academic
 year. All probationary staff and ECRs take part in the Academic Development Programmes
 arranged by UCL Arena (UCL’s professional development pathway for teaching). Probationary
 staff are spared significant administrative tasks until after the end of their probation (usually
 three years) and have a reduced teaching load. In line with UCL policy, all staff are appraised
 annually. The appraisal process provides a formal structure for staff to explore career ambitions
 and develop opportunities, while further support is provided by the HoD and Research
 Committee who coordinate peer reviews of draft publications and grant applications (see 3(b)
 below). Both Faculty and Department foster a culture in which researchers feel their
 development is valued.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sabbatical leave
 One term’s leave is available after every three years of service, in line with institutional policy.
 This has continued through Covid-19, allowing staff to continue to feel supported in their
 research. In the period under review, a total of 51 terms of sabbatical leave were taken.
 Research leave outcomes are monitored by end-of-leave progress reports submitted to the HoD
 and through the appraisal system.

 Career progression and promotions
 The UoA’s staff benefit from our institutional policy of rewarding outstanding performance via
 salary increments and promotions (reviewed annually by the Department’s Promotions
 Committee, consisting of all professorial staff). Discussion of promotion is a core part of the
 appraisal process. Staff put forward for promotion are allotted a member of the Promotions
 Committee as advisor, and those that are not are made aware that they can also submit their
 case directly through the Dean. During this assessment period, four colleagues have been
 promoted to Professor (Beaumont, Dart, Shell, Davis), seven to Associate Professor (Allan,
 Atkinson, Baron, Freedman, Jordan, Langley, Stamatakis), and one to Principal Research
 Fellow (Wallis). In addition, Mullan was appointed to the Lord Northcliffe Chair of Modern
 English Literature.

 ECRs
 Training the next generation of scholars remains a longstanding strategic priority and we make
 explicit use of externally-funded fellowships to support the development of early-career
 researchers (ECRs) through fixed-term Teaching Fellowships (TF) (8 during this REF period).
 Specific support for TFs includes a personal research allowance (£500 p.a. from 2020), access
 to the UoA’s Chambers Fund for publication costs, and moderate teaching loads. Postdoctoral
 researchers (PDRs) make much-valued contributions to our research environment. Since 2014
 we have attracted two British Academy Postdoctoral Fellows (Horbury, McCluskey) and three
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Howe, Whipday, Carver). As part of their career
 development, PDRs normally take on some, ideally research-led, teaching. All ECRs are closely
 integrated into courses and departmental culture; they organise research-led activities supported
 by the department which, in turn, enrich the wider departmental research culture.

 Partnerships between ECRs and permanent staff have invigorated our research environment:
 Hackett and Whipday collaborated on the staging of Samuel Daniel’s The Tragedie of
 Cleopatra and an article published in Early Theatre (2015) outlining the research findings
 derived from these performances; Howe (winner of the T.S. Eliot Prize in 2015) contributed to
 Poets Poets; Horbury collaborated with Yao on the UCL symposium ‘Trans Studies, Trans
 Lives’ (2019) and co-edited Transcribed: An Anthology of Trans Writing (2020); and McCluskey
 and Amara Thornton (UCL Archaeology) collaborated on ‘Filming Antiquity: Moving Images of
 1930s Excavations’ (2016), a screening and talk at the Society of Antiquaries of London.


 (b) Research students

 Recruitment
 Nurturing research students is central to our mission. Our PhD programme is competitive; from
 around 80 applications per year, we normally take 12-14, a size which fosters community within
 and across specialisms. Since 2013-14, 34 students have received AHRC London Arts and
 Humanities Partnership (LAHP) doctoral scholarships and six Wolfson scholarships. Others won
 UCL Graduate Research Scholarships and an Overseas Research Scholarship, a LAHP
 Collaborative Doctoral Award, and a Wellcome Scholarship. We successfully competed for two
 Windsor Fellowships (reserved for BAME applicants), in 2019 and 2020. Our current total
 enrolment is 54 PhD students, of whom 12 (22%) are BAME, including three Black students,
 fulfilling our strategy to increase diversity. Our initiatives include pipeline actions directed at UG
 and PG students, such as Yao’s coordination of the faculty induction programme, ‘The Matter of
 Black Lives,’ focused on racism and specifically anti-Blackness as a systemic force.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Monitoring and support
 The Graduate Tutor has overall responsibility for the pastoral and academic care of PhD
 students. All students have principal and secondary supervisors (cross-departmental for
 interdisciplinary projects), with at least 12 supervisory meetings per year. All supervisors have
 completed Arena accredited training (HEA). Each incoming student has a peer mentor working
 in a relevant field. The UCL online research log is the student’s record of progress through the
 PhD programme. At the end of the first and third years of their programme, students submit
 substantial dossiers of work for appraisal by their supervisory team and Higher Degrees Sub-
 Committee respectively, and during the third year are required to defend their work in mock
 vivas. Second-year students are subject to rigorous UCL upgrade procedures. The
 Staff/Graduate Student Consultative Committee meets once a term, where PGR representatives
 report on issues and feed back to staff from the student community. A Postgraduate Study
 Room, with computer facilities, is available for the sole use of PhD students.

 Research training programme
 Our research training programme begins with mandatory first-year seminars covering topics
 including thesis planning, online research methods, and using specialist archives. Sessions for
 second- and third-year students include: giving conference papers, writing journal article
 proposals, preparing material for publication, job applications, impact training, and academic and
 non-academic careers; the latter include input from former students. Our students benefit from
 the training opportunities offered at UCL by the Doctoral School, and beyond UCL by LAHP and
 the Institute of English Studies (IES). We also direct students to training offered by the British
 Library (BL), National Archives, and Warburg Institute. The UCL-Yale Collaborative scheme
 supports a term or longer at Yale University: 13 of our PhD students have been funded to go to
 Yale in the reporting period (£58,999 awarded in bursaries). We have in turn supervised two
 Yale students visiting us on that scheme. Our students have a proven track record in successful
 applications for funding from the AHRC International Placement and Leverhulme Trust Study
 Abroad Scholarship schemes, enabling them to pursue research at the Huntington Library,
 Library of Congress, Harry Ransom Center (University of Texas at Austin), Smithsonian Institute,
 and J.F. Kennedy Institute for North American Studies, Berlin (£52,355 awarded in 2014-20). We
 provide funds (up to £350 p.a. per student) to enable attendance at academic conferences.
 Language support for PhD students whose first language is not English is available from UCL’s
 Centre for Languages and International Education, and our students have benefited from
 courses for PhD students whose research requires knowledge of a particular foreign language
 (e.g. Fraaije took courses in advanced French and German to enable him to pursue sources for
 medieval magical verse).

 Career development
 We view teaching as a vital part of doctoral students’ development as researchers. Second-year
 PhD students may apply to become Postgraduate Teaching Assistants (PGTAs) for the year.
 They receive Arena-accredited training from the Departmental and Graduate Tutors, and teach
 one-to-one tutorials as well as seminars linked to their research specialisms. We encourage our
 PGTAs to attend further Arena teacher-training sessions; a number of them have been awarded
 advanced HEA certificates. PhD students also design and deliver UCL Summer Schools and
 participate in outreach activities.

 In a challenging market, our PhD students have achieved notable success in securing academic
 posts. Permanent academic appointments since 2014 include Bintley (Birkbeck), Bowers and
 Ingleby (QMUL), Cran, Curran, Herford, and Wilkinson (Birmingham), Dini (Roehampton),
 Mehl (Sheffield), Hawkins (Southampton), Lacey (Winchester), Starza Smith (KCL), Smaill
 (Wellington, New Zealand), Su (Shanghai), Thomson (Düsseldorf), Toda (Réunion), and
 Whipday (Newcastle). Those gaining temporary Lectureships include Bentick (QMUL), Cotton
 (Cardiff), Edwards (Oxford), and Robinson (New College of the Humanities, London).
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships have been awarded to Anderson, Klimt, Potts, Powell,
 and Whipday. Oxford and Cambridge JRFs were awarded to Bowers, Curran, and Wilkinson.
 A PDR post was awarded to Burns (Oxford). Many UCL PhD theses develop into significant
 publications, including monographs with scholarly presses. Notable examples include Rona

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cran, Collage in Twentieth-Century Art, Literature, and Culture (Ashgate, 2014); Daniel Starza
 Smith, John Donne and the Conway Papers (OUP, 2014); Oliver Herford, Henry James’s Style
 of Retrospect (OUP, 2016); Louise Curran, Samuel Richardson and the Art of Letter-Writing
 (CUP, 2016); Will Bowers, The Italian Idea: Anglo-Italian Radical Literary Culture 1815-1823
 (CUP, 2019).

 Graduate research culture
 The vitality of the postgraduate research culture is a measure of the intellectual health of the
 Department. The most important forum is our fortnightly Research Seminar, regularly attracting
 around 40 participants (more since the move online during the pandemic). Second-year PhD
 students are invited to present a 50-minute paper; on other occasions, papers are given by staff
 members or guest speakers. In 2020-21 this seminar programme has included a themed strand
 on ‘Race, Power, and Poetics’, with international speakers including Ruben Espinosa (University
 of Texas at El Paso). The SEU runs a seminar series featuring four distinguished guest
 speakers each year. Third-year PhD students may apply to give our annual Celia Phillips
 Memorial Lecture. Each summer, our PhD students organize a conference combining papers by
 graduate students from UCL and elsewhere with keynote lectures by leading academics,
 including Sophie Read (Cambridge). Many of the papers are published in our online graduate
 student journal, Moveable Type. Other one-off conferences organised by PhD students have
 included ‘Rebel? Prophet? Relic? Perspectives on George Orwell (2019)’, and ‘Laughing Gas:
 Science and Satire in Nineteenth-century Medical Culture’ (2019). Research-related
 performances of Elizabethan plays, ‘Jack Drum’s Entertainment’ in Oxford and London (2016)
 and ‘Tom Tyler and His Wife’ (2017) were staged by our PhD students at UCL. Lively reading
 groups on the following topics are run by PhD students: Contemporary Poetry, Early Modern
 English, Experimental Fiction, and Long Poems.


 (c) Equality and diversity

 We have always sought to foster an inclusive and open culture, but recognise there is more we
 can do to increase the diversity of the Department and recently have made significant strides
 towards greater inclusivity. The Women’s Forum was set up in 2017 as a result of informal
 conversations between female staff members; it is open to all and meets termly to discuss
 issues of concern to women and, where needed, to submit proposals for discussion at the
 Department’s Staff Meeting. The English Department was an early signatory to the Student
 Union’s Zero Tolerance of Sexual Harassment Campaign.

 Over the last decade, there have been 17 appointments to permanent positions: 11 female
 (Shell, Baron, Freedman, Atkinson, Jordan, Jones, Roberts, De Felice, Bruzzi, Yao, Moul
 (joint appointment with U0A19)) and six male (Langley, Stamatakis, Sperling, Duncan, Ossa-
 Richardson, Gilroy). Our gender balance has thus shifted since REF2014, when the male staff
 comprised over 65%; our current balance is near 50-50. All staff on appointment panels
 undertake EDI training, and panels have at least two (of five) female members. The career
 development and wellbeing of women in the Department is further supported by the work of the
 Athena Swan Leads, and will submit a Bronze application in 2021, supporting UCL’s bid to retain
 its Silver award. Flexible working arrangements exist for parents. UCL’s Equality Leave policy
 allows academics who have returned from maternity leave an extra sabbatical term to make up
 for lost research time. In 2014-20, six periods of maternity leave were granted.

 In 2020 we established a Diversity and Inclusion Committee whose function is to oversee
 matters pertaining to EDI, make recommendations to the Board of Studies, and provide a forum
 in which concerns can be raised. The Inclusion Lead (Yao) chairs this Committee, which
 includes the Athena Swan Leads (Freedman and Stevens) as well as PhD, postgraduate, and
 undergraduate representatives. Yao also sits on the Faculty’s EDI committee, the UCL Race
 Equality Steering Group and the Eugenics Inquiry Response Group, where she is specifically
 liaising with the Introductory Programme about the design and launch of a dedicated component
 critiquing eugenics for all incoming students.

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The appointment of a permanent BAME academic member of staff, Yao (2018), and the Faculty
 appointment of Gilroy (2019) are part of our strategy to further expand into critical race studies,
 and postcolonial studies by building on the Lectureship in Colonial and Postcolonial Literature in
 2021. This impetus towards a greater focus on diversity and equality is evidenced in our
 Decolonial Forum, established in 2020 by Yao in collaboration with ECRs and PGRs, which
 among other initiatives hosts a ‘Settler Colonialisms & Indigeneity’ workshop series.

 The Department supports staff returning to work following ill health and flexible working.
 Provision includes transitional return (with reduced teaching load) and regular assessments of
 occupational health needs. Tailored provision is made for staff with disabilities, including
 standing desks for colleagues with chronic back problems, and funding for equipment and lip-
 reading classes for a colleague with severe hearing loss. The latter participates in Enable, a
 support network for disabled staff.

 In tune with the faculty’s support of UCL’s LGBTQ+ communities, Horbury convenes the
 Department’s Queer Reading Group and ran, with qUCL, the public engagement project Writing
 Trans Lives, a series of workshops (UCL Culture Beacon Bursary), which led to their co-edited
 collection of creative work Transcribed: An Anthology of Trans Writing (POLARI Print, 2020).
 Roberts won a grant of £1,500 (‘Liberating the Curriculum’ 2016) to create a Moodle hub ‘Early
 Modern Marginalities’, and took part in a panel session for the wider UCL and UoL community.
 PhD student Wiltshire secured funding for Steps to Progress, a 29-panel visual installation of
 literary texts in the entranceway to UCL’s main library to showcase UCL’s diversity as part of its
 2019 Festival of Culture, which remained in situ until Easter 2020.

 In preparation for REF2021, we paid due regard to equality and diversity issues by providing
 regular updates on the preparation of our submission, and openly discussed our processes.
 Members of the UoA were invited to nominate their best outputs, which were reviewed at least
 twice by a Review and Selection Group, selected to be representative in terms of gender. We
 reviewed the equalities analysis provided by the UCL REF Team, and are pleased to see that,
 broadly speaking, outputs are equally distributed between men and women. To improve our less
 encouraging staff ethnicity data, we are working with UCL’s EDI team to make best use of UCL
 resources, e.g. Fair Recruitment Specialists, B-Mentor and Inclusive Advocacy schemes. Our
 2022 Athena Swan application and our commitment to the A&H Dean’s pledge to embed race
 equality are just two steps we have taken to ensure our UoA becomes more inclusive.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (a) Income

 We have enjoyed successes in this REF period in attracting external research grants in
 competitions supporting individual scholarship (winning 4 Leverhulme awards between 2018 and
 2019, for instance). Several submitted outputs (e.g. Beaumont’s Nightwalking; Weis’s The Real
 Traviata) are the direct result of such research funding. Major research projects are being
 undertaken by staff who have won Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships, including Dart for
 Charles Lamb and Romanticism (£159,766; 2018-21), Shell for Drama and the British Counter-
 Reformation (£154,990; 2018-21), Hackett for The Elizabethan Mind (£46,055; 2018-19),
 Swaab for Sylvia Townsend Warner (£55,744; 2019-20), and Ford for Thomas Hardy, Emma
 Hardy and Poetry (£47,980; 2019-20). Other external awards include Irvine’s Anneliese Maier
 award from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (at UCL: £52,000; 2015-20), Aarts’s
 Nuffield Foundation award for English grammar teaching in primary schools: assessing the
 efficacy of Englicious (at UCL: £25,419; 2018-21), as well as two British Academy Postdoctoral
 Fellowships and three Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships. Some of our research and impact
 activities within this REF period relate directly to ongoing externally-funded projects, for
 example, Dart’s guided ‘Lamb’s London’ walks, Swaab’s editorship of the Sylvia Townsend


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Warner Journal, Irvine’s co-organisation of an international conference on homilies in Göttingen
 (2017), and the SEU’s online Englicious platform (see ICS).

 We have won competitive awards from Faculty and UCL pump-priming funds for research
 activity, impact, and public engagement, totalling c.£97,000. These include Dart’s UCL Public
 and Cultural Engagement Awards for Keats in London (2013-15); Dean’s Strategic Awards for
 Beaumont’s Distracted Walking (2017-18), Ford, Langley, and Sperling’s Poets Poets (2017-
 19), and Horne’s filming On Location London (2018-19); awards from the Global Engagement
 Fund to De Felice, Irvine, and Freedman (2015-19); a Beacon Bursary grant to Horbury for
 Writing Trans Lives (2019-20); a Creative Fellows Programme inaugurated by Bruzzi used to
 fund the project New Old English: Performance, Poetry, Practice (2019-20); and a UCL-
 University of Toronto Joint Research Projects and Exchange Activities award to Yao (2018-20).

 The SEU has won various institutional awards for linguistic research translated into learning
 tools: English Grammar for Teachers (Life Learning Proof of Concept Investment Grant, 2015);
 Improving schoolchildren’s literacy: making grammar accessible in the classroom (Innovation
 and Enterprise Knowledge Exchange and Innovation Fund (IEKEI), 2017); and Relaunching
 Englicious to Market (IEKEI, 2018). These grants have enabled the SEU to publish a number of
 freely available apps for tablets and smartphones, including Academic Writing in English,
 English Spelling and Punctuation, and the Interactive Grammar of English. The most recent app,
 ‘Grammar Practice KS2’, is an innovative teaching and learning tool aimed at school children in
 Year 5/6 of primary schools preparing for the Grammar, Punctuation, and Spelling Test taken at
 Key Stage 2. The combined income for the apps to July 2020 was c.£18,550. The SEU also
 organises income-generating Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and In-Service
 Training (INSET) courses for teachers on the teaching of English grammar (income 2015-19:
 £135,700), and has published English literacy materials for schools (income 2017-19: £15,781).

 A pro-rata Faculty research allowance of £1,000 is provided to each permanent member of staff.
 In 2019-20, UCL received a substantial bequest to UCL from Lord Randolph Quirk, Quain
 Professor of English Language and Literature 1968-81 and founder of the SEU. This endowment
 will fund an annual postdoctoral fellowship and, in collaboration with the Wolfson Foundation, a
 PhD studentship from 2021, to be awarded to the top candidate in literature-language studies.
 Beyond 2021-22, it is planned to fund a permanent lectureship.


 (b) Infrastructure

 Our research activities are overseen by the Department’s Research Committee (RC), which
 aims to assist all members of staff to fulfil their scholarly potential. Composed of a rotating body
 of members of staff chosen to represent diversity of age, gender, and career stage, it determines
 our research and impact strategies, particularly in relation to UCL’s strategic aims of inspiring
 and empowering research leadership, crossing boundaries to increase engagement, and
 delivering impact for public benefit. The RC monitors the fulfilment of our REF strategic aims. It
 helps to establish goals and timelines for all research projects, and appoints mentors to discuss
 with colleagues their research trajectory. Liaising with the Faculty Research Development team,
 it makes staff aware of funding opportunities and supports applications to bodies such as the
 Leverhulme Trust, which has funded five Research Fellowships in the current REF period. It
 advises on research grant applications and helps assess and enhance pathways to impact. It
 monitors ECR and TF research projects and has been extremely successful in supporting
 applications by junior staff for academic posts: during the current REF period, four ECRs and six
 TFs have secured permanent lectureships at leading universities: Carver (Exeter), Cushing
 (Brunel), Howe (KCL), McCluskey (York), Owens (Stanford), Smith (Warwick), Solnick
 (Liverpool), Turner (Exeter), Treen (St. Andrews), Whipday (Newcastle). One former TF (De
 Felice) was appointed as a Lecturer.

 We have enthusiastically promoted the levelling opportunities presented by public engagement,
 knowledge exchange, and OA. Appointed as Impact Lead in 2015, Jordan has overseen an

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increase in our public engagement activities in relation to both reach and significance. In order to
 grow the impact of our research, academic staff and postgraduate students are encouraged to
 access expert support from the Faculty Research Impact team, who provide briefings and
 training on the development and capture of impact. PhD and postdoctoral researchers are
 encouraged from the outset to consider impact activities as vital to their professional training; all
 must attend annual Impact Workshops. They are also inducted into OA regulations, overseen by
 Roberts (appointed OA Champion in 2016), ensuring that we are fully compliant with the
 proactive policies put in place by UCL. A striking example of our commitment to the OA agenda
 is the Sylvia Townsend Warner Journal (edited by Swaab), now available on-line (including all
 back issues, digitised with departmental funds).

 The RC presents its recommendations for discussion at departmental meetings, and organizes
 Away Days, Research Seminars, and Impact Workshops that enable colleagues to share ideas
 and best practice, and to report progress with ongoing research and impact activities. Aarts,
 who serves as Vice-Dean for Innovation and Enterprise in the Faculty, advises colleagues on
 funding available from the Higher Education Innovation Fund. The RC has overseen the
 selection of both outputs and Impact Case Studies for REF2021. It has inducted all academic
 staff into UCL’s Research Integrity Framework, and is the body that monitors, and would deal
 with, any issues relating to research integrity.

 A significant development for our research infrastructure since REF2014 has been the creation
 in 2015 of the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS). Co-founded by A&H and the Faculty of Social
 and Historical Sciences, the IAS offers a forum for rigorous critical debate across disciplinary
 boundaries and has enabled us to diversify our research profile and to extend our impact
 activities. It has hosted conferences which we have organised around our prevailing research
 themes and interests, including the Planetary Poetics workshops (2017) co-organized by
 Jordan, who also sat on the IAS steering committee for the research theme ‘Lies’; the series of
 linked events on ‘Waste’ (2019-20) co-organized by Beaumont under the joint aegis of the IAS
 and the Urban Lab; two all-day Poets Poets poetry readings and discussion events were held at
 the IAS (2017-20) hosted over 20 professional poets. Through the IAS’s competitive Junior
 Research Felllowship scheme we have mentored two JRFs, one in medieval studies and one in
 contemporary fiction. Gilroy’s SPRC is hosted by the IAS. In 2018, we negotiated the move of
 the newly-established Orwell Prize for Political Fiction to the IAS (Sperling was one of the
 judges in 2020).

 We collaborate with a number of other centres and institutes. These include qUCL (a university-
 wide initiative for research in LGBTQ+ studies, gender and sexuality studies, and queer theory),
 Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Centre for Early Modern Exchanges, Centre for
 Research on the Dynamics of Civilisation, UCL’s Staff Disability Forum, UCL’s Urban Lab, UCL’s
 Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis, UCL’s Digital Humanities group, and the Turing Institute’s
 Digital Humanities group, as well as the IES at Senate House (Duncan is on the Advisory
 Council).


 (c) Facilities

 We benefit from outstanding UCL Library resources in English Language and Literature. The
 Library’s holdings are reviewed and updated by staff in conjunction with our Chair of the Library
 Committee (who is our representative on the Joint Faculties Library Committee) and the Subject
 Liaison Librarian. Expenditure on library resources is overseen by our Library Committee
 (attended by the Subject Liaison Librarian), which meets once a term. The English and Literature
 book fund total for the period 2014-2020 amounted to £182,134. The Library has invested in
 major online resources critical to research in English, including Oxford Scholarly Editions Online,
 Oxford Scholarship Online, Oxford Bibliographies, World Shakespeare Bibliography, Parker on
 the Web, Wellesley Index to Victorian Periodicals, and Drama Online. The Subject Liaison
 Librarian and other members of Library staff regularly hold training sessions for PGRs and new
 members of staff to enable them to make best use of library research resources. The substantial

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 online resources of the Library have proven vital in allowing us to pursue research during the
 pandemic.

 We have an important relationship with UCL Special Collections, whose outstanding holdings of
 manuscripts, archives, and rare books includes medieval manuscripts, the James Joyce
 Collection, the George Orwell Archive, the Poetry Store, and Little Magazines. Our PGRs
 engage with this material in specially-designed research sessions. In 2019 we received a
 donation of a rare 16th-century book from an alumna, now housed in Special Collections and
 made available to PGRs and staff for research and teaching purposes. Staff and PGRs make
 regular use of a range of major research libraries and museums near UCL, including Senate
 House Library (which since 2019 has had a redeveloped area reserved for use by PGRs and
 staff), Warburg Institute, British Library and British Museum, V&A, and BFI Library. We have
 developed projects and links with these institutions: for example, Duncan is on the editorial
 board of the BL Journal, and Stamatakis organised a series of lectures at the V&A in 2016.

 We seek to reflect our research culture in our physical and virtual presence. Our Postgraduate
 Common Room was refurbished and supplied with network computers in 2018. During Covid
 restrictions its function is maintained by a Virtual Common Room. A digital screen (funded by
 UCL Estates Small Projects) was recently fitted locally to enable our research activities to be
 shown to visitors and students. The networked computers in staff offices are regularly upgraded
 (centrally funded by UCL’s Information Services Division), and we have access to dedicated
 Faculty IT support. Research seminars normally take place in bespoke seminar rooms whose IT
 facilities are regularly updated. Our research activities are highlighted on our website
 (redesigned in 2018), which also consistently features research-related ‘News & Events’. The
 SEU occupies its own research space within the Department. It houses several English
 language corpora and a substantial library of books and research papers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 (a) Collaborations

 We participate in both national and international collaborations across the discipline. By
 broadening our disciplinary base and engaging with non-humanities bodies, we bring a global
 dimension to our research that resonates beyond purely literary and linguistic scholarship,
 impacting more widely on society. Beaumont’s Grand Challenges-funded collaboration with
 UCLH neuroscientist Kimberley Whitehead resulted in a multidisciplinary symposium on sleep
 and sleeplessness at Free Word Centre, London, as well as a commissioned art installation from
 artist Andrew Carnie, and a co-authored article published in the Lancet (2018). Duncan
 collaborated with Columbia University to organise ‘Book Parts: A Conference’, held there in
 2019, and organised ‘Tom Phillips Q&A: A Humument at Fifty’ (2016) and ‘The Book Index’
 conference (2017), both at the Bodleian Library. Freedman used grants from the UCL-French
 Embassy Arts, Humanities and Social Science Workshop Fund for both 2017/18 and 2018/19 to
 co-organize with Paris-Diderot two international interdisciplinary events, ‘Sharp Peaks and
 Edges of Truth: Literary Haptics in the Long Nineteenth Century’ (2018) and ‘Reading for
 Texture’ (2019), both held at UCL. She also collaborated with the Courtauld Institute to establish
 an ‘American Nineteenth-Century Word & Image Studies’ seminar series (2020), funded by the
 Terra Foundation for American Art. Irvine used funding from UCL Global Engagement and UCL
 Cities Partnership to co-organize interdisciplinary conferences on medieval bridges in Prague
 (2016) and on ‘Mourning: Different Times, Different Forms’ (2019) at Roma Tre University,
 where she was Visiting Professor (2019). Yao and Dr Melissa Gniadek of the University of
 Toronto developed a collaborative project ‘Comparative Settler Colonialisms in Global Contexts’
 (funded by the 2019 UCL-University of Toronto Call for Joint Research Projects and Exchange
 Activities) involving PhD students from both departments.

 Our collaborations have also resulted in significant publications. These include Allan’s work with
 the international Keywords Project, resulting in the volume Keywords for Today: A 21st-Century
 Vocabulary (2018). Baron collaborated with Ronan Crowley and Dirk Van Hulle to co-edit a

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 special issue of the James Joyce Quarterly, ‘The Art of James Joyce’ (October, 2019). Hackett’s
 edited collection of essays, Early Modern Exchanges: Dialogues between Nations and Cultures,
 1550-1750 (2015), stems from her participation in the interdisciplinary UCL Centre for Early
 Modern Exchanges, a research hub that has attracted speakers internationally, including
 Jyotsna Singh on postcolonial Shakespeare and Iqbal Khan on casting BAME actors in
 Shakespeare. Irvine’s major collaborative research project on early medieval preaching texts
 and traditions with the University of Göttingen, supported by an Anneliese Maier Research
 Award from the Humboldt Foundation (UCL/Göttingen €250,000: 2015-20), has enabled
 preparation of an innovative electronic resource for the study of these texts, and publication of a
 co-edited essay collection, The Anonymous Old English Homily: Sources, Composition, and
 Variation (2020).

 Other significant contributions arising from collaborations include films (Beaumont’s Dean’s
 Strategic Fund-financed collaboration with Duncan Hay at UCL’s Centre for Advanced Spatial
 analysis resulted in two short virtual-reality films addressing the subject of ‘distracted walking’,
 one of which featured Will Self, the other our PhD students, Bans and Mebius); an annual
 English Grammar Day co-run with the University of Oxford at the BL by Aarts; apps (North’s
 Chaucer app with Peter Robinson at the University of Saskatchewan, launched in February
 2020, has 55,000 downloads to date); and podcasts (Yao’s PhDivas podcast, exploring issues
 relating to academic culture and social justice across the STEM/Humanities divide, is co-hosted
 with the cancer scientist Dr Elizabeth Wayne of Carnegie Mellon University).


 (b) Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Via apps, events, films, websites, and public-facing lectures, we contribute dynamically to
 partnerships and collaborations internally, nationally, and internationally, and remain committed
 to the conservation and development of our cultural heritage. The dissemination of our research
 ranges from the SEU’s Englicious website, grammar apps, and Grammarianism blog to Mullan’s
 multiple public events on Jane Austen or his hosting of the Guardian Book Club, including
 interviews with, in this reporting period, 43 contemporary writers such as Chimamanda Ngozi
 Adichie (2014) and Karl Ove Knausgaard (2016), all available as podcasts on the Guardian
 website.

 The diversity of our external engagement is notable, from events marking our unique
 contribution to cultural life, like Remembering Karl Miller (2015), to innovative ways of
 communicating research to wider audiences, like Stamatakis’s annual Paleography Summer
 Schools (2014-) and Study-Day Workshops (2018-) at the IES, attended by an exceptional range
 of users across antiquarian book-sellers, librarians, archivists, cataloguers, IT specialists,
 systems programmers, and machine-learning coders. Blogs and podcasts include Duncan’s
 ‘The Paratexts Podcast’ for the University of Oxford (2015-17); Ford’s 13 one-hour LRB-
 sponsored podcasts with Seamus Perry (Oxford) on 20th-century poets from Thomas Hardy to
 Seamus Heaney (c.206,000 downloads); Yao’s 17-episode series C19: The Society of
 Nineteenth Century Americanists in 2017, and the internationally popular PhDivas podcast which
 Yao co-hosts for ECR communities.

 We have a dynamic tradition of bringing texts to new audiences via performance, and museum
 and art gallery curation. Hackett’s project to stage Daniel’s Cleopatra included a National Trust-
 hosted event at Knole House (100 paying attendees on 23/6/14). Langley’s adaptation of
 Paradise Lost for a public Research-in-Action professional performance at Shakespeare's Globe
 (171 ticketed attendees on 12/5/18) was co-funded by UCL English and Globe Education:
 departmental iterations of this event run annually. Duncan and Shell have curated exhibitions at
 the Bodleian and Sir John Soane’s Museum. Irvine provided a video commentary as part of the
 BL Exhibition Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms: Art, Word, War 2018-19.

 Many UCL English staff routinely apply their expertise towards wider public and cultural
 engagement. Colleagues have regularly contributed reviews and essays to public-facing

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international papers and magazines, and broadcast media shows, from the TLS to the Los
 Angeles Review of Books, from Apollo to Radio 4’s In Our Time. We have appeared at
 numerous literary festivals, such as the Edinburgh International Science Festival and the Hay
 Festival, and given public lectures at venues from Keats House and the Globe, to Westminster
 Abbey and the National Portrait Gallery.

 Our contribution to London literary life is substantial. Since its inception in 2016, we have made
 over 50 contributions to UCL’s annual Festival of Culture, using its promotional opportunities to
 help researchers reach a public outside academia. Topics have included ‘Magic and Medieval
 Literature’ (Corrie), ‘Maternity in the Age of Shakespeare’ (Hackett and Honorary Professor
 Karen Hearn), ‘Languages of London: Celebrating Languages and Multilingualism in the City’
 (Allan), and ‘Lived Gender Diversities’ (Yao and Horbury). Hackett and Hearn’s presentation
 generated a Sunday Times news story (2018). Our own festival One Day in the City was a multi-
 venue event staged by the Department in 2016, featuring numerous writers including Kazuo
 Ishiguro, John Lanchester, David Lodge, Bridget Minamore, Jonathan Coe, Mary-Kay Wilmers,
 Tom McCarthy; a day-long The Waste Land reading for the public; discussions by Nick Makoha
 on the ‘Black Metic Experience’ with Kayo Chingonyi, and on long-form journalism in the digital
 age (Ben Eastham (White Review), Andrew O’Hagan (LRB), Malika Booker, Helen Mort), and
 theatrical walks, talks, readings, art exhibits, and London-based conversations, with small-press
 poetry events and a one-off ‘London Liming’. We host public lectures every year via our Visiting
 Fellowship scheme, including by Kae Tempest, Amit Chaudhuri, Alan Hollinghurst, and Olivia
 Laing.

 We play an important role in poetry culture in London, both creatively (Ford, Langley) and via
 dissemination of criticism. Poets Poets has offered two all-day poetry readings and discussion
 events (held at the IAS, 2017-19) featuring over 20 professional poets, and a series of 10 day-
 long Creative Writing Workshops (in collaboration with the Petrie Museum) for Year-10 students
 from disadvantaged schools in Hackney. Poet in the City collaborations included ‘Frank O’Hara:
 In the Heart of Noise’, an event (initiated by Ford) performed in Manchester Royal Exchange
 and King’s Place London in 2016, and events celebrating Adrienne Rich at Wilton Music Hall
 (2018) and National Poetry Day (2019) at UCL. Dart, Jordan, and Swaab regularly host public-
 facing events at Keats House. Beaumont delivered a talk on Baudelaire in a Poet in the City
 event at King’s Place (2017), and Swaab one on Sylvia Townsend Warner at Poetry Southbank
 (2016).


 (c) Contributions to the research base and sustainability of the discipline

 We provide research leadership and wide-ranging service to the institutions and processors of
 research in English literature and language nationally and internationally. Members of staff serve
 on major councils and societies of the discipline: Baron is a Trustee of the International James
 Joyce Foundation, Dart chairs the Hazlitt Society, and Irvine was Vice-President of the
 International Society of Anglo-Saxonists (2012-17) and is a member of the Council of the Early
 English Text Society. We act as consultants for the Oxford English Dictionary (Aarts, Corrie,
 Irvine). We serve on the editorial boards of leading scholarly journals and series in our
 discipline, including English Language and Linguistics (co-edited by Aarts); James Joyce
 Quarterly and European Joyce Studies (Baron); Palgrave Studies in Utopianism, The Wellsian,
 Comparative Literature and Culture, and Angelaki: Journal of the Theoretical Humanities
 (Beaumont); Henry James Review (Horne); International Advisory Committee for the Dictionary
 of Old English (University of Toronto), the Dumbarton Oaks Medieval Library (Harvard), and
 Anglia: Journal of English Philology (Irvine); British Catholic History, Reformation and Pontifical
 Institute of Medieval Studies (Shell); C19:The Society of Nineteenth Century Americanists
 podcast series (Yao). The SEU runs a yearly international summer school in English Corpus
 Linguistics, aimed at graduate students and academics.

 We play significant roles on organising committees for activities advancing the discipline,
 including the James Joyce International Symposium, London, 2016 (Baron), the London-Paris

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Romanticism Seminar, launched 2016 (Dart), the 2017 and 2019 Biennial London Chaucer
 Conferences (Jones), the annual London Early Medieval England Symposium (Irvine and
 North, 2014-), the fifth International Conference of the International Society for the Linguistics of
 English in 2019 (Aarts, Allan, De Felice, Wallis), and EMPHASIS (Early Modern Philosophy
 and the Scientific Imagination Seminar), hosted by the IES (Ossa-Richardson). Mullan is a
 member of the International Advisory Board, Universita Ca’ Foscari, Venice, and Weis served as
 president of Goodenough College (2014-19). We have examined doctorates extensively across
 the UK and internationally, both in Europe – including Aix-en-Provence (Horne, 2017), Antwerp
 (Baron, 2019), Granada (Shell, 2018), Leiden (Beaumont and Irvine, both 2016), Neuchâtel
 (Mullan, 2015), and Tübingen (Swaab, 2018) – and further afield, including Columbia (Jordan,
 2020) and Sydney (Irvine, 2020).

 We regularly serve the discipline through our peer-review activities. Grants Committees
 frequently call on our expertise to assess research proposals: for example, Atkinson (2016-17)
 and Bruzzi (2014-16) evaluated postgraduate funding applications for the Irish Research
 Council (2016-17); Baron reviews grant applications for the Research Foundation–Flanders;
 Bruzzi belongs to the AHRC Peer Review College and AHRC Strategic Review Panel, and has
 been appointed to REF subpanel 33. Aarts acted as a consultant for Utrecht University’s
 Standard Evaluation Protocol (the Dutch REF), and De Felice is an assessor for Italy’s research
 evaluation agency ANVUR. We have assessed colleagues for tenure or promotion both in the
 UK and abroad (including Canada, USA, China, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand). We
 referee a wide range of academic publications for prestigious presses and journals, both
 nationally and internationally.


 (d) Indicators of wider influence and esteem

 We have been invited to take on a variety of advisory roles which enable us to direct and
 influence communities outside academia. Aarts is a Government Advisor at the Department for
 Education’s Standards and Testing Agency for the Literacy Skills Test and for the English
 Grammar, Punctuation and Spelling Tests at Key Stages 1 and 2 in UK schools. Beaumont is
 on the Academic Advisory Board of the Museum of London. Ford is a consultant on the Thomas
 Hardy Exhibition Project. Bruzzi was on the advisory stakeholder board that reformed Film
 Studies A-levels (2014-15). Mullan is a member of the Strategic Group on A-level reform for the
 Edexcel Examining Board and a Consultant for Pearson. In this latter role, he was Chief Editor of
 two selections of Shakespeare criticism (compiled in collaboration with Hackett and Weis) to be
 studied by all Edexcel A-level English Literature students, anthologies in use since 2014. He is
 also a Member of the Advisory Board for the BL education website Discovering Literature, to
 which he, Freedman, and Ford have made 11 contributions on topics ranging from
 Shakespeare to Sylvia Plath.

 We have served as external members of senior academic appointment panels at, for example,
 Cambridge, KCL, Dundee, Lancaster, and St Gallen (Switzerland), and acted as judges for
 prizes including the British Academy’s Al-Rodhan Prize (Gilroy) and the British University Film
 and Video Council Learning on Screen Awards (Bruzzi). Invitations to deliver distinguished
 named lectures demonstrate our intellectual leadership. Aarts delivered the Jan Rusiecki
 Memorial Lecture at the University of Warsaw (2019). Mullan and Ford respectively delivered
 the 2018 and 2020 F.W. Bateson Memorial Lectures at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. Irvine
 delivered the Henry Loyn Memorial Lecture, University of Cardiff (2016), the H.M. Chadwick
 Memorial Lecture, University of Cambridge (2016), and the Toller Lecture, University of
 Manchester (2019). We have also accepted invitations to give a wide range of keynote and
 plenary lectures nationally and internationally, reaching as far afield as the Russian Federation
 (Aarts), USA (Irvine), Japan (Aarts), and Australia (Beaumont and Bruzzi).

 Our research excellence has been acknowledged through eminent prizes and awards. Examples
 include Bruzzi’s and Gilroy’s elections to the Fellowship of the British Academy (2013 and 2014
 respectively), and Ford’s This Dialogue of One: Essays on Poets from John Donne to Joan

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Murray, which won the Poetry Foundation’s 2015 Pegasus Award for Poetry Criticism ($7,500).
 Ford was also awarded the Poetry Foundation’s 2019 Editors’ Award for Reviewing ($1,000) for
 his ‘Entropy with Doxology’ (on A.R. Ammons) published in the January 2019 issue of Poetry.
 Gilroy won the hugely prestigious Holberg Prize in 2019 (€620,000), awarded annually to a
 scholar who has made outstanding contributions to research in humanities, social sciences, law,
 or theology; he was also awarded Honorary Doctorates in Liège (2016) and Copenhagen (2019).
 Irvine won the Humboldt Foundation’s Anneliese Maier Research Award in 2015 for her
 research excellence in early medieval studies. Yao was awarded the 2018 Yasuo Sakakibara
 Essay Prize by the American Studies Association for best paper presented by an international
 (non-US-based) scholar, and won an AHRC BBC New Generation Thinker award in 2020.

 The Department, in keeping with its distinguished history, will continue to shape the discipline
 through the work of its staff and research students, and the involvement of creative alumni such
 as Christopher Nolan and Stephen Knight (both awarded Honorary Degrees in the reporting
 period). We are a centre for rigorous and scholarly – but also innovative and increasingly diverse
 – research. Combining our traditional strengths with our emerging research interests and
 energies will ensure we remain central to national conversations about literature, culture, and
 education policy.




                                                                                           Page 16
