Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU)
Unit of Assessment: UOA 18 Law
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Unit context and structure


This is the second submission in Law from LJMU following our REF2014 submission. Since 2014,
we have developed a thriving, creative and intellectually diverse research environment with a sig-
nificant international presence and a bold and comprehensive research strategy.
All researchers from this submission were based in the School of Law until its disaggregation in
2019 into the School of Law (SoL), now part of the Faculty of Business and Law (BLW), and the
School of Justice Studies (SJS, including Criminal Justice, Criminology and Policing Studies) in
the Faculty of Arts, Professional and Social Studies (APS).
The UOA has 38.7 FTE (41 staff by headcount), of whom 33.7 FTE based in the SoL (36 by
headcount) and 5 in the SJS (5 by headcount). The UOA comprises two professors (Burke and
Panara), one reader (Lui) and 35.7 FTE on lectureship/senior lectureship. All staff are permanent
and 5 are part-time (2.7 FTE). The SoL comprises 12 staff (8.7 FTE) who are non-research active
legal practitioners who teach mainly on the Legal Practice Course (LPC).
Our UOA includes the outputs of 19 researchers: 14 from the SoL and 5 from the SJS. The out-
puts of 5 Criminal Justice staff who were members of the SoL until 2019 have been entered in the
UOA 20 Social Work & Social Policy.
The 19 researchers whose outputs are entered in the Law UOA are full members of the Centre for
the Study of Law in Theory and Practice (LTAP), which received research centre status in 2019.
LTAP also features 22 associate members whose careers we are developing in preparation for
the next REF. LTAP constitutes the overarching umbrella for our research, which looks at the law
in its theoretical and practical aspects. The Director of LTAP and Law UOA Coordinator is Profes-
sor Panara.
Full members of LTAP belong to three Areas within the research centre:
- Public, including Public International Law, Human Rights, International Criminal Law, European
Public Law and Animal Law (Bradshaw, Brooman, Cavandoli, Diver, Mariniello, Panara, Phil-
lips, Pulvirenti, Ventrella and Wilson);
- Business, including Financial Regulation, Corporate Governance, Banking Regulation, Compa-
ny and Insolvency Law (Chijioke-Oforji, Lui, Mamutse and Okanigbuan); and
- Criminal, including Criminal Justice, Criminology and Criminal Law (Burke, Corteen, Marshall,
McManus and Murray).
The Areas provide focal points and supportive environments for scholars and facilitate internal
and external research cooperation. Each Area has an experienced researcher as Lead: Wilson
(Senior Lecturer and Editor-in-Chief of Liverpool Law Review), Area Public; Lui (Reader), Area


                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Business; Burke (Professor), Area Criminal. The Clinical Legal Education Programme Leader,
Stalker, leads the Area Practice which will be our priority to develop during the next REF cycle.
The Director and the Area Leads sit on the Steering Group of LTAP alongside a representative of
postgraduate research students (PGRs, Graham) and an early-career researcher (ECR, Snow).
The Steering Group implements the research strategy, monitors the quality of research, attends to
issues of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and has responsibility for the governance of the
centre. The presence of a PGR and an ECR demonstrates the inclusiveness of the centre and
ensures support for these stakeholders.
The table below illustrates the development of our research culture since RAE2008.
  Evidence of sustainability
  Indicators            RAE2008                        REF2014               REF2021
  Category A staff      No Law submission              7                     19
  (FTE)                 from LJMU
  Quality profile UOA   NA                             2.48
  Number of submitted   NA                             22                    45
  research outputs                                     (1 monograph)         (6 monographs)
  PhD holders among     NA                             6 out of 7 (85%)      19 out of 19 (100%)
  Category A staff
  Submitted readers     NA                             Two readers (out of   One reader (out of 1)
  and professors                                       3) and 0 professors   and 2 professors (out
                                                       (out of 1)            of 2)
  PhD completions           NA                         0.5                   10
                                                                             (2 further completions have
                                                                             gone to UOA 20)
  Number of enrolled        NA                   12                          17
  PGRs                                           (July 2013)                 (July 2020)
  Research income           NA                   £34,498                     £549,000
  Key indicators of vitality and vibrancy during the REF2021 cycle
  Chief-Editorships of journals                  5
  Editorial board members of journals            9
  Personal invitations to leading conferences
                                                 20
  and research seminars
  Conferences, symposia and seminars hosted      22

Interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research


The UOA has a culture of supporting interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research that perme-
ates the entire REF cycle:
(a) Staff professional development
Some of the research seminars during this REF cycle exposed staff and PGRs to interdisciplinary
approaches to research (e.g. in 2015 Professor Richard Susskind, Oxford University, discussed
the impact of IT on law and court proceedings; in 2016 Professor Judith Masson, Bristol Universi-
ty, showcased her study of Discharge of Care Orders that, by combining quantitative and qualita-
tive research methods, illustrated the usefulness and potential impact of interdisciplinary work; in
2019 Professor Paulo Lisboa, LJMU’s School of Computer Science and Mathematics, spoke
about ethical implications of artificial intelligence (AI).


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(b) Cross-discipline collaborations
Staff are encouraged to explore synergies with other disciplines. Examples of these are the peda-
gogical research undertaken by Brooman with Rebecca Murphy of the School of Sport and Exer-
cise Sciences and the creation by Panara of the Law, Geopolitics & International Relations Net-
work with researchers from History, Policing Studies and International Relations, that led to an
externally funded symposium on Brexit in 2017 with experts from Sociology, History, Terrorism
Studies, Policing Studies, Law, International Relations, Political Science.
(c) Intersection publications
We published outputs at the intersection between Law and Literature (Diver), Law and ethical im-
plications of AI (Lui), and published our research in journals from other disciplines, including Polit-
ical Science (Panara, Wilson), Public Administration (Panara) and Education (Brooman).


Research integrity


A culture of research integrity underpins our activities. All proposals from staff and PGRs with eth-
ical implications are referred for approval to the University Research Ethics Committee. The SoL
promotes rigorous research conducted to the highest standards. Internal peer-review by senior
colleagues is recommended before submitting outputs, particularly for ECRs and mid-career re-
searchers. QR funding is allocated on a competitive basis following a rigorous peer-review con-
ducted by a college of professors.


Open research environment


During this REF cycle we introduced and fostered a culture of open access (OA). Staff received
training on OA. There was a substantial rise in the number of items deposited in the OA institu-
tional repository over the assessment period: from 0 items in 2014 to 27 in 2015, rising to 39 in
2019 and 81 in 2020. The considerable number of items that are not peer reviewed journal arti-
cles demonstrates staff going above and beyond REF guidelines. For example, the 81 deposited
items in 2020 include 1 book, 9 chapters, 1 conference paper, 1 infographic and 3 blog posts.
PGRs are required to deposit their theses as soon as possible after graduation. All theses com-
pleted during this REF have been deposited. Gold OA deals from publishers (e.g. Springer, Sage,
Wiley) are utilised and 9 papers have been made OA through Springer.


Strategic aims for research


During this REF we made substantial progress against all aspects of our REF2014 research
strategy:
       We developed the research career of staff as exemplified by the higher percentage of


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Category A staff with a PhD and the higher number of senior researchers among Category
        A staff.
       We maintained our focus on external research income, as demonstrated by the nearly 16-
        fold growth of our external funding.
       We favoured interdisciplinary and collaborative research, as illustrated by successful col-
        laborations with staff from other disciplines, including the LJMU’s Centre for the Study of
        Crime, Criminalisation and Social Exclusion in the SJS (Burke, Corteen and Murray) and
        the LJMU’s Centre for Public Health in the Faculty of Education, Health and Community
        (Mariniello).
       We expanded our cohort of research students while ensuring high completion rates, en-
        hancing the student experience and maximising students’ intellectual contribution to the
        UOA. Completions increased 20-fold and the number of enrolled PGRs has grown sub-
        stantially with no PGRs withdrawing during this cycle. Additionally, during this REF cycle
        for the first time the SoL had two GTAs (Scott and Usher) and two PGRs on LJMU schol-
        arships (Halewood, Lamb). PGRs presented papers at annual Faculty Research Days
        (Moorhead, O’Leary, Scott), engaged in the 3-minute thesis competition (French, Pimor)
        and presented their research at Library’s research cafés (Graham), at SoL’s events
        (French, Hale-Ross, Halewood, Lamb, Shaukat, Scott) and at annual LJMU’s Research
        Days (Graham). Law PGR students edit our peer reviewed and OA journal publishing stu-
        dent research (LJMU Student Law Review).


Our 2021-2026 strategy aims to achieve research excellence. This will be delivered through the
pursuit of the following strategic aims:
       We will develop a fourth Area within LTAP, Practice, to include research into clinical legal
        education, access to justice and the legal professions. In light of the changes to the Law
        curriculum arising from the Solicitors Qualifying Examination, this Area will become promi-
        nent within our UOA. To this purpose, during the initial part of 2020 we planned the ex-
        pansion of our Legal Advice Centre from 1.0 to 4.0 FTE and the investment of ca. £2m for
        the lease and the outfit of suitable premises.
       We will internationalise our profile by (a) supporting research collaborations with overseas
        researchers through QR funding; (b) applying for external funding specifically to support
        overseas visiting researchers; (c) engaging in PhD dual awards; and (d) organising inter-
        national events and conferences, beginning with the Annual Conference of the Academic
        Association of Contemporary European Studies (UACES), awarded to LJMU in May 2019.
       We will elevate the sustainability of our research environment through the appointment by
        the end of the 2020-21 academic year of two new professors and one reader in the SoL
        (posts approved in the first half of 2020). As a result, during the next REF cycle the num-
        ber of professors within the UOA will double from the current two to four and the number


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of readers from the current one to two.
       We will continue to increase our external funding by:
        (a) encouraging collaborations with leading research groups in the UK and overseas;
        (b) seizing funding opportunities from local and national authorities; and
        (c) engaging in Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (mKTPs).
       We will continue to support staff research by investing in the UOA; for example, through
        the appointment of Research assistants (RAs) and GTAs. The resources to fund these
        appointments shall come primarily from QR funding and the surplus generated through
        transnational education (TNE).
       We will support our PGRs through bursaries and scholarships funded through QR funding,
        international collaborations and our non-pay budget. The forthcoming senior appointments
        will create additional supervision capacity and facilitate the continuing growth of our PGR
        community. We will encourage our best masters students to undertake PGR study and will
        use the LJMU’s alumni discount to promote this transition.
       From 2021-22 the SoL will introduce teaching timetables that will allow each staff member
        to have a research day every week. It will also create a teaching relief scheme giving staff
        the opportunity to dedicate to research during an entire semester every three years.


Impact strategy


During this REF cycle we achieved all the objectives set out in our REF2014 impact strategy. Our
plans included the following:
(a) Academic-practitioners 2-way communication channels and participation in influential ‘think-
tanks’/networks.
An example of our achievements is the ICS1 submitted in REF3: From Veteranality to Criminolog-
ical Artivism: understanding the veteran-offender through transformative criminological research.
(b) Work in partnership with public authorities.
E.g., the ICS2 submitted in REF3: Shaping resettlement policy and practice: a case study part-
nership.
(c) Knowledge transfer to the public through the media.
Our achievements in this field are demonstrated by many interviews and commentary for national
and international press agencies and media networks, including Sky News, BBC News website,
BBC Newsbeat website, Channel 4 News, Daily Express, The Sun, The Guardian, TRT World
(Turkey), RT (Russia), TV Indus News (Pakistan), radio station KGO (San Francisco, US) and the
Kurdish satellite television (Burke, Lui, Panara, Phillips, Wilson and Lowe, who left LJMU in
2017), as well as articles in The Conversation (Pimor, Wilson and Lowe) and blog posts in The
Alan Turing Institute (Lui) and in the openDemocracy websites (Phillips).



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our objectives during the next cycle are as follows:
       Cultivating and expanding our current collaborations with local agencies, law firms, com-
        panies and other stakeholders, particularly in the professional and business services sec-
        tor in the Liverpool City Region, to facilitate knowledge exchange processes. We have, for
        example, already started work to promote EDI in the admissions policies of secondary
        schools in Liverpool (Stalker) and planned mKTPs to support local companies (Lui).
       Expanding the range of public authorities and organisations that benefit from our research
        to include UK parliament and government, as well as international stakeholders (interna-
        tional organisations and courts). We have already undertaken the training of staff in the
        European Court of Human Rights in relation to the promotion of human rights standards in
        the area of deprivation of liberty (Mariniello).
       Continuing to engage in wide-ranging knowledge transfer through the media. The SoL will
        facilitate this through the LJMU’s Corporate Communications department and the ap-
        pointment of a member of staff to the role of liaison with the media.
These objectives will be achieved by prioritising the allocation of funding to research activities that
are conducive to impact; by continuing to reward impact for career advancement purposes;
through a staffing strategy that takes into account impact and potential impact of research when
making new appointments; and by encouraging and facilitating the creation of suitable 2-way
communication channels between our researchers and the stakeholders of our research (e.g.,
giving evidence to parliamentary select committees; participation in important working groups
within the locality, including the Professional and Business Services Board of the LEP and the
local Access to Justice Committee).


2. People


Staffing strategy


Our staffing strategy during this REF cycle was driven by our research vision and desire to in-
crease the number of researchers and enhance the quality of our research, as well as to retain
our best scholars.
Our policy has been to recruit ECRs with PhDs or nearly completed PhDs and promising research
profiles emerging from publications and publication plans (e.g., Chijioke-Oforji 2019, Okanig-
buan, Phillips and Pulvirenti all 2018).
We also appointed mid-career academics with a strong research record (e.g., Mariniello 2020,
McManus 2019, Cavandoli, Diver and Ventrella all 2018, Mamutse 2017, Marshall 2016 and
Corteen 2015). Our approach has been successful as demonstrated by the fact that 12 out of the
19 Category A FTE submitted in this REF were recruited during this cycle.
At the same time, we developed the research profiles of staff in post before 2014, with the result

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that 4 Category A staff not returned in the REF2014 are returned in this REF.
To ensure that our selection processes are rigorous and selective, at least one professor is al-
ways involved in the appointment of new staff. For professorial appointments, interview panels
comprise the PVC Research & Knowledge Exchange and one professor from another university.
Additionally, before the chair appointment can be confirmed, independent references are obtained
from at least two other external professors.
For the purposes of promotion, staff, including part-time staff, are guided towards the relevant
promotion threshold by their line manager at the point in the annual cycle when University criteria
are circulated and through the annual individual Personal Development & Performance Review
(PDPR) process. All staff interested in seeking promotion are encouraged to seek guidance from
the Director of the SoL. The University runs sessions where the promotion criteria are explained
and guidance is offered. The effectiveness of these mechanisms, as well as the progress of the
UOA in terms of its research profile, emerges from the considerable number, if compared to the
overall size of the UOA, of internal promotions and appointments to senior research roles (4). Pa-
nara was bestowed a personal chair in 2017; Burke obtained a readership in 2016 and professo-
rial appointment in 2017; Lui was promoted to readership in 2018.
The UOA retained most of its talent during this REF cycle and lost only a small number of re-
searchers who moved to research posts elsewhere (Askew, MMU; Clough, Northumbria Universi-
ty; Singh, Liverpool University) or left academia (Davies; Sankey), while others took up promo-
tions elsewhere (Carline, Leicester University).
The demographic profile of the UOA is encouraging and sustainable. We have a balanced combi-
nation of Category A staff in senior positions (3), mid-career academics (12) and ECRs (4). None
of the 19 Category A staff whose outputs are part of this submission is close to retirement.
The sustainability of our research environment received a boost during this REF cycle through the
appointment of senior academics as external members and advisors of LTAP. These include Pro-
fessor András Jakab (Salzburg University), Professor Martin Nettesheim (Tubingen University),
Professor Matteo Nicolini (Verona University) and Professor Elizabeth Smart (Sheffield Hallam
University).


Staff development


Research is an element in the UOA’s standard PDPR process which examines specific training
needs. The UOA Coordinator discusses research plans, monitors progress, offers advice and
gives information to colleagues on a regular basis. Senior researchers and Area Leads of LTAP
provide advice for staff at any stage in their career. Staff are also encouraged to complete annual
research plans which are discussed in meetings with the UOA Coordinator.
The SoL supports its researchers through a substantial annual research allowance of minimum
154 and maximum 634 hours (38.4% of overall workload) depending on the quantity and quality


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of the research outputs, as well as on impact and income generation. The SoL acknowledges in
the workload the supervision of PGR students, journal editorships and time for staff PhD study.
Six Category A staff completed their PhD during this REF cycle while working at LJMU (two by
publication).


During this REF cycle we held three comprehensive reviews of research quality in 2018, 2019
and 2020. These were carried out by external and internal reviewers who provided constructive
feedback and advice to staff in relation to outputs and research plans. The SoL runs a mentoring
scheme for ECRs. Senior researchers support junior colleagues enthusiastically. A considerable
number of early and mid-career researchers (eight in 2018-19 and five in 2019-20) participated in
the University-funded REF Uplift Scheme led by professors and readers from the SoL. Each par-
ticipant received up to £2k to conduct their research, attended monthly training sessions and re-
ceived regular feedback. Many of those colleagues achieved significant responsibility for inde-
pendent research status (SRIR), in accordance with LJMU’s Code of Practice for REF2021
(Cavandoli, Chijioke-Oforji, Okanigbuan, Pulvirenti, Ventrella). Chijioke-Oforji said: “The
REF-Uplift scheme provided a golden opportunity to pursue my research ideas with outstanding
mentorship and support.”


Collaborations between more and less experienced colleagues take place in our UOA. In May
2020, for example, Brooman encouraged a colleague new to research (Forster) to write a paper
in the field of Animal Law, published in 2019 in The UK Journal of Animal Law, a leading journal in
that area of studies.


During this REF cycle the UOA Law employed five part-time fixed-term RAs to support flagship
projects led by Lui on AI and banking regulation (2017 and 2018) and Murray on veterans in the
criminal justice system (2015-19).


The University is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
(Concordat). During the first year of appointment, new starters and ECRs in the SoL are not given
administrative roles and during the first three years their workload is protected through a gener-
ous role development allowance (394 hours, nearly 1/4 of the overall workload).
The University’s Leadership & Development Foundation provides a range of research-related
training, skill development and networking opportunities for staff at all levels of experience, capa-
bility and FTE status as part of the Award-Winning ACTivator programme. This delivers bespoke
training on a variety of topics including funding, ethics, research supervision, getting published.
From 2016 to 2020 31 staff in the UOA have attended 19 ACTivator workshops, the most popular
topics being grant support and writing retreats. Training in PGR supervision is mandatory for new
staff and staff new to supervision.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These training opportunities have increased our supervision capacity as reflected in the growth of
our PGR community. They have also contributed to the increase in the external income generated
by the UOA. Murray commented: “As an ECR at LJMU I found the ACTivator programme invalu-
able. The link between attending a course and progress in my own research was clear. Since
then, I have been successful in securing funding 3 times.”


Aligned with the Concordat, we are committed to the development of research staff on fixed-term
contracts (5 during this REF cycle). They undergo induction and annual appraisal processes and
have access to the same training and development resources as others. Two research staff have
gone on to obtain substantive posts shortly after leaving the SoL. Chatterjee, who worked as a RA
in 2018, is currently a full-time Assistant Professor at Techno India University. Since 2020
McGowan, another former RA, has held a permanent and full-time post as a lecturer in the SJS at
LJMU.


We have established a culture of regular exchanges with external public bodies and staff regularly
undertake roles in external organisations. Diver, for example, uses her expertise on Social Hous-
ing and Welfare State Legislation as a member of the Board of Directors of APEX Housing, a
charity and social housing provider in Northern Ireland. In May 2020 she was asked to become a
trustee of CascaidR, a social care law charity in England. The SoL supports memberships condu-
cive to knowledge exchange opportunities. For example, as part of his collaboration with the UK
Centre for Animal Law, Brooman co-authored the report Brexit – Getting the Best Deal for Ani-
mals (January 2018), which was sent to high-level politicians including the then Secretary of State
for Environment Michael Gove. The UOA also funded activities, including Phillips’ travels to Tur-
key in 2018 to join a human rights group monitoring the elections in Istanbul and a criminal trial
against a Kurdish politician as part of his research on the rights of the Kurdish minority, and Lui’s
meeting in London with the Alan Turing Institute as part of her research into AI in banking.


Impact is one of the elements included in the annual evaluations of staff performance, both in the
PDPR and in the annual determination of the research allowance. We enable and support staff to
achieve impact through this allowance and the prioritisation of funding to research proposals that
reflect our impact strategy.


Research students


The UOA has a thriving, integrated PGR culture. Our PGR numbers are excellent for a UOA of
our size, as reflected in the ratio 17 (current PGR population):19 (Category A staff). Our stronger
research profile following our submission in the REF2014 facilitated the recruitment of excellent
applicants.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During this REF cycle the UOA Law had two fully LJMU-funded PhD scholarships (Halewood,
2016-19; Lamb, 2017-20) and two GTAs (Usher, 2015-17, now a Lecturer at Buckingham Univer-
sity; Scott, 2015-18). Suitably qualified PGRs taught at undergraduate level as sessional mem-
bers of staff (Lamb) or on fixed-term contracts (Hale-Ross, 2014-15; Graham and Halewood,
2019-20) and at master’s level as guest lecturers (Lamb and Shaukat, 2018-). Two international
students, Alshamsi from the UAE and Eltweri from Libya, received financial support from their re-
spective embassies.


PGRs are supervised by teams of academics and currently 12 members of the UOA are involved
in supervision as Director of Studies or 2nd/3rd Supervisor. Staff are encouraged to supervise
PGRs. Staff who do not currently supervise are involved as independent panel members on stu-
dents’ progress review panels and as internal examiners. Six of our current students are jointly
supervised by members of this UOA with members of other UOAs at LJMU (11, 17, 20 and 34),
reflecting our interdisciplinary approach to supervision and the interdisciplinary nature of our stu-
dents’ research (e.g., Graham’s thesis on electronic personhood and AI is jointly supervised by
Lui and a member of staff from Computer Science).


Our PGRs attend the Doctoral Academy Training Programme and training opportunities created
by the UOA, including research seminars, writing retreats and research away-days. We encour-
age our PGRs to present their work at research seminars and external conferences and provide
funding for travel. APS, since 2016, and BLW, since 2019, created funds for PGR student travel
and professional development (£27.5k in total pa). The positive impact of our initiatives is demon-
strated by the PRES 2017, where 100% of respondents stated that their research skills in apply-
ing appropriate research methodologies had developed since they had started the PhD journey
(10% above sector average), whilst 83% commented positively on receiving training to develop
their skills (6% above sector average).


PGRs can apply for part-time RA positions. Lamb, for example, worked as an RA for Lui in 2016-
17. PGRs are hired to assist in conference organisation, offering them important networking op-
portunities, e.g., in July 2017 Lamb helped organise a 2-day symposium on Brexit externally
funded by UACES; French played a role in securing the organisation of the UACES conference at
LJMU. Our staff are proactive in supporting PGRs, for example, by giving them mock vivas.


Many of our PGRs go on to successful academic careers. Examples include Gosling, LJMU;
Hale-Ross, Leeds Beckett University; and O’Leary, Chester University. To help with employability,
UOA staff collaborate with PGRs on joint publications. For example, Lui co-authored a journal
article with Lamb; Panara co-authored with French an entry for the Encyclopaedia of Public Inter-
national Law (OUP). Supervisors regularly comment on draft articles and conference papers and


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
advise on publication procedures.


Our PGRs benefit from dedicated spaces in the Redmonds Building and in the John Foster Build-
ing, the same buildings occupied by most academics from the SoL and the SJS, ensuring that
they can have daily contact with them and occupy a strong position in our research culture. PGRs
also benefit from bookable quiet study space in the Library. PGRs in the Business Area of LTAP
(Ebikake, Graham, Kadzirange, Saeed and Worme) hold regular meetings during which they
practise their presentation skills and give feedback to each other. All respondents to the 2017
PRES acknowledged the availability of outstanding resources including in particular the working
space and the online and library facilities (+19% above sector average).


Equality & diversity


The UOA embraces the University’s comprehensive policy on equality, diversity & inclusion (EDI).
The University’s EDI Team has networks for all groups of staff representing key equality strands
and runs workshops and training events. All appointments and promotions are performed through
gender balanced panels. Academic appointments and promotions to readerships and chairs are
routinely monitored through an equality impact assessment and reported in terms of EDI.


The UOA features a balanced male/female ratio among staff both in terms of headcount (whereby
53.7% of staff are female and 46.3% male) and of FTE (whereby 52.4% of staff are female and
47.6% male). A similar ratio exists among staff submitted as Category A, 10 such staff being fe-
male (52.6%) and 9 male (47.4%).


BAME colleagues are circa 1/5 of our staff base. This figure includes a senior researcher. A simi-
lar percentage of colleagues submitted as Category A staff are BAME (21%). Additionally, about a
quarter of our staff, including a senior researcher, are originally from countries other than the UK,
which encourages research with international focus and facilitates contacts with researchers and
groups from other countries.


The productivity of Category A staff varies marginally between groups, with males more produc-
tive than females (2.55 submitted outputs on average against 2.1). BAME researchers have been
the most productive with an average of 2.5 outputs compared to 2.26 from other colleagues, fol-
lowed by researchers not originally from the UK (2.37) and UK researchers (2.27). ECRs have
entered 1.25 outputs on average.


Women and BAME colleagues perform leadership roles in LTAP. Of the four Areas within the re-
search centre, two are led by women, one of whom is BAME. Female colleagues (Lui and Stalk-


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
er) attended the University’s Female Professors & Readers Forum, where they have received
mentoring from senior LJMU academics, and the Aurora Programme (Bradshaw, Lui, Sankey,
Stalker and Stirk). An example of the impact of these confidence-boosting and informative oppor-
tunities is Lui’s promotion to readership in 2018.


Policies are applied equally to part-time and full-time staff. Teaching load and the research allow-
ances apply to part-time staff pro rata. Staff returning from maternity leave, as well as other ex-
tended leave for reasons relating to ill-health or family commitments, are supported in their return
to research through the allocation of a generous research allowance and limited teaching respon-
sibilities during the initial period or through a phased return to work. Two members of staff at the
SoL work on compressed hours in response to their special needs deriving from disability or
childcare commitments. One of them, due to their disability, received a single occupancy office.
One member of staff returned to work after a long period of sickness and we supported them
through a substantial research allowance to facilitate their return (394 hours, 1/4 of the overall
workload).


There are two PGR Coordinators in the SoL (a man and a woman), which ensures a gender bal-
anced approach to recruitment and administration of doctoral studies. Interviews for PGR stu-
dentships are conducted by gender balanced panels. Our current PGR community comprises 17
students (11 males, 6 females) of whom 7 are BAME. Females are significantly underrepresented
among PGRs compared to undergraduates (currently ca. 70%) and PGTs (ca. 60%), whilst there
is a good presence of BAME (42.8%) compared to undergraduates (ca. 20%).


The SoL is currently planning an application for an Athena Swan award and is actively involved in
the Race Equality Charter application of the University. This will create even more focus on gen-
der and race equality in the near future.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income


The total income of the UOA increased from £34,498 during the REF2014 to £549,000 during this REF
cycle. The wide range of these sources of funding evidences the high quality of our research. Our in-
come includes funding from some of the most competitive and prestigious bodies, including the ESRC
(Burke, 2014-15), two Small Research Grants of the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (Panara,
2016-17; Pillay, who left LJMU in 2019, 2018) and two from the AHRC (Pillay, 2018; Mariniello,
2020), but also the European Commission (Burke, 2012-15), as well as other organisations and chari-
ties including The Great British Sasakawa Foundation (Marshall, 2019), the Royal British Legion, In-


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
terserve Justice, Forces in Mind Trust, Foundation for Art and Creative Technology Liverpool: FACT,
Phoenix Futures and the Probation Institute (Murray, 2017-21), Local Solutions (McManus, March
2020). Not only our staff but also our PGRs have submitted successful funding bids, e.g., Lamb was
awarded a NORTIA £2.3k bursary for a 2-month research period at University College Dublin.


Three members of staff received prestigious research fellowships. Panara received a Fellowship
for Experienced Researchers from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation for a sabbatical peri-
od of 18 months at Tubingen University in 2014-15; in March 2020 Mariniello was awarded the
same Fellowship to spend one year at the Humboldt University of Berlin; Lui had a Max Planck
Institute’s Research Fellowship for three months in 2015 at the Max Planck Institute for Compara-
tive and International Private Law in Hamburg. All these sabbaticals led to the completion of mon-
ographs (Panara, Springer, 2015; Lui, Routledge, 2016) or will lead to the completion of a mono-
graph (Mariniello).


Symposia and conferences have been supported through external funding. UACES funded a 2-
day international symposium on Brexit (Panara 2017) and in May 2020 the Society of Legal
Scholars awarded Lui and Mamutse £3k for a 1-day conference on Corporate Governance & In-
solvency Law.


Infrastructure & Facilities


Excellent physical infrastructure and research resources have enhanced our ability to develop as
a research community. In 2012 the entire SoL moved into a dedicated floor in the newly built
Redmonds Building. During this entire REF cycle prior to COVID-19 staff benefited from being
based on the same floor, facilitating the circulation of ideas across the SoL/UOA and leading to
joint research outputs and funding applications. All staff have a dedicated workspace in a multi-
occupancy office comprising maximum 5 staff and 10 staff have a single occupancy office. Staff
who require a quiet space to study can book it in the Library including during weekends.


The UOA operates in the context of BLW and APS. It benefits from the support of a full-time re-
search funding coordinator in APS and of a 0.2 FTE research funding coordinator in BLW. The
0.2 FTE BLW research funding coordinator is a new post that was created in 2020 as part of our
investments to enhance our research environment. The two coordinators provide guidance to staff
on research grant applications and funding bodies and help bring together researchers with simi-
lar interests for major funding initiatives. They also advise on first drafts of applications. The Fi-
nance Department of the University helps staff with costing projects while the new digital Grants
and Projects (GaP) system facilitates the submission process. A rigorous internal peer review
process takes place in both Faculties: typically, two experienced researchers review and give ad-


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
vice on funding applications before submission. This support for staff has been instrumental in
increasing research income during this REF and securing funding from highly selective schemes.


BLW’s allocation of QR funding to individual and group research within the SoL was substantial:
£47,029 during the entire REF cycle, facilitating a number of achievements including part of the
research underpinning our two impact case studies. The University also allocates every year
funding from the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). In 2019 Lui, Chijioke-Oforji and
Okanigbuan obtained £8,920 from this scheme to work with partners in Nigeria, including the
University of Lagos and Igbenidion University on a project on access to digital financial payment
services for women and minority groups in rural areas of Nigeria, which is likely to generate im-
pact for the next REF. All staff receive an annual allowance of ca. £1k to support conference at-
tendance and networking activities.


The SoL organised several writing retreats for staff, including one virtual writing retreat during
COVID-19, some specifically for ECRs in the context of the REF Uplift Scheme and others for all
staff and PGRs. These led to high-quality publications and facilitated the timely completion of PhD
theses by a number of PGRs. The UOA also organises regular research away-days during which
staff, particularly ECRs and PGRs, present their work in progress receiving constructive advice
and feedback. The away-days were also instrumental to the development of the SoL’s research
strategy which originated from the group work conducted by ca. 20 colleagues during one away-
day in 2015.


The UOA supports our extensive programme of research events in LTAP through the non-pay
budget. For example, in 2016 Professor Joanne Conaghan, Chair of the REF2021 Law Sub-
Panel, delivered a well-attended training session for staff and PGRs on 3* and 4* research. In
2018 Cavandoli and Pimor received funding for a symposium celebrating the 70th anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Wilson organised two symposia on UK Constitutional
Law in 2015 and 2016 and one interdisciplinary seminar on Catalunya’s secession referendum in
2017. Lui organised two international conferences, both externally funded; the first in 2017 fund-
ed by the SLS on Corporate Governance, and the second in 2018 funded by The Honourable So-
ciety of the Inner Temple on FinTech, AI and the Law. The Criminal Area of LTAP is home to the
Criminal Justice seminar series with external speakers and attended by staff, students, practition-
ers and open to the general public. It also hosts the Merseyside Probation Practitioners forum
which is held four times a year. We also organise seminars in collaboration with other institutions,
including The North West British Society of Criminology Seminar in 2016, which was a collabora-
tive endeavour of our UOA (Murray), Liverpool University, the International Criminological Re-
search Unit, The Howard League and FACT Liverpool.



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


(a) Research collaboration across the University and beyond
To ensure the vitality and sustainability of our research culture, the UOA is proactive in hosting
and supporting a diverse range of collaborations with research institutes, universities and organi-
sations across the globe. There are examples of this from all the Areas of LTAP.
Area Public:
Panara is a member of the International Research Network of the Jean Monnet Centre of Excel-
lence PRRIDE at Tubingen University. This collaboration led, inter alia, to the presentation of a
paper at a conference at Tubingen University in 2017 and to a chapter in a collection edited by
Professor Gabriele Abels and Jan Battke featuring some of the leading scholars in the field of
federal and regional studies (Edward Elgar: 2019).
In February 2020 Mariniello secured one AHRC £451,994 grant in collaboration with Queen’s
Belfast University, Dublin Trinity College and Al Quds University (September 2020-August 2022).
The project shall assess the humanitarian vulnerabilities of the Palestinian Bedouin at risk of dis-
placement in an area of the West Bank allocated for the expansion of Israeli settlements.
In 2016-17 Diver wrote the UK country report on cross-border proceedings in Family Law mat-
ters, a project coordinated by the T.M.C. Asser Institute, The Hague, and Utrecht University, The
Netherlands, and funded by the European Commission’s Justice Programme (€5M).
Area Business:
Chijioke-Oforji is an external member of the City University Digital Trade Research Group which
led to a paper for the International Trade Regulation Journal. Okanigbuan published joint articles
in the Journal of Corporate Law Studies (2019) and in the Journal of Law and Society (2020) with
scholars from Russell Group universities, including Professors Andrew Keay and Joan Loughrey
(Leeds University), Professor Terry McNulty and Abigail Stewart (Liverpool University).
Area Criminal:
Burke collaborated with Gwen Robinson (Sheffield University) and Matthew Millings (LJMU) on a
successful ESRC funded project (£180k, 2014-15) on the implementation of the Transforming
Rehabilitation agenda in one Community Rehabilitation Contract area. Since 2013 Burke also co-
organises with the Centre for Gender, Community and Social Justice at Cambridge University the
Bill McWilliams lecture series about contemporary probation practice. Since 2020 McManus is
the UK and Western Europe Lead for the Global Law Enforcement and Public Health project on
the future of policing and public health globally.
The UOA also encourages interdisciplinary collaborations with other research groups at LJMU.
Murray, for example, leads the Reimagining the Veteran research group in the Centre for the
Study of Crime, Criminalisation and Social Exclusion. Mariniello collaborates with researchers
from the Public Health Institute on a GCRF funded project on the health, penal and judicial
measures taken to mitigate COVID-19 in Malawian and Zimbabwean prisons (£24.4k). Burke co-


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
authored outputs with Millings, Ragonese and Taylor, all based in the SJS and entered in UOA
20.


(b) Contribution to academic discipline


Staff peer reviewed research proposals on behalf of important funding bodies in the UK and over-
seas. For example, Panara reviewed funding bids for the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust and
the Netherlands Organisations for Scientific Research (NWO), whilst Ventrella reviewed pro-
posals for the ESRC.


Staff served as editors and/or are editorial and advisory board members of law journals. Burke,
for example, was Editor of the Probation Journal from 2007 to 2016 and since 2009 has been a
member of the Editorial Board of the European Journal of Probation. Wilson is Chief Editor of the
Liverpool Law Review (Springer). Panara is a member of the Scientific Board of the Revista Gen-
eral de Derecho Público Comparado and regularly referees papers for the same journal.
Brooman is on the Editorial Board of two of the most important Animal Law journals, the Journal
of Animal Ethics (Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics) and the UK Journal for Animal Law (UK Centre
for Animal Law). In 2020 Diver, Stalker and Wilson founded the LJMU Student Law Journal that
they lead as Chief Editors supported by a team of 14 Law PGRs. Murray guest-edited a special
edition of Illness, Crisis & Loss (2019).
Members of the UOA acted as referees for articles in peer reviewed journals from the UK and
overseas, including:
- The British Journal of Criminology, Criminology and Criminal Justice and The Howard Journal of
Crime and Justice (Burke);
- Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance and Liverpool Law Review (Lui);
- Nordic Journal of International Law, Journal of International Criminal Justice, International Crim-
inal Law Review, European Journal of International Law, Melbourne Journal of International Law
and New Journal of European Criminal Law (Mariniello);
- Sexual Abuse: A Journal of Research and Treatment, Journal of Interpersonal Violence, Polic-
ing: A Journal of Policy and Practice and International Journal of Police Science and Management
(McManus);
- European Public Law, Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law, European Year-
book of Constitutional Law, Italian Review of Regional Science, Revista General de Derecho Pub-
lico Comparado and Liverpool Law Review (Panara);
- Journal of International Law, Ethics & International Affairs, International Politics, International
Law Research, International Journal of Climate Change and Health and Human Rights Journal
(Wilson).
In 2017 Lui received the Outstanding Reviewer Award from the Journal of Financial Regulation


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Compliance.
Staff also reviewed book proposals for distinguished publishers, including OUP (Mariniello and
Panara), Hart Publishing (Mariniello) and Routledge (Mariniello and Panara).


Staff regularly act as external examiners of PGRs at universities in the UK and overseas. These
include: Burke (Manchester University, 2020; Middlesex University, 2020); Lui (Deakin Universi-
ty, Australia, 2017; University of South Wales, 2020); Mariniello (Urbino University, Italy, 2017;
Bolton University, 2017); Panara (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy, 2015 and 2017;
Hull University, 2016 and 2020); and Wilson (Liverpool University, 2015; Lancaster University,
2017; Hull University, 2018).
Following a competitive application process, in 2019 the SoL was successful in its bid to host the
annual conference of UACES. This is the most important interdisciplinary conference in the field
European Studies.
In 2017 Brooman organised at LJMU the first conference on Animal Law held in the UK and in
2019 he organised a second Animal Law conference at LJMU which with 139 attendees and 39
papers was the largest ever held globally.


(c) Recognition of staff research and expertise


Staff hold leading positions in professional subject associations and learned societies, including
SLSA (Lui), Howard League for Penal Reform (Burke, 2010-) and Royal British Legion (Murray).
Burke is a Fellow of the Probation Institute (2015-). This honour is awarded to individuals who
‘have made an outstanding contribution to probation or community justice and are recognised ex-
perts in their field’. Since 2015 Brooman has been a Fellow by invitation of the Oxford Centre for
Animal Ethics in recognition of his contribution to this field.
Okanigbuan is a graduate member of The Chartered Governance Institute and in October 2019
was invited to speak to the students of the Institute. In recognition of his contribution in the field of
Comparative Public Law, in 2016 Panara was nominated by Dr Yseult Marique (German Universi-
ty of Administrative Sciences, Speyer, and Essex University) to mentor 20 ECRs from across Eu-
rope in the context of the British Academy-funded research network ‘European Legal Identity’.


Staff have presented their research at leading international conferences, including UACES,
Council for European Studies, SLSA, SLS, International Society of Family Law, British Society of
Criminology, European Society of Criminology and American Society of Criminology. They have
also received invitations as keynote speakers or to present their research in the UK and overseas.
Burke, for example, delivered keynote speeches at the International Symposium of Probation,
hosted by the French Prison Administration (2018), to mark the 60th anniversary of probation in
France, and at the closing conference of the EU-funded COST action ‘Bridging research, policy


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and practice’ (Brussels, 2016). Lui delivered keynote speeches at the Annual International Con-
ference on ‘Law, Economics and Politics’ at Cambridge University in 2016 and at the PROTAX
Conference ‘New methods to prevent, investigate and mitigate corruption and tax crimes in the
EU’ organised by the EU Research Commission Agency (Brussels, 2019). Murray delivered two
keynote speeches on veteranality at events hosted by FACT (2017) and by No Offence in collabo-
ration with FACT (2015). McManus was the keynote speaker at the National Police Chiefs Coun-
cil and Multi-Agency Safeguarding Hub conference (2019) and was an invited speaker at the
Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) conference opened by the London Mayor Sadiq
Khan (2019). Panara received invitations to speak on subsidiarity and multi-level governance at
conferences at Dubrovnik University (2015), Salford University (British Academy event, 2016),
Tubingen University (2017), Budapest University (2017) and Ljubljana University (2017).


Staff also delivered research seminars on invitation at universities in the UK and overseas. Marin-
iello delivered lectures for the PhD students in Global Studies at Urbino University, Italy (2018);
Wilson and Lui gave staff and PGR student seminars at Verona University in 2019 and 2020 re-
spectively; Panara at Tubingen University in 2014 and 2015 and at Aberdeen University in 2016.
Burke spoke at Sheffield Hallam University (2016), Nottingham University (2017) and Strathclyde
University (2018).


(d) Visiting appointments and Fellowships


Marshall is a Visiting Scholar at the Institute of Criminology, University of Cambridge (2016-) and
a Fellow of The African Institute for Crime, Policy and Governance Research (2016-). The SoL
hosted two overseas visitors: Professor Matteo Nicolini (Verona University) in 2019 and 2020, and
Professor Sarah Buhler (University of Saskatchewan, Canada) in 2019. These collaborations led
to successful external funding applications (€20k, Spanish Ministry of Education, Panara and
Nicolini inter alia, 2019) and joint research outputs (Stalker and Buhler, forthcoming book chapter,
2020). The fellowships of Lui (Max Planck Institute, Hamburg), Panara and Mariniello (Alexan-
der von Humboldt Foundation) have been mentioned previously.


(e) Research engagement with external organisations and practitioner groups


Staff from LTAP have provided legal and policy advice to various professional bodies and play a
wide variety of advisory roles in external organisations.
Area Public:
Mariniello collaborated with the European Court of Human Rights and provided training for judg-
es and legal officers in Strasbourg (2017). He also acted as an Assistant Counsel and Member of
the Legal Team representing Gaza Victims in the ‘Palestine Situation’ before the International


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Criminal Court (2019) and delivered pro bono legal advice in International Criminal Law, including
the drafting of a legal memo for the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights (2018). Staff also en-
gage with parliament and other legislative assemblies. Wilson provided written evidence to the
House of Commons Public Administration & Constitutional Affairs Select Committee Inquiry on
the role of Parliament in the Constitution which was accepted and published on the Committee’s
website (2018). In 2015 Diver delivered two seminars, one on UK adoption legislation and one on
the Bedroom Tax, as part of the Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series of the Northern Ireland
Assembly. The second fed into the Welfare Reform in Northern Ireland.
Area Business:
Chijioke-Oforji is a Research Affiliate of the SovereigNet Research Group at The Fletcher SoL
and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Massachusetts, US. The SovereigNet team advises the Interna-
tional Forum of sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) on the Santiago Principles and SWF regulatory
governance.
Area Criminal:
Burke organises a series of events at LJMU in conjunction with the Merseyside branch of NAPO
(National Association of probation Officers) aimed at bringing together academics and practition-
ers in order to promote a dialogue between the two groups. In 2012-15 he was an Investigator on
the ‘Reducing Reoffending’ project funded by the European Commission (€80k). This project was
a collaboration between LJMU, Knowsley Borough Council and researchers from The Hague
(Netherlands) and Turin (Italy). Since 2009 Burke has been a member of CREDOS, an interna-
tional network of researchers and practitioners interested in the effective development of offender
supervision. This collaboration led to the publication of the edited collection Evidence-Based Skills
in Criminal Justice (Policy Press/Bristol University Press: 2018). Mc Manus produced over 40
knowledge transfer reports to the National Crime Agency (NCA) and the Serious Crime and Ana-
lytical Section (SCAS). Some resulted in amendments to NCA and SCAS practice, such as, the
amended algorithm which uses crime scene behaviours and pre-conviction data to narrow down
suspect parameters. The results were presented to FBI and Interpol. Murray was an expert advi-
sor on the South Yorkshire Armed Forces Covenant Project in collaboration with Sheffield Hallam
University (2017). She is a research partner for The Probation Institute Veterans Research and
works closely with the Advisory Group of the Institute (2019-21).




                                                                                            Page 19
