Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 28: History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

We have grown. In REF2014, History submitted all 19 staff; it has now doubled in size. This
submission focuses on 42 current permanent staff, 4 current affiliated postdoctoral research
fellows (PDRFs), staff who have left during the past seven years and our postgraduate research
students (PGRs). Expansion of the Department of History drove this growth: 23 of its 38 current
full-time staff have joined since 01/08/2013. Of 28 appointments in this period, 24 were
Lectureships. Challenges associated with this unprecedented growth include mentoring and
supporting the career development of a substantial cohort of early career colleagues. Opportunities
result from the significant enhancement and diversification of research capacity. This is already
bearing fruit in the form of significant institutional innovation, high levels of grant capture, a diverse
and influential portfolio of research activity, and increases in the range and depth of our impact and
engagement.

The UoA is distinctive internationally for its unparalleled strengths in environmental history,
pioneering work in co-production with communities and creative professionals, unique online open
access platform ‘Historical Photographs of China’, and interventions in contemporary controversy
over Britain’s historic role in the Transatlantic slave trade. A diverse group of historians are
supported at all stages of their careers, deploying a wide range of approaches and methods, to
advance and change the discipline and to secure a significant global public impact.

Our expansion was developed in alignment with Faculty strategic initiatives. The aim was to
diversify our research and teaching while also consolidating some existing strengths: four posts
were established in Environmental, and Global History (2013-14), six in Digital Humanities,
Environmental History, and European History (2015-16), four in Global, and International History,
and New Political History (2016-17), and four in Environmental, Global, and Public History (2017-
18), joined later by Professor of the History of Slavery, Otele. A planned further cohort will replace
departing staff, with some posts re-orientated to support these key strategic priority areas.

The UoA now has outstanding strengths in five key research areas, outlined below, in a research
strategy co-designed by all colleagues to articulate existing strengths and to shape the historic
expansion in staff numbers. The REF2014 submission identified key research excellence in
Medieval and Early Modern, Contemporary, and Global, Transnational and Colonial history. These
still underpin our activities, but the strategy reformulation, and the inclusion of History of Art
Department staff, led us to identify five thematic concentrations that now provide the focus for UoA
activity across research and impact initiatives. Each of the five groups has a co-ordinating team,
and a modest budget. They are overseen by the Department’s Research Committee, directed by
the Research Co-Directors, which meets regularly and includes Departmental Head, Impact
Director, research group leads, and postdoctoral and postgraduate research representatives.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    1. Environmental history
The University of Bristol (UoB) has exceptional strength in this area. Coates is one of the founders
of this sub-discipline. The team – unusually – includes expertise in both the natural and built
environments. Our research is ground-breaking in the history of human-animal relationships
(Coates, Flack, Saha*, Wei), the natural environment (Dudley, Haines, Howkins), and the cities
that we live in (Bates, Hanna). Our environmental history has both local roots (from inner city
Bristol to Quantocks apple orchards) and global reach (from Georgian Dublin, and Antarctica, to
damming projects in India and Pakistan). No university beyond the United States has seen as
many articles published in Environmental History, the world’s leading journal in this field. Before its
award to Prokic, no PhD student outside North America had ever secured the American Society
for Environmental History’s Rachel Carson Dissertation Prize in its 25-year history. UoB will host
the 2021 European Society for Environmental History Conference; the first time this event has
been held in England.

This research area already has outstanding depth, from globally recognised research leaders,
through investment in four new positions (Dudley, Flack, Haines, Howkins), to a vibrant and
inclusive research culture that includes undergraduates discussing and publishing their work
alongside senior scholars. Strong engagement with international partners has seen Natural
Environment Research Council (NERC) Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) awards to
Haines (2), and Dudley, in each case working with natural scientists. The strength of the group
attracts international visitors from the US (1), Japan (2, funded by JSPS), Norway (1) and China (3,
China Scholarship Council (CSC)). Key partnerships include the Met Office Hadley Centre for
Climate Science, National Trust, Quantocks AONB, British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), Arts
and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), and UK National Ecosystem Assessment. Our impact
strategy in this area is underpinned by these strong external relationships, supporting a new
development with Wildscreen Films and BBC Natural History; the accession to the Library’s
Special Collections of the Wildfilm History Archive. We have won major funding from the AHRC
(Coates and colleagues), the US National Science Foundation (Howkins) and National
Endowment for the Humanities (Cole). Saha*, Haines, and Flack secured AHRC Early Career
Fellowships (ECFs). Building on Faculty funding for an interdisciplinary research cluster, members
of the group lead an Environmental Humanities Research Centre, one of 6 flagship centres created
by the Faculty in 2017.

     2. History and politics
UoB’s historians have a unique focus on political culture in Britain, Europe, and globally that breaks
down barriers between cultural politics, political history and political science. Four key
concentrations pioneer this interdisciplinary approach: The historians of modern Britain (Charnock,
Edwards, Freeman, Pemberton*, Potter, Thompson), offer important new insights on politics
and the mass media, both parliamentary and popular political cultures, and policy formation. Led
by Pemberton*, and now Potter and Thompson, the strength of this research group is
demonstrated by its grant capture: *Pemberton’s £700k AHRC award for the ‘Thatcher’s Pension
Reforms’ project and GW4 Accelerator Funding for the research group ‘Modern British History and
Politics’. Huxford was awarded an AHRC Early Career Researcher (ECR) Leadership award for
‘British Military Bases in Germany’. Work by Mukherjee (Indian suffragettes), and Brockington
(pacifism) on early 20th-century political activism has had significant public impact. Freeman was
involved in over 50 radio appearances relating to the Brexit debate. Group activity has been pump-
primed by Faculty cluster awards to Modern Britain (Edwards), Oral History (Huxford), Urban
Humanities (Hanna, Koole).

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The department has a long track record of studying the cultural politics of empire, and new
appointments consolidated the cluster of expertise in the political and cultural history of
decolonisation and its legacies (Bickers, Haines, Lewis, Mukherjee, Nasar, Otele, Potter). This
has secured internal and external funding through Faculty cluster awards for Global Slaveries, and
Decolonization. Political discourse, empire, institutional and personal authority, and rulership are
already cornerstones in the research profile of colleagues working on the medieval and early
modern period (Hailwood, Hutton, Pohl, Smith, Wei). A new concentration in the history of
Ireland has been developed, with the appointment of Powell (2018) joining Smith & Hanna, which
facilitated the creation of an Irish History cluster, funded by the Arts Faculty. With 3 historians the
department is second to none in strength in this area in Great Britain, co-hosts the Leverhulme-
funded Political Works of Richard Brinsley Sheridan project, and recruited the first ever Chinese
student of Medieval Ireland in 2020.

     3. People and ideas on the move
UoB History is distinctive in having an exceptionally large group of scholars in this area, offering
both temporal breadth and global reach. The team works on the movement of people, from the
English in late medieval Ireland, through Cabot’s voyages of discovery, to Cold War political and
cultural networks. We also have distinctive strengths in the history of the movement of ideas, not
only in the twentieth century but also in the medieval and early modern periods. Strands of activity
include a thriving research group focused on imperial, postcolonial and global networks (Bickers,
Carey, Decker*, Lewis, Mukherjee, Nasar, Otele, Potter, Skinner). This group more broadly
supports the initiatives led by Mukherjee, Otele, and Bickers as part of our impact strategy. Lewis
is on the Management Board of the University’s cross-faculty Migration Mobilities Bristol Specialist
Research Institute. In this thematic concentration we have been able to attract significant funding
for the ‘Hong Kong History Project’, ‘Historical Photographs of China’ (both Bickers); ‘Holocaust
Geographies’ (Cole); ‘Cabot Project’ (Jones); and AHRC grants for ‘Dropping Out Of Socialism’,
‘Zone of Kaif’ (both Fürst*), and ‘Afro-Asian Networks’ (Lewis) and Leverhulme support for ‘The
Figure of the Witch’ (Hutton), ‘Connecting the Wireless World’ (Potter), and ‘Scripture, Dissent
and Deaf Space’ (Lyons).

    4. Public history
Our public historians specialise in collaboration: working digitally and in person with the creative
economy, the heritage sector, and the public. Described more fully in Section 4, our engagement
with Heritage and the Creative economy is a key strength. Moody was appointed Lecturer in
Public History in 2017 as part of significant new investment in this field to further institutional
engagement with heritage partners. Otele was appointed to lead a major new initiative to explore
the University and the city’s involvement in the transatlantic slave trade and its legacies, working
with a diverse range of local stakeholders. She became Chair of Bristol's Race Equality
Commission in June 2020. A Creative Histories group (including Bickers, Cole, Dudley, Hanna,
McLellan, Pooley, Williamson) developed a distinctive set of creative practices showcased in
conference workshops and publication, and in 2019 secured Faculty funding to develop its work
further. Pooley co-directs a national network on creativity in history writing, and secured an AHRC
ECR Leadership Fellowship, working with a poet and a playwright within that project; Bickers with
film-makers Calling the Shots; Brockington with a dance troupe and film-maker; McLellan, with
artist Carrie Reichart, developed a new piece of public art in Bristol, and with OpenStoryTellers, a
play about the history of learning disabilities, funded by the University’s Brigstow URI, the Heritage
Lottery Fund, and the Arts Council. Our digital humanities work is supported by the University’s
flagship Jean Golding Institute for data science, as well as Brigstow. Freeman’s appointment as

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Lecturer in Digital Humanities enhanced a group which includes Bickers, Cole, Lewis, and
Thompson. ‘Historical Photographs of China’ (Bickers), a pioneering Open Access repository of
22,000 digitised historic photographs sourced from private individuals was rebuilt and relaunched
in 2017. Thompson worked with data scientists pioneering methods in extraction of meaningful
data from extremely large datasets (British Library’s ‘Nineteenth Century Newspapers). Cole has
worked since 2007 with an international team of data scientists and holocaust historians on a
succession of funded initiatives developing new GIS methodologies. Smith is collaborating with
colleagues at Trinity College Dublin (TCD) on a digital recreation of the records of the Medieval
Irish Exchequer.

Working with a diverse range of partners, members of the Public History department including
PGRs have established an international profile for research co-produced with local communities in
Bristol (Bickers, Cole, Hanna, Lewis, McLellan, Otele, Skinner). This involved extensive
collaboration with Bristol City Council, culminating in 2020 with Cole’s appointment as Chair of the
We are Bristol History Commission, an expert panel established by Bristol’s Mayor to advise on
how the city’s past can best be engaged with in the present. The ‘Know Your Bristol’ portfolio of
projects is the public face of the strategic partnership with the council. This group provides
direction for this pillar of our impact strategy and our work with Heritage bodies. A major
conference on ‘Socially-Engaged Public History: Practice, Ethics and Politics’ was convened at
UoB in 2019 by McLellan & collaborators in Birmingham and Leeds. We aim to reach a diverse
range of public audiences: Bickers and Cervantes have major books published with Penguin, the
preeminent publisher of popular history books; Hutton has an international media profile (e.g.,
‘Professor Hutton’s Curiosities’, Yesterday TV), Otele’s significant media presence included
extensive commentary on the Black Lives Matter antiracism protests in June 2020. Mukherjee’s
work around the 2018 centenary of the Representation of the People Act reached audiences in
Bristol, Manchester and Tower Hamlets, podcast listeners, and British Library visitors. This work
has secured: RCUK funding for co-produced research from the ‘Connected Communities’ initiative
(Bickers, ‘Know Your Bristol On The Move’, Cole, ‘Productive Margins’, Cole, ‘Tangible
Memories’); two AHRC follow-on grants for Impact and Engagement (McLellan, ‘Mapping LGBT
Bristol’, Fürst*, ‘Showcasing Soviet Flower Power’); an AHRC award for a co-produced history of
Bristol’s ‘Single Parent Action Network’ (McLellan); funding from the REACT AHRC Creative
Economy Hub (Bates, Flack); shortlisting for a national award, securing a UoB Engagement
Award (both ‘Know Your Bristol’), and commendation for another (‘Conversations about Cinema’).
Otele’s appointment marks a significant University investment, and will consolidate and
dramatically advance this civic engagement, which is local in focus, but global in its potential to set
a new standard for reflecting on the legacies of difficult histories.

    5. Visual & material culture and art history
This group includes history and art history staff and collaborates widely across the Faculty,
producing work using visual primary sources as historical evidence, pursuing a ‘material’ approach
to architectural, archaeological, epigraphic and pictorial sources, rather than research primarily
driven by visual analysis or aesthetics. There are 5 core research strengths: the social, cultural and
political history of photography and photographic practice (Bickers, Hanna, Koole, McLellan,
O’Mahony), visual political culture focusing on pacificism (Brockington), Black British art
(Robles), political posters and cartoons (Thompson), and uses of visual and material culture in
medieval religious practice (Donkin, Williamson). O’Mahony has pioneered the study of
photographic and artistic representations of sport; Bickers has developed an internationally unique
repository of crowd-sourced historical photographs of China. The group works with partners across

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
the Faculty working on the history of sport, visual cultures, and the Centre for Black Humanities. A
very strong group of medievalists and early modernists with a specialism in visual and material
approaches to manuscript studies (Holdenried, Hailwood, Pohl, Smith, Wei) is actively involved
in the Medieval Studies Faculty Research Centre, and secured Faculty funding to support an active
Early Modern cluster. Engagement with external partners includes: O’Mahony’s consultancy for
the National Museum of Football; Otele, Victoria & Albert (V&A) Research Committee advisor;
Otele & Powell, Holburne Museum University Partnerships Board.

In the census period members of the UoA, its PGRs, post-doctoral research assistants (PDRAs),
and PDRFs, have published in total, individually or collaboratively (including work itemised in
REF2): 45 monographs, 230 journal articles, 166 chapters in edited collections, companions,
guides or handbooks, 20 sole or co-edited books and journal special issues (half of these with UoA
co-editors), and 7 commissioned reports. We have hosted over 40 conferences and workshops at
UoB, and organised or co-organised an equal number with partners in Britain and internationally.
UoA members made well over 200 grant applications and secured 99 external funding awards,
totalling £5.836m. As of 01/12/2020 UoA members have 9 grant applications under consideration,
and have 5 monographs, 36 chapters or journal articles, accepted or in press, and others under
review.

In the next 5-10 years, History at UoB aims to:

  i.    Support and develop our early and mid-career colleagues. 60% of current permanent staff
        have joined in the assessment period; at the census date almost 40% are at Lecturer level.
        Our support and mentoring of this new cohort have already seen six secure AHRC ECFs,
        two succeed across 3 GCRF bids, one awarded a BA Mid-career Fellowship, and one a
        UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. We will support them to realise their full potential, working
        with more established colleagues and our diverse postgraduate body. Our goal is to build
        on successes (eg accelerated progression to Senior Lectureships; 3 staff securing
        Returning Carer’s scheme awards) and create a yet more diverse and inclusive
        department, working to tackle the significant Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) problems
        identified in recent surveys (especially the Royal Historical Society’s), enabling all staff to
        work towards leadership roles within the department, the wider University, and nationally. A
        key objective is equipping postgraduates to secure the careers they aim for, within higher
        education or society where increasingly they are looking to deploy their skills.

  ii.   Broaden our global coverage further so that we are even better placed to: respond to the
        research questions stemming from today’s global challenges; continue building on our
        success in securing GCRF awards (Dudley, Haines); continue to build on the University’s
        strategy for GCRF activity. The latter was commended by Research England in Dec 2018
        for the imaginative ways in which it will create long-term capacity and capability and for
        demonstrating the benefits to developing countries.

 iii.   Continue to provide the focus for our research endeavour across our five research groups.

To co-ordinate this activity, each research area has (i) a facilitator sparking discussion and
collaboration; (ii) a dedicated budget to enable activity; (iii) a strategy to communicate the scale
and importance of its research to audiences outside UoB (particularly prospective PGRs and
PGTs).

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Underpinning these ambitions is our continuing work with the Faculty’s Research Office to operate
our Impact strategy. This is co-ordinated by our Impact Director, who regularly meets with ICS
leads, and mentors staff developing work that will lead to impact, making use of the Faculty
infrastructure, notably its Impact Manager and Impact Fund. The Impact Director provides support
for gathering evidence of impact and facilitates sharing of expertise via Departmental meetings and
a dedicated regular research seminar. This strategy aims to ensure that our very wide range of
engaged research translates into 4* impact case studies.


 2. People

The Department, School of Humanities, and Faculty of Arts provide high quality infrastructural
support for staff research, networking and impact. Teaching and administrative loads are
monitored, ensuring alignment with the Faculty workload model (see below). Our research culture
involves extensive and intensive interaction amongst staff, PDRFs, PGRs and visitors in seminars,
workshops and individual discussions, whether formal supervisions, or small group support for
work-in-progress. This is facilitated and sustained by the five research groups. Research seminars
bring scholars at all career stages to Bristol and provide opportunities for showcasing emerging
work in a supportive, but critical, environment.

During 2013–2020, the UoA has hosted 8 Postdoctoral Research Fellows, 19 research associates
on funded research projects, and 14 fixed-term teaching-focused lectureships. Two PDRFs were
funded through University ‘Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowships’ (E. Haines, Kong), which provided a
rich package of career development support; 4 by external fellowships. The University of Bristol
signed up to the UK ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’ 2019. The
UoA works within this framework and the Bristol Clear research staff development programme.
Each PDRF works across at least one research group. As well as a staff mentor, the department
head provides career guidance (through the SRD process). PDRFs and RAs are encouraged to
participate in career development training offered by the School, Faculty and centrally through
Bristol Clear. In addition, the Faculty sponsors an ECR network. Teaching-focused staff receive a
research workload allowance, and access to some research funding support from the department.
As an inclusive measure, all fixed-term staff were invited to submit work to our internal REF review
process and were included in reviewing work. This provided career development support, detailed
feedback, and experience of involvement in such processes. Our aim is that such teaching-focused
lectureships are fixed in length at 12 months (or 24), providing a minimum of 25% research time.
The UoA’s successful support of early-career staff is evidenced by the high success-rate of those
employed in short-term teaching or research positions in obtaining further temporary or permanent
University teaching positions and/or other postdoctoral Fellowships: Abe (Hull), Atherton (South
Wales), Beaumont (Liverpool John Moores), Bjerstrom (Copenhagen), Copley (Central
Lancashire), Eisenstadt (Bristol); Flack (Bristol), Freeland (QMUL), Hanley (Exeter), Harry
(Chester), Hatchwell (Birmingham), Hodgson, Jobson (Oxford), Morley (Bristol), Richard
(Sheffield).

Enabling the highest quality research to flourish requires the appointment of talented staff. We cast
the net as wide as possible internationally to attract outstanding candidates. Appointment panels
are chaired by the Dean and include the Faculty Research Director. All panelists must undertake
training in awareness of implicit bias, and fair and effective recruitment. The fundamental objective
is to identify, and then support, outstanding scholars who will fulfil their potential by working with


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
us. All permanent appointments are made at least Grade J, reflecting the quality threshold
expected.

     1. Mentoring and Induction
All appointees receive a mentor who supports their transition to Bristol and advises on their early
career development. The School runs a full induction programme. New staff have lighter teaching
and administrative loads in their first year. Confirmation of appointments is supported by a 1 year
‘Initial Service Review’ process, with a six-month monitoring point. Staff Review & Development
(SRD): for all established and fixed-term staff provides an annually-structured discussion of career
development, including individual research and publishing strategy, while an Annual Research
Review focuses specifically on providing support and guidance on publication and project
development plans.

    2. Training
Staff development needs (including training opportunities) are discussed at SRD, and full use is
made of the wide range of Research Development and Leadership and Management programmes
offered by ASD (Academic Staff Development), including Leading Academic Teams, Stepping into
Leadership, the Aurora Leadership Programme for women, and Elevate, for BAME women. The
central Research Development team provides targeted training on external grant writing, including
mock peer review panels. Subject to approval of a detailed plan, one half-year teaching block (TB)
in seven is available as research leave; those undertaking senior leadership roles have additional
entitlement, and applications for accelerated/additional leave are considered if time-critical or if
sufficient external funding is secured. In the assessment period, all eligible staff took at least one
TB research leave. Outside leave entitlement, early career staff receive 61/160 workload credits for
research; senior lecturers and above receive 51. Additional credits support impact work.
Cumulatively, across 7 Teaching Blocks, 47% of a Lecturer’s total allocated time will be devoted to
research (41% for Senior Lecturers and above). University Research Fellowships (URFs) provide
an additional 1TB leave. External grant capture is recognised with workload credits. Information
about funding opportunities is regularly circulated, with mentors, SRD, and ARR reviewers actively
advising on how projects might be developed through a programme of funding.

    3. Parental leave
The University has more generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision than is legally
required. Return-to-work planning, and a Returning Carers Leave Scheme help staff resume
research trajectories. The University supports a day nursery providing subsidised places for
children of staff and students.

    4. Career progression
Based on assessment of performance within established role profiles, with accelerated progression
from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer available in cases of exceptional performance (6 during period).
All but 2 progressions by History lecturers were accelerated. Readerships (6 during period) and
Professorships (6) are achieved by promotion and may also be accelerated (e.g., Senior Lecturer
to Professor) in exceptional cases. The policy requires continual mentoring and monitoring, with
the stress on ambitious but attainable goals in all aspects of the job.

Our response to the global pandemic has been informed by an awareness of its unprecedented
impact on staff, and particularly the uneven nature of this impact depending on caring
responsibilities, age, ethnicity, underlying health conditions, teaching and administrative

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
responsibilities, the nature and stage of research, and other factors. As the University moved
online in March 2020, we quickly set up a network of research clusters, led by an experienced
member of staff. These have met regularly online, providing valuable social and peer support,
opportunities to discuss work in progress, and a regular chance to focus on research despite the
demands of blended learning. Staff leading external partnerships were quick to take activities
online, supporting community researchers with regular online meetings, working with Calling The
Shots for an online film premiere, and collaborating with Downside Abbey on an online exhibition.
Others took the lead in creating new virtual research networks: Pooley organised online workshops
on Religion and the Decline of Magic; Hailwood facilitated discussion of online scholarly
communication at the ‘Many Headed Monster’ blog. In 2020-21, the Department’s research
seminar takes place online, including three public events for Black History Month in collaboration
with the Students’ Union. The current Annual Research Review cycle focuses on capturing the
pandemic’s impact on individual research, and exploring mitigation strategies and supporting future
plans. Colleagues on research leave have been given the opportunity to revise their goals in the
light of continuing disruption.

Within the assessment period members of the Department have made a disproportionate
contribution to the senior leadership of the Faculty and University including Associate Dean,
Faculty Research Director, Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor, Faculty Education Director, Head of
School (on three separate occasions), Director of the Brigstow URI.

     5. Postgraduate research students
Our research students lie at the heart of our research environment. The Faculty offers two
research degrees: a one-year MPhil offering training in research methods, examined by a 25k-
word, externally examined, research dissertation. All staff contribute to the examining process. The
award criteria match those of a PhD, barring length and period of study. Some of the work has
subsequently been published. Students without a master’s level or equivalent qualification are
admitted to the MPhil and will then apply to upgrade through the Annual Progress Monitoring
process outlined below. The PhD is awarded for an 80k-word thesis. The admission criteria are
stringent, and after admission all students undergo a further confirmation of PhD status exercise
submitting a portfolio of work read by two independent assessors by the end of the first year. They
are again formally monitored on the basis of written work and research plan at the end of their
second and third years. At the census date, there were 87 postgraduate students (11 MPhil, 76
PhD). Including 2020–2021 starting registrations, the number of individual students supervised in
History during the assessment period totals 192 (on average 75% UK, 20% international, 5% other
EU). Of the 85 History postgraduates who completed PhDs in the assessment period, 14 went on
to or currently hold Research Fellowships or other research positions, 17 hold lectureships or
equivalent positions, while 28 sought employment outside the university sector (in central
government, charities, journalism, the creative economy, teaching, heritage), and 12 work within
HE professional services. 31 students completed MPhil degrees. Eight PhDs were secured by
retirees or by employed professionals, either seeking career development or motivated by
intellectual curiosity.

The Faculty of Arts led the successful application to establish (2014), and renew (2019), the AHRC
South, West & Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP). Among the cohorts admitted, 15
students were primarily supervised by UoA staff. Six students gained competitive funding from
other sources (the great majority of these latter students from outside the UK, notably Hong Kong
and China, through the China Scholarship Council (2)). The department continues to be highly

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
successful in gaining support from non-academic bodies for fully funded studentships (Hatton Trust
(3), Merchant Venturers’ Society (1), Panacea Society (1)) and private individuals (Augustine
Heard Postgraduate Studentship (1)). A 2010 donation of £500k by one donor (the Deas Bequest)
funded 12 bursaries during the assessment period, each for three years. A further donation
provided 3 ‘Keil Scholarships’. In addition, further donations from alumni have regularly provided
individual grants (ranging from £250 to £6000). Departmental funds have regularly provided sums
to support aspects of students’ research. Gender balance has been roughly equal across the
period; international and EU nationals have comprised from 20% to 33% of the student body. In
short, the growth of a diverse PGR student body has been accompanied by, and supported
through, a considerable growth in financial support from a wide range of sources.

Formal administration of PGRs is handled by the Faculty Postgraduate Office, led by the Faculty
Postgraduate Research Director. Subject leads are responsible for co-ordinating PGR activities
within departments and History delegates this to two colleagues who focus on Admissions and
Current Students respectively. Strong support for the postgraduate community is one of our key
strategic aims, including successful work to provide high-quality working space for PGRs that has
been achieved during the period. All PGRs are co-supervised. Annual Progress Monitoring
involves two other staff reading work and discussing progress and plans. PGR training workshops
are run by the Department focusing on research and presentation skills, dissemination and social
media strategies, career development (cv preparation, applying for jobs, careers outside higher
education institutions (HEIs)), as well as individual wellbeing. A significant degree of PGR support
and training takes place within the Faculty and through the University’s Bristol Doctoral College,
but the Department also supports Writing Retreats and Workshops and all PGR students are
involved in the regular department seminar. The Faculty of Arts provides a dedicated PGR study
and social space.

We aim to encourage postgraduate students to collaborate on research or training events, reading
groups, networking, and in simply supporting each other’s intellectual and professional
development. Funds are available for Doctoral students to attend conferences to present papers,
and to undertake fieldwork (up to £750 a year). Bristol students regularly give talks and assemble
panels, sometimes with department staff, at, for example, the North American Council of British
Studies annual conference or International Medieval Congress. The University runs a Researcher
Development Programme and offers postgraduates training in transferable skills. The BDC offers
extensive career professional development workshops. There is a University programme for
supporting postgraduates commencing teaching, as well as workshops led within the Department.
From the second year of their registration, full-time PhD students have opportunities to deliver
undergraduate teaching.

Intellectual exchange with postgraduates in other universities is encouraged through both formal
links nationally and regionally (through the GW4 research alliance, and AHRC SWW DTP), and
informal contacts and annual events such as the annual Medieval Studies PGR conference, now
over twenty years old, the Hong Kong History Postgraduate Workshop, convened at UoB annually
since 2017 (and in 2020 at the University of British Columbia). This diversity is augmented by a
programme of Visiting Students coming under the auspices of bilateral arrangements (Chinese
University of Hong Kong, Kyoto, Shanghai Jiaotong) or through the Worldwide University Network
Researcher Mobility Scheme. These mechanisms also facilitate outward travel of students to
spend periods of time studying in partner universities. Since 2013 students have held WUN awards
to study in Sydney (2), Chinese University of Hong Kong, Zhejiang (2).

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The vitality and quality of PhD student research is indicated by a healthy record of publications
submitted and published by PGRs while registered (at least 16 items in journals ranging from
History Workshop Journal to Journal of Medieval History, and Journal of Imperial & Commonwealth
History to Cultural & Social History), alongside co-authorship with UoA staff, and two volumes co-
edited with staff: Bickers & Howlett, Britain & China (2015), Bickers & Jackson, Treaty Ports in
Modern China (2016), joining other collaborations within the UoA that exemplify in practice our
ethos of co-creation: Potter & Saha* (eds), special issue of Journal of Colonialism and Colonial
History (2015), Coates et al, ‘An excursion in the environmental humanities’, Green Letters (2019);
Fuerst* & McLellan (eds), Dropping out of Socialism (2016); Bickers et al, ‘Creative Dislocation’,
History Workshop Journal (2020). At least 10 students who graduated during the assessment
period published or have in press revised versions of their dissertations as books. The quality of
the work completed at Bristol is also attested by awards: Prokic, 2017 Rachel Carson Prize (see
above); Thomas, 2017 Thesis Prize of the German Historical Institute London; Peck, 2015 John
Nicholls Prize for English Local History awarded by the University of Leicester.

    6. Equality diversity & inclusion
The Department supports flexible working. Three staff use the University's flexible working
scheme, and a further 5 have flexible working arrangements in place to help manage caring
commitments. The University’s Travel and Expenses policy allows for the reimbursement of
childcare and exceptional caring costs associated with research or conference travel. The
University’s promotion process asks candidates to draw attention to equality issues/individual
circumstances, and to provide details of their impact. This includes any absences, restrictions on
ability to travel or network nationally or internationally, restrictions on working hours, details of part-
time working patterns, and other factors impacting on the time available to undertake research
and/or teaching and/or associated duties. The Royal Historical Society’s 2017 “Race, Ethnicity,
and Equality” report has been a touchstone for discussions on issues of race and inclusion at
department meetings since 2018, including one in July 2020 devoted to issues of systemic racism.
Lewis led a Faculty initiative on Decolonising the Curriculum. A Decolonise History reading group
meets regularly and led on the organisation of three online events for Black History Month 2020. In
the next 5-10 years, History at Bristol aims to continue to build an inclusive, diverse and equal
community, to ensure that colleagues at all career stages flourish, to work with the RHS to address
structural race, gender and socio-economic inequalities within the historical profession, to
collaborate within the School of Humanities to secure Athena Swan charter award status, and to
work to reduce inequalities in access to postgraduate research.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

External funding allows us to bring vitality and greater diversity to the department, consolidate and
develop local, national and international partnerships, deliver discipline shaping research, and
sustain the impact of our work across a wide range of academic and external partners. In the
assessment period the total value of awards from research councils, UK and overseas charities,
government and industry was £5.836m, across 96 different awards.

The examples below testify to the ways in which the UoA nurtures the development of all staff,
supporting them as they build their research skills and profile. This takes place within the five main
groupings of research, within international networks of activity, and in the context of individual



                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
scholarship. The UoA brings in collaborators to enrich the research environment, including active
support for early career researchers supported by national and international fellowship schemes.

Bates provides an indicative case study. Bates (PhD 2013) was appointed in September 2013,
and while supported in development of a productive publication and dissemination strategy, and
accelerated progression to Senior Lecturer in 2018, built a cross-disciplinary medical humanities
research group through a reading group, meetings and a Faculty Research Centre Health,
Humanities & Science. In 2018 Bates commenced co-direction of a Medical Humanities research
strand funded by the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI), a university-level leadership role
supporting EBI’s research strategy development and seed-funding external research bids. Working
with Faculty support, and mentors, Bates secured a Wellcome Trust Small Grant (2014), a REACT
Knowledge Exchange (KE) Hub award (2014), scoping grants supported by EBI/Wellcome Trust
funding (2015) and the university’s Strategic Research Fund (2016), workshop funding from the
GW4 partnership (Bath-Bristol-Cardiff-Exeter) (2017), an AHRC-EPSRC ‘Next Generation of
Immersive Experiences’ award (2018), UoB International Strategic Research Fund support to visit
Concordia University. Bates secured a place on the GW4’s interdisciplinary ‘Crucible’ training and
networking scheme (2017), and on an AHRC/Wellcome-Trust ‘New Generations in Medical
Humanities’ training workshops series. In 2019 Bates built on this body of activity, mentoring and
training, securing a £953k UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (2020-2024), one of only three in the
humanities in that round. In December 2020 Bates was awarded the inaugural AHRC/Wellcome
Trust Leadership Prize for Medical Humanities.

Lewis joined in 2014, and secured accelerated progression to Senior Lectureship in 2018. She has
received a BA Small Grant (2015), and an AHRC Research Network Grant: 'Afro-Asian Networks
in the Early Cold War' (2015), working with colleagues across British, Dutch and Indian
universities, with significant public engagement activity in Bristol, its work augmented by a 2017
Brigstow URI award for an innovative digital visualisation. Lewis also led a Faculty Research
Cluster on Decolonisation 2017-19. This portfolio of developing activity culminated in the award of
an AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship in 2020. Internal support included early research
leave, Returning Carer’s Scheme awards, and pump-priming support from the Faculty research
and conference funds.

McLellan is an example of how the Department develops careers in the long-term. She joined
immediately post-PhD in 2001. Mentoring and Faculty Research Leave (including a URF)
supported the development of monographs with OUP and CUP, and promotion to Senior Lecturer
in 2007. Since 2009, she has worked part-time to accommodate caring responsibilities, but has
been able to develop her leadership skills via training including Leading Research Teams,
Crucible, and Bristol Senior Leaders, and taken on commensurate roles including Head of History
and now School Research Director, with promotion to Professor in 2016. Inclusion on the Bickers-
led Know Your Bristol project as Co-I has led to a strong impact and engagement focus to her
recent work, including awards as PI for ‘Mapping LGBT+ Bristol’ and ‘SPAN: A Participatory
History’ (both AHRC) and sustained relationships with community partners, including
Openstorytellers and Wellspring Settlement.

An example of support for retooling at a more advanced career stage is provided by Smith, who
joined in 1993. Periods of externally funded (Leverhulme, AHRC) and internally funded (University
Research Fellowships) leave, enabled Smith to maintain research progress after holding senior
leadership roles. Since 2015 he has developed a strong Digital Humanities focus in his research,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
which concerns the financing of English rule in medieval Ireland. He has been awarded funding by
the Jean Golding Institute to undertake, in cooperation with the University’s Research IT unit, data-
analysis and visualization work on medieval financial records. This has in turn led to external grant
applications to the joint AHRC/Irish Research Council (IRC) ‘Collaboration in Digital Humanities’
scheme as well as to the BA.

The 5 research groups have all housed flagship collaborative funded projects led by Department
staff, working with partners across the UK and internationally. These include network projects
which embedded Bristol history at the heart of international scholarly teams. These projects have
worked at different scales and have aimed to optimise the benefits of various streams of University
investment, and research and impact development support mechanisms, and networks of
collaboration within the UoA, within and across the Faculty and University, and internationally. In
turn their success has unlocked additional resource and research power.

   1. Major collaborative projects led by staff 2013–2020
Staff from across our research groups have led 18 major projects in the period.

Environmental history is by nature a collaborative and interdisciplinary field and engages with a
diverse range of stakeholders. Our four major awards, funded by AHRC, AHRC/EPSRC,
Defra/RCUK, led by Coates (3), and Bates have involved Co-Investigators(Co-Is) at Cambridge,
Cardiff, Chester, Liverpool, and the BBC Natural History Unit. The flagship award to the History
and politics group was an AHRC Research Grant on ‘The Thatcherite pension reforms and their
legacy’ (2014-20): Pemberton* Principal Investigator (PI); Middleton*, then Freeman Chief
Investigator (CI), PI, with one PDRA and one PhD studentship. There were two Leverhulme Trust
Research Project Grants, one AHRC Research Network, and one Wellcome Trust Small Grant.
Partners included colleagues at Brighton, Glasgow, Leeds, Newcastle, Oxford, Roehampton, and
Sheffield. Awards were secured by colleagues at all career stages. International partnerships
characterise the 4 major awards to the ‘People and ideas on the move’ cluster, which secured
funding research network funding from AHRC and Leverhulme, a Leverhulme Research Project
Grant, and from private donation (Bickers, Hatton Trust, ‘Hong Kong History Project’). Potter’s
‘Connecting the Wireless World: Writing Global Radio History’ project involved, colleagues at York,
Amsterdam, Catholic University of Portugal, Denver, Rochester Institute of Technology, TU
Dresden; Lewis’s ‘Afro-Asian Networks in the Early Cold War, 1945-1960’ had a Co-I at Leiden,
and involved partners across the UK and at Amsterdam, Lahore University of Management
Sciences, and the University of Gadjah Mada.

The defining characteristics of the five main awards to Public History have been the diversity of
partners, the majority of whom have been community or third sector groups, and their multi-
collaborative nature. Half of the large grants made by the AHRC’s ‘Connected Communities’
Research Programme were secured with leading UoA involvement. Partners included Bristol City
Council departments, a Bristol-based media company, Action for Southern Africa, OutStories
Bristol, Knowle West Media Centre and several other community groups. An AHRC Research
Grant, ‘SPAN: A Participatory History’ (McLellan (PI), Cole (CI)) is working with the Wellspring
Settlement. These projects have led to successful AHRC Follow-on Funding applications, and
University investment in projects. In the Visual & material culture and art history group Bickers, as
PI on ‘Historical Photographs of China’, secured funding from the Swire Charitable Trust, British
Academy (as an Academy Research Project, renewed after review in 2020), Chiang Ching-kuo
Foundation, and the Swire Charitable Trusts, while Brockington’s 'International Cosmopolitan

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Exchange’ AHRC Network (Co-I Turner, Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art) practised
what it set out to document with a wide range of collaborators.

    2. Awards for individual scholarship
Funding awards support individual scholarship and early and mid-career development: our track
record of success (as a proportion of our early career staff) is evidence of our strong support for
the development of their portfolio of skills, experience, and bid support. The following staff held
such individual awards in the assessment period.

AHRC Early Career Fellowships have been secured by Pooley, Huxford, Haines, Saha, Bates,
Lewis, Bessard*, and Mukherjee. Bates was awarded a UKRI Future Leader Fellowship.
Mawdsley secured a Wellcome Trust, University Award, Pohl a British Academy, Mid-Career
Fellowship, while Williamson was awarded a Leverhulme, Major Research Fellowship. Bickers
secured corporate sponsorship from John Swire & Sons. These have brought resource to support
PDRAs, creative practitioners, research events at Bristol, as well as engagement work with a wide
range of partners. Funding success has brought 9 talented early career staff to Bristol through
Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (2), a British Academy Newton International Fellowship, an
Oak Spring Garden Foundation Early Career Fellowship, 2 British Academy Postdoctoral
Fellowships; an award from the Panacea Charitable Trust; an Economic and Social Research
Council (ESRC) New Investigator Award; and 2 University of Bristol Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowships.

Many projects do not need major funding. A steady flow of smaller awards facilitates research and
dissemination, and primes emerging initiatives: for example, during this period we have secured
£125k in competitive awards from the Faculty of Arts research funds for members of the UoA in
195 awards to 47 individuals for: research fieldwork and networking; national and international
conference participation; publication costs (indexing, image rights). Individual researchers can
apply for up to £1500 annually (£1800 in previous years) exclusive of caring-related expenses.
Collaborative and networking activity is supported by an annual competitive Research Cluster
scheme. Clusters receive £500 for network events, workshops, research seminars, and PGR
training. UoA Staff have led or co-led 16 Clusters. Cluster pump-priming led to successful
applications by UoA staff to establish Faculty Research Centres, introduced in 2017. History staff
co-lead the Centre for Environmental Humanities, and play significant roles in the Centres for
Medieval Studies, Black Humanities, Material Texts, and Centre for Health, Humanities, and
Science. Centres receive a five-year £5k p.a. budget from Faculty funds. Grants from outside the
University include Small Research Grants from the British Academy (Fürst*, Huxford, Lewis,
Livesey*, Williamson); Wellcome Trust (Bates); Jones’s Cabot Project has received £50k
funding from a private donor.

     3. Substantial investment in impact
Seedcorn funding for impact projects has been secured from the University’s ESRC Impact
Acceleration Account (IAA) fund, with 4 awards to UoA staff totalling £6.5k; 2 HEIF Impact funding
awards (£40k), and one Development & Alumni Relations Office award (£24k). UoB has provided
significant support towards PolicyBristol, KE Project Development advisors, and at Faculty level
with more hands-on support from the Faculty Impact Manager (see below). Most significant funding
has come through external grants. Our main streams of investment in research and impact are
comprehensive in coverage across national and international activity, but more substantial support
for international collaboration has been secured from GCRF quality-related (QR) funding (£43.6k to
Bickers & Potter for work with partners in Nairobi), and the University’s International Strategic

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Fund (£18k supporting 6 collaborations with partners in Kyoto University, TCD, Johns Hopkins,
University Technology Sydney, Concordia & McGill Universities).

As part of its 2016-21 strategy, the University invested in four multidisciplinary University Research
Institutes (URI) focusing on Health (Elizabeth Blackwell EBI), Climate (Cabot), Data Science (Jean
Golding JGI) and interdisciplinarity and creative innovation (Brigstow). Historians have been
actively involved in all four URIs: Cole leads Brigstow; Bates co-leads EBI’s Medical Humanities
strand, which also involves Mawdsley; Coates, Haines, Dudley, Flack, Howkins are all involved
in Cabot; Bickers served on the Brigstow Steering Group. The URIs run a range of project-based
funding (roughly £5k). Historians secured awards from: Brigstow (8); EBI: 2; JGI: 2; Cabot (1).
Lewis is on the Management Group of the Migration Mobilities Bristol Institute, one of 7 Specialist
Research Institutes reflecting strengths in key specialisms across the university.

    4. University investment in infrastructure improvements
  i.   Humanities Building: providing additional offices and dedicated PGR space, as part of a
       strategy to create a stronger physical identity for History.

  ii.   New University Library (currently costed at £103m): this will house University Cultural
        Collections (including the Special Collections, the University’s Art, and Theatre Collections).
        These will be accessible to all academics, students, and the public and includes gallery
        space.

 iii.   Investment of £215k in a Digital Assets Management System, provided by Preservica, with
        ongoing £50k p.a. costs, and a new Digital Archivist post. The ‘Historical Photographs of
        China’ project’s needs were built into the platform’s commissioning. It will support further
        Digital Humanities work within the UoA, and across the University.

 iv.    The Library’s Special Collections & Archives developed a research-led Collections
        Development Policy and acquired records that support the work of UoA researchers
        including the Wildfilm, Single Parent Action Network, Rough Guides archives, and
        collections of historic Chinese material. All of these have served as a focus for funded
        research projects or evolving bids. The Theatre Collection acquired the Franko B Archive
        and Oliver Messel Personal Archive.

 v.     Since REF2014 the Library has invested significantly in new digital resources, expanding
        the range of historic newspapers and magazines, and acquiring selected digitalised archive
        collections to support advanced research.

    5. Professional services support outside the Department
Bid development is supported by a team from Finance Services, Research & Enterprise
Development (RED), and IT Services. Research Development Managers identify potential funding
streams, develop bids with academics, and provide feedback on grants as they proceed. KE
Managers help academics to develop impact. PolicyBristol representatives help to engage
policymakers in the Faculty’s research. Pre- and post-award support is provided through Finance.
As well as running staff induction and running a programme of training events and funder
information days, the Faculty holds grant-writing retreats for staff developing proposals.
Professional services staff attend and advise on developing ideas, costing bids, redrafting, and
thinking about partnerships. Individual researchers seeking external funding receive support from

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
the Faculty, their department and RED in the form of REAP (Research Excellence Advisory Panel),
a process that ensures the quality of external bids. This is a rigorous mandatory process for all
applications for over £10k that draws upon expertise across the Faculty in the form of collaborative
and supportive peer-reviewing. A Faculty Research Office, established in 2018, nurtures and
embeds a culture of impact across the Faculty of Arts. This is led by the Research Impact and KE
Manager, who has responsibility for championing impact, knowledge exchange and partnerships.
The Research Office supports: REF Impact, Training, Communications, and Partnerships. To help
support colleagues to develop and sustain partnerships with non-HEI organisations, the Faculty
appointed a Business Fellow (2018) to facilitate partnerships that: 1) build towards being ready to
apply for large external research grants; and 2) have the potential to build impact, under the REF
definition.

    6. Other Facilities
History research draws on other resources in the University, notably central University IT
resources, the Research Data Service team and the Research IT unit. These closely support
funding bids (costings, and implementation).

    7. Equipment and IT Resources
All academic staff are supplied with networked computers; a rolling replacement programme for all
Faculty computer equipment, funded through the School of Humanities, is in place; all PGRs are
provided with a laptop.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Bristol historians have been involved in a range of major collaborative projects, across the arts and
humanities, natural and social sciences, including data science, and in partnership with institutions
nationally and globally.

Cole co-leads ‘Holocaust Geographies’ a multi-institutional, international collaborative research
group bringing historians, geographers and data scientists together to examine spaces and places
of the Holocaust. The group has worked with the US Holocaust Memorial Museum, the USC
Shoah Foundation Center for Advanced Genocide Research, and the Spatial History Project at
Stanford, and has secured funding from the NSF and NEH. Geographies of the Holocaust, co-
edited by Cole, was included in Choice magazine’s prestigious list of the most outstanding
academic titles of 2015.

Howkins is a co-PI on the US National Science Foundation funded McMurdo Dry Valleys Long
Term Ecological Research (LTER) site, which directly involves research teams from eight US
Universities and involves ecologists, glaciologists, hydrologists, and data-managers. The MCM
LTER is part of a wider network of 28 research sites. He is co-editing (with one other scholar) a
Cambridge History of the Polar Regions, a major international research project involving over 50
authors from six continents and which includes contributions from geographers, literary scholars,
archaeologists, anthropologists, and natural scientists in addition to historians. He is on two
Scientific Committee of Antarctic Research (SCAR) steering committees.

Dudley was Co-I on the War Impact on Dryland Environments and Socio-Environmental
Resilience in Somalia (WIDER-SOMA) project. The project brought together physical and human

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
geographers, historians, political scientists and genomicists from UoB, Kings College London, the
Royal United Services Institute, the Peace Research Institute (Oslo) and Transparency Solutions
(UK/Somalia) to examine the long-term impacts of conflict on Somali dry lands and their
inhabitants. Dudley curated a public exhibition of project research, Somali diaspora perspectives,
and photography by Susan Schulman, that showed in Bristol (Co-Exist Gallery) and London (KCL).

Bickers, Coates (2), Cole (3), Dudley, Haines (2), and Powell have been Co-Is on a further 10
major collaborative projects, with partners based in other faculties at UoB and at other UK HEIs,
funded by AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme, and NERC.

Staff were also involved in a wide range of collaborative research, including, for example: Austin:
‘Mapping Metaphor with the Historical Thesaurus’, AHRC project network (Glasgow); Bickers:
project associate, ‘Elites, networks & power in Modern China’, ERC-funded project, Henriot (PI),
Université Aix-Marseille; Carey: University of Western Australia, Digital Missionaries Archive
Project; Hailwood: Scientific Advisory Board, ‘The Gender and Work Research Project’, Uppsala
(2017-21); Holdenried: project associate ‘Handbook of Prophecy and Prognostication in Medieval
European and Mediterranean Societies’, IGKF Erlangen, 2016-17; Potter: external partner,
‘Broadcasting in the Portuguese Empire’ project, funded by the Portuguese FCT and FEDER
(2018-21); Smith: edited Volume 1 of the landmark new multivolume Cambridge History of Ireland
(2018) launched at Dublin Castle by President Michael D. Higgins, Vice-President Biden in
Washington DC, and former Prime Minister Major in London; Wei: advisory board and affiliated
project member, ‘The Self in Social Spaces Project’, Oslo and the Norwegian Institute for Cultural
Heritage Research, advisory board ‘The Student Experience in the Middle Ages’ (QMUL).

    1. Select examples of staff contribution to the discipline in the assessment period
  i.   Hutton (FBA) carries out research assessments for the British Academy’s Fellowships
       Committee for both the History and the Archaeology sections.

  ii.   Otele’s work as Vice-President of the Royal Historical Society, has focused on improving
        equality and diversity in the profession, and on early career researcher support. She has
        been a member of both the Race, Ethnicity & Equality Working Group and the judging
        Committee for the inaugural Jinty Nelson Award for Inspirational Teaching in History. In
        addition, she is a Committee Member and Diversity Officer, British Society for Eighteenth
        Century Studies; and committee member, Society for the Study of French History

 iii.   Mukherjee is a Steering Commitee member and Treasurer, Women's History Network
        (2017-2020), and Advisory Council member, Institute of Commonwealth Studies (School of
        Advanced Studies, University of London) 2018- 2022). She is a member of the Gender &
        History editorial collective; and organised a major international conference on ‘Migration,
        Institutions and Intimate Lives’, leading to a special issue of the journal.

Staff work with a diverse and international range of bodies to support the discipline. Bickers
served as AHRC China Strategy Advisor (2013-15). Six colleagues serve on the AHRC Peer
Review College, and others have served on the ESRC’s, as well as the Icelandic Research Fund;
UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review College, and Universities’ China Committee in
London experts committee. Additionally, peer reviews have been provided for the AHRC, ESRC,
German Federal Ministry for Education and Research; Irish Research Council; Norwegian
Research Council; Leverhulme Trust, Philip Leverhulme Prize committee; and Wellcome Trust;

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek - Vlaanderen, FWO); Research Grants Council (Hong Kong);
Swiss National Science Foundation; UKRI Future Leaders Scheme. Our international profile has
seen requests for tenure or promotion reviews from a range of public and private universities in
Britain, Australia, China, HK, Ireland and continental Europe, and the United States. Members of
the UoA have examined doctorates at 32 different British universities, and 20 universities
overseas.

As well as hosting visiting researchers (PGRs and established staff) funded by the University’s
Benjamin Meaker scheme (7, from Australia, Canada, USA, Belgium), or external awards (CSC,
JSPS, WUN), UoA staff have joined research communities outside Bristol and the British Isles:
Bickers is Visiting Professor, University of Hong Kong; Carey is Life Fellow, Clare Hall, University
of Cambridge; Honorary Fellow, Religious History Society; Conjoint Professor, University of
Newcastle NSW, (2014-). Visiting fellowships were awarded to: Bates, Concordia Centre for
Sensory Studies (2019); Bickers, Institute of Modern History, Academia Sinica, Taiwan (2020);
University of Hong Kong (2019); Coates, Northumbria University (2016-19); Decker*,
Weatherhead Initiative on Global History, Harvard University, German Historical Institute,
Washington D.C., postdoctoral fellowship, June-August 2014; Flack, University of Stavanger
(2019); Hanna, TCD, October 2018; Holdenried, University of Erlangen-Nuernberg (2017); Koole,
Zanvyl Krieger School of Arts and Sciences at The Johns Hopkins University; McLellan, Sciences
Po (2014); Pohl, Fordham University, NYC (2019); Lendrum Priory Library Research Fellowship,
Durham University (2019); Newberry Library, Chicago (2019); John Rylands Library and Research
Institute (2016); Feodor Lynen Research Fellowship, Humboldt Foundation (2015). UoB Historians
are routinely invited to participate in conferences and to lecture internationally. Landmark
recognition of Hutton’s work was provided at the 2020 meeting of the American Academy of
Religion, which devoted a panel to his career’s work.

Other examples of work with learned societies includes: Bates, Webmaster (2016-18), Secretary
(2018-), Executive Committee (2012-2018) Society for the Social History of Medicine (SSHM);
Hanna: Steering Committee, Modern Irish Urban History Group; Howkins, leadership group of the
Scientific Committee of Antarctic Research (SCAR) History and Social Science Expert Group;
Lyons: Treasurer to the British New Testament Society; Mawdsley: Board Member and
Postgraduate Coordinator SSHM; Pemberton*: founder member (2016) and Treasurer (to 2017)
Policy Studies Association History and Politics specialist group; Treasurer (to 2017) and Bristol
representative to History and Policy; Pooley: Website editor, Society for the Study of French
History (2015-present). Colleagues serve, or have served, as editors of scholarly journals or on
editorial boards in the period providing editorial input into some 19 journals and 9 book series, and
of course all staff contribute by undertaking to peer-review research articles and books.
Submissions have been refereed for at least 91 different journals nationally and internationally, and
for at least 24 different publishers.

The research of members of the Department has been recognised by the following awards:
Hutton: FBA (2014); Carey was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Humanities (2012)

Members of the UoA have won or been shortlisted for the following prizes: Lewis, Urban History
Association Best Book Award (Non-North American) (2015 and 2016); Bates AHRC/Wellcome
Medical Humanities Research Leadership Award (2020); Pooley, Folklore Society’s 2020
Katharine Briggs Award for the book that has made the most distinguished contribution to folklore
studies; Bickers was shortlisted for the Wolfson Prize for History 2018; Bickers & ‘Know Your

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Bristol On the Move’ collaborators were shortlisted out of 230 applications for a National Co-
Ordinating Centre for Public Engagement Engage ‘History and Heritage’ prize (2014); Hutton,
University of Bristol Vice-Chancellor’s Award for Impact in Research (2016).

    2. Contributions to the economy
Bickers (2011-13) and then Cole (2013-16) were Bristol co-directors of the REACT KE Hub, led
by Dovey (UWE), also partnering with Bath, Cardiff, Exeter and the Watershed Media
Centre. Between 2012 and 2016, REACT supported 53 collaborative projects featuring 57 creative
companies and 73 arts and humanities scholars with £2.5 million funding for them to work together
on over 25,000 hours of collaborative R&D. They produced 86 new products, 76 new pieces of
software, 10 new companies, 43 jobs, 25 academic research articles and over 90 presentations at
research conferences. This stimulated over £5.35 million in further investment in the projects, from
private investment, sales and commissions, plus additional research grants and £2.23 million in
internal and external investment in REACT legacy activities.

Bickers served as UKTI’s ‘China Science Focal Point for the Creative Economy’ (2013-15),
working with the FCO’s Science & Innovation Network, RCUK China, and the AHRC’s Creative
Economy Hubs, to facilitate development of relationships between British and Chinese partners,
involving outward and inward visits by teams from British and Shanghai-based SMEs and micro
enterprises, culminating in contributions to UKTI’s 2015 GREAT Festival of Creativity at Shanghai.
Cole (2019-23) is one of the two Bristol co-directors of the Bristol and Bath Creative Industries
Cluster led by Dovey (UWE), also partnering with Bath, Bath Spa and the Watershed Media
Centre. One of 9 clusters funded by the Industrial Strategy and managed by AHRC, the project
supported R&D in the creative industries cluster in the Bath/Bristol city region with a focus on
Augmented Reality (AR)/ Virtual Reality (VR)/ Extended Reality (XR) and inclusion, making
an investment totalling over £5m and leveraging a further £5m of funding.

    3. Contributions to society
A significant proportion of staff are engaged in local, regional, national and international initiatives,
translating disciplinary expertise, methods, and perspectives to the service of heritage
organisations, cultural initiatives and public debate. Much of this work is collaborative, with more
experienced researchers drawing in early career colleagues and PGRs, sharing best practice and
facilitating the building of new connections and networks. Four key examples follow.

Otele draws on her work on historical legacies of slavery and the African diaspora in Europe to
intervene in and lead local and national and international debates about racial inequality. She is
independent chair of Bristol City Council’s Commission on Race Equality, and leads this group’s
work to increase the power, representation and influence of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
people in the city. In 2020, Prospect magazine named her one of the world’s top 50 thinkers.

McLellan’s work seeks to address education inequalities and open up History to those who would
not usually engage with the university. Taster courses for single parents and refugees, and her
work with mature students, led to the book Who Are Universities For? Her collaboration with
Openstorytellers allowed them to capture funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund and the Arts
Council. During the Covid-19 lockdown, her AHRC-funded research team at Wellspring Settlement
provided practical and emotional support for project participants in the inner-city. She also serves
as Chair of Governors for a primary school in East-Central Bristol.



                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Hutton is a Trustee of English Heritage and chairs its Blue Plaques panel, and is Historian on the
Royal Commission for Historic Monuments in England; in 2019 joined the Advisory Board of the
Witchcraft and Human Rights Information Network, an international organisation which lobbies and
advises the United Nations on efforts to ban witch-hunting across the world.

Pemberton* worked extensively with policy makers including submitting evidence to: the
Treasury’s pensions taxation consultation (2015); House of Commons’ Public Administration and
Constitutional Affairs Committee, enquiry into Civil Service Effectiveness (2017); Department for
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) consultation, ‘Building our industrial strategy’ (2017);
Industrial Strategy Commission (2016); the Labour Party’s International Policy Commission review
of Britain’s Defence and Security Priorities (2014); and participated in the BEIS/AHRC Historians’
Ministerial industrial strategy briefing (2016), HM Treasury advisory workshop on publicising the
release of the Howe private office papers (2016); Bank of England: advisory workshop on
proposed release of Monetary Policy Committee minutes and associated records (2014).

Such collaborations have been undertaken by most members of the UoA and have often involved
our PGRs. To select only a few examples: Bates and Cole convened ‘Conversations about
Cinema’, collaborating with the Watershed Media Centre, funded by the British Film Institute.
Haines secured an AHRC/ESRC Foreign and Commonwealth Office KE Fellowship to work with
FCDO’s research analysts part-time for 2 years (2020-22). Bickers has worked with Potter,
Haines, Huxford and Nasar on developing a strong collaboration with Bristol City Museums and
Art Gallery, Bristol Archives and its British Empire & Commonwealth Collections. With University
Strategic Research funding they have facilitated two projects, one cataloguing and pioneering
access to the printed, film, oral history, and photographic material in the Collections, the second to
work with Bristol Archives, and partners in Nairobi, co-producing a pilot project exploiting the rich
photographic archive, leading to exhibitions in Nairobi and Bristol. Cole is a Member of the
Holocaust Education Trust (HET) Advisory Board (2011-), was an Academic Advisory Board
member for IWM’s new Holocaust gallery, and adviser to the IWM’s Cold War and Late Twentieth-
Century Conflict Collections Development Strategy. With BA support Pohl worked with the
monastic community at Downside Abbey to showcase their cultural heritage and world-class
collections to the academic community and wider public through workshops, public lectures, and a
collaborative exhibition.

The University has a formal relationship with the SS Great Britain Trust’s Brunel Research
Institute, with representation on the Management Board (Potter), and priority access to its event
space (used for PGR-led events). The UoA supports the Institute’s Brunel History Fellow, James
Boyd, whose post is co-funded by the University. Skinner is a member of the Anti-Apartheid
Movement’s Archives Committee. Smith is a member of International Scientific and Cultural
Advisory Panel of the government-of-Ireland funded Beyond 2022: Ireland’s Virtual Record
Treasury. Williamson advised Royal Mail on selection of stamps for Christmas 2017, and on the
Collector’s Pack and Yearbook.

In conclusion, we believe that the detail provided here shows that we have built a research
environment of exceptional vitality, that supports the development of a diverse range of work that is
achieving its goals of reshaping the discipline, in its five focused concentrations and beyond, that
contributes to society more widely, and that contributes significantly to training and nurturing its
staff and students.



                                                                                              Page 19
