Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and Structure
 This REF cycle has seen the History Unit of Assessment (UoA) at Lincoln grow remarkably, with
 full support from the University. 15.3 new appointments have been made, resulting in the
 number of staff submitted more than doubling to 24.1 FTE, compared to 11 in REF2014. This
 expansion has been supported by a dramatic increase in research income, which expanded 25-
 fold from £53,000 submitted in REF2014 to £1.359 million submitted in REF2021. These
 achievements have allowed the Unit to realize its strategy to develop innovative, impactful, and
 interdisciplinary research and collaborations in its existing strengths in medieval history and
 gender history, by deepening its relations with key partners, such as Lincoln Cathedral, and by
 widening its geographical reach in gender history to Africa, China and Latin America. The UoA’s
 expansion has also enabled it to achieve its plan to develop new areas of thematic strength,
 especially in the history of science and medicine, and urban history. All staff returned in the
 UoA are members of the School of History and Heritage, one of six Schools in the College of
 Arts, and the UoA’s strategy in relation to publications, impact, grants and PGRs is led by the
 School’s Research Forum and College Research Committee.

 Achievement of Research Strategy
 The History UoA at Lincoln set out five key aims in REF2014:
 1) Invest in new staff appointments, both to develop existing areas of expertise and to grow
 new research clusters, indicated below. The 119% growth in the FTE of academic staff
 submitted from 2014, has allowed this aim to be realised.

 a) In Medieval history, the goal was to develop collaboration with under-used local historical
 resources, especially those of Lincoln Cathedral, in line with the University’s ‘local to global’
 strategy (see Institutional-level Environment Statement (IES)), that prioritizes research of value
 to the locality and with global significance. Two Professors have been appointed in Medieval
 history – Wilkinson (women in medieval Lincolnshire) and Clark (scholastic manuscripts,
 including those in Lincoln Cathedral) - to pursue this aim through the Medieval Studies
 Research Group (founded 2015), whose creation was a strategic aim in the 2014 REF
 environment template. History has engaged closely with Lincoln Cathedral, whose holdings are
 central to four of the PhD completions in this REF cycle. Further appointments in Medieval
 European history (Portass, Barrett) have offered a wider Mediterranean context for
 understanding local resources. A major grant, Hoskin’s AHRC-funded ‘Imprint: a forensic and
 historical investigation of fingerprints on medieval seals’, the Impact Case Study (ICS)
 derived from this grant, and key publications e.g. Hoskin’s Robert Grosseteste as Bishop of
 Lincoln have all extended the Cathedral’s ability to interpret its medieval holdings and engage
 the public with this material. In addition, the Medieval Group has published five further
 monographs and major critical editions, including Liuzzo Scorpo, Friendship in Medieval Iberia
 and Portass, The Village World of Early Medieval Northern Spain, making it a dynamic centre of
 new local and trans-regional research.

 b) In Gender history and the history of sexuality there have been three new appointments, all
 of whom have published monographs while at Lincoln (Bishop, Every Home a Fortress; Smith,
 Masculinity, Class and Same-Sex Desire in Industrial England; O’Rourke, Acting for the Silent
 Screen), though the research of Beccalossi, Rocha and Longair also makes major
 contributions to this area. It is also the focus of one of the Unit’s major grants (the AHRC-funded
 ‘What difference did the war make?’) and an ICS (Cowman) and further monographs such as
 Grandy’s Heroes and Happy Endings and Hill’s Women and Museums.

 c) Expansion of the history of science and medicine was an aim in the 2014 REF strategy,
 developing from Roos’s work on early modern scientific books in Lincoln Cathedral Library and
 as editor of The Correspondence of Dr. Martin Lister. This ambition was strengthened by

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities to work with the University’s new Medical School, opened in 2019. Three new
 appointments –Woods (at Professorial level – science, technology and medicine), Beccalossi
 (medicalization of sexuality), Rocha (Chinese medicine) - in this area means the Unit now
 possesses a platform to expand collaborative research and has already won Wellcome funding
 (Woods, Beccalossi, Rocha) and developed an ICS (Beccalossi).

 d) The Unit has a long-standing involvement in regional history, exemplified by the International
 Journal of Regional and Local History, edited in the UoA since 2005. It is committed to
 understanding the challenges and opportunities of Lincoln as an historic urban centre within an
 extensive rural hinterland. To address these issues, the newest area that the UoA has
 developed is urban history, in which five new appointments possess expertise, all of whom
 have published, or are about to publish, monographs at Lincoln (Fernandez-Gonzalez, Philip II
 of Spain and the Architecture of Empire [forthcoming, 2021]; Greenhalgh, Reconstructing
 Modernity; Longair, Cracks in the Dome; Page, Architectures of Survival; Wharton, Architects
 of Ottoman Constantinople). These colleagues’ research forms the nucleus of future projects to
 enhance understanding of the forces that have shaped urban environments at the micro-level,
 within the city of Lincoln, and in a regional and global context. The new Global and Trans-
 Regional Research Group (founded 2019), led by Fernandez -Gonzalez, brings together these
 and other scholars interested in interdisciplinary and international approaches to the study of
 urban history, architecture, art and heritage.
  This wider range of expertise is central to the Unit’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 strategy (section 2), which pro-actively encourages staff to engage in research of benefit to
 diverse communities, e.g. Beccalossi (trans communities).

 2) Grow the Unit’s PhD numbers. The Unit has been successful in this aim, with completions
 in History increasing 300% from REF2014. This was achieved through: 1) a strategy of
 encouraging PhD projects that arise from Lincoln’s MAs in History and Medieval Studies,
 especially those that engage with and benefit local stakeholders, and; 2) by bidding for
 University-funded scholarships and developing collaborative and interdisciplinary partnerships to
 win funding in the Unit’s established and emerging areas of strength, e.g. an AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Partnership Award (CDP) with the Royal Society on eighteenth-century
 science. The Unit has also increased its number of international students, partly through
 developing a joint PhD programme with the University of Padua (section 2). Staff in the UoA now
 supervise PhDs in a wide range of areas, including medieval, local and European history.

 3) Increase grant capture, from £53,000 in 2014 to a target of £400,000 in 2021. This target
 has been far surpassed (see above), including awards from the AHRC, British Academy (BA)
 and Wellcome Trust (sections 2 and 3).

 4) Further interdisciplinary and collaborative research. The Unit has prioritized the hiring of
 staff favouring interdisciplinary approaches, including the history of medicine, gender and
 sexuality, and cultural history, building on priorities from 2014. Interdisciplinarity is now
 embedded across the UoA in a manner that addresses inclusivity and diversity, e.g. Longair
 (working with Hill) focuses on material culture when examining collecting practices within
 colonial museums and private homes, resulting in a successful bid for an AHRC CDP with the
 British Museum on ‘Women Collectors of South Asia’ (awarded January 2020).

 5) Extend the Unit’s impact activities, through developing projects in its core areas of
 expertise and supporting wider staff engagement with impact. A key part of the Unit’s
 impact strategy was to use its processes and resources to incorporate impact in funding bids
 (section 3) in its core areas of strength. The success of this strategy is evidenced by its three
 ICS submitted in REF2021: 1) history of science and medicine - Beccalossi’s ICS derives
 from her Wellcome-funded project ‘Sexology and Hormones’; 2) gender history - Cowman’s
 ICS was closely-related to her AHRC award on the Suffragette movement; and 3) in medieval
 history - Hoskin’s ICS developed from her AHRC-funded project, ‘Imprint’. However, the Unit’s
 strategy also aimed to make impact integral to research beyond its submitted ICS, e.g. Packer’s
 AHRC Follow-on Funding Award (2019) as Co-I, arising from his work on The Collected Letters

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Robert Southey (2010-present), which develops schools’ outreach, displays, promotional
 material and volunteer training at Keswick Museum. PGRs are also mentored to develop impact
 in their research, e.g. five BBC Lincolnshire programmes on Magna Carta (2015), consultancy
 with Bassetlaw and Nottinghamshire Councils on Mayflower Pilgrims’ heritage tourism (2015), a
 display at the Royal Society (2018) and an exhibition on ‘Wolds Women of Influence’ in Market
 Rasen (2019). Staff have successfully been encouraged at the mentoring stage to address
 impact upon a diverse range of communities, e.g. Grandy (racialized groups), building on
 successful examples of this within the School, e.g. Cowman and women’s organizations.

 This success has been based on the Independent Research Plans (IRPs) that staff develop
 annually (section 2), where they receive mentoring to plan impact as an integrated aspect of
 research. This process has been supported by a local Impact Champion (Packer), who liaises
 with the Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute (LILI) (see IES), ensuring best practice is shared and
 specialist advice is available. College-wide Impact events have also provided guidance and
 support in writing case studies. Funding is provided through the College of Arts Research
 Resources Allocation Fund (RRAF) (section 3) and from Public Engagement for All with
 Research at Lincoln (PEARL), founded in 2017 (see IES), from which History staff have received
 three grants, e.g. £1000 provided to Longair, Liuzzo Scorpo, Grandy, and Rocha to develop
 resources on ‘decolonizing history’ for teachers in the Lincolnshire Teaching School Alliance
 (2020). Extra allowance is made in workloads to develop ICS and two College administrators aid
 in the collection of impact data.

 Research and Impact Strategy for the next five years
 The UoA’s overall aim in the next REF cycle is to both expand and to draw together its existing
 and developing areas of research strength, in order to prioritize research that is of relevance to
 our locality and that has global significance. In order to do this, we will:

 1. Continue our successful strategy of utilizing QR money, growing postgraduate student
 numbers and grant capture to consolidate our established expertise in medieval history and
 gender history and the history of sexuality, and to develop our more recent strengths in the
 history of science and medicine, and urban history through new appointments in these
 areas. Support for staff research activities (sections 2 and 3) will be extended, e.g. through
 developing support for staff transitioning from early to mid-career research via mentoring aimed
 at developing a second research project. In order to further its EDI strategy (section 2), the Unit’s
 first priority will be to employ historians in the field of Black history, whose work falls within at
 least one of the above themes.

 2. Continue to increase PGR numbers and completions, and to expand the range of topics
 supervised, through extending our current strategy of making use of local resources, promoting
 interdisciplinary and collaborative projects that can attract funding and further developing
 international partnerships.

 3. Expand international collaborations by drawing on the broadening global reach of staff
 research and by building upon links made through visiting fellowships and membership of
 academic networks (sections 3 and 4).

 4. Build on the UoA’s success in income generation by taking advantage of the wider range of
 funding bodies to which applications can be made as a result of the increasing range and
 interdisciplinarity of the Unit’s research, and its growing international networks (section 4). We
 will continue our current strategy of mentoring staff to use smaller bids to develop larger projects
 and support both early and mid-career scholars in making major grant bids (see section 2), with
 the aim of hosting further large-scale projects. The UoA also aims to contribute further to the
 development of the next generation of historians by growing the number of postdoctoral
 researchers employed on funded projects (section 2).




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5. Interdisciplinarity will continue to be prioritized as described above and key aims will include
 enhancing collaboration with the University’s Medical School to address the challenging contexts
 of healthcare in Lincolnshire.

 6. Impact will remain of central importance and support for all staff and PGRs will be extended
 through bespoke impact training, taking advantage of the planned expansion of LILI (see IES).
 The Unit will particularly seek to develop ICS that grow out of its core areas of strength and that
 build on successful grant bids. EDI will also remain a key part of impact planning and the Unit
 already has a number of projects in development to address the needs of diverse audiences,
 e.g. Smith on LGBTQI+ histories.

 Progress towards open research
 Staff are encouraged through mentoring and the IRP process (section 2), and support from the
 College RRAF (section 3) to develop open access projects, e.g. Packer’s The Collected Letters
 of Robert Southey, which publishes full free online texts, that are word searchable and can be
 downloaded as PDFs: the project’s html files are also freely available for download and can be
 repurposed for future research. The History UoA has also supported major funding bids which
 include an open access element, e.g. Hoskin’s AHRC-funded ‘Imprint’ project provides its data
 on over 1,000 medieval seals via a free, online database; and Beccalossi’s Wellcome-funded
 ‘Sexology and Hormones’ project, whose associated journal outputs are Gold open access.
 Through the University’s repository, all members of staff have access to a site for open
 publication. In addition to meeting REF open access requirements in relation to the 18 journal
 articles submitted to REF2021, all of the edited chapters and 29% of monographs and critical
 editions submitted by the Unit are open access, via the repository. These statistics represent the
 success of the Unit’s encouragement of staff to go beyond the minimum requirements for open
 access outlined in REF2021. In this, staff are supported by a dedicated member of the Research
 and Enterprise (RE) team, and training and advice sessions are provided at University level.
 PGR students also receive training from the Doctoral School on open access, and the
 University’s PhDs are freely available to download.

 Support for Research Integrity
 The UoA’s approach is governed by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the
 University’s Code of Practice for Research and the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment (see IES). The University is an institutional member of ORCID and all staff possess
 an ORCID ID. A new ethical approval procedure was introduced in 2018, overseen by the
 University’s Research Ethics Committee. All projects undertaken by staff or PGR students must
 receive acknowledgement of a Project Registration Form, or a favourable opinion from a
 University or external ethical review committee. Staff and students receive advice and support
 from an Ethics Champion in the School of History and Heritage, who receives specific training in
 the approval of ethics proposals. The School Director of Research (DoR) and the RE team
 ensure that all grant applications from members of the UoA are in line with the legal and ethical
 requirements of the award-making body, including proper governance and transparency. PGR
 students and their supervisors review ethical aspects of students’ research every year as part of
 an annual monitoring review. Staff have access to University-wide training in issues connected
 to research misconduct, which is governed by the University’s application of the UKRIO
 Procedure for the Investigation of Misconduct of Research.

 2. People
 Staffing Development and Strategy
 The areas in which the 15.3 new appointments in the History UoA, an investment of over
 £1million, have been made, are outlined in section 1. An additional appointment (Fitzgibbons,
 author of the monograph, Cromwell’s House of Lords) was made in early modern history to
 supplement Roos’s work in this chronological area. This increased staff base, concentrated in
 planned research clusters, has been designed to enable Unit members to develop collaborative
 research projects and grant bids (sections 3 and 4). The UoA has ensured this increased staffing
 has encompassed a range of career stages in order to aid the sustainable research
 development of the unit. Three of these appointments were at Professorial level, to lead

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in the key strategic areas of the Medieval Studies Research Group and links with local
 resources (Wilkinson, Clark), while Woods adds to the existing senior leadership offered by
 Roos, to further growth in the history of science and medicine and relations with the Medical
 School. All other appointments were made at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level, in line with the
 UoA’s commitment to develop its success in nurturing staff at an earlier career stage. All these
 appointments were made at regular intervals throughout the period 2014-20 (3 in 2014, 2 in
 2015, 4 in 2016, 3 in 2017, 1 in 2019 and 2.3 in 2020) to establish a sustainable pattern of
 growth and to ensure new staff could be effectively mentored and supported in joining the UoA’s
 research culture. This strategy has expanded the UoA’s ability to deliver impactful research –
 one of the UoA’s three ICS for REF2021 (Beccalossi) is a new appointment in the history of
 science, medicine, and sexuality, a field that the UoA developed in this REF cycle.

 The UoA’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is
 demonstrated by the fact that while 9.3 of the 24.1 members of staff submitted to the UoA are
 employed at senior level (Associate Professor or above), 6 have advanced to this level through
 internal promotion, evidencing the University’s and the UoA’s commitment to developing a new
 generation of research leaders. Regular workshops are held on the promotions process and
 staff are encouraged to take part in the University’s Pipeline Mentoring Programme (see IES).
 There were no staff on fixed term contracts in this UoA on the REF census date. Two members
 were initially appointed on short-term contracts (Page, Wharton), but their access to procedures
 to set career goals through induction and probation, mentoring via the IRP process and eligibility
 to apply for internal research funding (section 3) supported them in developing their research
 profiles in order to apply for and obtain permanent posts.

 To develop their research, all staff in the UoA (including fractional staff) are eligible to apply for
 the College of Arts research leave scheme that provides periods of full leave of one semester, or
 part-leave spread over two semesters (to encourage applications from staff with caring/parental
 responsibilities). There is no rota: each year, applications are judged at College level against a
 clearly-stated set of criteria, weighted towards the completion of research and impact projects.
 However, as its staff base has grown in this REF cycle, the School of History and Heritage has
 been able to commit to all staff in the UoA receiving a period of research leave after 3 years in
 post, and, as a minimum, at least once in the standard 6-year period of a REF cycle. 17 staff
 from History have been successful in being awarded leave through this scheme during the
 current REF period, including 9 of the 13 new members of staff appointed in this REF cycle at
 Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level. This has led to a total of 6 completed monographs and scholarly
 editions, contracts for 4 future monographs and 14 peer-reviewed articles as well as the
 development of impact activities, such as the ICS delivered by Hoskin and Cowman.

 All staff returned in the UoA are supported in developing their career progression through an
 annual process of probation (in their first year) or appraisal (in subsequent years), that aids them
 in setting goals and identifying resource and training needs. They also have one day a week set
 aside for research and impact activities, and staff developing major research or impact projects
 are made a greater allowance in their workloads. All staff develop an IRP, which is revised
 annually, in a one-to-one mentoring context, with a senior member of History staff, often the
 School or College DoR. In this process, academics reflect on their research and impact activities
 for the previous year, and plan both for the year ahead and for their longer-term goals, especially
 in terms of publications, grant bidding and impact activities The IRP forms a core element of
 probation and appraisal. Writing groups and seminar series in areas including global and trans-
 regional history, medieval history, and modern history provide support and advice within the UoA
 in developing research ideas and refining drafts, publication, and impact plans for both more
 junior and mid-career researchers. During this REF cycle the Unit has hosted one funded
 Postdoctoral researcher (on the Imprint project) and another was appointed in May 2020 to a
 Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship (this started in September 2020). Postdocs benefit from
 induction, mentoring from the PI on their project, regular review meetings and progress reports,
 guidance on career options and access to training opportunities, provided at University level.
 They also share in the mentoring attached to the IRP process and are eligible to apply to the
 College RRAF (section 3), which supports research trips, conference attendance and impact

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities. Staff at an early career stage benefit in their first year from a reduced teaching load,
 protection from major administrative roles, and regular one-to-one mentoring to ensure they
 integrate into the UoA’s research culture. They are provided with early opportunities to deliver
 papers in the History or related research seminar series, to join the supervision team of PGR
 students along with more experienced staff, and are mentored in applying for internal funding
 and for research leave. Every opportunity is taken to support opportunities for colleagues at an
 early career stage, e.g. rearranging staff duties to enable Bishop to take up a Kluge Fellowship
 at the Library of Congress in 2019. At mid-career level, staff are mentored to engage in internal
 research assessments, peer review of funding applications, and the organization of research
 groups and seminar series. The University’s workload allocation model allows for an equal
 distribution of duties across the whole team that supports all colleagues’ research, providing an
 open and fair structure that aims at building capacity, expertise and opportunities for leadership
 across the whole Unit.

 Support for Postgraduate Research Students
 History has been able to increase its number of PGR completions and its PGR community
 (section 1) by developing a comprehensive programme of support for PGR students at School,
 College and University level (see also IES). Three of the PhDs completed in this REF cycle were
 funded by competitive University scholarships (covering fees and stipend to AHRC standards).
 The Unit has also developed links with external bodies and captured grant funding to support
 PGRs. One completion was jointly-funded by the University and Lincoln Cathedral; and current
 students include two with scholarships from the National Archives (TNA), one AHRC CDP with
 the Royal Society and one joint PhD student funded by a scholarship based in Italy. Another
 CDP, with the British Museum, was awarded in January 2020 and began in September 2020. In
 addition, all PhD students who are graduates of the University of Lincoln receive a 20% fee
 reduction. The PhD community has also been enriched in this REF cycle by three Visiting and
 three Erasmus students from Italy, Spain and the Czech Republic. To support PGR progression,
 after four months, students complete and receive feedback on a Confirmation of Studies plan,
 that defines their research project, confirms their supervisory team, addresses ethics issues, and
 outlines training and resource needs. Transfer from MPhil/PhD to PhD occurs at the end of one
 year’s study (two years for part-time students), when PGRs submit a portfolio of work to a panel
 of three staff members who discuss progress and future plans with the student, providing
 detailed comments and advice. PGRs receive feedback from an annual monitoring review in
 subsequent years. PGR students are consulted about their experience through representatives
 on the College of Arts staff-student PGR forum and the College of Arts Research Committee.
 Their feedback has led to e,g. amendments to the documentation submitted at PGR progression
 points.

 Career development and training is furthered by opportunities for students to attend and present
 at research seminars, including those run by the Medieval Studies Research Group and the
 monthly cross-College of Arts series of postgraduate presentations, ‘Tower Talks’, and PGRs
 are fully included in the activities of the Unit’s Research Groups. There is a dedicated
 competitive funding scheme in the College of Arts to provide financial support for PGR research
 trips, impact activities and conferences. In addition, Santander funding provided £1000 in 2016
 for one PhD to visit Spanish archives. Beyond the University, History PGRs are supported in
 networking; successes include a grant in 2016 of £3,800 to two PGR students to form the East
 Midlands History Network, to fund three conferences and workshops for PGR students across
 the region; and a successful ‘Reimagining Records’ conference with international speakers at
 TNA in June 2018, organized by PGR students from Lincoln and York.

 At College level, there is a minimum of six training events per year on, e.g. preparing for giving
 research papers and the viva examination. There is also an annual College showcase of PGR
 research where students can sharpen their skills in presenting their work, and former PGR
 students give advice on possible career paths, academic and non-academic. The University’s
 Doctoral School and Career Service also provides careers mentoring and advice. A College
 PGR room provides dedicated desk space, lockers and IT facilities for students.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At induction, all PGR students receive advice and training in research ethics and integrity and
 EDI issues. History has made progress towards gender equality, with 44% of PGR students
 female and 56% male, and two History students have served as President and Treasurer of the
 University’s Women in Academia PGR group (founded 2015), but History is aware it needs to do
 more to be racially inclusive. To address this, History encourages PhD research that addresses
 the needs of a diverse range of communities, e.g. one of its three University-funded PhDs was
 on Black and Asian immigrants and regional media. The AHRC CDP awarded in January 2020
 focuses on women collectors of South Asia at the British Museum. In addition, at induction the
 University helps students to identify whether they require a Learning Support Plan, and all PGR
 students are made aware of the University’s range of Student Wellbeing services and how to
 access them, either in person or online.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The History UoA has a strong record of gender equality and has begun to address issues of
 racial diversity and inclusion. Of 24.1 members of staff in the UoA, 13 are female and 11.3 male.
 Of the 9.3 who are employed at senior level (Associate Professor or above), 6 are female,
 including 4 of the 5 Professors in the Unit. Three of these 6 women obtained their senior
 appointment through internal promotion. All staff involved in the promotions process receive EDI
 training and there is an annual promotions round with clearly set out criteria. In this REF cycle,
 55% of submitted staff and 58% of staff who were awarded research leave in 2013-20 were
 female, indicating a lack of discernible gender bias. The Royal Historical Society’s (RHS) Impact
 Analysis (2017) revealed 73% of ICS submitted in History in 2014 had a male PI, so the Unit has
 ensured that potential ICS with female PIs receive equal access to funding and support; all three
 ICS submitted in this Unit in 2021 have a female PI. 8.3 members of staff are from an
 international background and 54% received research leave, suggesting again there is no bias in
 the allocation of support for research to this group. History also has a developing record of
 research and public engagement on inter-faith relations (Portass, BA Rising Star Engagement
 Award, ‘Medieval Encounters’, producing a podcast and short films on Christian-Muslim
 interactions), and LGBTQI+ issues, especially in the fields of the medicalization of sexuality and
 gender identity (Beccalossi), same sex desire in working-class culture in Northern England
 (Smith), and queer cinema and television (O’Rourke). The Eleanor Glanville Centre (EGC) (see
 IES) leads the university’s equality work and collaborates with UoAs on specific projects; it
 supported the ‘Transnational States’ exhibition’s Lincoln opening, based on Beccalossi’s
 Wellcome-funded project and helps fund speakers and events celebrating LGBTQI+ History
 Month. The EGC is supporting History in working towards Athena Swan Bronze status, in line
 with the University’s institutional Bronze award. Five periods of parental leave have been taken
 by members of the History UoA in this REF cycle and staff have been able to take advantage of
 flexible working on their return and mentoring from a senior member of staff. Staff approaching
 retirement may request reduced fractionality or flexible working allowing younger colleagues to
 continue to benefit from their expertise. All staff in the History UoA work in buildings that have
 enhanced accessibility (at or above Disability Discrimination Act compliance levels) and are able
 to obtain, if necessary, through an initial assessment, and annual health and safety reviews,
 adapted working facilities, including chairs, computers, audio equipment and lighting. Staff are
 introduced to the University’s Wellbeing services at induction and through mandatory training
 and these are available through drop-in sessions or remotely. The University is a Mindful
 Employer signatory and all staff who manage colleagues returned in the History UoA receive
 mandatory training in recognizing and supporting those facing wellbeing issues. Staff are
 supported to develop research that tackles these questions and Rocha’s Wellcome grant
 directly addresses the issue of staff wellbeing in the modern University sector. Staff are also
 asked to reflect on their interaction with the University’s Respect Charter as part of annual
 appraisal meetings.

 At School and College level EDI is governed and promoted through EDI Committees (see IES),
 supported in the History UoA by an active Race, Ethnicity, and Equality Committee (REEC).
 History is fully aware of the need to be more racially diverse and inclusive, as while 8.3/24.1 of
 staff retuned are non-British, only 1/24.1 are from a BAME background. The Unit’s recruitment

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy prioritizes Black history (section 1) and REEC was formed in January 2019 to consider
 methods for implementing the recommendations of the RHS’s 'Race, Ethnicity & Equality
 Report’. The committee now involves 25% of UoA staff. It has both an open door policy and a
 policy of transparency, with meeting minutes available in the School’s digital learning
 environment. The committee’s aim is to increase awareness amongst the student and staff
 cohort of the under-representation of BAME historians and subjects. First year students are now
 introduced to the findings of the RHS report in Welcome Week and asked to develop their own
 ‘Respect Charter’ that speak to issues of inclusivity and diversity, an approach which was
 included in the RHS’s ‘Roadmap for Change Update’ (December 2019). The UoA also supports
 visiting BAME speakers to the School. The construction of the UoA’s submission, including the
 selection of outputs, has been governed by the University’s REF Code of Practice, which places
 EDI at the heart of this process. Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) occurred annually 2018-20
 on the University’s REF procedures, in order to identify potential EDI issues, including any
 disparities identified in the inclusion of outputs from staff with protected characteristics. All
 members of staff involved in creating the History UoA’s submission received specific EDI and
 unconscious bias training around these procedures. The selection of staff outputs for inclusion
 was based on a rigorous process that involved an internal panel with an independent Chair (from
 another School), and external assessment. Staff were encouraged to declare individual
 circumstances that might affect their submission through a confidential procedure.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Strategies for generating research income, and research infrastructure and facilities
 The UoA has developed its strategies, infrastructure and facilities in order to provide support to
 increased numbers of staff. Funding for research trips, impact activities and conference
 attendance, nationally and internationally, is available through the College-level RRAF, to which
 applications can be made three times a year. All staff are encouraged to make bids to this fund
 and are now mentored in doing so by the School DoR. This resulted in 19 History staff making
 89 successful bids to this fund, securing over £55,000. These grants provide staff with the
 opportunity to develop collaborative grant proposals, e.g. networks developed from Portass’s
 attendance and papers at the International Congresses on Medieval Studies at Western
 Michigan University and Leeds University in 2015-16 were crucial to his successful BA Rising
 Star Engagement Award, ‘Medieval Encounters’ (2018). At School level, staff receive one to one
 mentoring from a senior colleague through the IRP process (section 2), which was developed in
 this REF cycle. The IRP develops initial ideas for grant capture for research and impact.
 Particular emphasis is given to supporting staff at an early career stage in this process - their
 workloads protect their time for research, impact, and grant-bidding. But all staff working on
 large-scale bids, at whatever stage of their career, receive a workloading allowance (section 2).
 Specific support for impact is covered in section 1.

 Once developed, all bids receive advice and support through peer review within the College,
 again in a process developed during this REF cycle. A new programme of away days has also
 provided intensive training and workshops on writing bids, with experienced mentors available to
 support those making their first bidding attempt, e.g. a workshop on BA/Leverhulme small grant
 bids resulted in a successful application from History. The university’s RE team provides one-to-
 one guidance on costings and advises staff through the process of submitting bids. In addition,
 they provide regular events to support earlier career researchers, distribute details of new and
 current bidding rounds, and arrange opportunities to meet with representatives of funding
 bodies, including the AHRC, British Academy and ESRC. At College level, support is available
 from the Business Development Manager and an administrator who assists staff in managing
 grants post-award. The Unit has successfully pursued a policy of mentoring staff to develop
 smaller grant bids, which can then form the basis of larger funding applications as their career
 develops e.g. Grandy’s BA Small Research Grant (2014-16), which led into her Mid-Career
 Fellowship (2017-18). While income generation is central to the development of all staff, the
 Unit’s strategy has been to particularly focus on projects that use local resources and those that
 derive from its core and developing areas of strength. This has resulted in major successes, for
 example Hoskin’s AHRC-funded ‘Imprint’ project, that utilizes Lincoln Cathedral’s collection.
 Developing major interdisciplinary and collaborative research grants in its strongest areas has

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been central to the UoA’s impact strategy (section 1) and all three ICS submitted in History, by
 Hoskin, Cowman, and Beccalossi, are directly connected to funding awards from the AHRC or
 Wellcome Trust.

 Staff in the UoA have access to support from the History subject librarian, can order
 monographs through the library’s ‘More Books’ scheme, and have access to unlimited
 interlibrary loans (see IES). In this REF cycle more funds have been made available from the
 School and Library budgets, in line with the UoA’s growth, and the Library has invested in a
 number of key electronic databases to support staff’s research, including those of the Acta
 Sanctorum (Hoskin), British and Irish Women’s Letters and Diaries (Hill), the Daily Mail
 Historical Archive and Times Digital Archive (Packer), Mass Observation Online (Smith,
 Grandy, Greenhalgh), Women, War and Society 1914-1918 (Cowman), Empire Online
 (Fernandez-Gonzalez, Wharton, Longair), and most recently Adam Matthew Explorer which
 draws together modern global collections. The library now has over 80 electronic databases that
 are particularly useful for historians and e-copies of over 2000 historical journals. Longair, in
 conjunction with REEC and library staff has also worked to increase the presence of BAME
 historians in the library’s monograph holdings. UoA staff have also created close links with their
 unique local resources, especially Lincoln Cathedral Library (section 1), the Media Archive for
 Central England (MACE), based at the University since 2011, and the archive of the
 International Bomber Command Centre (IBCC), opened in Lincoln in 2018. Staff play important
 roles in helping to administer and promote these bodies (e.g. Cowman as a member of the
 MACE Board of Trustees, Greenhalgh’s role training volunteers at IBCC in collecting oral
 history) and their holdings have played a major role in staff research (e.g. Grandy’s work on
 home movies located at MACE).

 Research income
 The History UoA has used the support and facilities outlined above to obtain major grants from
 an increasingly broad range of award-making bodies. Bids submitted by staff returned in the
 UoA had a 56% success rate, resulting in grant income of over £1.359 million (section 1). This
 has allowed the Unit to: 1) further extend the reach and significance of impact, including in its
 core areas of research, via e.g. Cowman’s AHRC Follow-on Funding grant ‘What difference
 did the war make?’ £75,350 (section 1) in gender history; 2) forge international trans-
 disciplinary, collaborative projects, such as Wood’s role as Co-I on the AHRC-funded ‘Doctrine,
 Devotion and Cultural Experience in the Cults of Medieval Saints’, which draws on medieval
 history and music, with collaborators from the Universities of Bristol and Colorado, Boulder,
 £32,633; 3) begin to attract and develop the next generation of scholars, through the award of
 two AHRC CDPs for PhD students and its first Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellowship, awarded
 May 2020 (section 2). The Unit’s success in grant capture also indicates the deeply-embedded
 culture of external income generation in the UoA, with 16 of the 21.8 staff who have been at
 Lincoln for more than one year before July 2020 submitting successful funding bids as PI or Co-I
 in this REF cycle, including both junior staff (e.g. Fitzgibbons’s £7500 BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research grant) and those at more senior level e.g. Hoskin’s Imprint project. These awards
 include grants from the AHRC (six as PI, and two further as Co-I), the British Academy (one mid-
 career fellowship, one Rising Star Engagement Award, four small research grants and annual
 funding for one of the BA’s research projects), Wellcome Trust (one University Award in the
 Humanities and Social Sciences with additional public engagement funds, one small grant of
 £52,386), the Heritage Lottery Fund, European funding (one Erasmus+ grant (Bell)), and a
 number of smaller grants. Many of these prestigious grants are in the Unit’s core areas of
 strength, e.g. medieval history (Hoskin, PI on AHRC grant, ‘Imprint’, award of £626,679 and
 Portass, BA Rising Star Engagement Award, ‘Medieval Encounters’, £10,939); and the history
 of science and medicine (Beccalossi, Wellcome Trust, ‘Sexology and
 Hormones’/’Transitional States’ £283,657; and Roos’s AHRC-funded network ‘Collective
 Wisdom: Collecting in the Early Modern Academy,’ with a Co-I at the University of Oregon,
 £45,069). In addition, the Wellcome-funded project, Farm-Level Interdisciplinary Approaches
 to Livestock Disease (FIELD), £322,000 moved to the University in 2020, with its PI, Woods.
 However, successful grant-bidding is spread throughout the UoA’s range of research, e.g.
 Grandy’s BA Mid-Career Fellowship, ‘What the Audience Wants’, £95,326. This funding has

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 led to major research outputs in this REF e.g. Grandy (‘The show is not about race’, BA Mid-
 Career Fellowship) and Beccalossi (‘Optimizing and normalizing the population’, Wellcome
 Trust) and will lead to more in the near future e.g. Fitzgibbons’s edition of the Bulstrode
 Whitelocke diaries and Fernandez-Gonzalez, Philip II of Spain and the Architecture of Empire.

 Staff have also been successfully supported, through the processes outlined above, in applying
 for funding whose income is not reported through HESA, but which contributes to the
 international and collaborative research culture of the UoA, and supports its publications and
 impact strategies. One of the most significant of these awards was in medieval history, where
 Hoskin was a Co-I on the College of Art’s successful bid, ‘Magna Carta:1215’, funded by Arts
 Council UK (£225,000; 2015). This created a unique digital platform for young people from
 around the world to explore the global significance of Magna Carta through art, but also
 supported Hoskin’s impact activities derived from her work on Robert Grosseteste, natural law
 and Magna Carta.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Research collaborations networks and partnerships
 Lincoln has been the centre of major collaborative funded projects in this REF, including
 Hoskin’s Imprint, Beccalossi’s Sexology and Hormones and Woods’ FIELD. But they are
 only part of the wide range of networks stretching beyond HE which involve all staff. UoA
 members are encouraged to develop plans for collaboration through mentoring in the IRP
 process and appraisal (sections 2 and 3) and to consider this as integral to developing impact,
 grant bidding, and publication. Workloading allowances are provided for collaborations and
 financial support is available from the RRAF and Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS)
 established in 2018 (see IES) – four members of the Unit have received LIAS mobility awards to
 discuss collaborative projects in Europe; in addition staff received seven Santander awards. In
 medieval history, the strategy has been to develop networks that support the study of Lincoln
 Cathedral’s resources within a wider context. Clark was a LIAS-supported Visiting Fellow at
 Lincoln for 3 months in 2019, when he originated his plans for a collaborative research bid on
 the manuscripts of medieval cathedrals, including Lincoln. Hoskin is UK link for the ‘DEEDS’
 project, University of Toronto, Chair of the AHRC-funded Northern Way project, based at the
 University of York, and a member of the advisory board for the Leverhulme Project ‘An Edition of
 the Rolls of Walter de Gray, Archbishop of York’. She is PI for the BA-funded project ‘English
 Episcopal Acta’, which was based at Lincoln 2010-2019 and published nine volumes in this
 period, edited by scholars from a range of universities including Southampton and UEA. Work on
 this project was the origin of Hoskin’s AHRC-funded ‘Imprint’ project. Liuzzo Scorpo was a
 member of the Leverhulme Trust International Research Network, ‘New Interpretations on the
 Angevin World’, including members from the UK, Amsterdam, Bucharest, Bonn, Poitiers and
 Dublin and Portass is a member of the Instituto de Estudos Medievais, Portugal. In the history
 of science and medicine, Roos is a member of the AHRC-funded research network ‘Origins of
 Science as a Visual Pursuit’ and was part of the Leverhulme Trust-funded International
 Research Network ‘The Contribution of Francis Willoughby to the study of zoology’ with
 collaborators from the US, Germany, and the UK. In urban history, Fernandez-Gonzalez is co-
 ordinator of the International Network for the Study of the Early Modern Festival, whose
 committee has members from Aberdeen, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Warwick, Pisa and Madrid, and
 which is integral to her research and publications on this subject.

 In addition, Hill and Longair are committee members of the Museums and Galleries in History
 Group and Bell is a member of the ‘E-story: Media and History from the Cinema to the Web’
 Erasmus + project, with partners from Hungary, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, Spain and the
 Netherlands, working with teachers to investigate how history teaching can help pupils to
 become more media literate. The UoA also supported collaborations through hosting large
 projects with postdocs (‘Imprint’, Hoskin, 2016-18) and providing campus space for exhibitions
 (‘Sexology and Hormones/Transitional States’, Beccalossi, 2019). It has also hosted major
 conferences organized by members of the Unit, with financial and logistical support from the
 University, including those of the Society for the Medieval Mediterranean, 2015 (Liuzzo Scorpo,
 Portass and Wood) and the Social History Society, 2019 (Grandy).

                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit also invites scholars from other institutions to speak at Lincoln in order to facilitate
 research collaborations and exchange of ideas through a regular History seminar and
 interdisciplinary seminars organized by the Medieval Studies and Global and Trans-regional
 History Groups. The Lincoln Annual Medieval Lecture, established in 2011, has been delivered
 by colleagues from a wide range of UK institutions and a Medieval Week has been organized
 since 2018, featuring guest speakers and workshops open to the public. In 2015, History
 celebrated the 800th anniversary of the sealing of Magna Carta with a series of public lectures.


 Relationships with users, beneficiaries and audiences

 Beneficiaries
 The Unit’s strategy has been to promote projects and activities from all staff and that interact
 with beneficiaries in a broad range of ways. As an example of a closely-focused collaboration,
 one of History’s ICS, the AHRC-funded project ‘Impact’ (Hoskin), used forensic techniques to
 identify hand prints on medieval wax seals. The project’s extensive and unusual employment of
 equipment usually used for forensic examination of crime scenes, enabled the manufacturers to
 identify ways to improve their product. History at Lincoln has also collaborated closely with
 organisations outside HE to develop their ability to engage with the public. Liuzzo Scorpo
 worked with Lincoln Cathedral on their 2017 exhibition ‘Hospitality on the Road to Santiago de
 Compostela’, in collaboration with the Xunta de Galicia (Spain). Research from the Unit has
 informed a wide range of other national exhibitions and Cowman’s AHRC grant ‘What
 difference did the war make?’ provided Vote 100 (UK Parliament’s official commemoration
 body) with research for its in-house exhibition celebrating the centenary of votes for women, and
 a series of symposia and talks. The public engagement project ‘Transitional states’
 (Beccalossi), worked closely with artists and LGBTQI+ organisations, including groups for
 transgender youth across the UK, Italy and Spain, providing a voice and a forum for
 marginalized groups within Europe. History at Lincoln also supports and enables the
 functioning of organisations that engage with a broad range of publics, especially those
 connected to its locality. Roos, Wilkinson and Hoskin are members of Council of Lincoln
 Record Society, Hoskin is Chair of the Lincoln Cathedral Library Committee and Wood is chair
 of the Historical Association’s Lincoln City branch, based at the University. Beyond Lincoln,
 Fitzgibbon is a trustee of the Cromwell Association, Bell is President of the Friends’ Historical
 Society, and Roos is a committee-member of the Royal Society. Throughout the REF period,
 History has committed to working with schools: Cowman’s project ‘What difference did the
 war Make?’ included workshops in Plymouth, Lincoln and London in which sixth form students
 engaged in debate around the extension of the franchise; Hoskin’s project ‘Imprint’ included
 workshops for year 7 pupils in schools in Lincolnshire. Finally, staff have used their expertise to
 contribute to media productions. Cowman acted as adviser to the film ‘Suffragette’ (2015) and
 Smith to the film ‘The Little Stranger’ (2018) and the Netflix production, ‘Rebecca’ (2020). For
 television, Greenhalgh was adviser to the Kudos/BBC drama ‘From Here to There’. In the
 theatre, Cowman worked on ‘Everything is Possible’, with the York Theatre Royal (2016) and
 ‘She Bangs the Drums’ with Contact Theatre, Manchester (2018) and Smith was consultant to
 the touring production of ‘The Glee Club’ (2019-20). At all times, members of the Unit seek to
 engage with a diverse range of beneficiaries, as exemplified by the activities of Beccalossi
 (LGBTQI+ issues) and Cowman (gender).

 Audiences
 Staff also engage with a range of public audiences, locally and nationally. In 2016 and 2017,
 members of the History UoA took part in the European Commission-funded Marie Curie festival
 of research, LiGHTS (Cowman Co-I), intended to enthuse wider publics about research.
 Lectures (Roos), film screenings (Cowman, Grandy, O’Rourke), and workshops (Hoskin) were
 provided around UoA projects. Over 1000 schoolchildren from over 20 schools across
 Lincolnshire attended each occasion, along with local visitors of all ages. Major anniversaries in
 the REF period allowed the Unit to reach out to nation-wide audiences: Cowman was
 interviewed widely about female enfranchisement in 2018, appearing on 5 different BBC

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes, and Grandy was interviewed on BBC Radio 4’s ‘P.M.’ on the history of blackface.
 In 2015, the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta meant that Hoskin was interviewed on 3
 different BBC programmes and Sky TV’s ‘Swipe’. In addition, Packer and Smith were
 interviewed for BBC 1’s ‘Who do you Think you Are?’ and Roos appeared on ‘Making History’
 (BBC Radio 4). Colleagues also provided text for newspapers and magazines including National
 Geographic (Roos), New Scientist (Hoskin), The Independent (Beccalossi), and Daily
 Telegraph (Cowman).

 Staff have also been extensively involved in giving public lectures. Amongst these the most
 prestigious have been: the Society of Antiquaries (Hoskin, Packer); Royal College of Nursing
 (Cowman); Royal Society (Roos); Institute of Physics (Roos); Lincoln Cathedral Annual Robert
 Grosseteste Lecture (Hoskin).

 Wider contributions to the research base
 Within HE, all members of the Unit are encouraged through the mentoring process involved in
 IRPs and appraisal to make a contribution to committees and advisory boards and receive a
 workloading allowance for doing so. Staff are closely involved with supporting UK research
 councils: Grandy and Packer are members of the AHRC peer review college, for which Packer
 received a Gold Standard Letter in recognition of his work (2019); Cowman is a strategic and
 international reviewer for the AHRC and a member of its Follow-on Funding panel; Longair and
 Roos have also been members of the selection board for the AHRC CDP grant scheme in the
 Science Museum group consortium. Cowman is a reviewer for the UKRI Future Leader Scheme
 and Wood reviews for ESRC Standard Project Grants. Grandy was a reviewer for the BA’s
 Visiting Fellowships scheme. Staff also engage in a wide range of international roles: Hoskin
 was a panel member of the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council
 doctoral pre-selection panel; Cowman and Packer are members of the Outer International
 Assessment Board of the Irish Research Council’s Government of Ireland Postgraduate
 Scholarship Programme; Cowman is a reviewer for the European Science Foundation and the
 Czech Science Foundation; Fernandez-Gonzalez is a peer reviewer for the Spanish National
 Research Council and Wood is a reviewer for the Veni postdoctoral scheme (Netherlands
 organization for scientific research) and the Austrian Science Fund. This expertise underpins the
 ability of staff to provide mentoring for UoA members in writing grant bids and preparing them for
 research council roles (sections 2 and 3).

 Staff have also successfully obtained a wide range of Fellowships and awards to support their
 research and impact activities. These include, in medieval history: Liuzzo Scorpo, Visiting
 Fellow at the Consejo Superior de Investigación Científica, Barcelona (2018) leading to a new
 project on ‘Emotions, Communication and Diplomacy’; Portass, Visiting Fellowship at Kings
 College Cambridge (2017) for work on a forthcoming book on Christian and Muslim Iberia; and
 Wood has been a Visiting Research Fellow at John Rylands Research Institute, University of
 Manchester (2015), and held Visiting Fellowships at Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian, Portugal
 (2019) and the Centre for Advanced Studies in Migration and Mobility, Eberhard Karls
 Universität, Tübingen (2019), for a new project on Visigothic Spain. In gender history, Bishop
 held a Kluge Library of Congress-AHRC Fellowship (2019) to further his second monograph on
 workers in the nuclear industry. In the history of science and medicine, Beccalossi was a
 Visiting Fellow at the Centre for the Foundations of Science and Department of History,
 University of Sydney (2017) and Visiting Professor, Department of History, University of
 Toulouse, E3600 (2016) to enhance research and publications connected to her Wellcome
 project ‘Sexology and Hormones’ and the resultant ICS. Finally, in urban history: Fernandez-
 Gonzalez was a Co-I on the project ‘Public Rituals in the Portuguese Empire (1498-1822)’,
 awarded £21,0752 by the Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia of the Portuguese
 Government (2018), and also received £4,500 from the Society of Architectural Historians for her
 project, ‘Architecture, Empire and Public Rituals in Early Modern Santiago de Cuba and Havana’
 - she was also Edilia and François-Auguste de Montêquin Senior Scholar Fellow - Society of
 Architectural Historians (2018-19) to support her work on Philip II of Spain and the Architecture
 of Empire; Wharton was awarded a visiting fellowship at the Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian
 (2019-20) on urban spaces in the Near East; and Longair was an Honorary Visiting Fellow,

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Leicester (2016-2018), addressing museums in East Africa. Staff are also
 encouraged to develop their contribution to the historical profession by acting as PhD external
 examiners, and have done so at 23 different universities in this REF cycle, including universities
 in Denmark, Spain, Italy, France and Canada. They have also acted as general editors for
 series, including the BA-funded English Episcopal Acta Series, Kathleen Major Series, Lincoln
 Record Society and Canterbury and York Society (Hoskin) and the Pipe Roll Society and
 Routledge’s Lives of Royal Women Series (Wilkinson), and have edited the International
 Journal of Regional and Local History (Cowman, Packer), Museum History Journal (Hill) and
 Notes and Records: The Royal Society Journal for the History of Science (Roos). These roles
 enable junior staff to be mentored in reviewing articles and publication strategies. Staff have
 served as members of editorial boards for 12 journals, including: Urban History (Greenhalgh);
 Women’s History Review and Labour History (Cowman); Asian Medicine: Tradition and
 Modernity (Rocha), Social History of Medicine and British Journal of the History of Science
 (Roos) and Journal of the History of Sexuality (Beccalossi). Finally, they have also acted as
 peer reviewers for 10 publishers and 25 academic journals, including; Cambridge University
 Press (Beccalossi, Rocha); Oxford University Press (Wood); English Historical Review
 (Barrett, Fitzgibbons, Cowman, Roos); Historical Journal (Fitzgibbons, Longair); History
 (Liuzzo Scorpo); Journal of British Studies (Fitzgibbons, Grandy, Smith, Cowman);
 Immigrants & Minorities (Grandy); Speculum (Barrett, Hoskin, Wood), Journal for the History
 of Sexuality (Rocha, Smith), Modern China (Rocha) and Modern Asian Studies (Longair).




                                                                                           Page 13
