Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University

 Unit of assessment: UoA 23 - Education

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure
 Bath Spa University’s UoA in Education is based in the institution’s School of Education (SoE).
 Since 2014, we have consolidated our previous excellent regional reputation and used this to
 develop a distinctive national and international reputation in the three cross-cutting areas of
 research, which define education research at Bath Spa: 1. social justice and equity in
 education, 2. practitioner research, and 3. creativity in education. With interdisciplinary
 engagement from art and design, creative writing, psychology, and environmental humanities,
 we produce creative, participatory and critical research that makes an impact on education
 practice and practitioners, with particular impact beyond the academy in developing and
 embedding innovative creative pedagogical approaches in creative arts education (ICS UoA23-
 1 CPP), embedding best practice of Teacher Assessment in Primary Science (ICS UoA23-2
 TAPS) and creating whole school models to transform the practice of lead practitioners working
 with disadvantaged learners (ICS UoA23-3 PDL).
 The Unit is led by Head of Research and Unit lead, Chadderton, supported by the leads of our
 four research centres. Our research centres are this Unit’s structural mechanism for enabling
 our research and impact strategy and they are:
        Centre for Research in Early Scientific and Technological Learning and Education
         (McMahon and Etchells)
        Centre for Equity, Inclusion and Community (Bhatti and Simmons)
        Centre for Research into Policy, Pedagogy and Practice (la Velle and Parfitt)
        Centre for Research in Early Childhood (Georgis and Hattingh)

 Research strategy: Maximising our research quality and reputation
 Since 2014, our main aim has been to maximise our research quality and reputation, via the
 following strategy:

 We have restructured our research centres strategically in order to consolidate our
 distinctive research strengths, develop our areas of excellence, and better inform our teaching
 and curriculum developments. This has enabled us to establish ourselves as a hub for
 distinctive research into:
  Early Scientific and Technological Learning and Education (with a focus on primary science
     teaching, the learning sciences and teacher assessment in science);
  Equity, Inclusion and Community (with particular focus on widening access and
     participation and improving outcomes for marginalised groups, structurally disadvantaged
     groups including BAME groups, disabled people, looked-after children, traumatised
     children, refugees and army families, and solutions such as inclusive education,
     intercultural learning and emotion coaching);
  Policy, Pedagogy and Practice (with a focus on creative and arts pedagogies; research in
     teacher education and practice; leadership in education; national and international policy
     analysis)
  Research in Early Childhood (with a focus on practitioner experience, professional
     development support and outdoor and forest education).

 Our research is characterised by the cross-cutting strands of (i) social justice and equity in
 education, (ii) practitioner research, and (iii) creativity in education, which are integral to the
 work of each of the centres.



Page 1
 We have significantly increased our external research funding (GBP590,298 to
 GBP2,157,000 - an increase of 265.41%), increasing not only the quantity, but also the quality,
 of our funding through winning grants from larger, national and international funders such as
 the AHRC, the EU and the Wellcome Trust. We have also gained funding from charities such
 as the Forces in Mind Trust and National Association for Virtual Headteachers, and public
 bodies such as Somerset County Council. We have done this by operating a targeted strategy
 which includes consolidating our strong partnerships and networks, leadership and mentoring
 from strategically appointed professors such as Levinson, and diversifying our bids to a variety
 of different funders (see section 3 for detail).

 We have both enhanced our regional presence and increased our international research
 considerably, by strategically supporting national and international collaboration with seed
 funding and targeted bidding. There are two international projects currently led by the Unit
 [Hattingh and McMahon] and unit members are engaged in a further five [Bhatti, Bianchi,
 Georgis, Hay and Morris]) (see sections 3 and 4).

 We have increased the number of research outputs of high quality submitted to REF (from
 48 in 2014 to 66 in 2021) by following a programme of writing retreats, mentoring and
 co-authorship by professors and senior researchers. CREIC, for example, held 6 writing
 retreats for members in 2018-9.

 Our postgraduate research has been greatly expanded. We have increased the number of
 doctoral completions by nearly 60%. This has been achieved by applying for externally funded
 studentships (one through Levinson’s AHRC project and one through McMahon’s Primary
 Science Teaching Trust project); from 2016/17 to 2018/19 we provided eleven internal SoE
 studentships for applicants whose areas of research map onto our research priorities; and we
 have expanded our supervision capacity significantly (see section 2).
 Impact and Public Engagement strategy
 Since 2014 we have developed our impact and public engagement work considerably. We are
 submitting three impact case studies to this REF, one more than last time, which map onto our
 specialist areas of research:
        UoA23-1 CPP - Developing and embedding innovative creative pedagogical
         approaches in creative arts education
        ICS UoA23-2 TAPS - Embedding best practice of Teacher Assessment in Primary
         Science
        ICS UoA23-3 PDL - Creating whole school models to transform the practice of lead
         practitioners working with disadvantaged learners.
 Beyond the work in the case studies, we have supported members of the Unit and built the
 capacity to conduct many more impactful studies and to engage the public with our research
 (see section 4).
 Since 2014 we have developed a significantly more supportive and structurally embedded
 impact strategy. We see impact as an integral and iterative part of our research. Our main
 strategy is to invest in, and support research of direct relevance to education practice, where
 public impact and community engagement is built in from the start. A particular focus is co-
 constructed and participatory methodologies, to ensure impact is responsive, ethical, ongoing
 and sustainable. It is informed by our commitment to socially-engaged, creative and inclusive
 research. Awareness of the importance of impactful research is raised through our policy of
 requiring impact statements in all applications for ethical clearance for research data collection.
 We have built capacity in this field and are better able to support impact and public
 engagement work. These appointments include BSU’s Knowledge Exchange Manager and
 Impact Research Fellow (see Institutional Environment Statement IES 4.2.1), and SoE’s
 Project Development Officer. The university’s Impact Research Fellow supports staff with
 planning impact, conducting evaluations, collecting evidence of impact and better embedding

Page 2
 and aligning research and impact in new funding proposals and from the inception of the
 research. In the Unit, we have provided training to RF Parfitt, to enable individual project
 support. The Unit’s leader supports impact by identifying wider beneficiaries when developing
 external bids. The research centres hold informal ideas-sharing meetings for maximising
 impact. Seed funding is also made available for this purpose and all three impact case studies
 have benefitted from seed funding.
 We support staff to disseminate their research to large audiences of professionals, policy-
 makers and community stakeholders. For example, ICS UoA23-2 TAPS has been facilitated
 with venues and administrative support for the project training days and the annual Association
 of Science Education conference, which has increased both engagement in, and direct
 beneficiaries of this work. We have also arranged for buy-out from teaching for those with large
 projects so they can focus on extending the impact of their research (e.g. Earle ICS UoA23-2
 TAPS) and even a transformation of their role from mainly teaching to research (e.g. Parker
 ICS UoA23-3 PDL).
 The social justice and practice-relevant nature of our impact strategy has been key to allowing
 us to develop research in partnership with community partners and research beneficiaries, with
 many of whom we have long-standing partnerships, and who benefit from our research and put
 it into practice. This research ranges from work which is a response to an issue identified by
 partners, to fully participatory, bottom-up approaches that make use of existing local and
 national networks and enable us to build new ones. E.g. ICS UoA23-3 PDL presents projects
 which were collaboratively developed with participant institutions/groups and were responsive
 to problems identified by practitioners - Parker et al’s work on Attachment Aware Schools is a
 collaborative intervention between academics and practitioners which has reconfigured
 behaviour and relationships in schools. Curran’s work, which has led to the first national
 workload model for SENCOs, was a direct response to issues identified by a SENCO who
 approached Curran. This work was supported by a grant (GBP5,000) from project partners, the
 National Education Union, and the Unit supported Curran with marking buy-out to conduct
 extensive research, widening the inquiry to make it national. Equally Hay collaborates with
 longstanding local partners, charity House of Imagination and Bath’s Holburne Museum, to
 transform the practices of teachers in the creative arts by co-creating innovative creative
 pedagogies which emphasise inclusion, collaboration and exploration (ICS UoA23-1 CPP).


 Strategy to support interdisciplinary research
 Central to our mission as a small, enterprising institution is our strategic promotion of
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research. Since 2014 we have created a strategy to forge
 stronger internal interdisciplinary links with colleagues across the university. This is two-
 pronged in this Unit:

 We use the mechanism of collaboration with the three strategic, interdisciplinary institution-
 wide research centres: the Centre of Cultural and Creative Industries (CCCI), the Research
 Centre for Transcultural Creativity and Education (TRACE) and the Research Centre for
 Environmental Humanities (RCEH) (IES 4.1.2). Strategies to collaborate with these research
 centres within the Unit include the involvement of key colleagues from the SoE on the research
 centre steering groups (e.g. Chadderton and Hay on CCCI and McCree and Hattingh on
 RCEH), inviting members of the research centres to SoE research meetings, and holding
 regular joint seminars. This has led to one of the Unit’s most successful interdisciplinary
 collaborations, that between TRACE and Unit member Hay, on the Arts Council England
 funded ‘Creative Writing in Schools’ project (2016-18; GBP600,000). This aimed to inspire
 young people to write creatively and for pleasure in response to concerns about a lack of
 creative writing opportunities in schools. For this project, BSU also partnered with Bath
 Festivals, The National Association of Writers in Education and approximately 100 schools in
 the south-west. The project increased teacher confidence around supporting children to write,
 and resulted in those young people who were writing less often than their peers at the
 beginning of the project, writing more often by the end. It has led to the launch of a new


Page 3
 interdisciplinary project 2019-21, ‘Writing for All’ which ensures that writers from all
 backgrounds are supported and new forms of writing are given the chance to succeed.

 Within the SoE, we have strategically created an interdisciplinary research centre, CRiSTLE,
 which is a collaboration between education and psychology. This has resulted in the Wellcome
 Trust funded interdisciplinary project McMahon and Etchells (joint PIs): ‘Enhancing the
 Learning Sciences in Initial Teacher Education’ GBP36,467 (2017-18).
 Open research environment and management of research data
 The Unit’s strategy for open research is guided by the institutional strategy, policies and
 processes described in the Institutional Environment statement (IES 2.8.1).

 In Education we support the principle that research developed with public funds be made
 publicly available, and have concentrated on making our occasional papers, commissioned
 reports, book chapters and research data openly accessible. Our own research papers are
 made freely available in full, with no embargo, via the institutional repository, e.g. Occasional
 Paper No.1, Occasional Paper No.2. Where publishers' policies allow, the Unit's authors make
 their book chapters openly accessible, e.g. Georgis et al (2018) and Simmons (2018). The
 Library repository team have provided training for the Unit in data management principles (e.g.
 the FAIR data standards) and practical use of the University's Figshare data repository. The
 Unit monitors progress towards open research targets through the University’s annual Quality
 Review. The AHRC D4D project, (Levinson), has employed a data manager to ensure data
 sharing between multiple external stakeholders is handled legally and securely. Examples of
 the Unit's published research data include data collected for Earle’s Teacher Assessment in
 Primary Science research.

 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 The SoE ensures that all our research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Since 2014 we have strengthened the
 research ethics approval system in place at SoE so that it is more streamlined and better
 integrated into our systems. Ethical practice in research is a priority for us in the Unit,
 particularly as a large amount of our research is conducted with participants and potential
 beneficiaries as co-researchers or close collaborators, and we encourage inclusive and non-
 hierarchical research which challenges traditional power relations between the researcher and
 the researched (see work by e.g. Layen and Hattingh, Levinson, as well as all three Impact
 Case Studies).

 All academic staff undertake the Epigeum online module on training in research ethics as a
 minimum requirement (see institutional level statement). At school level, all research
 applications are subject to ethics review and are initially reviewed by Read, who has a high
 level of expertise due to his work on ethical research in the field of disability studies.
 Applications are then allocated for further review by the relevant research centre
 representative. Each research centre has an identified ethics lead. The School Ethics Lead (la
 Velle) represents the SoE at the University’s ethics committee and ensures that our procedures
 are not only compliant with university policy but are as inclusive as possible.

 Future research strategy
 Our research strategy 2020-25, written by the professors and research centre leads, will reflect
 our current priorities and involve building on these.

 We will continue to develop our research in the three cross-cutting areas which define our
 work: social justice and equity in education; practitioner research; and creativity. We aim
 further to develop the work of our newer research centres, PPP and REACH, and invest
 strategically in research-active members for these centres, both as external appointments and
 in capacity-building with our own ECRs and doctoral students. Recent ECR appointments in
 PPP, such as Morris, conducting work on self-guided learning in HE, and Kuhn, formally a

Page 4
 doctoral student with us, now Co-I on EPSRC funded ‘Understanding data: practices and
 politics’, provide a strong foundation. While we have focused recently on creating an inclusive
 environment for research and appointing and supporting ECRs (see below), our intention is
 also to focus on appointing more senior and experienced researchers in our areas of strength
 in order to enable us to benefit from their leadership and existing wider networks, including
 international ones, in order to grow and develop our international work. We also aim to
 increase the number of, and extend the work of our Visiting Professors and Research Fellows,
 to increase the mentoring and support given within the research centres.

 Secondly, we aim to build on our recent success in gaining external research funding. We aim
 to continue to build on existing relationships with funders and external stakeholders, a strategy
 which has worked well, with grants from the Primary Science Teaching Trust, the Wellcome
 Trust, and London Borough of Tower Hamlets (see below). We will also continue to build on
 and support strategic national and international collaborations with other institutions and non-
 academic partnerships via e.g. the Global Academy of Liberal Arts, a global network of
 creativity, in order to extend the reach of our research nationally and internationally. We will
 continue to respond directly to the needs of practitioners, communities and beneficiaries, and in
 doing so develop and support research which is participatory, non-hierarchical and inclusive.

 Thirdly, we expect to continue to support our vibrant and growing postgraduate research
 community and environment. We aim to recruit a total of 15 doctoral students attached to our
 research centres in our areas of specialism. Supervisory capacity will be increased by
 strategic mentoring of colleagues new to supervision, a current strategy which is already
 working well, with five ECRs already acting as junior members of supervision teams. A new
 element of our strategy will involve improving support for doctoral students within the Unit, to
 enhance their sense of belonging in the SoE, which will include the introduction of an annual
 colloquium and the development of a programme of workshops for research students, specific
 to the study of education.


 Section 2. People
 Staffing and recruitment policy
 Our staffing strategy has focused on consolidating our areas of strength and capacity-
 building. This has enabled us to recruit high quality research staff at all stages of their
 careers. We have recruited five new research professors since 2014: Whitty (now late),
 Levinson, Chadderton, la Velle and Preston (Preston has moved on) in order to provide
 leadership and mentoring in our specialist areas of practitioner research (teacher education)
 and social justice and equity; and recently qualified doctors or early-mid career researchers
 such as McCree, Yuan, Lewis, Georgis, Bremner, Durden-Myers, Mitchell, Morris, Yeh, in order
 to build capacity in these areas. We have promoted outstanding researchers McMahon, Earle
 and Hay from senior lecturer to reader in order to provide leadership in practitioner research
 (science education) and creativity in education. All Category A eligible staff in the unit are
 employed on permanent contracts, providing a positive support structure.
 Staff development strategy
 In line with the University’s commitment to staff development in research, we have strategically
 focused our attention on consolidating and enhancing our existing strengths and capacity-
 building, including mentoring of emerging researchers with a teaching/educational practitioner
 background, to help them build on their professional practice to become active researchers.
 Within our areas of strength, our strategy is to encourage staff to follow their curiosity to
 produce excellent research and provide inclusive research development. Our strategy is
 informed throughout by the UK’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and we are committed to supporting staff at all stages in their careers.
 A structured, formal system of 1-1 mentoring in the Unit involving our research professors
 provides support to colleagues on an ongoing basis. It is monitored by the research lead and
 research centre leads and reported at our termly SoE research forum (see below). This has

Page 5
 worked well: by building a picture of issues that arise for colleagues on an individual level we
 have put together a series of small group writing workshops, each of which targets specific
 aspects of writing (style, self-grading, finding one’s voice). This has resulted in some
 significant successes, including ECR Kuhn being awarded an HDI EPSRC Network Plus grant
 in 2020, and some successful research partnerships, including Chadderton and Macer on
 widening access, and Levinson and Parker on Attachment Aware Schools. Research centre
 leads provide targeted support with issues related to the theme/s of the research centre.
 Additionally, we have developed strategic international and national alliances with visiting
 research professors to support our staff and increase the vitality and interconnectedness of our
 research: Gore (Newcastle, Australia), Menter (Oxford, UK), Tatto (Arizona State, US), Eloff
 (Pretoria, South Africa), la Velle (visiting until 2018; now employed at BSU). These professors
 visit regularly e.g., in 2017-18 la Velle visited 30 times. They give seminars, mentor ECRs,
 support bid writing, conduct writing retreats, attend professorial appointment boards, contribute
 to PhD supervision and co-author publications with BSU colleagues, e.g. La Velle and
 Duggan’s work on university-based teacher educators.
 Staff are encouraged to participate in our internal research seminar series, and at our annual
 SoE research day, both of which provide an inclusive and supportive forum for experienced
 and less experienced researchers to share and develop their work. We support CPD and
 attendance at research conferences such as BERA and ECER, as well as public engagement
 events. All staff are encouraged to apply for the annual internal research funding scheme and
 the public engagement seed fund to support their research, impact and engagement activities.
 This targeted funding enables not only larger projects to get off the ground, but also smaller,
 experimental projects. The seed funding resulted in the support of six successful projects 2017-
 8. For example, ‘Fantastic plastic?’, a collaboration between SoE (McMahon), Geography
 (Wilkins), and Beacon Rise Primary School, Bristol (22 staff and 400 children), as co-
 researchers, addressed the concern of plastics accumulating in the oceans. The collaborators
 devised teaching sequences for primary schools that enabled children to develop a scientific
 understanding of plastics and discuss the moral issues of plastic use and disposal. The
 children were supported to take actions of different kinds (letter writing, changing own
 behaviour, beach cleaning).
 Our staff development activity is informed by improved strategic communication around
 research, which ensures both effectiveness and inclusivity of research development activity.
 The SoE holds a termly Research Forum, which is attended by the Head of School, research
 centre leads, programme leads, representatives from BSU’s central Research Support Office,
 student representatives. The Head of Research attends the team meetings of the different
 teaching programmes to update colleagues on issues of policy and research opportunities and
 regulations.
 Unit staff have benefitted from an SoE scheme of marking buy-out to conduct research (e.g.
 Mitchell, McMahon), as well as an institutional scheme of teaching relief (e.g. Bianchi), which
 have led to a range of excellent research outputs. Teaching remission is arranged for staff
 involved in large research projects (e.g. Bianchi, Earle).
 Supporting Early Career Researchers
 In addition to the ESR programme at institutional level (IES 3.3), in the SoE we have prioritised
 investment in ECRs and considerably improved our support for ECRs since 2014. Our
 programme includes the following:
        All our ECRs belong to one of our research centres and are allocated a research
         mentor. Where appropriate, this might be a colleague from another school to enhance
         interdisciplinarity. We create opportunities for ECRs to develop their research skills by
         working alongside more experienced researchers e.g. Barber working alongside
         McMahon funded by the Unit.
        The Accessible Reading Group (ARG) works across programmes in initial teacher
         education and education studies to support colleagues less familiar with research
         literature. It focuses on examining articles on higher education and professional


Page 6
         development which are accessible to staff at various levels of research capability and
         expertise, and both active and non-active researchers.
        Allocation of seed funding prioritises applications from ECRs to support them in
         developing their area of research towards applying for external funding.
        Writing retreats run by Chadderton and la Velle, as well as the individual research
         centres, provide inclusive and supportive spaces where all researchers, including
         ECRS, can develop their academic writing.
        The PPP research centre runs an internal blog for ECRs to share their research.
        Staff without doctorates are supported to study towards gaining one. This has resulted
         in nine members of staff gaining their doctorates since starting at BSU in the current
         REF period, and a further nine currently being supported to complete. Four of those
         completions are now SRR and their work is being submitted to this REF.
        The effectiveness of our ECR strategy is evidenced by the number of ECRs classified
         as SRR: Durden-Myers, Kuhn, Morris and Yuan (13% of the total).
 PGR students
 Since 2014, we have developed a programme of initiatives to expand our PG research
 environment and have had considerable success in building a vibrant doctoral research
 community. There are currently 28 PGRs registered on doctoral programmes. We have 12
 PhD completions in this REF period, up from 7 in the last REF, an increase of more than 58%.
 This success is due to a range of strategic initiatives:
 Strategic recruitment and development of promising academic staff has expanded our research
 and supervision capacity in our areas of strength, such as Georgis and Lewis in early childhood
 studies, and Simmons and Read in disability studies and inclusion, Professors Levinson and
 Chadderton in the field of social justice and equity in education, and Professors La Velle and
 Whitty in teacher education. McMahon and Earle (science education) and Hay (creativity in
 education) have been promoted to Reader, enabling them to take on more PG supervision.
 PGR students have been strategically selected to research in the Unit’s fields of particular
 excellence: 1. Social justice and equity in education, where we have students focussing on
 SEND, widening participation and student experience, and racialised student experiences; 2.
 Practitioner research with current students focusing on teacher education and practice and
 teacher assessment in primary science; and 3. Creativity in education with students focusing
 on creative practice in teaching including creative writing, music education and theatre
 education.
 We offered eleven internal SoE studentships from 2016/17 to 2018/19 for applicants whose
 areas of research map onto our research priorities and strengths. Successful applicants
 included graduates of our education programmes. The awards were offered on a full-time basis
 and included an expectation that recipients would make a strong and innovative contribution to
 the development of the research environment both within SoE and across the university.
 Examples of their contribution include success in securing funding to present workshops in the
 University’s Journeys in Research series, setting up a peer support community across campus,
 and further developing interdisciplinary links in the writing process. We also gained two of the
 BSU funded studentships; have provided two studentships to academics from the Council for at
 Risk Academics; and have two externally funded studentships: Levinson’s AHRC project D4D
 and McMahon and Earle’s Primary Science Teaching Trust funded project.
 We provide a range of opportunities for students to contribute to the life of the University and
 build their research skills. They contribute to SoE’s lunchtime seminar series and present at
 the SoE annual research day. They take part in events organised by the researcher
 development office, which include the Three Minute Thesis (TMT) competition, the doctoral
 students’ research roundtables and the annual early stage research conference. PGRs from
 the unit have been prominent in all of these, as prizewinners in the TMT, and in their role as
 leaders (for example in workshops on creative writing). The South West Postgraduate


Page 7
 Symposium: Practical Issues in Conducting Educational Research (BERA Postgraduate
 Symposium Series) was held at BSU (2017) organised by Yuan.
 Students are supported to put on their own events to develop related skills. For example, we
 have funded the student organisation of a Small Press Publishing workshop (2017) and a
 Small Press and Book-making workshop (2018), which included presentations from prominent
 members of the small press comics/zine/artists’ book communities. To develop research and
 teaching skills, opportunities are provided for doctoral students to undertake paid research
 assistance to experienced academics, and to take up some undergraduate teaching (supported
 by appropriate training).
 Students are matched with supervisors who have relevant local/national connections to
 external organisations, to ensure that research remains directly relevant to the community and
 to practitioners, to give them the opportunity of dissemination to, and engagement with, the
 wider public beyond academia and to fulfil the requirements of the Researcher Development
 Concordat with regards to career development and management. E.g. Macer sits on the board
 of the Theatre Royal in Bath, and supervises doctoral research in theatre education and
 practice. Students are encouraged to make interdisciplinary links across the institution to
 enable them to develop a wider range of skills and contacts, for example by joining research
 centres and reading groups in other subject areas and schools. Education students are
 members of the Making Books Research Centre, the Book Arts research cluster and the
 Undisciplined Reading Group in Digital Creativity.
 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit’s strategy for equality and diversity is guided by the institutional strategy, policies and
 processes (IES 3.5).
 Equality and diversity in research is a particular concern of this Unit, forming one of the main
 strands running through our work, in the shape of our cross-cutting focus on equity and social
 justice, and the work of the research centre CREIC, where ongoing work focuses on SEN and
 inclusion (Curran, Levinson, Simmons, Read), race equality (Bhatti, Chadderton) and widening
 participation (Macer). 24 out of 32 staff returned to the REF in this unit are female, and all our
 BAME staff are being returned. A particular recent focus in the SoE has been on staff with
 disabilities, with the formation by this Unit of the ‘Disabled Staff Network’, led by Read. The
 Unit has provided internal funding for the following ongoing research projects which will inform
 inclusive research practice:
        ‘Building the inclusive researcher: What does inclusion look like in research and how
         might it change us, our outlook and methods as researchers?’ This research explores
         the benefits and challenges of enacting inclusive research methods from a disability
         studies and community resilience perspective (focusing on environmental and
         humanitarian crises, such as COVID-19).
        ‘Understanding the lived experience of disabled staff in academia’. This focuses on the
         experiences of disability disclosure and accessing reasonable adjustments; a sense of
         belonging and opportunities for leadership as a disabled person; and recommendations
         for changes to ensure that disabled staff can be recruited and retained within academia.


 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
 Income

 Since 2014 the unit’s research income from external sources has increased from GBP590,298
 to GBP2,157,000 - an increase of 265.41%. This list of our successes exemplifies the
 increasing quality of our research bidding expertise and our capacity to build the researchers of
 the future.




Page 8
 Centre for Research in Early Scientific and Technological Learning and Education
        McMahon (PI): Primary Science Teaching Trust, ‘Teacher Assessment in Primary
           Science (TAPS)’, GBP136,075 (2014-16)
        Earle and McMahon (PIs): Primary Science Teaching Trust, ‘TAPS 1&2’,
           GBP164,760 (2016-19)
        Earle (PI): Primary Science Teaching Trust, ‘TAPS 3 ‘GBP150,000
        Earle (PI): Education Endowment Foundation, ‘Focus for teacher assessment for
           primary science’, GBP388,500 (2018-19)
        McMahon and Etchells (PIs): Wellcome Trust, ‘Enhancing the learning sciences in
           Primary Initial Teacher Education’ GBP36,283 (2017-18)
        McMahon (PI): Wellcome Trust, ‘Supporting teachers with sciences of learning’
           GBP43,567 (2019-2020)
        Earle (PI): Education Endowment Foundation, ‘Thinking, Doing and Talking
           Science’ GBP47,300 (2016-18)

 Centre for Equity, Inclusion and Community
        Macer (PI): Forces in Mind Trust ‘Access to HE’ GBP97,209 (2014-16)
        Mortimore (PI): Scanning Pens, ‘Scanning Pens and Dyslexia’ GBP8,200 (2017-18)
        Curran (PI): National Education Union, ‘National SENCO Workload Survey’
           GBP5,000 (2018)
        Levinson (PI): AHRC, ‘D4D: Disability and community: dis/engagement,
           dis/enfranchisement, dis/parity and dissent’ GBP1,187,771 (2016-20)
        Chadderton (PI): Aldgate and All Hallows Foundation ‘A longitudinal study of young
           women’s transitions in Tower Hamlets in an age of austerity’ GBP7,705 (2018-19)
        Bhatti (Co-I): ERASMUS, ‘Education for Democratic Intercultural Citizenship’
           GBP40,000 (2015)
        Parker and Rose (co-PIs): Somerset County Council, ‘Somerset Emotional
           Coaching Project’, GBP50,000 (2015)
        Macer (PI): National Association of Virtual School Heads (NAVSH), ‘Effective use of
           PP+ to improve educational outcomes for Looked After Children’, GBP9,962 (2019)
        Horner (Co-I): GCRF Development grant, ‘Edu-Peace: Supporting Educators in
           Conflict-affected settings’, GBP6,162

 Centre for Research into Policy, Pedagogy and Practice
        Hordern (PI): The Society for Education Studies, ‘Characterisation of the ‘region’ of
           early years professional knowledge’, GBP8,693 (2013-15)
        Bianchi (Co-I): EU, ‘Arts Together’, euros 75,195 (2018-20)
        Hordern and Bishop (Co-PIs): Gatsby Charitable Foundation, ‘Degree
           apprenticeships: higher technical or technical higher education’, GBP3,452 (2016-
           17)
        Garside (PI): Philosophy of Education Society, ‘Towards a transitionalist critique of
           education’ GBP9,625 (2015-16)
        Kuhn (Co-I): HDI EPSRC Network Plus - Learning, Skills and Social Justice Project
           funding ‘Understanding data: practices and politics’ GBP59,558 (2020-21)
        Parry (PI-Art & Design UoA) and Hay (Co-I): AHRC, ‘Rethinking waste and the
           logics of disposability: Compound 13 Lab’ GBP85,252 (2019-20)
        Soyinka and Sorensen: Arts Council England, ‘Paper Nations: Creative writing in
           schools’, GBP600,000 (2015-18)

 Centre for Research in Early Childhood
        Lewis (PI): Kinderly, ‘Digital resources for professional development in collaboration
           with Kinderly’ GBP14,064 (2017-19)

 We have achieved this growth through a significant investment in improving the organisation
 and infrastructure to support research as detailed in the research strategy:



Page 9
 We have greatly improved our communications process since 2014. Funding calls are
 circulated via e-mail by the Research Support Office (RSO) to the SoE’s Head of Research
 who forwards them to colleagues, raising awareness of the opportunities available and
 following up with research centre leads to encourage application. We have also improved our
 data recording processes, e.g. the RSO reports on the progress of bids to the Head of
 Research, who reports to the University’s Research and Ethics Committee.

 A successful strategy for us has been providing strategic support for colleagues to build on
 previous funded projects (e.g. TAPS) and build relationships with specific funders with whom
 we have had previous success (e.g. PSTT, EEF, Wellcome Trust). Further, while we target
 certain strong applications to highly competitive schemes (EEF, EU), we have also successfully
 diversified our sources of funding where appropriate (to charities such as Voctech and Forces
 in Mind). We have also targeted our efforts to responding to an actual need among education
 practitioners, such as Curran’s work on SENCO workloads, or addressing a social justice
 issue, such as Macer’s work on access to HE for former service personnel, and either
 collaborating on, or co-constructing the research with beneficiaries. The new SoE Research
 Helpdesk provides support for colleagues applying for research funding and advice and
 guidance in research methods and bid writing, and has improved the quality of the bids we
 submit. An internal peer review system was newly established by research lead Chadderton in
 2018 in addition to the existing institutional level peer review team.

 We have formed strategic interdisciplinary research collaborations across the university, which
 have also been key to our bidding success. These include the partnership between McMahon
 and Etchells from Psychology which has resulted in funding from the Wellcome Trust. Equally,
 we support our researchers to become members of larger research consortia involving external
 institutions such as the Western Widening Participation Research Cluster which involves
 researchers in WP from BSU and the Universities of Bath, Bristol, the West of England and
 University Centre Weston, which contributed to the success of Macer’s bid to NAVSH.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The scholarly infrastructure for the Unit includes Library subscriptions to high impact and
 internationally excellent journals (SCImago international journal rankings), for example Journal
 of Teacher Education, Educational Research Review, Child Development, Journal of
 Educational Psychology, Sociology of Education. Library collections directly relevant to the
 UoA include more than 1,800 journal subscriptions, 15,000 books and over 2,500 e-books. The
 Library’s extensive digital collections include Education Research Complete, the world's largest
 full-text research database designed for education, and Academic Search Premier.

 A key investment to enhance our research infrastructure and facilities within the Unit since
 2014 has been in technology. For example, we have developed The British Educational
 Research Tool integrating Engagement (BERTiE), a platform allowing easy access to
 evidence-based education research to support researchers, practitioners and students.
 BERTiE is a web-crawler built to only search predefined websites that have been curated
 through academic moderation. Levinson’s AHRC-funded D4D project has invested in
 telepresence robots and is researching the range of possibilities for increasing the inclusivity of
 informal learning in spaces such as galleries and museums for those who cannot attend in
 person, such as individuals with physical disabilities, illness or anxiety. This project in fact
 found that these telepresence robots enabled people to go on guided tours of the Hastings
 Contemporary Gallery and the Saatchi Gallery in London during the Covid lockdowns.
 We have also invested in four humanoid and programmable robots, one Pepper and three
 NAO, which are currently enabling us to conduct research in inclusive pedagogies in school
 settings. We invest in C-Live, a live roleplay simulation platform which aims to build teacher
 skills and confidence using avatar pupils. The platform enables us to conduct research on
 different aspects of teacher development and support.




Page 10
 Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 Collaboration
 Since 2014, we have developed a programme of support to increase our collaboration and
 public engagement with our research, and develop ourselves as a hub for research in social
 justice and equity in education; practitioner and practice-relevant research; and creativity in
 education.

 Engagement has included our engagement with the Global Academy for Liberal Arts (GALA)
 network, founded at Bath Spa University in 2014, now with 19 institutional partners globally
 who collaborate on research and teaching. This has resulted in successful research
 collaboration, including ‘Exploring ‘Forest’ and Outdoor Experiences in Different Cultural
 Contexts: towards a shared understanding’, a research collaboration between REACH and
 GALA partner SUNY Geneseo.

 Competitive internal funding within the Unit is strategically ring-fenced to support research
 collaboration nationally and internationally and has resulted in projects such as:
      ‘Views about Science Enquiry- Elementary’: a collaboration between McMahon and
        Illinois Institute of Technology USA (2019) developed and tested a children’s
        questionnaire to make systematic comparisons of children's views of scientific inquiry
        over time and between countries to inform teaching practitioners.
      ‘Creative writing collaboratively’: a joint research project with the Universities of Bristol,
        Exeter and UWE following a group of PGCE students over their training year to explore
        their experiences of teaching creative writing in the English classroom, which will inform
        teaching on the PGCE.
      The Doctoral Training Centre Effect: ESRC Doctoral Training Centres and the UK
        Social Science Doctoral Training Landscape (2016-18), a collaboration between Yuan,
        Lancaster University and Liverpool Hope, the results of which are being used to inform
        the continuation of the ESRC’s DTC policy.

 The aim of the formation of the SoE’s Research Active Schools Committee (RASC) in 2015
 was to coordinate a strategic approach to the development of research partnerships between
 SoE, partner schools, and other educational organisations. The group explores practical
 strategies to improve our capacity to collaborate with our partner educational organisations by
 both working with them on research projects and disseminating research. Events have included
 workshops on data analysis, research conferences for NQTs and current ITE students on being
 research active.

 We formed the Teacher Education in Lifelong Learning Network at the SoE in 2011 to provide
 a specialist research network for practitioners in the lifelong learning and post-compulsory
 sector and to connect research and practitioners. As of 2019/20 it has 350 members:
 practitioners, academics and policy-makers. Approximately four network meetings are held per
 year nationally and include keynote presentations from academics, college lecturers, local
 government representatives and education journalists. The network has compiled a ‘Big
 Bibliography’ of a range of research publications related to FE, ITE, and teacher education in
 lifelong learning to support members to conduct their own research.

 The Unit has facilitated interdisciplinary collaboration by hosting high-profile conferences
 (international and national), which have supported our strategic aim to establish ourselves as
 both a regional and national hub of practitioner research and increase public engagement by
 bringing together academics, practitioners, policy makers and members of the community.
 These have included the ‘International Conference on Research in Music Education’ (2017,
 2019); the annual conference of the ‘Association for Teacher Education in Europe’ (2019); the
 ‘National Attachment Aware Schools Conference’ (2015 and 2016); ‘Voices in Early Childhood
 Research: exploring and transforming practice through a participatory approach to research’
 (2018) attended by 60 early childhood practitioners, academics and students; ‘Joining the Dots:
 Challenging Conceptualisations of Child Development’ (2019) attended by 150 practitioners

Page 11
 and academics; a series of eight events on Attachment Aware Schools and Emotion Coaching
 each attended by 100+ delegates from the local community; the ‘Future of Teacher Education’
 conference (2018) attended by over 60 delegates from Regional Teach First, Million Plus, the
 Universities Council for the Education of Teachers, Teach First, the Chartered College of
 Teaching, teacher unions, local Multi-Academy Trust leaders, school ITE coordinators and
 SCITT/SD programme managers; the ‘Annual Association for Science Education West of
 England’ conference, held annually since 2014 (80 teachers and trainees); ‘Community Impact
 - Armed Forces and Education’ (2016) funded by the Forces in Mind Trust, attended by
 managers of military and civilian employment and career advice services (Career Transition
 Partnership, Help for Heroes, Army Education Centre, Swindon & Wiltshire LEP, Ascentis), and
 military and civilian organisations supporting service pupils (Directorate of Children & Young
 People, Skillforce, Army Families Federation, Wiltshire County Council).

 International collaborations
 We have systematically developed our international collaborations with targeted use of internal
 seed funding. The focus of these collaborations has been co-constructed, collaborative
 research with beneficiaries, which, guided by our impact strategy, takes participatory
 approaches to research that challenge traditional hierarchical relationships between researcher
 and participant. This has resulted in five international collaborations since 2018, including:

         Bianchi’s Arts Together project (EU). This brings together researchers and practitioners
          from institutions across Europe, including universities, nurseries, youth organisations
          and SMEs: the University of Peloponnese, Greece, University of Bologna, Italy, Astiki
          Mi Kerdoskopiki, Greece, Higher Incubator Growth, Greece, ARSIS (the Association for
          the Social Support of Youth) Greece, Centro Per Lo Sviluppo, Sicily, Four Elements,
          Greece, Kinder Villa, Austria, Mediter, Belgium;
         Hattingh’s ‘Exploring the ‘Forest’ and Outdoor Experience in Different Cultural Contexts:
          towards a shared understanding’, a collaboration between BSU and 4 nursery settings
          in Denmark, England and the US;
         the AHRC funded ‘Rethinking waste and the logics of disposability Compound 13 Lab
          Mumbai’ (2018-20), a partnership between BSU’s School of Art and the Unit and
          ACORN Foundation, a recycling charity in Mumbai, Makers Asylum, a community
          makerspace in Mumbai and young people in Dharavi, Mumbai’s largest informal
          settlement.

 Collaboration with government, third sector, civil society and business

 Commensurate with our research, impact and engagement strategy, we have expanded the
 reach of our collaboration beyond academia. Many of these projects are a direct response to a
 request from practitioners and involve close collaboration with practitioners, ensuring that
 impact is built-in. These include:

 Chadderton acted as a research consultant to Tower Hamlets Council in their design of a
 programme for improved careers education for pupils in years 7-9 (2019) as a result of her
 previous research on careers education funded by the Aldgate and Allhallows Foundation
 (2014-2019). Chadderton provided research-informed advice for the council on their action
 research project to trial different activities to improve school-based careers work, which is
 continuing to inform their agenda.

 ‘Developing models of CPD to support the delivery of high quality PE teaching in primary
 schools’ (2017- 2018) was a collaboration between Duggan and the Football Association,
 which aimed to improve the FA-delivered FA Primary Teachers Award (PE workshops). These
 are offered to Primary and Early Year PGCE students as part of their course and to serving
 primary school teachers across the country as CPD (approximately 6,000 participants per year)
 to provide teachers with the skills and confidence to make PE more inclusive and manage

Page 12
 difference. As a result of the research, these workshops have now been adapted to include
 extra leadership training, which has resulted in improved confidence among workshop
 participants to teach more inclusively.

 Bremner is undertaking research to improve the professional development of English
 Language teachers in collaboration with language schools in Bath. Addressing the relative lack
 of flexible CPD, particularly in the area of self-efficacy for English Language teachers, Bremner
 has developed a timeline approach in order to support them to develop their own practice.

 Georgis is collaborating as a consultant on ‘Psychosocial Adaptation and Integration of Syrian
 Refugee Communities Using Community Learning for Empowerment Groups’ (University of
 Alberta and the Multicultural Health Brokers Cooperative). This community-based participatory
 project engages Syrian community leaders as co-researchers to facilitate community dialogue
 and reflection related to social integration. Georgis is providing expertise in the form of her
 RAISED Between Cultures model, a conceptual framework for promoting intercultural practice
 in interactions with children and families.

 Contributions to the research base and society
 The strategy outlined above, as well as the diversity of the Unit’s research, has led to a wide
 range of contributions to the research base and society with benefit to a diverse set of
 beneficiaries both within and beyond academia. Commensurate with our research, impact and
 engagement strategy, in particular our contribution is to education practice and practitioners
 regionally, nationally and internationally, includes influential reports, models, tools, methods
 and materials and has resulted in rendering education practice and research more inclusive
 and socially just, and practitioners more confident and effective. Examples include:

 CRiSTLE: Embedding best practice of Teacher Assessment in Primary Science (ICS UoA23-2
 TAPS)- The team developed the TAPS Pyramid, an accessible school self-evaluation tool,
 which science subject leaders can use to audit, action plan and develop assessment
 processes, in response to a lack of guidance following the removal of the statutory levelling
 system in England. The tool has been designed through iterative cycles of co-constructed
 research with primary schools. TAPS has become the best practice model for teacher
 assessment and TAPS tools are used by thousands of schools nationally.

 McMahon, Yeh and Etchells’ ‘Learning Sciences in Initial Teacher Education’ (Wellcome Trust)
 addresses the place of scientific views of learning in initial teacher training courses and has
 developed open access materials designed to be integrated into ITE programmes to support
 trainee primary teachers to engage critically with ideas from neuroscience. The materials are
 being used on our own and other ITE courses (including Aberystwyth and Liverpool John
 Moores Universities) and have led to a significant reduction in trainee teachers with
 misunderstandings about the brain and education (‘neuromyths’).

 CREIC: Curran’s NEU-funded research on SENCOs (ICS UoA23-3 PDL) developed the first
 national workload model for SENCOs: guidance for school leaders regarding how the SENCO
 role can be facilitated, after Curran’s previous research showed 70% of SENCOs did not have
 enough time to effectively ensure learners with additional needs were able to access the
 provision they required. The workload model is now recommended for use in schools by the
 DfE.

 Macer’s ‘Forces in Mind’ research Access to Higher Education Diplomas produced an
 influential report showing that ex-military personnel, particularly from lower ranks, are
 disadvantaged on entering Higher Education by transition blind spots created by lack of access
 to fully-informed career information, advice and guidance. This research has had an impact on
 the work of the Navy, Army and RAF Families Federations.




Page 13
 Simmons’s work on inclusion for children with PMLD innovatively uses participatory
 approaches as an alternative to more traditional, deficit-based experimental design to conduct
 research on the lived experiences of these children which recognises their personhood and
 supports the development of their communication skills. This has led to the creation of ongoing
 weekly mainstream school placements for primary school children with PMLD among a group
 of schools in the south-west of England.

 Levinson’s AHRC-funded D4D project, with co-investigators from both academic and non-
 academic settings, has made a significant contribution to the evolution of research language
 that is accessible to the wider public. The research uses arts-based approaches as a genuinely
 inclusive and participatory alternative to the traditional interview, to produce data which is more
 authentic to the participant experience.

 PPP: Bianchi’s ‘Arts Together’ project (EU) has produced a curriculum for the integration of
 refugees into education in host countries. Drawing on research with recently arrived refugees
 in south-east Europe on their social and educational needs, the Arts Together curriculum
 equips teachers for dealing with diversity, fostering mutual understanding and respect among
 their students and improving the educational performance of refugee students by employing
 artistic activities and collaborative approaches. The curriculum is being used by Greek and
 Italian partners to train teachers and facilitators, and by migrant camps, centres, and schools in
 Thessaloniki and Sicily.

 Hay, Bianchi and Soyinka (ICS UoA23-1 CPP) have created pedagogical models which
 support educators in the creative arts in both formal and informal learning settings to create
 successful and inclusive creative learning environments, challenging the notion, common in
 formal education, that creativity and the creative arts are an individual endeavour, associated
 with innate talent or ability. These models include ‘The Writer’s Cycle’ and ‘5x5x5=Creativity’,
 tools which are used by educators and practitioners in over 100 local schools and community
 learning settings to increase participation and inclusivity in creative arts learning.

 REACH: In partnership with Kinderly Learn, the Professional Association for Childcare and
 Early Years and Achievement for All, REACH developed and trialled a digital platform for
 developing Continuing Professional Development for the early childhood workforce. The
 platform focuses on bite-sized, interactive and reflective learning for practitioners.


 Editorships and advisory boards and research reviewing
 Staff are either editors or on the editorial boards of 11 peer-reviewed research journals: la Velle
 is editor of ‘Journal of Education for Teaching’; Chadderton is on the editorial boards of ‘Race,
 Ethnicity and Education’, ‘Whiteness in Education’, ‘Journal of Vocational Education and
 Training’ and ‘Jahrbuch fuer Paedagogik’ (Germany); Yuan sits on the editorial advisory board
 of ‘Journal of Global Education and Research’; Earle is editor of the ‘Journal of Emergent
 Science’; McMahon is a member of the editorial board of ‘Journal of Science Learning’; Emira
 sits on the editorial board of the ‘Journal of Contemporary Education, Theory & Research’;
 Simon sits on the editorial boards of ‘Management in Education’ and ‘Educational
 Management, Administration and Leadership’. Simmons is executive editorial board member at
 the ‘British Journal of Learning Disabilities’. Staff also contribute to the research base by
 reviewing for national and international research funders: Simmons reviews proposals for the
 British Academy and Wolfson Foundation and the Independent Scholar Research Foundation
 and Chadderton for the ESRC and British Academy.

 Leadership roles in subject networks, charities, other organisations

 Staff also make a substantial contribution by holding leadership roles within subject networks,
 charities and other research-related organisations. These include:


Page 14
         la Velle who is on the executive board of the International Council on Education for
          Teaching, (ICET) is Chair Elect and leads its research arm; in 2016-2019 la Velle was
          on the Executive Board of the Universities Council for the Education of Teachers and
          Chair of its Research and International Committee;
         Chadderton is an elected fellow of the National Institute for Careers Education and
          Counselling;
         Hay is Director of Research at ‘5x5x5+Creativity’, an arts-based action research
          organisation;
         Earle is an ‘academic collaborator’ at the Primary Science Teaching Trust and sits on
          the Association for Science Education Research Committee;
         Bianchi is Trustee of ‘My Future My Choice’, a creative education charity which is part
          of the Bristol Initiative Trust;
         Durden-Myers is Chair of the International Physical Literacy Association.

 Staff holding these positions have not only contributed to the work of these organisations via
 their research, but this work has also enabled further, collaborative research, such as Forest of
 Imagination, a collaboration between ‘House of Imagination’, the SoE, and BSU’s Centre for
 Cultural and Creative Industries led by Hay, in which collaborative and participatory research is
 conducted on creative place-making through temporary transformation of familiar city spaces
 and creative social engagement (ICS UoA23-1 CPP).

 Keynotes and invited presentations
 Colleagues from the unit have given a range of keynote speeches and invited presentations on
 their research at both academic and practitioner conferences and events.

 Collectively members of the unit have given 15 keynote presentations. These include three
 international keynotes: Levinson at the Conference on Social Capital and Young People,
 University of Sligo, Ireland (2016); and McCree, Pedagogia del Bosco Conference, Milan, Italy
 (2018) and at the symposium for European Outdoor Education audience, at IT Tralee
 University, Ireland (2020); and twelve national/regional keynotes: Earle has given seven,
 including at the Association for Science Education national conference (2018) and Surrey
 science partnership (2016); Lewis at the Sector Endorsed Foundation Degree Early Years
 National Meeting (2017); Chadderton at the Western Widening Participation Research Cluster
 Conference (2019); Read and Macer at the National Association of Virtual School Heads’
 national conference (2020); Curran at the 17th Annual SEND Update (2019) and the Somerset
 SENCO conference (2019).

 Invited talks which engage the public and practitioners with our research include:
      Curran regularly presents her research to practitioners and the wider public, having
         presented eleven times since 2016 at events such as SEN South West 2016,
         ResearchSEND 2017, NA SENCo Provider Partnership 2018, FestABLE 2018,
         Westminster Insight Forum 2018, British Dyslexia Association 2018, A-Fest Conference
         2019, Nasen SENCO Advisory group 2019;
      Earle has conducted workshops for the public on primary science learning at York
         National STEM centre (2016) and Havering science (2017);
      McCree has given four invited presentations on her research on forest schools,
         including at Timber Festival of Woodland Culture, 2019, Inspirational Outdoors,
         Cornwall, 2019, and the Bristol Festival, 2018;
      Chadderton has given two presentations on decolonising careers education to
         practitioners at the National Institute of Career Education and Counselling (2018 and
         2019);
      Simmons presented ‘Illuminating the fluidity of naturalistic social interactions for children
         with PMLD’ to an audience of speech and language and occupational therapists,
         special school teachers and designers of alternative communication technologies at the
         Communication Matters and the Brain Injury Trust (2019) and ‘Belonging for people


Page 15
          with profound intellectual and multiple disabilities in education’ at the Disability
          Innovation Institute at the University of New South Wales (Australia, 2020).
         Read and Macer presented a NAVSH-hosted webinar entitled ‘Effective use of Pupil
          Premium Plus to support the educational outcomes of Looked After Children’ (2020) for
          professionals involved in supporting looked after children;
         Durden-Myers presented her research on physical literacy at Swedish Athletics,
          Stockholm in 2019.


 Media engagement
 Curran’s research has been quoted by the media no fewer than 10 times in 2018, including in
 the Times Educational Supplement ‘Exclusive: 74% of SENCOs lack time to support pupils’ (30
 Nov 2018); McCree gave an interview for BBC R4 Woman's Hour about play in the pandemic
 (April 2020) and has been quoted by The Guardian, 25 June 2019, 'Forest schools: is yours
 more a marketing gimmick than an outdoors education?' ; and Earle gave a Live Lesson on
 the Teacher Assessment in Primary Science model on an expert panel for the BBC (November
 2018).




Page 16
