Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Exeter


 Unit of Assessment: UoA 31 Theology and Religion


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Overview
 Theology and Religion (T&R) at Exeter is an innovatively interdisciplinary unit characterised by
 internationally recognised expertise, strong research collaborations and impact across a range
 of sectors. We engage some of the most important issues of our time that interface with religion
 – sustainability, race and racism, health and wellbeing, sex and reproduction, cultural memory
 and recovery from conflict. Our mission is to be at the forefront of defining research agendas to
 inspire and resource the understanding, critique, and constructive collaboration with faith
 traditions and religions for the benefit of our planet and its people(s). This is critical as
 global/local challenges cannot be met in isolation from religious/cultural traditions and their
 ongoing legacies. Working collaboratively with organisations (from the NHS to the United
 Nations) for the benefit of a variety of public stakeholders and audiences, we generate real-world
 impact in our complex world.
 With a stable staff-base across the REF-period (13 headcount; 11.81FTE; 6.21x♀, 5.6x♂) we
 report a period of achievements and high performance:
     almost tripling total income (from £590,202 in the previous REF cycle to £1,698,886 in
      2013/14-2019/20);
     maintaining the PGR cohort from 22FTE (Oct-2008) and 29.25FTE (Oct-2013) to 24FTE
      (Oct-2020);
     increased grant-funded post-doctoral researchers (from 0 to 8; 5x♀, 3x♂);
     sustained track-record of staff promotions;
     leadership in learned societies, leading journals, research impact and initiatives within
      the University.
 Specialist expertise includes: analysis of a broad range of ancient religious texts and material
 culture; the history and reception of Jewish and Christian traditions; constructive theology that
 reflects critically on how the ongoing Christian tradition both shapes and is shaped by
 contemporary challenges; interfaces with philosophy from ancient Platonism to present-day
 analytic philosophy of religion, Continental philosophy and philosophy of science.


 1.2 Unit context and structure
 The unit is a constituent part of the College of Humanities. This brings infrastructure, e.g., the
 Digital Humanities Lab (DHL), a team of management, finance and sector-experienced
 specialists who support research projects from idea to impact, competitive opportunities for
 seed-corn funding and research leave, and cross-college networks for the sharing of best
 practice.
 We are managed internally by a Head of Department (HoD), Director of Research (DoR) and
 Director of Impact (DoI), assisted by Academic Leads (ALs) who peer mentor colleagues. Unit
 structure is designed around three research centres that ‘hot spot’ activity by bringing together
 postgraduate researchers (PGRs), postdoctoral researchers (PDRs), staff, honorary fellows, and
 often the wider public.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research and impact strategy
 Building upon the two new appointments gained 2008-14 and sustained increase in research
 income since 2008, the drive 2014-2020 has been to ‘develop people and ideas’ and intensify ‘a
 vibrant research culture’ (2.1 Institutional-Level Environment Statement (ILES)).
 We have achieved this in T&R by: strengthening specialisations; expanding interdisciplinarity;
 and advancing international collaboration and impact. How we have done this is critical to our
 integrity as a unit: opening access to research findings; championing equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI); and enacting research integrity.


 1.3.1 Strengthening specialisations
 People are our greatest asset and working together around research foci strengthens both
 individual and group specialisations.


 The Centre for Biblical Studies (CBS) provides a strong base of regular activities (from
 language reading-groups to research workshops) that help individuals and grant teams to share
 and critique work. The CBS has hosted seminars with international experts from across Europe,
 North America, and Southern Africa (including charting the impact of popular and public health
 receptions of biblical texts/tropes within the Covid-19 crisis), and has frequently seen PGR
 progression to Early Career Researcher (ECR) positions (UK: John, Welton, O’Donnell,
 Hermanin; Australia: Shaw; Hong Kong: Yip; Costa Rica: Cook; Malaysia: Wan).
 Specialisations include the materialities of the divine and human within ancient religious practice
 and discourse; madness and sanism in New Testament interpretation and the exclusion and
 stereotyping of certain ‘disabled’ biblical characters; ethnicity and religion in the ancient world
 and the application of critical race theory and whiteness studies; exposing global North/South
 divides and cognitive injustices within the field. All 4 permanent staff have managed funded
 research projects during the assessment period (Horrell, AHRC £170,621; Bhayro, AHRC
 £70,745; Lawrence, AHRC GCRF Network £52,485; Stavrakopoulou, Leverhulme £45,572).
 Together the CBS team is challenging the very identity, formation, and purposes of biblical
 scholarship by critiquing dominant scholarly traditions and opening new perspectives.


 The Exeter Centre for Ethics and Practical Theology (EXCEPT) similarly develops expertise
 with regular networking events involving emeritus and honorary staff (Thatcher, Gorringe,
 Getman, Hunt, Nixon) and international experts, e.g., from New Zealand and South Africa. Foci
 include constructive and contextual theologies, particularly relating to sex, gender, sexuality and
 well-being, e.g., Cornwall’s 2017-19 Modelling Transgender Spiritual Care project in partnership
 with the West of England NHS Specialist Gender Identity Clinic, Maternal Practices, Identities
 and Religion (Cornwall, Getman), Sex-Education and the Churches (Cornwall, Nixon), and
 Trauma in Congregations (Southgate, Warner). Collaboration with the CBS happens around
 contextual Bible study linked to HIV research and gender. EXCEPT staff have grant-funded
 support e.g., Cornwall, British Academy, £14,472, Sir Halley Stewart Trust, £55,506; Southgate,
 John Templeton Foundation, £291,840 (two Awards).
 EXCEPT’s PGRs, united by the aim of understanding the role of religion in social and political
 formation, are currently working on topics as various as: Church of England (CoE) documents on
 sexuality; media representations of fundamentalist Mormon polygamy; queer and transhuman
 Christology; spiritual geographies of landscape; same-sex relationships and Shi’a Islam;
 theology and extra-terrestrial life; and the ethics of the pharmaceutical industry. Graduate non-
 academic careers include head of sixth form, academic registrar, and running for public office.


 Under Tollerton's directorship (2019-present), The Network for Religion in Public Life (NRPL)
 prioritises modern Jewish studies and comparative approaches in the study of religion. Similar to

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Centre but with different mechanisms for reporting to the University, the NRPL links staff,
 PDRs, PGRs and external partners with interests in how religion interacts with public life.
 Current philanthropically-funded or expenses-paid projects include Religion and Holocaust
 Memory, Comparing Orthodoxy with Shinto and Japanese Buddhism, The Challenge of Sexual
 Diversity to Eastern Orthodoxy, Establishing Chaplaincy at Mine Sites (including 4 month
 internship/student placement contract with University of Groningen), and Religious Literacy in
 Criminal Justice Practice (with University of Portsmouth). Regular cross-disciplinary seminars
 co-chaired by Bettiza (Politics) bring T&R researchers together with scholars in International
 Relations, Geography, Sociology, Arab and Islamic studies to discuss work-in-progress.
 The NRPL specialises in developing new cross-disciplinary methods for understanding religion,
 e.g., Hill's extension of analytic theology to Wiccan rituals via the practice of philosophic sagacity
 learned from contemporary African philosophy, and Gallaher's introduction of an Eastern
 Christian perspective to new modes of interreligious learning.
 PGR to ECR progression includes Mensch, Poppinga (USA); Kang (South Korea).


 1.3.2 Expanding interdisciplinarity
 The unit’s work is inherently interdisciplinary in diverse ways:
 Colleagues routinely import and adapt methods from a range of disciplines (e.g. archaeology,
 anthropology, sociology, history, classics, philosophy, law) to inform research. We export
 disciplinary expertise when working alongside other disciplines to produce, e.g., conferences and
 edited volumes (e.g., Ludlow and Flower (Classics): OUP, 2020; Bhayro and Rider (History): Brill,
 2017), or when working within established multi-disciplinary areas (e.g. disability studies,
 Holocaust studies, medical humanities).


 Collaboration with external stakeholders demands the co-creation of knowledge and its application
 with professionals outside HE (Reed: Royal Navy and mining industry; Cornwall: NHS; Gallaher:
 ecumenism). Experience enables agile and rapid response to events, e.g.: Southgate’s application
 of a practical theology of trauma to self-care for congregations after the Grenfell disaster, terrorist
 bomb in Manchester and attacks in London; Lawrence’s ‘Compassionate Campuses: Refiguring
 Universities in an Age of Neoliberalism’ project applied to the impact of COVID-19 on universities.


 Progressively deeper engagement with global challenges is further producing new modes of
 interdisciplinarity as religion becomes the catalyst for revised understandings of e.g. race (Horrell),
 disability (Lawrence, John) and rhetoric (Ludlow). Perspectives from T&R are shedding new light
 on societal attitudes to ethnicity, madness, memory, good speech, and the truth and falsity of
 religious claims, thereby precipitating change.


 Sustaining and resourcing such diverse interdisciplinarity is greatly assisted by identifying creative
 interfaces between colleagues’ respective specialisms. We seek to model innovative
 interdisciplinarity across research themes:
    o   'Lives of Objects' brings together colleagues working variously in material culture, cultural
        heritage and the digitizing of artefacts, notably: Stavrakopoulou's archaeologically-
        informed Leverhulme work on the materialities of ancient Israelite/Judahite, early Jewish
        and early Christian cultures; Bhayro's philologically expert curatorship of the Virtual Magic
        Bowl Photographic Archive and Galen palimpsest; Loosley's blended specialisms in
        Classical and Byzantine art, history and liturgy applied to the archaeology of Christian sites
        in Syria and material culture of the Syrian peoples in Late Antiquity; Tamas’s textually-
        based work with the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments Sremska Mitrovica
        and the Museum of Srem, Serbia.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    o   'Identity, Memory and Destruction' encourages colleagues to reflect on similar themes
        from both historical and present-day perspectives: Tollerton’s contemporary studies in
        identity destruction, Holocaust memory, sacred sites and rituals of remembrance run
        parallel to Ludlow’s analysis of ancient constructions of, and attacks upon, religious identity
        (with Flower, Classics); Hill's contemporary development of ‘philosophic sagacity’ methods
        from African scholarship on tribal communities to analyse and articulate Wiccan belief-
        shaped identity runs parallel to Horrell's exposure of how methods in New Testament
        studies (de)constructed ideologies of racial and religious difference.
    o   'Well-being, Disability Studies and Trauma Recovery' showcases how mature
        interdisciplinarity within the unit instigates the co-creation of research aims, events and
        publications with diverse external partners: Lawrence and John are demonstrating the
        religious dimensions of disability issues in Namibia alongside experts from Health
        Sciences, Inclusive Education, and Economics, Development and Management Science;
        Cornwall's expertise in spirituality, sexuality and gender studies is precipitating change
        amongst healthcare specialists. She is increasingly publishing outside T&R, e.g. in Culture,
        Health and Sexuality and Health and Social Care Chaplaincy, as well as in theology
        journals.
 Interdisciplinarity is sustained in the co-supervision of PGRs. In addition to co-supervision as a
 policy built into the AHRC SWWDTP (South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership),
 colleagues have co-supervised in this REF period with Classics, Philosophy, Geography, Law,
 English, Arab and Islamic Studies.


 1.3.3 Advancing international collaboration and impact
 The salience of religion to global challenges sets the context for our approach to
 internationalisation and, since 2014, the unit has shown itself increasingly capable of high-level
 activity at the global level:
    o   Lawrence's membership of the United Nation’s Partnership on the Rights of Persons with
        Disabilities (UNPRPD) Advisory Group (2020-21) to advise on disability-inclusive
        responses to the Coronavirus pandemic in developing countries;
    o   Loosley's membership (2014-present) of the UNESCO Roster of Experts for the
        Emergency Safeguarding of the Syrian Cultural Heritage project;
    o   Reed's membership of NATO Human Factors and Medicine Exploratory Team 182 on
        'Operational Ethics: Preparation and Interventions for the Future Security Environment'
        (2019-21);
    o   Reed’s 5+years involvement with the Mining and Faith Reflections Initiative (MFRI) which
        includes many of the world’s major mining companies (Vatican City 2/3-May-2019;
        Lambeth Palace (01-Oct-2014, 28-Oct-20 online);
    o   Cornwall's contributions to the World Professional Association of Transgender Health
        (2020-present).
 The unit Director of Global (Stavrakopoulou) speeds interaction with University teams dealing with
 legalities, data-management across institutions, coordination of ethics policies, social media, etc.
 All international scholars who visited Exeter for extended periods were given desk-space, met with
 PDRs and PGRs, and delivered paper(s) (e.g., Hochschild). Many visited for shorter periods (e.g.,
 Buell, Dube, Sechrest; Chester; Longenecker; MacDonald; Yoder Neufeld).


 New ways of working internationally are also being developed not only in response to the
 University's 2019 declaration of a climate emergency and Covid-19 pandemic but because the
 unit wants to live espoused values. Fewer but longer overseas visits are being built into grant
 applications. Conferences are being run online (e.g., 'Popular Visual Media and the Bible', 06-Apr-
 2020), and impact realised via webinars (Southgate’s trauma work with Diocese of Melbourne,
 Australia).

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.4 Opening access and championing EDI
 Opening access is one way in which the unit is building for global justice in academia. Everyone
 uses Open Research Exeter (ORE), a centrally managed repository for publications and data
 launched in 2009. As of December 2020, in this REF period, T&R had 40,000+ downloads. New
 staff undergo a training session as part of their induction. The unit hosts two major online
 databases:
    o   The Virtual Magic Bowl Photographic Archive contains Open Access photographs of
        sixty-four digitised and manipulable Aramaic incantation bowls, and is set to include many
        more. Curated by Bhayro, in collaboration with external colleagues, these are among the
        most important primary sources for studying the everyday beliefs and practices of the
        Jewish, Christian, Mandaean, Manichaean, Zoroastrian and Pagan communities on the
        eve of the Islamic conquests.
    o   The Architecture and Asceticism Archive gives Open Access to thousands of images
        informing cultural interaction between Syria and Georgia in Late Antiquity, taken between
        2006-2019. Given the ongoing looting and destruction of Syrian archaeological sites, we
        recognise a moral duty on academics to make their unpublished material available to the
        wider research community in order to create a common resource for those seeking to
        safeguard Syrian Cultural Heritage.
 All grant applications are reviewed internally for Open Access availability, with and without fees.


 We champion EDI and report that colleagues’ work in racism, sexism, ableism, sanism, and
 whiteness has had institutional and sector-wide impact on research culture. Stavrakopoulou was
 a member of University’s Race Equality Charter Mark Group 2014-2016. Lawrence was invited to
 join the Provost’s Commission for EDI and the University Disability Advisory Group (2018-2019)
 because of research expertise in disability studies and alleviating stigma around mental health.
 Lawrence was involved in an Advance HE project on EDI and the Curriculum (2019-2021) which
 developed resources and a toolkit for inclusive learning, teaching and assessment. Since October
 2018 Lawrence has served on the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Education)'s wellbeing review which
 has worked with the UUK step-change institutional change model. She led the workstream on
 living and community within this review and has been appointed the Exeter institutional lead for
 the Advanced HE project on Mental Health and the Curriculum (11/2019-). Lawrence is now
 pioneering new work on 'The Compassionate Campus' centred on anti-racist, anti-sexist, and anti-
 violence cultures.


 Our work with global partners has sought to model and embody cognitive justice, parity of
 knowledge economics, collaborative labour and writing, and has been used as an institutional
 model in this regard (Exeter’s Global Lecture Series 2020). A number of our ethnic minority PGRs
 have advocated for black identities in primarily white institutions (Omotoso:
 https://podcasts.apple.com/gb/podcast/being-a-bame-researcher-with-victoria-
 omotoso/id1514772303?i=1000476751148).


 1.3.5 Enacting research integrity
 Our commitment to established and emerging best practice has bolstered our ability to enact
 research integrity and ethics (2.9 ILES) in diverse contexts e.g., Loosley’s work in post-conflict
 regions, Southgate’s in post-trauma contexts, Cornwall’s in healthcare. External partnerships have
 informed internal practice, e.g., Reed’s graduation (2015) from the 6-month Anglo American PLC
 Advanced Social Management Programme. The unit Ethics Officer changes approximately every
 two years to maximise training and familiarity with types of issue, thereby helping PGRs, PDRs
 and colleagues to see, evaluate and address issues.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


 Our strategy for staff recruitment, retention and development embodies the values that permeate
 our research and inform our ethos. We prioritise wellbeing and are ambitious for the
 development of individuals across all levels of experience.


 2.1 Equality, Diversity, Inclusivity
 Staff gender balance has been close to 50-50 across the census period. We have a narrow
 gender pay gap in favour of women and role models of women in senior leadership positions in
 the department (HoD, DoR, DoE) and beyond (presidents of learned societies: Reed, Ludlow;
 Lawrence editor of JSNT; Stavrakopoulou Patron of Humanists UK). The gender profile of full
 chairs is: 4x♀, 2x♂. This challenges the ‘predominantly male’ profile of TRS
 (https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/publications/theology-religious-studies-provision-uk-
 higher-education/ : women 37.2% of sector in 2017/18) and enables us to speak from
 experience on career development. Cornwall and Loosley’s Practice, Activism and Advocacy in
 Academic Research on Religion, Gender and Sexuality event (run jointly with Exeter’s Institute
 of Arab and Islamic Studies, 9-May-2019 with planned repeats) included a workshop for PGRs
 on current research on Gender and Sexuality and Religious Literacy, discussing how academics
 can disseminate positive attitudes to EDI and engage with external groups. Stavrakopoulou was
 awarded the Rosalind Franklin medal (Mar-2020) for women who have advanced aspects of
 humanism globally.
 EDI demands more than gender equality: we strive to be pacesetters inside and outside the
 institution — often because colleagues' research yields imperatives. As British Academy Rising
 Star Engagement Award (BARSEA) holder, Cornwall provided good-practice training in public
 engagement, impact and outreach, including representatives from IntersexUK, GIRES,
 OneBodyOneFaith, Rainbow Jews, and Sibyls, as well as independent activists.
 Decolonising the curriculum and challenging cognitive injustice have also been pedagogical and
 research strategies. Within the study of Christianity, several colleagues specialise beyond the
 traditions that dominate the Western academy. Colleagues teach the origins of antisemitism and
 Islamophobia and are vigilant within the institution. Internal review of grant applications asks
 whether diversity and inclusion could be enhanced. Lawrence and Loosley have grant-funded
 partnerships in ODA-recipient countries (Georgia, Namibia). We benchmark research and PGR
 scholarship applications against UKRI EDI research and innovation recommendations (Guyan
 and Oloyede, 2019).


 2.2 Individual and corporate health and well-being
 We keep mental health and wellbeing in the foreground. At our request, the University
 occupational health team provided mental health awareness training, plus individualised support
 where required. Testimonies to the genuineness of our commitment are: a campus-wide
 initiative in student well-being developed by our 2019/20 undergraduate student/staff liaison
 committee; Lawrence’s Compassionate Campus work, which includes staff as well as students.
 The HoD's 'open door' for conversations about health, well-being and work-life balance has led
 e.g. to two successful applications for flexible working (location and hours). Such conversations
 have been vital in the Covid-19 period.
 We develop department practices which facilitate collegiality and promote corporate well-being.
 As evidence of our success, in the 2019 Employee Engagement Survey, 92% of T&R colleagues
 said: 'I believe the work I do makes a difference', 'I am treated with respect', 'I know how to raise
 concerns'. Structures for collegiality include:
    o   4 x termly Department meetings: besides discussing actions around teaching and
        research, we report success and share feedback from unsuccessful ventures — we


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        celebrate and commiserate together. Meetings include PDRs, UG/PGT and PGR
        representatives;
    o   three dedicated department-wide meetings gave all research staff opportunity to discuss
        this environment template; we all own its values and commitments. Output and ICS
        selection sub-committees included non-professorial colleague(s) and a 50/50 gender-
        mix;
    o   department research away days allow space for blue-skies thinking (one led to Hill’s
        project on the metaphysics of heaven);
    o   fortnightly department research seminars;
    o   dedicated events, e.g.:
               Cornwall's BARSEA good-practice training in public engagement, impact and
                outreach, for ECRs;
               Southgate's Buckfast Abbey 2-day workshop for exceptional UGs and PGTs (via
                the St Andrews Fellowship Scheme);
               CBS 'talk about your research over coffee/lunch' sessions for staff and students;
    o   informal ‘virtual coffee breaks’ during the Coronavirus period for staff and PGRs to
        maintain collegiality and minimise isolation.


 2.3 Departmental staffing strategy
 The University's People Strategy includes clear non-discriminatory selection and appointment
 procedures (3.3 ILES); promotion criteria, access to Wellbeing Services, etc. In T&R, colleagues
 successfully apply annually for teaching restrictions to accommodate family commitments, e.g.
 school pick-up. Within this framework, the unit works to minimise unrealistic performance goals,
 leave space for colleagues to connect personal values to research and associated teaching, and
 maximise support for career development including family-friendly working and/or work-life
 balance (especially in times of stress or exceptional opportunity).


 We apply university policy with compassionate attention to individual need in specific ways.
 The College of Humanities Research Leave policy asks the Department Strategy Group (DSG)
 to make a strategic case for a certain number of research leaves each year. Our department
 research leave strategy is to: prioritise ECRs (all Lecturers promoted to Senior Lecturer in the
 census period); take into account research plans (publications and writing grant applications)
 and last period of research leave; allow colleagues to break weighty admin roles with a period of
 leave (e.g. allowing the HoD to complete a monograph).
 We use the Academic Lead (AL) scheme to support the career development of all colleagues,
 from ECRs to the HoD. Everyone meets their AL at least once per year to plan promotion
 applications, discuss problems, seek solutions, etc. Training for ALs is mandatory and includes
 the importance of encouraging networking, continuous professional development, and attention
 to wellbeing (the AL-led annual Personal Development Review includes questions about
 personal satisfaction at work which serve as prompts about University-provided counselling
 services). The AL is someone other than the colleague’s line-manager, but all ALs are members
 of the Department Strategy Group, allowing for appropriate sharing of information on career
 progression. The HoD has an AL outside the department to support their work-life balance,
 career-development and maintaining sustainable research.
 ECRs feed into the University-wide ECR Liaison Forums, via which they have formal strategic
 representation across the University. Also, there is a dedicated central training and development
 programme for ECRs, which includes bespoke training support and Careers Coaching, all
 mapped against The Researcher Development Concordat and HR Excellence awards.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The HoD uses workload planning tools to adjust workload, work-patterns and roles to individual
 personal and career circumstances. The planning tool SWARM includes data on teaching,
 externally-funded research, PGR-supervision, and internal and external admin roles. We have
 used these structures to adjust for three maternity leaves, one paternity and one adoption leave,
 several bereavements and other major life events (including return-to-work arrangements). We
 can adjust for roles (e.g. membership of Peer-Review bodies, Editorships of Journals) which are
 directly research-related and bring deeper expertise into the unit.
 We encourage colleagues’ movement between administrative roles to spread the burden and
 prepare ECRs for more senior roles in due course. While the workload model ensures basic
 fairness, we try further to balance role requirements with empathy for those occupying roles at
 any given time. During the Covid-19 pandemic we drew up a succession-plan for all key roles in
 case of illness.
 The HoD and DoE use a limited Graduate Teaching Assistant budget to support colleagues
 facing specific workload pressures and to give PGRs teaching appropriate experience.


 We are ambitious for the development of individuals at all levels of their career.
 Our success in retaining and rewarding hardworking, high-performing staff is shown by our
 promotion record. 90% of colleagues were promoted during the assessment period (10 staff,
 including a colleague on a fractional contract). Only those holding full chairs already were not
 promoted (and they are eligible for biennial performance review). Career advancement
 recognises collaboration with non-academic partners (e.g., Lawrence and Cornwall promotion to
 AP). During the REF period four colleagues progressed from ECR to Senior Lecturer, all having
 completed the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice on route. Notable highlights in
 ECR achievement were: Cornwall becoming a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award-
 holder (2018-19). She has since been promoted to AP. Jones’s securing of a position on the
 competitive GW4 Crucible for Future Leaders programme 2020.


 2.4 Encouraging progression
 In addition to the above strategies we use the following practices to encourage progression:


    o   All promotions go through the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group of which the College
        Dean is a member. The HoD uses termly 1:1 conversations with the Dean in part to
        discuss cases for promotion with a particular focus on ECRs; successive Deans have
        proactively encouraged colleagues to apply for promotion following such conversations.
    o   The HoD has confidential succession-planning conversations with the Humanities HR
        business-partner, ALs and/or DSG, encouraging a forward-looking approach to training
        colleagues into senior roles in the department and beyond. Colleagues are encouraged
        to apply for such roles and workload planning is used to adjust for them. These strategies
        propagate the leadership experience which is an important factor in promotion to AP and
        Chair.
    o   There is a department ethos of mutual encouragement to take up a wide variety of
        training, including research-training at all levels; training for PhD supervisors; leadership
        training for HoD and other senior colleagues.
    o   Senior colleagues also consider who might benefit from specific University programmes
        (‘Taking control of your career’ workshops, CV writing skills sessions, shadowing
        opportunities, 360-degree assessments, and one-to-one career coaching): we target
        information to specific colleagues and encourage them to apply.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.5 Supporting ECRs
 The DSG make supporting ECRs a high priority. Principal investigators (PIs) offer guidance and
 create space for PDRs to manage and lead their own research. E.g.: Tamas’s focus on 4thC
 Sirmium drew experts together from archaeology, ancient history, Patristics and hagiography.
 Jones works with postdoctoral researchers at Cambridge and Helsinki to investigate the
 relationship between “Naturalism(s) and Nature”, and with colleagues at Exeter in Geography
 and Microbiology on the theological and philosophical implications of farming and plant biology.
 All PDRs have routinely presented independently-written conference papers. John is on the
 Society of Biblical Literature (SBL) steering group of the Contextual Bible Study Unit.
 Along with the Doctoral College, we support PDRs from pre-arrival to departure:
    o   All PDRs have an AL from within, as well as a mentor from outside, the grant team. All
        can participate in, and present at, the fortnightly T&R Research Seminar plus Centre
        events.
    o   Doctoral College workshops include training for 'Postdoctoral Funding Opportunities'. A
        dedicated Research Development Adviser supports PDRs specifically.


 2.6 Including and supporting PGRs
 We champion EDI by promoting an ethos of inclusion for PGRs:
    o   We act on PGR feedback e.g. from PGR representatives at Department meetings and
        from PRES data which is analysed annually by the Department Director of Postgraduate
        Students (DPGR). Some excellent scores have been attained, e.g., 'Overview' and
        'Supervision' scores in 2018 at 100%, and 'Research Skills' at 97%. However, we
        identified a need to provide for 'distance learners' who make up over 50% of our PGRs
        and now live-stream and record research seminars (a pre-Coronavirus plan).
    o   Over the census period the Unit also supervised a total of 17 students who were
        classified as overseas (not returnable for REF). This included 10 in collaboration with
        Hartford Seminary. Supporting these DL-PGRs requires sensitivity to their context(s).
    o   During Coronavirus lock-down we developed virtual ‘coffee and chats’ for isolated PGRs
        and continue to plan how to support PGR well-being. A Pastoral Tutor provides at least
        termly contact in addition to (team) supervision.
    o   We endeavour to empower ethnic minority students to speak out about their experience
        of HE (Omotoso’s podcast).


 We provide flexible and accessible training opportunities with the Doctoral College:
    o   We actively encourage PGRs to take up University and College training (e.g., Research
        Ethics, Working in Archives, How to Write an Article), including that which supports
        PGRs into academic or other careers (e.g., from the DHL). Much training is recorded for
        distance-learning (DL) students.
    o   The HoD and DoE use teaching budgets to support PGRs in gaining relevant experience
        to complete the Learning and Teaching in Higher Education Programme (leading to the
        nationally-recognised HEA Fellowship): 30 successfully completed Stage 1 and 15 Stage
        2 (2014-2020), with 9 currently undertaking Stage 2.
    o   We provide in-department training: e.g.:
               bespoke from a speaking coach in conference presentations and interviews which
                notably improved confidence levels in MA students competing for PhD
                scholarships (2019);
               on the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) (2020);


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

              small group sessions with PGRs to discuss moves into publishing and academic
               careers (e.g., Dominic Mattos (Bloomsbury) and Natalie Watson (then SCM),
               Feb-2016).


 We coach PGRs to success by providing/supporting opportunities for maturation:
    o   PGRs and PGTs run their own informal fortnightly T&R seminar with campus-based
        PGRs continuing socially afterwards.
    o   The fortnightly formal T&R Research Seminar is the primary meeting place for all
        researchers in the unit, with PGTs required to analyse some as part of their assessment,
        and many joining social events with speakers.
    o   PGRs present at the Humanities Annual Conference (in 2018, taking prizes for best
        paper and runner-up).
    o   A PGR team organised the Annual Joint Regional Theology and Religion Postgraduate
        Conference (2017-2020), selecting and chairing panels, etc. The Coronavirus affected
        event moved rapidly online (29-May-2020) with 50+ attendees.
    o   The HoD uses a discretionary budget to top-up College funds for PGR conference
        attendance and support skills training, often at short notice.


 These practices foster a culture of targeted PGR conference presentation: 30+ internationally
 and 13+ nationally; variously AAR/SBL, EABS, SST, SSCE, Anglo-Israel Archaeological Society,
 International Reformed Theological Institute, UK Science and Religion Forum, International
 Patristics Conference, Evangelical Theological Society, etc. DL-PGRs are advised with
 sensitivity to their particular constraints.


 Notable highlights in PGR achievement include:
    o   4x MA/PGR students active in producing editions of currently unpublished Aramaic
        incantation bowls (including transcription, translation, and commentary);
    o   Pearson published with Beth Mardutho: The Syriac Institute – Qoruyo, a handwritten text-
        recognition digital model to convert images of manuscripts into searchable texts (training
        from DHL);
    o   Welton awarded AHRC funding to support a 4-month Visiting Research Fellowship at
        Brown University, USA, and funding for participation as an Area Supervisor on a Mt Zion
        excavation in Jerusalem for six weeks;
    o   Laurence held a Ghinko Fellowship for two successive years, aimed at cultural bridge-
        building between emerging Christian and Muslim leaders;
    o   Mutton (T&R) and Sawkins (History) appointed joint PG representatives for the British
        Association for Holocaust Studies, (2019-20) with Mutton's AHRC funding extended to
        accommodate 3-months in Canada;
    o   Church awarded 2020 De Gruyter award in Material and Visual Culture and Reception of
        the Bible for paper ‘Federico Zuccaro and Reception History of the Bible in the Counter-
        Reformation’.
 We currently have six SWWDTP-funded PhDs. We have strategies to attract and support the
 highest calibre PGRs using an integrated approach to career-development which matches their
 progression to training opportunities and challenges. The incidence of students failing to
 complete is very small and usually the consequence of overwhelming personal circumstances.
 Across 2014-20, 30% of PhD graduates moved into academic careers, with more publishing
 articles and monographs. Non-academic careers included education, school management,
 church ministry and the law.

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Growth has been achieved during this REF cycle by senior colleagues delivering major grants,
 by building PDR positions into projects that require teamwork, and encouraging junior
 colleagues to develop their own steady-growth income generation strategy. All colleagues are
 typically running a grant, writing, or awaiting the outcome of, an application.
 3.1 Growth
 As a result, we have almost tripled total income (from £590,202 in the previous REF cycle to
 £1,698,886 in this cycle), and more than doubled the mean annual income (from £118,040 in the
 previous cycle, to an average of £276,836 per annum between 2015/16-19/20).
 Senior colleague activity has produced our largest grants (>100k) and growth in PDR numbers
 to meet post-2014 strategy objectives. Eight PDRs were attached to senior colleague grants
 which significantly expanded our research capacity and contributed richly to departmental life.
  Grant Type     Area            Description                                          Award
                 (Staff                                                               Value
      >100k
                 member
                 and PDR)
  AHRC           Horrell,        Ethnicity, Race, and Religion in Early Christian    £170,621
  Fellowship     Hockey          and Jewish Identities produced a workshop
                                 series, conference, post-doc employment,
                                 edited volume and monograph
  European       Loosley,        Architecture and Asceticism: Cultural Interaction   £635,149
  Commission     O’Connor        between Syria and Georgia in Late Antiquity
                                 produced monograph, a photographic database
                                 and extensive impact-related work (awarded in
                                 2012 for spend over 5yrs)
  European       Ludlow,         Christian Sirmium in Pannonian Context and          £131,039
  Commission     Tamas           Beyond (4th/5th Centuries CE) produced
                                 innovative work on the Balkans
  John           Southgate,      Cooperation and Interpretation in the Origin of     £136,862
  Templeton      Pedersen,       Life bio-semiotic studies in living systems
  Foundation     Robinson
  John           Southgate,      God and the Book of Nature (via the Edinburgh       £159,042
  Templeton      Jones           project) contributing to science-engaged
  Foundation                     theologies of nature
  Templeton      Southgate,      How Can Congregations be Helped in Times of         £154,977
  World          Warner,         Tragedy? produced edited collection and
  Charities      Grosch-         extensive public engagement
  Foundation     Miller
 Table 1 Grant Income >£100k
 PDRs organised seminar programmes (Pedersen, Jones), ran conferences (Tamas, Hockey), led
 activities with external partners (Robinson, Warner, Grosch-Miller) and the Buckfast Abbey
 Workshop for PGTs and final-year undergraduates considering an academic vocation (Pedersen,
 08-Feb-2019). Three progressed to ECR positions; one is current; two were PT with other careers.


 3.2 Building for the future
 Building for the future means acquiring >£50-£100k sums as preparatory for larger applications.
 The following precede(d) more ambitious grant applications: Lawrence’s £52,485 Disability and
 Embodiment in Namibia: Religious and Cultural Perspectives British Academy/GCRF; Tollerton’s
 £51,963 Holocaust Memory and the Religious-Secular Landscape of Contemporary Britain
                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship; Loosley’s £50,754 Widening Participation and Increasing
 Access to Cultural Heritage and Natural Science Activities in Georgia AHRC Networking Grant for
 partnership with the Georgian National Museum.
 Yet longer-term sustainability requires helping every colleague to lay the groundwork for
 partnerships and future work. These colleagues exemplify progressive success:
    o   Tollerton
               Internal HASS Strategy funds (£4,905.48) ‘Interrogating UK media interactions with
                religion in a shifting religious/secular landscape’ (2014-15); Strategic Americas
                Fund (£3,000) for a Visiting Research Fellowship at the University of Victoria (2018)
               Small external St Luke’s Foundation funds (£6,954) ‘Engaging with the Holocaust
                in Secondary RE’ (2016-17)
               Leverhulme Trust award (£51,963)
    o   Cornwall
               Internal Open Innovation Link Fund (£700) 'Intersex UK and Exeter Medical School
                Teaching on Intersex Ethics and Law' (2015)
               Small external Common Awards Seed Corn Fund (£2,000) 'Mind the Gap?
                Perceptions and Realities of Sexualities and Diversities Education for Church of
                England Ordinands'
               Sir Halley Stewart Trust award (£55,506)
    o   John
               PhD supervised by Lawrence; now CI on AHRC Network (GCRF) grant.
 Easing application processes for colleagues is essential. We provide multi-layered support for
 grant applications designed to build income portfolios. The first step is often an approach to
 internal funding as a basis for external applications. Every colleague has been successful in
 obtaining internal College, IIB (Innovation, Impact and Business), IMAF or OMAF (Inward/Outward
 Mobility Fund), or other University funding.


 To further enable a continuous cycle of applications we:
    o   proactively employ a workload model to ensure that research hours awarded on grants
        translate fairly into reduced teaching and administration loads, and a minimum research
        allowance for all staff (~25% of all allocated time) so that everyone can be consistently
        research active (86 applications over the period; 23 awards including follow-ons). This plus
        the AL system gives immediate and long-term 1-2-1 support;
    o   work closely with a discipline-specific Research Development Advisor to assist with
        planning and financial costing of proposals. The online 'Pipeline' is the day-to-day means
        by which colleagues communicate with this Officer and log applications;
    o   have embedded an internal peer-review process for all research council and ERC
        applications, with feedback from at least two senior academics, plus the Associate Dean
        for Research (ADR). Regular ADR (+team) and DoR meetings facilitate the reviewing of
        colleagues' progress, forestalling of problems and encouraging of reasonable ambition;
    o   participate in College-level sifting processes for the most competitive schemes and ERC
        starting grants, which ensure that only candidates with a relatively high chance of success
        move to full application, thereby managing demands on time for both academics and
        support staff;
    o   use research leave to prioritize anyone working toward large and demanding applications.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 Libraries remain the major component of our research infrastructure. We have benefited from
 the University’s additional 21st-Century Library investment of £1.6 million (2016–2021) with
 £92,000 dedicated to T&R. The unit bid successfully for several online data collections, e.g.
 Digital Karl Barth Library, Intelex Past Masters, 20th Century Religious Thought: Christianity,
 Islam and Judaism modules, Gregory of Nyssa online.


 Since 2014, Digital Humanities has become vital to the unit’s research infrastructure. The
 University invested £1.2m in a new Lab and supports a specialist team that assists with grant
 applications and co-supervises PGRs (Walker). Loosley and Bhayro routinely display historic
 material and artefacts (1.3.4 above). Loosley's ERC team had technical support to build a
 website using the OMEKA platform, and used 3D scanning to see artefacts at high resolution.
 Technicians worked with a team member at the British Museum to generate multi-dimensional
 images of pilgrimage tokens through photogrammetry using high-specification image
 manipulation.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Collaboration
 Widening and deepening international and interdisciplinary collaboration has been a significant
 feature of this REF cycle. Long-standing (3+yrs) academic international collaborations include:


    o   Bhayro with colleagues at the Universities of Jerusalem, Bar Ilan and Utrecht, e.g., co-
        editing the Magical and Religious Literature of Late Antiquity series (Brill);
    o   Ludlow’s collaboration at the Gregory of Nyssa International Colloquia produced a series
        of English translations and commentaries including Gregory of Nyssa: Contra Eunomium
        III (Brill, 2014) and will bring the next Colloquium to Exeter (2022);
    o   Gallaher's comparative religion (Orthodoxy/Shinto and Japanese Buddhism) long-
        running collaboration with Doshisha University, Kyoto, plus collaborations via the
        Advanced International Workshop on 'The Senses in Sino-Western Cultural Exchanges
        in the Early Modern Period’, International Center for Studies of Chinese Civilization,
        Fudan University (Sha‘nghai, China, May-2015), and Building Bridges international
        seminar on Muslim-Christian dialogue, Georgetown University (2015-present);
    o   Southgate's science/religion investigations of pre-linguistic meaning-making, co-
        operation and signification(s) in living systems (funded by John Templeton Foundation)
        with laboratory-based research and computer-modelling experts in Portland State,
        Georgia Tech and Arizona State Universities;
    o   Tollerton’s engagements with the University of Victoria, Canada, on comparative British/
        Canadian holocaust memorialization. Funded initially by a 2018/19 Exeter OMAF, Tollerton
        enjoyed Visiting Research Fellow-status and subsequently facilitated fieldwork in Canada
        by an AHRC DTP-funded PGR.


 All colleagues are supported to develop and sustain international relationships through the
 workload allocation tool, global partnership training, and funding to maintain international links.
 Maps below display 17 further research collaborations (HE and other partners) of 1+yrs duration,
 with more embryonic relationships in the pipeline.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Contribution to research base
 National and international research leadership:


    o   Editorships
               Stavrakopoulou: General Editor (GE) Hebrew Bible in Social Perspective
                monograph series (Bloomsbury, 2013-present), co-editor Biblical Refigurations
                series (OUP, 2009-present), Editorial Board (EB) Library of Hebrew Bible/Old
                Testament series, Bloomsbury (2010-present). Lawrence: Editor, Journal for the
                Study of the New Testament (2018-present), EB Journal of Sacred Texts and
                Contemporary Worlds (2014-present). Horrell: General Series Editor, SBL Early
                Christianity and Its Literature (2015-2018), EB, Journal of Biblical Literature (2014-
                2019), New Testament Studies (2014-2017). Loosley: EB Brill Texts and Studies
                in Eastern Christianity series. Ludlow: EB Journal of Early Christian Studies, Irish
                Theological Journal, Ecclesiology. Reed: consultant editor, Studies in Christian
                Ethics 2011-15. Southgate: EB Zygon. Cornwall: series editor, Bloomsbury
                Rethinking Theologies: Constructing Alternatives in History and Culture (2015-
                present), EB, Modern Believing (2014-present); EB African Journal of Gender and
                Religion (2019-present). Gallaher: EB Journal of Orthodox Christian Studies,
                founding EB New Journal of Orthodox Christian Studies (2015-present); Tollerton,
                EB Holocaust Studies: A Journal of History and Culture.
    o   Steering Groups / Committee Memberships
               Bhayro: Board International Conference of Near Eastern Archaeomusicology
                (2015-2018), Board Near-Eastern Musicology Online (2015-2018). Gallaher co-
                chair Eastern Orthodox Studies Group, AAR (2016-2022), founding committee
                International Orthodox Association of Theological Schools. Horrell: Steering
                Group, ISBL Catholic Epistles Section (2016-2019). Lawrence: Steering
                Committee, Social-Scientific Approaches to Biblical Interpretation, SBL (2018-
                present); Steering Committee, Sense and Cultures Unit, SBL (2017-present); Chair
                ‘Social World Seminar’, British New Testament Conference (2014-2020). Ludlow:
                President Ecclesiastical History Society (2017-2018), Committee International
                Colloquia on Gregory of Nyssa (2008-2018), Director Oxford Patristics
                Conferences (2015, 2019). Tollerton: Secretary British Association of Jewish
                Studies (2019-present), Board Canadian Jewish Studies (2019–present), Steering
                Committee AAR unit ‘Religion, Holocaust, and Genocide’ (2017–present), Board
                Holocaust Studies: A Journal of Culture and History (2015–present), co-chair SBL
                unit ‘Bible and its Influence: History and Impact’ 2015–2019. Cornwall: SST
                executive committee 2013-16. Southgate: Steering Group Science, Technology
                and Religion programme AAR, Fellow International Society for Science and
                Religion (2007-present), Committee UK Science and Religion Forum (2002-
                present). Reed: President Society for the Study of Christian Ethics 2018-2021,
                Advisor, Catholic Social Teaching and International Human Rights Law Database
                Project, University of Notre Dame, 2015-2016.


 Three colleagues are elected members of the AHRC Peer Review College (Horrell 2014-2019
 plus AHRC Strategic Reviewer Group, Ludlow 2014-2019, Loosley 2014-2019). Horrell is a
 REF2021 Sub-Panel Member.


 Together, colleagues have examined 36+ research degrees for other universities, including 7
 internationally. Colleagues have served on at least 10 professorial assessment committees,
 including 5 internationally.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit vitality is further evidenced in conference activity. Only internationally-invited
 keynote/plenary papers (including UK-hosted international events) are shown:




 Figure 1a. Locations of research collaborations (circles) and invited plenary papers (squares).




 Figure 1b. European locations of research collaborations (circles) and invited plenary papers
 (squares).
 Together, colleagues have delivered 60+ internationally-invited keynote/plenary papers.
 Highlights include: Bhayro: Ludwig-Maximilians Universität, Munich, Germany (2017);
 Cornwall: AAR 2018 panel on Un/familiar Theology: Reconceiving Sex, Reproduction and
 Generativity; Gallaher: Fordham University public lecture (2019); Horrell: SNTS Annual
 Meeting, Amsterdam (2015); Lawrence: Dom Helder Camara-Lezing Lecture, Vrije University,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amsterdam (2018); Loosley: HERA UNUP Conference ‘Uses of the past in times of transition’,
 Austrian Academy of Sciences (2019); Ludlow: Hensley Henson Lectures, University of Oxford
 (2019); Reed: XII International Bonhoeffer Congress (2016); Southgate: AAR panel to
 recognise his contributions to the field on his 65th birthday (2018); Stavrakopoulou:
 Leverhulme-funded Food and Ritual Conference, Oxford University (2014); Tollerton: Centre for
 Study of Religion and Society, University of Victoria, Canada (2019).


 4.3 Contribution to economy and society
 Our engagement with stakeholders outside HE informs our research, keeps it vital and enables
 responsiveness to global/local challenges. It is the norm for T&R research at Exeter to yield
 resources for professionals, implications for policy and practice, and/or to attract public interest:


 4.3.1 Advising on gender, (dis)ability, well-being
 Lawrence's UNPRPD work emerges from research on stigma, madness and sanism in the gospels
 which has found repeated application in churches and nonreligious organizations devoted to
 disability and mental health: she spoke at the Church of England National Conference 2017, led
 the Archbishops’ Bible and Disability workshops 2014, advises for the British Sign Language Deaf
 Bible Project, and has facilitated a 2017 in-service/reflection project for Sense, an organisation for
 assisted living of those with multiple sensory impairments. She serves on the Advisory Board for
 the British Sign Language Bible, University of Chester (2017-) and works with ‘Open Minds’, a
 peer support group for people who sense things others don’t (sometimes labelled ‘psychosis’).
 Internationally, her resources have been translated and will be published by the Dutch Missionary
 Council.
 Lawrence and John's NoBODY Excluded project is an international, inter-/transdisciplinary and
 cross-cultural engagement on ‘Disability, Bible and Culture’ in Namibia that examines religious
 and cultural constructions of disability, thereby addressing underlying causes of marginalisation
 and facilitating maximal impact of Human Rights approaches. The project partners with the
 Universities of Namibia and Stellenbosch, the Ujamma Centre, Kwazulu Natal, which interfaces
 with local communities, the National Federation of People with Disabilities and the Evangelical
 Lutheran Church. Funded by GCRF/AHRC, they are exploring religio-cultural narratives of
 embodiment by documenting lived experiences of physical and mental illness, and developing an
 educational package based on biblical and local cultural resources that tackles marginalising
 discourses. One workshop was attended by the Namibian Government’s Deputy Minister in
 charge of Disability Affairs.
 Southgate's   How     can     congregations    be      helped     in     times    of    tragedy?
 (tragedyandcongregations.org.uk) helps churches at the forefront of societal responses to horrific
 events. The project attracted attention from BBC R4 (10-Dec-2017), The Times and The
 Telegraph (w/b 11-Dec-2017). Southgate addressed the Faith in Research Conference of the
 CofE (19-Jun-2019) and Common Awards Staff Conference (16-Jul-2019) for ordinands.


 4.3.2 Protecting cultural heritage
 Loosley advises the Georgian Ministry of Culture on state school provision linked to cultural
 heritage and public awareness thereof in conflict zones. In Oct-2015, she was an invited delegate
 at the emergency Summit for the Protection of Cultural Heritage called by the Department for
 Culture Media and Sport and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. She was involved in the
 consultation process of the UK Government’s Cultural Protection Fund (2015-2018). Public
 interest in Loosley's research peaked in 2015 with the destruction of the Temple of Bel in Palmyra
 and attack by Daesh on Dayr Mar Elian, the monastery she had excavated. Loosley spoke on
 Radio 4’s Today programme, Radio Five Live, gave TV interviews to BBC World, BBC News
 Channel, News at One, and Victoria Derbyshire Show. She spoke to The Times, The Economist
 and wrote a commissioned, full-page article for The Observer about Palmyra (30-Aug-2015). She


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was interviewed by Danish, Dutch and Lithuanian journalists, and made a radio documentary with
 BBC Radio 4/World Service as part of their Museum of Lost Objects series (Mar-2016).
 Stavrakopoulou continues to raise public awareness of cultural heritage. Her BBC TV series The
 Bible’s Buried Secrets is now with Netflix US.


 4.3.3 Resourcing educationalists
 Horrell's Beyond Stewardship website materials for schools on the bible’s influence on Christian
 attitudes to the environment has attracted 54,000 unique pageviews since May 2012, with
 significant uptake since revisions following the Department for Education’s 2017 specifications for
 Religious Studies GCSE and A-level. Horrell, Hunt and Southgate have given many presentations
 on the research produced in the AHRC-funded project on ‘Uses of the Bible in Environmental
 Ethics’ (2006-2009).
 Tollerton ran an 8-month project (2016-2017) in collaboration with the Holocaust Educational Trust
 on the Holocaust and religious education funded by the St Luke’s Foundation, and (with Horrell
 and O’Donnell) wrote ‘Religion and the Media in GCSE and A-level Syllabuses: A Regrettable Gap
 and Proposals to Fill It’, BJRE (2018).
 Building upon research in narrative theology, Reed (with Freathy, Cornwall, Davis) published
 student/teacher editions of The Art of Bible Reading (Kevin Mayhew Ltd, 2014) and (with Freathy,
 Davis, John and Schmidt) Who is Jesus? Supplementary Materials for Religious Education in the
 Upper Secondary School (Exeter: Graduate School of Education, 2018). A supporting 50-minute
 video had press coverage in the TES (06-Jun-2014), Telegraph (06-Jun-2014), local radio, The
 Dialogue Australasia Network, and was the basis for a CofE Archbishop's Council Education
 Division conference (28-Apr-15).


 4.3.4 Supporting interfaith conversations and the churches
 Gallaher had writing-status participation and was Subject Expert in the Press Office of the
 Ecumenical Patriarchate during the Pan-Orthodox Council, Crete (Jun-16) and high-level
 Anglican-Orthodox encounters. He was at the centre of controversy raised by the Exeter-Fordham
 'Bridging Voices' conference on Orthodoxy, sex, gender and sexuality (Aug-19). See British
 Council           USA          short          film          about            the         event:
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4eu56keaeeU&feature= youtu.be.
 Ludlow served on the Archbishops' review of the CofE's Crown Nominations Committee re:
 appointing diocesan bishops (2017-2018). Her research in patristic rhetorical traditions has yielded
 theological content for training of Suffragan/assistant Bishops. She has worked on ecumenical
 relations: CofE/Church of Scotland and CofE/EKD (Germany).


 4.3.5 Engaging public debate
 Stavrakopoulou brings questions about religion and atheism to large public audiences. Outputs
 from her Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship include a monograph for non-specialists about
 how the Bible has shaped cultural preferences regarding sex, death and bodies (2020); German,
 Spanish, Greek, Dutch, Italian translations under contract. She was head-panelist on BBC1 The
 Big Questions (4-Feb-2018, 29-May-2016, 18-Jan-2015); appeared on The Weekly (ABC), an
 Australian current affairs show (28-Apr-2016), Sunday Morning Live, BBC1; was contributor to
 four episodes of Secrets of the Bible (ZDF, Germany/IMG worldwide), appeared on Radio 4’s The
 Infinite Monkey Cage (24-Dec-2017), Neil MacGregor’s Living with the Gods (31-Oct-2017, 24-
 Oct-2017), Beyond Belief (7-Mar-2016),and The Moral Maze (13-Oct-2020). Stavrakopoulou is a
 patron of Humanists UK, has delivered keynotes at the annual Humanists UK convention (2014;
 2018), the international meeting of the World Humanist Congress (10-Aug-2014), plus a public
 lecture for the British Museum (25-Nov-2019). She was the Honorary Delegate at the Religious
 Education Youth Debate at Houses of Parliament (9-Jul-2018).


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gallaher's public engagement includes many public lectures and BBC Radio Devon interviews on
 Good Friday and Secularism (14-Apr-17), Lent and Fasting (25-Feb-18).
 Tollerton builds upon his research in holocaust memory to bring related debates to public
 attention, e.g., in The Guardian (15-Nov-2016), THES (10-May-2016; 08-Sept-2015), Religion
 Bulletin (06-Jun-2017), The Conversation (25-Jun-2018, 2-Nov-2017, 26-Oct-2017, 5-Apr-2017,
 8-May-2015, 20-Aug-2014). He was cited in a House of Lords Library Briefing, 27-Jan-2019.


 Future outlook
 Looking forward, we aim to:
    o   grow the staff-base, perhaps with an anthropologist of religion, by increasing PGR
        numbers;
    o   increase research power of colleagues through forward-looking strategies for promotion
        and research leave;
    o   develop more knowledge-exchange opportunities with stakeholders outside HE by
        allocating more staff time;
    o   maintain influx of PDRs by keeping up grant application momentum;
    o   expand international collaboration using video-conferencing technology (environmental
        and EDI gains);
    o   implement a unit action-plan with positive actions stemming from University EDI and well-
        being recommendations, e.g., around new policies on research leave and making
        anticipatory adjustments to support those who could be at disadvantage.




                                                                                             Page 18
