Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 30

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Research in Philosophy at the University of Glasgow is conducted by 19 academics (18.2 FTE)
 within the College of Arts. During the current REF cycle the unit of assessment (UOA) has
 published 6 research-informed textbooks, 8 research monographs, 27 edited collections, more
 than 100 chapters in edited collections, and more than 250 journal articles. Specialising in
 analytic philosophy, the UOA offers a collegial, supportive, and vibrant research environment
 that has undergone considerable change since the last REF exercise.

 In 2014, the UOA’s research strategy was built around the activity of two research clusters –
 Theoretical Philosophy and Practical Philosophy – a grouping inherited from the days when
 Scottish universities had two philosophy departments. In 2015 we decided it was no longer
 optimal to maintain these traditional groupings since established areas of strength cut across the
 theoretical/practical divide. Instead, we have concentrated on subfields that reflected where the
 UOA currently excels. We are now organised into three: 1) Perception, 2) Epistemology and 3)
 Virtue Theory.

 This reorganisation has supported an ambitious case, successfully made, for institutional
 investment in the UOA. Of the eleven staff hired in the past six years, four work on perception,
 five on epistemology, and three on virtue (with some working in more than one subfield). With
 these appointments, Glasgow now has some of the largest concentrations in the UK of
 researchers in each of these fields. (With six members of staff specialising philosophy of
 perception, only three UK universities are of comparable size. With seven working in
 epistemology, Glasgow is nearly double the size of its next-closest competitors. In virtue theory,
 only one other UK university has a comparable number of staff publishing in the field.) More
 cohesive groups of researchers with strongly overlapping interests have allowed us to capitalise
 on shared strengths.

 While we still eagerly support and encourage individual researchers, the most notable change in
 our research objectives during this REF cycle is an intentional focus on making the most of
 shared expertise and fostering collaborative projects. Our clusters underpin a supportive
 research environment centred on expert peer-review: clusters read and provide feedback on
 work-in-progress, offer advice on grant applications, and broker internal and external
 collaborations. They also organise seminars and workshops, which have brought over 100
 external researchers to Glasgow audiences over the cycle.

 The success of the UOA’s strategic reorganisation is evidenced, among other ways, in the
 external recognition it has garnered. The Centre for the Study of Perceptual Experience (CSPE)
 has long been seen as a leader in its field, and the increase in staff who work in the Centre has
 enabled it to go from strength to strength. It has attracted 13 visiting research fellows and 10
 research students during this REF cycle from universities in Canada, France, Germany, Japan,
 New Zealand, Switzerland, and the United States. And, while the Philosophical Gourmet Report
 does not track philosophy of perception, in particular, the quality of its research accounts for the
 University of Glasgow’s rise to fifth (tied) in the UK in philosophy of mind in the most recent
 report (2018). Building on CSPE’s model, the UOA developed the epistemology research
 cluster into the Cogito Epistemology Research Centre. And epistemology at the University of
 Glasgow has gone from being unranked in 2014 to being tied for second in the UK in the 2018

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gourmet Report, with further strengthening anticipated following appointments since 2018. The
 successes in developing Perception and Epistemology provide a model for the future
 development of the Virtue cluster.

 Additional evidence that the strategy of organizing research in the department around shared
 strengths is bearing fruit can be seen in the collaborative grants secured, which total more than
 £1,065,000 in the current REF cycle. This sum is more than two and a half times the
 department’s total grant capture in the last REF cycle (£384,205). Co-authored publications
 provide additional evidence of the strategy’s success: 14 articles have been co-authored and
 two books have been co-edited by two or more members of the department in the current REF
 cycle (as compared to none in the previous cycle). Half-a-dozen other collaborative projects are
 in progress, including two jointly-authored books, three grant applications, and a new impact
 project.

 In this cycle the UOA has worked hard to address the disappointing performance of its Impact
 Case Studies (ICSs) in 2014. Our approach to impact has used a broad programme of public
 engagement to foster relationships and identify promising projects with the potential to develop
 significant impact.

 Across our three clusters we have delivered 43 public lectures, put on 36 exhibitions at festivals
 or galleries, made 22 media appearances, written 8 blog entries, published 8 articles in
 magazines or newspapers, organized or spoken at 6 workshops aimed at non-academic
 audiences, given 4 presentations in schools, recorded 4 podcasts aimed at the general public,
 and organized a fortnightly philosophy café at a public library on Glasgow’s south side. (Further
 details about some of these activities and the responses to them is in section 4.)

 From this activity we identified a range of areas in which our research expertise might dovetail
 with needs in business, government, or the wider society. These partners include Alzheimer
 Scotland, CHAS Children’s Hospice, the Church of Scotland, Cupboard Computer Games,
 NASA, the Presbyterian Church of Aotearoa New Zealand, Soluis, Teenage Cancer Trust, and
 the Therme Group . In addition to the impact captured in our ICSs, outcomes of these
 collaborations include a project with the Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice to implement
 practices to enhance the autonomy of those approaching the end of life. This activity in turn is
 facilitating collaboration with members of the Scottish Parliament which may lead to legislation
 around end-of-life care. Another project, emerging from our epistemology and virtue clusters,
 has led the Therme Group not only to change designs for current developments but also to
 contribute £337,279 to fund a new, 5-year postdoctoral position at the University of Glasgow to
 investigate ways in which architectural design can enhance well-being.

 We collaborate actively with other academic disciplines, both within the UK and internationally.
 Various members of the subject area have worked with researchers in English, Linguistics,
 Education, Politics, Law, Economics, Sociology, Psychology, Neurology, Neuroscience,
 Anatomy, Disability Studies, Information Studies, Computer Science, Art History, and Veterinary
 Medicine. For example, workshops run by Bain, Brady, and Corns on pain and suffering involved
 researchers from Neuroscience and Veterinary Medicine at Glasgow and clinicians from
 Glasgow’s pain clinic. The ‘Value of Suffering’ project included a wider international team of
 researchers, with members from France, Australia, and the US. Colburn and Lazenby
 collaborated with researchers in education and economics on the ‘Inequality in Educational
 Access’ project. Colburn and Corns contributed to a project on ‘Evaluating a Community Form of
 Palliative Care in Kerala’ that involved sociologists, anthropologists, and palliative care

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clinicians. Colburn also joined a team of sociologists, legal theorists, and educationalists to work
 on a project entitled, ‘Building Futures: Aspirations of Syrian Youth Refugees and Host
 Population Responses in Lebanon, Greece & the UK’. Macpherson was co-investigator on
 ‘ReThinking the Senses’, a major interdisciplinary project which involved philosophers,
 psychologists, and neuroscientists from University of London, University of Oxford, and
 University of Warwick. Macpherson was also a co-investigator on a project entitled,
 ‘Understanding the Senses: Past and Present,’ which involved collaborators from English, Art
 History, Linguistics, and Disability Studies, and she was a co-investigator with a Neurologist from
 the University of Exeter on the ‘Eye’s Mind’ project, which formed the basis of one of our impact
 cases and also involved an art historian and an artist. Our newly established Virtual Reality Lab
 engages with researchers in Neuroscience, Psychology, Computer Science, and Information
 Studies. Philosophy has helped fund and run the Philosophy, Psychology, and Neuroscience
 Seminar Series since 2014 and launched a joint philosophy and psychology Masters programme
 in 2019. Leuenberger’s project on ‘The Whole Truth’ involved researchers from law, which led
 Philosophy and Law to form a joint research network. A number of members of staff also
 participate in inter-disciplinary seminars around the University of Glasgow, including the
 Emotions Network, the Colour Studies Group, the End of Life Group, the Human Rights Cluster,
 the Political Philosophy and Theory Group, and the Theology and Religious Studies Seminar.

 Wherever possible we make the results of the research we undertake freely available. With the
 assistance of library staff, we have ensured that drafts of the journal articles we publish are
 freely available on the University of Glasgow’s open access research repository (Enlighten).
 Links to these articles are easily found on each staff member’s university webpage. In addition,
 every member of the department has an ORCID. Many also have pages on Academia.edu,
 ResearchGate, or PhilPapers. A number of our research projects have also included an
 associated blog and an active social media presence.

 Because most of our research is idea- or argument-driven, rather than data-driven, readers and
 reviewers can see for themselves whether the ideas are clear and the arguments compelling.
 There is neither an opportunity nor an advantage to be gained by fabricating evidence, and the
 overlapping interests characteristic of our research clusters mean our colleagues are well-
 positioned to let us know if we have construed an opposing position uncharitably. For the limited
 number of projects that involve the collection of empirical data, we seek help and advice from
 college and school research integrity officers. In the course of their development such projects
 are also submitted to the university ethics boards for evaluation and approval. In addition, the
 College of Arts offers research integrity training to staff every semester and participating in
 integrity training is a compulsory part of the Early Career Development Programme (ECDP).

 Our strategic aims for the next seven years build on the successes of the last seven. They are:
    1. To continue to develop our existing research clusters in perception, epistemology, and
        virtue. We have transformed what was a modest research interest in epistemology in
        2014 into a centre of excellence by 2020. And we have increased the number of staff
        working in the other two clusters. But there are further steps to be taken. Using the
        model developed by the CSPE and Cogito, we aim to develop our virtue cluster into a
        formally established centre of excellence in the next cycle. Expanding impactful research
        in virtual and augmented reality point in the direction of new projects on the pedagogical
        significance of VR and AR. Cogito’s development will be driven in part by Mona Simion’s
        5-year ERC grant for a project on social epistemology and Adam Carter’s 3-year AHRC
        grant on trust, which together will bring 3 postdoctoral researchers into the department.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. To develop a fourth research cluster in the area of metaphysics, philosophy of language,
       and logic. The recent addition of Bryan Pickel to the existing team of Leuenberger,
       Kemp, and Rieger gives these subfields – heretofore grouped with epistemology –
       enough critical mass to begin growing into a distinct research cluster that develops their
       own shared projects.
    3. To foster the careers of early career researchers (ECRs). We currently have five
       lecturers and three postdocs whose careers we will be working to advance, with at least
       3 more postdocs joining us over the next five years. Past success in facilitating the
       development of early career staff (on which more below) means there is good institutional
       knowledge of how to help them develop both as researchers and as leaders, with a
       strong focus on Careers and Culture in the new institutional research strategy for 2020-
       2025
    4. To continue to grow staff numbers. Based on steadily growing student numbers and a
       significant rise in grant capture, we will seek further investment in our staff base. Such
       growth will enable us to bed in existing research clusters, expand in new directions, and
       better serve our postgraduate community.
    5. To continue to grow our grant capture. In addition to projects we drive from within, we
       aim to respond to more challenge-driven funding opportunities by developing inter-
       disciplinary collaborations and increasing our external partners
    6. To develop more relationships with potential impact partners. We are already working
       with more than four times as many external partners as we were in 2014. But there are
       several other potential partners with whom we have a connection, such as NASA, that
       could be developed into a more fruitful relationship using institutional seed-funding to
       build collaboration.
    7. To strengthen links with law, politics, and psychology. A new Law and Philosophy
       Network was launched at the University of Glasgow in late 2019 to bring together
       colleagues with interests in philosophy of law. However, the pandemic has delayed its
       development. Philosophy and Psychology launched a joint Master’s programme in 2019,
       and there are promising connections between the two units in the areas of perception
       and emotion. Turning these shared interests into joint grant projects and shared PhD
       students is an important aim. In the area of politics, there are already joint activities
       organised around the Stevenson Trust, the John Smith Centre, and a joint seminar
       series, but there is potential for additional synergies that we would like to develop.

 2. People
 Our staffing strategy in this REF cycle has been built around two pillars: 1) the recruitment of
 new staff, and 2) the development of early career staff into senior leaders in the UOA.
 Retirements and departures gave the UOA an opportunity to reshape itself, and the College of
 Arts supported these efforts, which allowed us to expand from 13.5 to 18.2 FTE. The decision to
 aim for collaborative concentrations in a few areas as opposed to solo artists in every area
 assisted in our recruitment efforts. Specialist knowledge of the areas in which we were
 recruiting allowed us to use our existing networks to ensure jobs ads were brought to the
 attention of people who might be interested in them. And many of the colleagues who joined the
 UOA in this cycle were drawn by the opportunity to work with others who share their interests. A
 second factor that contributed to recruitment success was the Centre for the Study of Perceptual
 Experience’s history of hosting visiting fellows, our weekly research seminars, and the
 conferences we had organised. Many of those who joined the UOA had visited Glasgow
 previously and were attracted by the collegiality they witnessed while here.




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The opportunity to recruit new staff helped us begin to address the gender imbalance in UOA
 staffing. At the time of the last REF only 1.5 long-term staff members were women. Women
 now occupy a professorship, three lectureships, and two postdoctoral positions in the UOA,
 which amounts to 23% of the permanent members of staff and 66% of postdoctoral researchers.
 We still have a way to go before our gender ratio reflects that of the UK population; however, it is
 now at least comparable to other philosophy departments in the UK (where women make up
 approximately 25% of permanent positions).

 A member of the UOA was Chair of the self-assessment team responsible for the successful
 application for an Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze award in 2016. Members of the UOA are heavily
 involved in the Gender Equality Committee which is implementing the AS action plan and
 working towards an application for AS Silver. All Philosophy staff have taken the University’s
 Equality & Diversity Essentials training. All staff with interviewing, performance review, Equality,
 and REF responsibilities, receive training regarding unconscious bias and ways of mitigating its
 effects. We have implemented the British Philosophical Association/Society for Women in
 Philosophy good practice scheme. The conferences we organize now offer childcare and more
 time is permitted between sessions for breaks. Staff have increased ethnic and gender diversity
 among the authors they assign in taught courses. (In 2020, for example, roughly 38% of
 assigned authors identify with historically marginalized genders and 7% with historically
 marginalized ethnic groups.) And Feminist Philosophy, which was not previously on offer, is
 now taught annually.

 The University has supported flexible and remote working arrangements to accommodate health
 and caring responsibilities. The UOA schedules research seminars and mandatory meetings in
 the middle of the day to ensure colleagues with caring responsibilities can attend. For those who
 need to take extended leave due to personal illness or caring responsibilities, the University
 helps ease their return to work by offering up to £10,000 to cover teaching relief and research
 costs.

 As well as increasing the gender-diversity of staff in Philosophy, we have also increased our
 international diversity. In addition to staff from Scotland (3, including 2 postdocs) and England
 (1), we have recruited staff from two European Union countries, two North American countries,
 Australia, and New Zealand. However, our attempts to improve the racial diversity have thus far
 been unsuccessful. We hope future hiring will enable us to address this issue.

 When it comes to staff development, there is considerable support from both the University and
 the UOA. All ECRs participate in the University’s Early Career Development Programme
 (ECDP), which aims to help newly appointed staff develop their skills and advance their careers
 within a defined timetable. Colleagues on ECDP benefit from a reduced teaching and
 administration load in the first two years of their appointment (50% in year 1; 25% in year 2).
 ECDP actively encourages application to external funding schemes specifically available to
 ECRs, such as the Carnegie Research Incentive Grant, the AHRC Early Career Fellowship, and
 the European Research Council Starter Grant. Postdoctoral researchers are likewise invited to
 participate in the ECDP.

 ECRs are also assigned a mentor whose role includes offering guidance on research output
 quality, grant applications, public engagement, and impact, as well as other features of university
 life. Another way staff in the UOA support ECRs is by applying for grants that fund postdoctoral
 research positions, enabling new and emerging researchers to establish their research profiles


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 before they are required to undertake regular teaching responsibilities. In this REF cycle 8 of
 these applications have been successful.

 Access to mentoring is not limited to ECRs. The School of Humanities Mentoring Scheme seeks
 to ensure every member of staff is signed up to a mentor from one of the various schemes that
 operate in the University. The schemes are not compulsory but strongly recommended for either
 research mentoring or for career mentoring, and sometimes both.

 All staff are offered one semester of research leave for every 6 semesters of teaching and are
 encouraged to increase their research time by acquiring research grants to buy them out of
 teaching duties in other semesters. Research leave can be used either to undertake new
 research or develop the impact of existing research. Funds are available for staff whose
 research would be enhanced by being somewhere other than Glasgow for their study leave.
 During the current REF cycle, every member of staff whose contract includes a research
 component and who has been employed by the University of Glasgow for three or more years
 has had at least one semester of study leave. Those who have been working at Glasgow for
 more than six years have had two.

 Evidence that these support mechanisms have been successful is provided, in part, by the
 successful promotion of ECRs over the period. The UOA currently consists of 5.2 professors, 1
 reader, 5 senior lecturers, 6 lecturers, and 1 research fellow. Of the professors, 1 began the
 period as a lecturer and 1 as a senior lecturer. The reader began the period as a lecturer. Half
 of the senior lecturers were promoted to that rank during this REF cycle. And one of our
 lecturers began her employment in the UOA as a postdoctoral researcher. Further evidence of
 our successful support for ECRs is provided by the successful placement of postdocs and other
 temporary members of staff in additional postdoctoral or permanent jobs at other universities,
 including Adelaide, Bristol, Hamburg, Lancaster, Manchester, Oslo, Oxford, Texas Tech, Tilburg,
 UCL, and Warwick.

 The University formally supports staff through annual Performance and Development Reviews.
 Promotion opportunities are discussed each year and the Head of Subject and Head of School
 offer advice and support. Exceptional performance of a specific task or project is recognised
 and rewarded. Through a comprehensive range of staff development workshops run by Human
 Resources, the College of Arts, and the School of Humanities, staff receive training and support
 on research planning, grant writing, impact development, the supervision of postgraduate
 research students and postdocs, leadership training, bias and recruitment training. Two
 members of the UOA have also secured competitive places in the University’s Leadership
 training programmes which develop senior leadership capacity across the institution.

 One of the most valuable contributions to the research environment at the University of Glasgow
 and to the development of staff research is the weekly research seminar in which visiting
 researchers are invited to present one of their current projects. This not only keeps us abreast
 of developments elsewhere in the field, it also enables us to network with staff from around the
 world. Often new research projects are born as a result of conversations to which these
 seminars give rise. Another important contribution to the research environment are the
 conferences and workshops funded by competitive research grants secured by members of the
 UOA. They have introduced our staff and students to internationally recognized experts.
 Because Glasgow staff have been involved in giving papers at each of these events, they have
 also provided opportunities to receive critical feedback from leaders in the field.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate research students (PGRs) are valuable contributors to our research culture. Since
 2014, Philosophy has been actively engaged in increasing PGR enrolments. One strategy for
 doing so has been to appoint new staff who would be attractive supervisors. Another is to seek
 grants that would support doctoral students during the course of their studies and to work closely
 with students who are applying for funding to strengthen their applications. These recruitment
 efforts have been successful. We awarded four times as many PhDs during the current REF
 cycle (32) as we did during the previous one (8). And we currently have forty students engaged
 in doctoral studies. We are also increasingly successful in getting AHRC Studentships (two in
 2016/17, four in 2017/18, five in 2018/19, and seven in 2019/20), as well as scholarships from
 other sources (e.g., the Economic and Social Research Council [2019], the Greek government
 [2019], and the University of Glasgow).

 As with our staff, so also with our postgraduate student population: we have worked to recruit
 students from underrepresented groups, encouraging promising students from these groups to
 continue their education. Our doctoral student community has been drawn from 22 different
 countries. Women have earned 35% of the PhD’s we have awarded since 2014 and make up
 47% of our current research student cohort. To support these students, in 2019 we initiated a
 programme that offers each of the women in our PhD and MSc communities a mentor (in
 addition to their research supervisors). And we have launched a Minorities and Philosophy
 chapter, which has been enthusiastically received by the graduate student community.

 We foster a strong postgraduate research culture through a range of activities:
   • Once a week we hold a seminar for students to present current works-in-progress and
        obtain feedback from fellow students and staff members.
   • Each summer we take postgraduate students off campus for a two-and-a-half-day
        workshop. This builds rapport within the student cohort and gives them an opportunity to
        test their work on staff and peers. As a result of the feedback they receive, students often
        submit papers presented at the workshop to graduate conferences, thus enhancing their
        research quality and presentation skills.
   • In addition to the weekly research seminar mentioned in section 1, we have three other
        seminar series that meet roughly once per month and feature visiting academics. So,
        most weeks in which classes are in session, staff and students have an opportunity to
        attend presentations by at least two visiting speakers, which keeps them abreast of the
        current state of play in most philosophical subfields.
   • There are numerous reading groups for postgraduates to attend.
   • Students are provided with funding enabling them to present their work at a conference
        outwith the University each year. This covers a proportion of their travel and
        accommodation costs (often all, if the conference is in the UK).
   • The PGR convenor keeps PGR students informed of training and development activities
        outwith the subject, provided by the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities,
        the University’s Researcher Development Unit, or the College of Arts PGR Skills
        Development Programme. PGR Skills Development is mandatory for all doctoral
        students and students are encouraged to participate in institutional postgraduate activity,
        such as the ‘Three Minute Thesis’ competition (in which one of our PhD Students was
        the People’s Choice winner in 2015).
   • The Annual Performance Review process in the unit is seen as an important formative
        experience, enabling us to nurture a culture of reflection among the PGR community,
        giving students the opportunity to recognise their progress, map out their next year of



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        study, and receive guidance on the steps they should take to finish their degree and
        prepare for their preferred field of employment.
    •   We run a series of job placement seminars for PhD students that introduce them to the
        current state of both academic and non-academic job markets. We highlight things they
        can already be doing to prepare themselves for the market, such as preparing articles for
        publication in academic journals. We teach them how to put together a CV, a letter of
        application, and a statement on their teaching philosophy. And we hold mock-interviews
        for those in the final stages of their degree.
    •   The CSPE Illusions Index and research stalls (see section 4) have provided opportunities
        for graduate students to gain public engagement experience.
    •   Our students are encouraged and mentored in running postgraduate conferences, with
        an average of one a year held at Glasgow in Philosophy since 2014.

 Evidence that the above mentioned support systems have had a positive impact on the research
 done by postgraduate students in philosophy at Glasgow can be seen in both completion rates
 and publications. During the current REF cycle, 77% of our doctoral students successfully
 completed their research and were awarded a PhD. And within 3 years of graduation, 65% of
 those new PhDs had published one or more journal articles or academic book chapters.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our grant capture strategy during the current REF cycle has been:
     • to support as wide a range of staff as possible with making successful grant applications,
        particularly by supplementing College support structures with informal reading of
        colleague’s applications.
     • to appoint new staff who show an excellent track record or potential in winning major
        funding
     • to include Early Career Researchers in collaborative applications with senior members of
        staff
     • to encourage collaborative applications, both within and outside the Unit, in order to
        broaden disciplinary and interdisciplinary expertise

 Alongside external funding, our Unit benefits from having access to University-administered
 research and impact funds. For those developing a large grant proposal there is a competitive
 fund to which researchers can apply for seed money that will provide them with the time or
 resources needed to move their project from promising idea to successful grant application. The
 School of Humanities has a research fund to which staff can apply to enable them to meet with
 collaborators, attend conferences, or do preliminary research that will help them launch a new
 project; it also offers an informal peer-review network for grant applications. Four staff received
 money from the College of Arts in 2018-2019 to enable them to complete significant projects like
 monographs. The Glasgow Knowledge Exchange (KE) Fund supports collaborative approaches
 to communicate research outcomes and generate impact and has provided resources that
 enabled the researchers heading up major impact projects to be relieved of some of their other
 duties. Finally, small grants are available from the Scots Philosophical Association, the Mind
 Association, the Aristotelian Society, and the Royal Society of Edinburgh to support conferences
 or workshops, and several members of staff have made use of this resource.

 Evidence that the abovementioned resources have enhanced the research environment within
 Philosophy at Glasgow can be seen in the marked increase in the number of staff members who
 have applied for competitive research grants and the amount of grant income secured over the


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 past two REF cycles. Between 2001 and 2007, the department obtained £131,870 from sources
 outside the University of Glasgow to support research. In the next cycle that sum increased to
 £384,205. Since 2014 we have secured £1,572,588 in grant income, a fourfold increase since
 2013 and a ninefold increase since 2007. Nearly half of this income stems from sources whose
 funding is not derived from the UK government – from charities based in the UK, EU, or US, or
 from the research councils of other countries.

 The increase in external funding has also been due to a change in the culture of the subject area
 (and the School of Humanities within which it is housed). There has been increased support for
 teaching and administrative relief from the School and College not only to allow people to use
 grant income to good effect but also to give staff time to develop competitive grant applications.
 In addition, we have incorporated a discussion of research funding in annual performance
 reviews and begun reporting on recent grant success in department meetings. Securing grant
 income is an important (but not mandatory) criterion for promotion.

 As a result of these changes, 17 members of staff (out of the 18.2 whose contract includes a
 research component) have successfully applied for external funding during the current REF
 cycle.

 This research funding has yielded:
     • 3 impact projects
     • 1 virtual reality/augmented reality research lab
     • 8 postdoctoral research positions
     • 5 exhibitions
     • 22 conferences
     • 26 workshops
     • A visiting speaker series that brought 20 academics to Glasgow over the space of 2
        years to talk about their current research.
     • 1 policy report
     • 6 edited collections
     • 40 published papers
     • 1 monograph


 Infrastructure and facilities

 Our research success has been aided by various features of the University’s infrastructure. In
 the area of grant capture, the College Research Support Office assesses funder requirements
 and eligibility issues, and regularly disseminates information on current and prospective grant
 calls and deadlines. They also give detailed feedback on impact plans. School Finance Officers
 assist with the preparation of research budgets. ArtsLab provides a peer-review service for grant
 applicants, offering feedback on proposals from at least two current grant holders within the
 College of Arts. At subject level, feedback is available from the Philosophy Research Officer and
 from the members of one’s research cluster.

 The UOA has a suite of 26 offices, which affords every permanent member of staff an individual
 office. The remaining offices are assigned to postdoctoral researchers, postgraduate research
 students, and academic visitors. These offices are equipped with state-of-the-art technology,
 which is maintained and supported by the University’s information technology team. We also

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have three seminar rooms under local administration, which provide venues for reading and
 writing groups that encourage supportive interactions between the members of our research
 community.

 The University Library has an extensive collection of philosophy books and journals, accessible
 in either physical or electronic form (often both). This collection is continually updated by a
 subject-specific librarian. Members of staff are also invited to identify books, journals, or
 databases that should be added to the collection. The Library’s special collection contains
 original copies of historic texts that are of particular interest to those working on Scottish
 Enlightenment figures, such as Francis Hutcheson’s correspondence. We also benefit from
 having access to the Mitchell Library, Europe’s largest public reference library, located a short
 distance from campus.

 The big-ticket investment in facilities to assist with research in philosophy has been the creation
 of a number of virtual and augmented reality labs to support research being led by the Centre for
 the Study of Perceptual Experience. Beginning in 2016, a 20m2 space was set aside for this
 purpose and equipped with more than £30,000 of supporting technology. It is now a key
 resource for several interdisciplinary research projects being conducted by staff and PhD
 students. In 2019, two additional spaces were renovated for use in teaching and equipped with
 £110,000 of hardware. These labs provided a (then) world first: 15 six-degrees-of-freedom
 headsets being used in a single space. It produced a blueprint for how universities could use VR
 in teaching at scale. And the University is currently building a new, £113,000,000 research
 innovation hub (the Advanced Research Centre or ARC), designed to facilitate partnerships
 between university research staff and parties outwith the university. This includes, a VR/AR lab,
 designed in consultation with members of the UOA, a major investment in this element of the
 UOA’s research and impact activity.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to the economy and society

 As mentioned above, public engagement plays an important role in the life of the UOA and 14 of
 our 18.2 members were involved in events aimed at sharing our research expertise with the
 wider public. Here are a few highlights. Each year the Centre for the Study of Perceptual
 Experience runs a booth at the Glasgow Science Festival and contributes to 2-3 festivals outwith
 Glasgow, such as the Explorathon, the Cheltenham Science Festival, and the Being Human
 Festival, to name but three. The enthusiastic response to exhibitions on visual illusions that the
 CSPE designed for one of these festivals prompted Fiona Macpherson, head of the CSPE, to
 create an online resource on illusions. From 2014 to 2017 the Centre for the Study of Perceptual
 Experience ran a web page on illusions aimed at the public. During this period the page was
 visited more than 400 times per month on average. In September 2017, CSPE launched The
 Illusions Index, a fully searchable, interactive, curated collection of illusions aimed at the public
 (www.illusionsindex.org) and in 2019 a series of interactive quizzes were added to the site,
 allowing people to earn a “Master of Illusion” certificate. This was funded by the University
 Research Office, the College of Arts, the School of Humanities, and the Glasgow Knowledge
 Exchange Fund. Since its launch, the site has been visited over 799,000 times by 688,000
 different viewers from around the world (US 44%, UK 12%, India 6%, Australia, 5%, Canada 5%,
 Germany 1% etc.). The CSPE also has a substantial social media presence via Twitter and
 Facebook.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our virtue research cluster has also been highly involved in public engagement. Glen Pettigrove
 has spoken to community groups in the UK and New Zealand (including the Humanist Society,
 the Rationalist Society, the Church of Scotland, and the Glasgow Philosophical Society) and
 been interviewed by reporters from the BBC and The Herald on moral emotions. Michael Brady,
 David Bain, and Jennifer Corns’s ‘Value of Suffering’ project yielded 56 research and public talks
 and an extended interview aired by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Brady continues to
 work as a production consultant with Quarantine theatre company and Sick! Festival. Corns
 collaborated with two artists to put together the Foundation Painting Show, which was exhibited
 in Glasgow and Berlin. And the autonomy at the end of life project that Ben Colburn and Jennifer
 Corns have spearheaded included a workshop for practitioners working in palliative care.

 Reactions to these public engagement activities has consistently been positive. In most cases,
 our evidence is anecdotal – people approach us after an event to say how much they liked an
 exhibition or learned from a presentation. In some cases it is behavioural – having heard us
 speak on one occasion, a group invites us back to speak on another. But in a few cases we
 have collected more systematic data. For example, 100% of those who filled out a questionnaire
 after participating in the Explorathon in 2018 indicated they enjoyed the event very much.
 Written comments on the Illusions Index sites include, "This is a wonderful site! In a way I'm sad
 that I didn't come across it until after completing my university degrees as this sounds like just the
 kind of thing I would have been interested in studying”, and “"This will be a fantastic teaching aid for
 my phil of cognitive science course! Thanks very much for creating and maintaining it.”

 Apart from public engagement, which we have undertaken throughout the current REF cycle, our
 longest-running contribution to society has grown out of the intersection of Ben Colburn’s
 research on autonomy and Jennifer Corns’s work on pain. Working in collaboration with the
 Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice – made up of more than 100 full-time staff and 650
 volunteers who serve more than 1,200 patients per year – they were able to contribute to
 discussions that altered policy, practice, and evaluative frameworks in ways that enhance and
 protect autonomy for the dying. Drawing on Colburn’s research, practitioners at PPWH
 developed training and CPD materials (shortlisted for a prize from the Culture, Health &
 Wellbeing Alliance in 2020) that are now being used internationally, initially in Ireland, Australia
 and New Zealand. Another strand of this project can be seen in Colburn’s contribution to a
 Scottish cross-parliamentary working group on End of Life Choices that he was invited to join in
 2016. He presented his research in the Scottish Parliament in November 2019, and his work is
 cited in the white paper the working group has produced in advance of a parliamentary
 discussion (postponed by Covid-19) of changes in legislation governing end of life choices.


 A more recent contribution to society and economy began in 2018 when the UOA hosted a
 conference to which 25 industry leaders from the Therme Group and their affiliates were invited.
 The Therme Group designs and develops what they call ‘well-being resorts’. Five members of
 the UOA, together with collaborators from Psychology and Architecture, presented research on
 the nature of well-being and its relationship to architectural design. These presentations
 prompted Therme to alter plans for two of their current projects. To help advance this discussion
 further, the University is hosting a postdoctoral researcher – funded by Therme for five years
 and based in the UOA – who will investigate relationships between architecture and human
 happiness.

 Another nascent impact project is developing with NASA, exploring the ethics and metaphysics
 of risk in conversation with NASA engineers. Glen Pettigrove has been consulting with the

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Church of Scotland about the ethical issues that bear on the closing of a church. Still other
 impact activities have involved various members of staff serving as consultants for playwrights or
 dramatic productions on emotions, pain, and suffering. The University has facilitated each of
 these impactful enterprises by giving staff time to enter into these conversations, providing
 teaching cover for them to travel to another city to speak with engineers, observe rehearsals, or
 consult with church officers. On other occasions the University has provided money and
 staffing. Work on the Illusions Index, for example, was made possible through internal grants
 offered by the University Research Office, the College of Arts, and the School of Humanities,
 totalling more than £19,000.

 The examples mentioned above are only a few of our contributions to society and economy.
 From the mainstream to the marginalized (Stonewall), from the privileged (Therme resorts) to
 the underprivileged (refugees), from the corridors of power (the Parliaments of Westminster and
 Holyrood) to the neighbourhoods of the powerless (Coatbridge), from the religious (Church of
 Scotland) to the non-religious (the Humanist Society), from those at one extreme of the
 imaginative spectrum to the other (the Eye’s Mind Project), from life’s early years (philosophy in
 schools) to its final days (the Scottish Cot Death Trust, the Prince and Princess of Wales
 Hospice), from the Hebrides to the Antipodes, Philosophy at Glasgow has engaged with the
 length and breadth of society.

 Collaboration

 Since one of our objectives during the current REF cycle was to develop research clusters that
 would encourage collaboration, it is not surprising that there has been a fair amount of
 collaborating with colleagues within the department, both on research outputs and on impact
 projects. Eight members of the department have co-authored one or more papers with at least
 one of their colleagues. However, our collaborations have not been limited to fellow
 philosophers, let alone to philosophers at Glasgow. Members of the UOA have collaborated
 with academics from 14 disciplines at more than 80 universities in 19 countries. These
 collaborations have led to the publication of 4 books, 20 edited collections, 61 chapters in edited
 collections, and 65 journal articles. (These numbers only pick out publications on which a
 member of the department is named as an author or editor.) Other results of these
 collaborations include the production of 1 film, 3 plays, 4 art exhibitions, 4 impact projects, 10
 successful grant applications, and 16 conferences.

 Contribution to and recognition by the research base

 Philosophy at Glasgow has likewise distinguished itself in its service to the wider profession.
 During the current REF cycle members of the UOA have served as
     • Director of the British Philosophical Association (BPA)
     • President of the BPA
     • Member of the BPA Executive Committee
     • President of the Scots Philosophical Association (ScotsPhil)
     • Treasurer of the ScotsPhil
     • Secretary of the ScotsPhil
     • Trustee of the Kennedy Memorial Trust
     • Member of the AHRC Council
     • Member of the AHRC’s peer review college
     • Member of the UKRI Creative Industries Advisory Group


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     • Secretary of the Analysis Trust
     • Executive Committee member for the Royal Institute for Philosophy
     • Member of the Mind Association Executive Committee.
     • Member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship Committee
 Members of the UOA are advisors on international research projects, conferences, research
 centres, and organisations. We have participated in half-a-dozen periodic reviews of research
 and teaching at universities in the UK and overseas. We have refereed grant or scholarship
 applications for:
     • Analysis Trust
     • AHRC
     • British Academy
     • Czech Science Foundation
     • Deutscher Akademischer Austaushdienst
     • European Research Council
     • Hong Kong Research Grants Council
     • Icelandic Research Fund
     • Independent Social Research Foundation
     • Irish Research Council
     • Israel Science Foundation
     • John Templeton Foundation
     • Kennedy Memorial Trust
     • Leverhulme Trust
     • Mind Association
     • Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research
     • Polish National Science Centre
     • Research Foundation Flanders
     • New York University
     • UKRI Future Leaders Competition
     • Volkswagen Foundation.
 Every member of staff regularly referees manuscripts for academic presses or journals. In an
 average year we collectively referee more than 200 journal articles, 15-20 book manuscripts for
 academic presses, and 3-5 tenure or promotion files for universities in Europe or the US. And
 various members of the UOA are on journal editorial boards, including The Philosophical
 Quarterly, Philosophy and the Mind Sciences, Oxford Bibliographies Online, Analysis, dialectica,
 and others.

 Finally, our contributions to the field are reflected in the external honours awarded members of
 staff. Fiona Macpherson, who leads the Centre for the Study of Perceptual Experience, was
 elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2017 and as a member of Academia
 Europaea in 2018. Christoph Kelp, who leads the Cogito Epistemology Research Centre, was
 named Young Epistemologist of the Year by Stanford University in 2017. Mona Simion was
 awarded a distinguished Mind Fellowship in 2018. An article by Adam Carter was selected for
 inclusion in the Philosopher’s Annual as one of the 10 best philosophy papers published in 2018
 and another was selected by the Philosophical Quarterly for its 2019 Essay Prize. And
 members of the UOA have been invited to give lectures and keynote talks at conferences
 around the world – in Australia, China, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
 Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the US, to name just a few. These individual honours arise
 from a collaborative and collegial research environment that supports excellence at all levels.


                                                                                          Page 13
