Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview: The Unit comprises 36 research active scholars (34.6FTE) from 15 countries (19
 female/17 male) all based Newcastle Law School (NLS). This includes 12 Professors, three
 Readers, 10 Senior Lecturers, and 11 lecturers. Nine members of the Unit are early-career
 researchers (ECRs). The Unit forms part of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS),
 the largest of the three faculties at Newcastle University. Since 2014, we have invested
 significantly in growing our research capacity with 17 new appointments, 11 of whom are women,
 to develop our strategic priorities and to grow our research capacity and our EDI commitment
 evident in our Athena Swan Bronze award (2019). We have strengthened and focused investment
 in career development of early- and mid-career colleagues with the successful internal promotion
 of 11 colleagues (5 female/5 male). We have grown our external research income from £96k to
 £248k since 2014 and quadrupled the number of UKRI awards. This includes grants in response
 to open calls from the AHRC and directed calls from the ESRC and EPSRC as well as awards
 from the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). We have been awarded prestigious
 fellowship awards, including a Leverhulme Research Fellowship, an AHRC-ESRC-Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office Fellowship, and an Alan Turing Fellowship and several research network
 grants, including from the AHRC and the UACES. We have an excellent track-record of attracting
 outstanding postgraduate research (PGR) students, and PhD completions in the Unit have
 increased to 28 (in 2014-2020). Our research has shaped public policy-making and civil society
 across all UK jurisdictions, contributed to the development of third sector activities domestically
 and internationally, informed new legislation, developed judicial training and changed judicial
 practice across common law jurisdictions. It has also moved forward the initiatives of international
 organisations and helped to restore the right to vote for thousands of prisoners.

 b. Strategy and Structure: In 2015, NLS developed and launched Law, Innovation and Society
 as the Unit’s overarching strategic research theme. The theme captures our commitment to
 interrogating the role of law in regulating innovation as a societal and technological phenomenon
 as well as innovation within law itself, focusing on new forms of regulation and the ways in which
 established legal institutions respond to innovation and shape societies. The identification of this
 strategic research priority has shaped our staff recruitment strategy and underpinned our primary
 objective to sustain and increase our capacity for delivering world-leading and internationally
 excellent and innovative interdisciplinary research in a way that facilitates direct engagement with
 societal needs. It also provides a basis for delivering our research-informed undergraduate and
 postgraduate taught and research programmes.

 The commitment to Law, Innovation and Society distinguishes the research undertaken in the Unit,
 signposts the Unit’s research for beneficiaries and supports colleagues to collaborate across
 traditional disciplines, methods and areas of expertise. We have therefore made several
 appointments to the Law, Innovation and Society theme, including Chair in Law, Innovation and
 Society (inaugural chair, Quigley, 2015; Edwards January 2019); Chair in Law and Civil Justice
 (Clark April 2019); Chair of Practice (Maharg 0.2FTE February 2020); Reader in Emerging
 Technologies (Farrand April 2019) and a Reader with a research focus on law, environment and
 indigenous populations (Farran May 2019); Senior Lecturer in Law and Social Justice (Kinghan
 March 2020); and Lecturer in Law Innovation & Society (Turkmendag June 2016, subsequently
 promoted to Senior Lecturer, August 2019).

 The Unit’s expansion means that we are in a strong position to respond to major societal
 challenges by encouraging and supporting the cross-pollination and diverse research activities
 needed to address them. To facilitate this, we are reorganising our research groupings to provide
 more focused sub-disciplinary spaces for innovation, collaboration and support (including
 mentoring, research assistance and funding). The groupings are driven by a combination of


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 societal needs and our expertise. They are being developed collectively and comprise the
 following groupings:

    •   Environmental Challenges and Law
    •   Ethical Regulation of Technology and Data
    •   Constitutionalism and Governance
    •   Rights, Lawyering and Justice
    •   Law and Obligations
    •   Business Law and Governance
    •   Empirical Research

 Colleagues and PGR students are encouraged to participate in those groupings that align with
 their research interests and expertise. The groupings will further embed Law, Innovation & Society
 as the collaborative basis for the Unit’s contribution to transdisciplinary research initiatives across
 the University.

 Environmental Challenges and Law: As one of the leading institutions in the UK for research into
 law and the environment, the Unit has made great impact in this area during the review period.
 The AHRC funded (2019 £887k) interdisciplinary research into urban commons has significantly
 advanced modern understandings of new governance tools for empowering communities to
 protect local greenspaces (Rodgers). The grouping's interdisciplinary work is unique in the legal
 academy by directly engaging with the disruptive challenges arising for environmental governance
 in Northern Ireland (in particular in light of Brexit). This work identifies the fundamental
 shortcomings in the existing governance structures of Northern Ireland in the context of
 environmental challenges and the impacts they have on the physical environment across the
 island of Ireland (Brennan). To make an active contribution to filling this governance gap created
 by the suspension of the Assembly at Stormont and to advance the impact of this work, the Unit
 launched the Environmental Justice Network Ireland (EJNI) in 2019 as a focal point for
 facilitating civil society contributions to environmental governance in Northern Ireland. The EJNI
 is the first and only Ireland-wide network, which combines the expertise of academic researchers
 and environmental activists in one organisation. The commitment to engaging in research of
 cutting-edge societal importance is present also in the grouping’s work on modern and innovative
 energy technologies, including hydraulic fracturing (Pedersen) and the EPSRC funded (2020 £1.2
 million) research project interrogating deep surface geothermal resources as a potential heat
 source (Pedersen). To advance the grouping’s expertise in the area of global challenges and the
 environment, in 2019 the Unit appointed Farran whose recent AHRC-funded GCRF network
 research (2019 £45k) is already shaping understandings of resource management and the
 customary law of Pacific Indigenous populations. This collaborative research has resulted in
 Farran being awarded a highly prestigious 0.6FTE AHRC-funded (2020 £196k) fellowship with
 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s Asia Pacific desk to be held between 2021-2023, allowing
 the Unit to embed its research in high-level and international policy-making.

 Ethical Regulation of Technology and Data: The world-leading work in this grouping has advanced
 major international policy debates on privacy, deepfakes and the omnipresence of algorithms in a
 data-heavy world (Edwards) and on misinformation (Farrand). The grouping has attracted
 significant external research income from the EPSRC 2015 (£4Million) (Edwards, Co-I), UACES
 network grant 2019 (£5k) (Farrand) and British Academy/Leverhulme £10k 2019 (Turkmendag).
 The grouping’s work is highly interdisciplinary, drawing on computer science, molecular biology,
 political sciences and ethics, and engages with urgent questions of disruptive innovation and
 regulatory responses, including questions pertaining to the right of children to know their genetic
 origins in mitochondrial donations (Turkmendag).

 Constitutionalism and Governance: The grouping has made significant contributions to law and
 policy-making and advanced public knowledge in the context of Brexit, Northern Ireland, the UK-
 Ireland common travel area and the UK common market. Cutting-edge ESRC funded collaborative
 work (2018 £200k) by Murray and de Mars examines the impact of Brexit on perceptions of
 identities and citizenship in Northern Ireland. This research has had demonstrable impact on

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public policy and shaped the agendas of the Irish and the Northern Irish Human Rights
 Committees as well as public understandings of the unique challenges that Brexit poses in
 Northern Ireland (Murray and de Mars ICS). Research on the right of prisoners to vote has had
 significant impact throughout the UK, shaping directly law-making across the devolved
 administrations (Murray ICS). The highly sophisticated and interdisciplinary work undertaken in
 the context of legal history has reconceptualised modern understandings of important and
 centuries old ideas of legal institutions, including that of the English constitution (Ward and
 Mullender) and the criminal jury (Crosby). The grouping’s work has fed into the work of
 Parliament, including the Select Committee on the Constitution’s report on The Union and
 Devolution (Tenth Report of 2015–16, HL 149) and underpins key reform proposals in the
 Committee’s report on the Office of Lord Chancellor (Sixth Report of 2014–15, HL 75) (Murray).
 The grouping maintains a commitment to innovative and cutting-edge interdisciplinary research
 methodologies, e.g. in the emerging field of global constitutionalism, where the application of
 feminist legal theories is breaking disciplinary ground (Houghton).

 The Rights, Lawyering and Justice grouping is dedicated to advancing the ways the law/lawyers
 accommodate, or fail to accommodate, special considerations of society’s most vulnerable groups.
 Discipline-shaping research on children’s rights and youth justice highlights the many
 inadequacies in the way courts engage with young people and (benefitting from AHRC network
 support 2015-17 £35k) has significantly impacted on judicial training and practices in the UK, New
 Zealand and Canada (Hollingsworth ICS). The group has, moreover, made pioneering
 contributions to the emerging right to asylum in third-countries (Gil-Bazo) and clarified the
 obligations of states in international law in the context of forced displacement and armed conflict
 (Katselli). The grouping’s work on the treatment of the Chagos Islanders was relied upon by the
 Supreme Court in Bancoult no 2 [2016] UKSC 35 (Murray); other work has advanced new
 important definitions and meanings of fatherhood as well as understandings of the individual and
 societal impacts arising from the lack of appropriate work-life balances in the legal profession
 (Collier). Within this grouping sits the Human Rights and Social Justice Forum (led by Katselli),
 a cross-disciplinary Forum that has raised the international profile of Newcastle University through
 its membership of the Association of Human Rights Institutes.

 Law and Obligations explores how the well-established rules and principles of law respond to
 modern innovations and technological challenges. Through studies of auto-generated wills
 (funded by the SLS), the grouping’s research calls into question the accuracy and suitability of
 online wills and ultimately identifies how the legal remedies presently available fall short
 (Whayman). The doctrinal work in the group reconceptualises established rules and principles
 such as vicarious liability and has been relied upon by courts in Australia and by the UK Supreme
 Court (Beuermann) in Prince Alfred College v ADC and WM Morrison Supermarkets plc v Various
 Claimants. The grouping also engages in discipline-shaping contributions to our understanding of
 the societal challenges arising as a result of legal innovation in emerging economies and
 jurisdictions, including the first ever study into the history, development and modern approaches
 to the law of conflicts and private international law in China (Tang) and elsewhere, including in
 Canada where the Supreme Court has cited the group’s work on conflicts of law (Tang in Douez
 v Facebook).

 Business Law & Governance gives force to the Unit’s commitment to interrogating the interplay
 between law, innovation and society through its work on corporate law and regulatory responses
 by governments and markets to novel beings (funded by the Wellcome Trust 2016 £29k)
 (Lawrence and Morley) and the emerging regulatory and ethical challenges of Islamic finance
 (Aldohni) and the disruptive interplay between global supply chains and branding (Griffiths). The
 Group’s research is highly interdisciplinary, drawing on deep collaborations with colleagues at
 Newcastle University Business School (NUBS), including the groups work on social impacts of
 high-cost-short-term credit (Aldohni).

 Empirical Research plays a central role in driving forward the Unit’s commitment to innovation in
 research methodology and practice, including the first ever empirically-based and award-winning
 account of the use of foreign judgments in the UK Supreme Court, which mixes a sophisticated

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 textual case analysis of decisions with interviews of the Supreme Court judges (Tyrrell). Through
 advanced empirical analyses of mediation responses in Scotland, the grouping interrogates
 significant societal questions of whether the law manages to respond sufficiently to participants’
 needs in family and civil mediation (Clark). The group’s innovative and empirical research into the
 use of new sanctioning and enforcement regimes by the Environment Agency (Pedersen), reveals
 how these tools fundamentally alter the dynamics of regulatory and criminal enforcement, calling
 into question long-held assumptions in the discipline of environmental law. The archival and
 statistically advanced research calls into question established assumptions about important legal
 institutions, including judicial review (Arvind).

 The establishment of the Empirical Research grouping reflects the value we place on
 methodological diversity in our research, which also includes doctrinal, theoretical, socio-legal, law
 and economics, historical and critical studies and any rigorous interdisciplinary combinations. We
 ensure that our research is undertaken in an ethical manner and all research involving human
 subjects undergoes full research ethics review, which is integrated into the costings process,
 through the HaSS Faculty’s Research Ethics Committee (chaired by a Unit colleague,
 Turkmendag).

 To implement its strategic priority of delivering world-leading interdisciplinary research, the Unit
 actively embeds its research activities in the wider research culture across the Faculty and
 University and actively collaborates with colleagues elsewhere in the University and beyond.
 Colleagues in the Unit take leading responsibilities in cross-Faculty and cross-University research
 groups. Examples include: Gil-Bazo’s Co-Convenorship of the research group on International
 Studies in Forced Migration, which includes members from social sciences and humanities and is
 hosted in the HaSS Faculty; Hollingsworth’s leadership in the Children and Young People
 research group and her leadership in the wider NU Women network; Godden-Rasul’s Steering
 Committee membership of the HaSS Faculty-based Gender Research Group; and Mullender’s
 board membership of the Newcastle University Humanities Research Institute. Colleagues in the
 Unit are also deeply embedded in the recently launched interdisciplinary Newcastle University
 Centres of Excellence (NUCoREs) (see Newcastle University Institutional Level Environment
 Template para 2.2.), including Edwards’s role in the Data NUCoRE where she leads the stream
 focusing on regulatory questions. Similarly, colleagues in the Unit embed their research in and
 contribute to research outputs, grant applications and engagement activities in NUCoREs in the
 areas of Energy (Pedersen), Regulatory Science (Smith and Turkmendag), and Cities and Place
 (Rodgers).

 Impact and Engagement Strategy: Rooted in the North East of England, our Unit delivers
 socially relevant research that benefits society, locally, nationally and globally. Our impact and
 engagement strategy focuses on:
    • increasing the relevance of our research across all stakeholders in society, including
         vulnerable groups, and
    • developing innovative legal responses and tools for our collaborators that make a
         difference.

 To drive and embed our I&E strategy we restructured our research organisation in 2015 and
 created the role of Director of Impact (who serves as ex officio member of the Unit’s Research
 Committee), an Impact Officer, and appointed Impact Assistants to support, develop, track, and
 evidence impact, including impact beyond the REF ICSs. In 2020, a Director of Engagement and
 Place was established to strengthen further our links with local networks in order to enhance
 creative dissemination and impact activities and to bring ever-closer synergies between our
 research and student development opportunities (e.g. through enhanced pro bono skills training
 for students).

 In addition to benefitting from ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) and the Faculty Impact
 Funding scheme (see section 3), the Unit launched a School Impact & Engagement fund to
 support activities and to integrate impact and engagement in all research activities in 2016.
 Through these funds, the Unit has diversified and strengthened research partnerships (including

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Médecins Sans Frontières, the National Trust, Natural England, Friends of the Earth NI,
 Amnesty International, and the Citizens Advice Bureau). The Unit will continue to embed our
 research in society by engaging directly with the collaborators and beneficiaries of our research
 through secondments, placements, co-designed research, and knowledge exchange mechanisms
 (see section 4).

 Our selected ICSs reflect our commitment to impact across all legal disciplines and jurisdictions
 (national, regional, devolved and internationally) aimed at a wide range of beneficiaries (including
 judges, governments, legal practitioners and non-governmental organisations), illustrating cross-
 disciplinary areas of research strength in the Unit. This is sustained through regular Unit and
 Faculty-run workshops and specific Impact support plans. The strength of these efforts is
 evidenced in the Unit’s interdisciplinary and externally funded research on resilient dairy
 landscapes (Rodgers) (see section 3), which underpins an ICS for Newcastle University
 colleagues in Panel A UoA6.

 To enhance the dissemination of our research efforts, the Unit has established formal links with
 the local North East arts collective Roots and Wings to produce animations and video outputs.
 The Unit has developed significant dissemination activity through numerous media contributions,
 including in written media (Washington Post, New York Times, Irish Times, BBC News, The
 Financial Times, The Independent, and The New Statesman) and online media, including The
 Conversation.

 Co-production of knowledge is a key component of much of the Unit’s research. Beyond REF2021,
 the Unit continues to actively develop areas and priorities for challenge-led research from local to
 global impact by:
     • Diversifying the stakeholders we work with to respond to emerging societal challenges
         and deepening long-term partnerships with the legal professions and civil society
         organisations;
     • Introducing external partners from a range of professional backgrounds onto advisory
         boards of the research groups within the School/maintaining academic membership on
         civil society governing boards and to work with them to respond to emerging social
         challenges;
     • Facilitating and supporting secondments/placements to sustain knowledge-exchange
         partnerships with a diverse range of stakeholder groups.

 Underpinning the Unit’s research and impact strategy and structure is a collective commitment to
 values and practices that cultivate a supportive, inclusive, and just research environment, and
 which provides freedom and opportunity to pursue (and succeed in) diverse career pathways;
 which may take colleagues across the university or beyond in exciting and productive ways. In
 2014, we were the first School in the HaSS Faculty to adopt an EDI policy and to appoint an EDI
 Director; in 2018 we established an EDI Committee; and in 2019 we secured our Athena Swan
 Bronze award. We continue to work towards implementing our Athena Swan action plan focusing
 especially on ensuring that ‘hidden work’ is given full recognition in the Unit’s workload allocation
 and addressing the ‘leaky pipeline’ at key transition points (e.g. PGR-full-time appointment;
 Lecture-SL; SL-Reader/Professor) by scaffolding career progression through induction,
 mentoring, collaborative working, the PDR process, and promoting involvement in employee
 networks (e.g. NU Women (Hollingsworth as Chair 2017-2019), BAME and Rainbow networks).

 Our commitment to EDI is widely reflected in our research including Collier’s work on fatherhood
 and the law, and on well-being in the legal profession; Farran’s AHRC GCRF funded research
 into gender equality and food security in South Pacific Marine protected areas; and Edward’s
 involvement in and contribution to the Observatory for Responsible Research and Innovation in
 ICT (ORBIT) 100+ Brilliant Women in AI and Ethics conference in 2019. Moreover, our EDI
 initiatives have also prompted and showcased new research (Godden-Rasul and the Inspirational
 Women of the Law exhibition detailed in section 2).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are particularly mindful of the implications of Covid-19 for the research of ECRs, colleagues
 with caring responsibilities, and those with pre-existing health vulnerabilities. To address these
 impacts and to support colleagues, the Unit has responded by putting in place a range of measures
 aimed at mitigating the uneven impact of the pandemic including informal and supportive ‘plan
 your research’ workshops; online drop-in sessions for colleagues to discuss challenges and
 disruptions with the Directors of Research with the view to develop specific support mechanisms;
 weekly mentor drop-ins with senior staff; best practice sessions; and additional PGR research
 seminars.

 Future strategic objectives and priority areas:
 Our future priorities include:
    • the use of big data and privacy
    • global environmental challenges and local impact
    • energy and fair transitions
    • the widespread use of online misinformation
    • the use of novel medical technologies and
    • the evolution of constitutional settlements across the UK and beyond.

 The Unit will deploy resources, recruitment efforts and research time to the interdisciplinary study
 of the challenges facing our society. With impact and engagement key to our mission, we will
 develop and strengthen partnerships with stakeholders, undertake more knowledge exchange
 with collaborators and ensure our research remains open and accessible. The Unit is already
 directing itself towards and has responded to the Covid-19 pandemic as our research is shaping
 and advancing public debates as well as law and policy decisions, including in the areas of big
 data and privacy (Edwards, appointed to NHS COVID-19 App Data Ethics Advisory Board April
 2020), the use of emergency powers by authorities (Molloy, Prospect Magazine April 2020), the
 implications of the outbreak for the Northern Ireland/Ireland border (Murray UK in a Changing
 Europe May 2020) and on the role of the equitable institution of Donatio Mortis Causa and wills in
 light of the outbreak (Farran policy briefing June 2020).


 2. People

 Strategy and Support - Staffing
 The Unit is committed to creating a sustainable and ethical research environment premised upon
 job security, fair reward and progression, and academic freedom. To that end, all the Unit’s 37
 active researchers, including the Unit’s ECRs, are employed on open-ended/permanent T&R
 contracts. The Unit’s strategy is to attract and retain colleagues with potential for delivering the
 highest calibre of research that impacts and shapes domestic and global discourses, and to then
 foster career progression; in particular, we aim to support ECRs to develop momentum in their
 research careers. To ensure the Unit makes the right hiring decisions, prior to being interviewed
 by mixed-gender interview panels, the research of candidates is read by colleagues in the Unit
 and all selection panel members undergo diversity awareness and unconscious bias training. All
 candidates make a research presentation to colleagues in the Unit, securing collective input into
 the appointment process from colleagues across a range of disciplines, career-stages and
 backgrounds. Upon appointment, colleagues receive research inductions with the Directors of
 Research and Director of Impact.

 In the present REF period, the University and Unit have made a substantial investment through
 17 appointments in a combination aimed at supporting the Unit’s research strategy and filling
 vacancies where colleagues have moved on to take up senior appointments at other institutions.
 It has been a priority to ensure appointments are also made to provide research leadership and
 mentoring, securing sustainability of our research efforts.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Chairs        Name            Year      Strategic Priority
                Clark           2019      To shape debates around the impacts
                                          of civil justice reforms and mediation on
                                          vulnerable groups as Professor of Civil
                                          Justice.

                Maharg      (0.2 2019     To lead on embedding research on
                FTE)                      legal education and technology into our
                                          learning and teaching provisions.
                Edwards         2019      To shape regulatory initiatives in
                                          internet and data law in capacity as
                                          Chair of Law, Innovation & Society.
                Smith           2016      To transform debates on post-conflict
                                          human rights responses as a leading
                                          expert on international human rights law
                                          with a global reach in the far East
                                          including through her appointment as
                                          UN Special Rapporteur for Cambodia.
                Tang            2015      To       contribute      to     emerging
                                          understandings of conflict of laws
                                          internationally and specifically in the
                                          Peoples Republic of China in capacity
                                          as an internationally recognised scholar
                                          in private international law with a global
                                          reach.

                Griffiths       2014      To develop the Unit’s research in
                                          intellectual property, brands and
                                          understandings of global corporations
                                          and supply chains.
  Readers       Farrand         2019      To develop transdisciplinary and
                                          cutting-edge work on law and new
                                          technologies.
                Farran          2019      To shape responses to global
                                          environmental challenges including
                                          those faced by Pacific island
                                          communities in the context of
                                          environmental and human rights law.

  Lecturers     Houghton        2017      To contribute to the Unit’s strategic
                Mallory         2017      focus on global challenges.

                Ayihongbe       2017      To develop the Unit’s medical ethics
                Turkmendag      2016      and    technology   and      innovation
                Ryan            2014      research (in the specific areas of law
                                          and medical implants, HIV and
                                          epigenetics).




                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Postdoctoral Lawrence              2016            To contribute to the development of the
  Fellow                                             School’s Law, Innovation & Society
                                                     research theme.
  Postdoctoral X3 FTE                2014-2020       To support colleagues in delivering
  Research                                           innovative research outputs - two of
  Associates                                         these are attached to UKRI-funded
                                                     projects.


 To enhance the Unit’s transdisciplinary work, appointments have been made of colleagues with
 non-law backgrounds (Lawrence and Turkmendag).

 Support for Research Career Progression and Development
 The Unit is committed to supporting all colleagues’ research career progression on an equitable
 and just basis and we are committed to the implementation of the Researcher Development
 Concordant. To that end we have a comprehensive system of research support which provides
 time, funds, mentoring and development support, and collaborative opportunities.

 Time: Each colleague benefits from protected research time designated in the Unit’s internal
 workload allocation system. The Unit also has a generous research sabbatical scheme under
 which the Unit ‘tops up’ Newcastle University’s standard one semester long sabbatical leave policy
 so that colleagues are entitled to apply for six months of sabbatical every three years. The scheme
 provides colleagues with the opportunity to focus exclusively on research activities for a prolonged
 period, facilitating the development of novel, original research and impact activities, and space to
 develop projects that attract external research income. The Unit’s Directors of Research and Head
 of School undertake annual reviews of research sabbatical leave arrangements and work-load
 models to ensure that all colleagues are afforded the opportunity of taking research sabbatical
 leave (identical arrangements are in place for colleagues on T&S contracts). In the academic year
 that colleagues are on research leave, they are also typically relieved of administrative and
 management duties for the full year.

 Funds: Each colleague enjoys a personal research support fund of £750, which they can spend
 as of right on any research-related activities with top up funds readily available through a light-
 touch application process. This support fund is also extended to RAs employed on fixed-term
 contracts as part of specific research projects to allow the maintenance and development of
 research activities and personal research networks. These funds are in addition to the internal
 impact funding opportunities (see section 3) and Unit/faculty/university research funding (see next
 paragraph).

 Mentoring and development support: The Unit operates an annual research development and
 bespoke mentoring portfolio through personal research and support plans and research
 development meetings, complimenting the University-based PDR system. The support-focused
 personal research and support plan, which is overseen by the Directors of Research, allows
 colleagues to reflect on and discuss with their research mentor and Directors of Research their
 research activities relating to publications, impact, and grant applications. Where a need is
 identified for additional support, the Directors of Research can dispense funds from the research
 budget, provide guidance and information about Unit and University research support schemes
 and research funds, including the Unit’s Rapid Response Research Fund, the Unit’s Impact Fund,
 the HaSS Faculty Research Fund, the HaSS Faculty’s bid-preparation fund or the University’s
 academic conference fund. The Unit’s Impact Director, together with the Research and
 Engagement Support Officer and the Directors of Research, identify opportunities through the
 collation and distribution to individual colleagues of calls for evidence and submissions from
 government and non-governmental consultations. Beyond these specific support mechanisms,
 colleagues are also invited to reflect on potential grant application opportunities through the Unit’s
 Personal Research and Support Plan process.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has also introduced bespoke early- and mid-career research mentoring programmes in
 2019, which supplement the individual mentoring scheme that extends to all staff. ECR and mid-
 career mentors host annual meetings, organising specific ECR and mid-career-oriented capacity-
 building events, including sessions on development of research, diverse career paths plans and
 agendas for publication, funding applications, and impact. To provide additional dedicated
 research time, in particular to ECR colleagues and PGR students, the Unit hosts and funds regular
 writing retreats away from the University at which several days are dedicated to drafting outputs
 and/or grant applications and resulting in tangible outputs including articles and thesis chapters.

 The Unit actively supports colleagues to select and take part in training events by including such
 training in the Unit’s work-load allocation system. This support extends to colleagues on T&S
 contracts who wish to gain postgraduate research qualifications or undertake research with the
 view to gain, for example, PhD qualifications by publication (Winter and Stephens). Such training
 includes specific research training (e.g. in legal history research methodology, PI training), and
 career-development (e.g. bespoke leadership programmes). This commitment extends also to
 professional services colleagues, and the Unit’s Research and Engagement Support Officer has
 completed dedicated professional services development programme, enhancing the quality of
 research support provisions in the Unit.

 Colleagues are encouraged and supported by Newcastle University’s Media Office in using online
 platforms, podcasts and traditional news platforms, as well as innovative and non-traditional
 means to distribute legal research to maximise reach and to engage with non-academic
 stakeholders and beneficiaries. This includes custom-made research briefings for stakeholders
 (e.g. judges and policy-makers), and public-events such as the sector-leading portrait exhibition
 and the biennial events of the Inspirational Women of the Law (IWL) project hosted by the Unit
 (2015, 2017 and 2019), and cutting-edge dissemination events through e.g. poetry readings and
 community participatory performance events in connection with the Unit’s work on common land.
 Colleagues in the Unit have likewise enhanced dissemination activities by taking part in the NU
 Academies, including the Policy Academy, where ECR colleagues have benefitted from
 dissemination training (Brennan and Lawrence) (see Newcastle University Institutional Level
 Environment Template para 2.2.5.).

 The Unit supports and celebrates colleagues’ research at every stage of a project. We hold work
 in progress workshops where colleagues receive early feedback on developing projects (whether
 for publications or grant applications). For developed projects at pre-submission stage, a
 formalised feedback system is in place with the ‘on call’ research reading panel for outputs and
 the peer-review panel for grant applications (both panels are made up of ECR, mid-career and
 senior colleagues); and the Directors of Impact and EDI also provide feedback on impact and EDI
 in draft grant applications. Finally, we regularly host informal ‘Celebrating Research’ events at
 which one senior and one ECR colleague make a brief presentation of a recent research success
 of any kind, including major publications, grant successes, secondments or impact and
 engagement achievements.

 Collaborative opportunities: To attract world-leading researchers to the Unit and in order to
 facilitate colleagues to engage closely with leading scholars, we launched in 2019 the Newcastle
 Law School Visiting Professor Scheme. In 2020, the Unit hosted Professor Jennifer Chandler of
 Ottawa University as its inaugural Visiting Professor whose research into law and neurotechnology
 maps on to the Unit’s overarching research theme of Law, Innovation and Society. The Unit also
 hosts a wide range of development seminars, conferences, symposia and annual lectures. In
 2017, the Unit hosted the SLSA annual conference and in 2021 the Unit will host the annual Bileta
 Conference. The Unit also hosts a series of regional research networks, including the Northern
 UK Human Rights Network (founded jointly by Katselli), the North East Empirical Legal Research
 Group (chaired by Tyrrell), which serves as a hub for empirical legal research in the North East,
 facilitating sharing of research ideas and best practices, including with PGR students, as well as
 the North East Regional Obligations Group (founded jointly by Beuermann).



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strength of these provisions is borne out in the outstanding record of promotions. In this REF
 period the Unit has successfully supported 10 internal promotions: Pedersen to a Personal Chair;
 Murray to Readership; and Aldohni, Beuermann, Crosby, de Mars, Gil-Bazo, Johnstone,
 Mallory and Turkmendag to Senior Lecturers. The Unit’s commitment to mentoring and fostering
 career-development in ECRs has allowed us to successfully transfer one colleague hired on a
 T&S contract to a T&R contract (Tyrrell).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 In addition to the EDI structures outlined in section 1, the Unit has committed to gender balance
 in research leadership (female and male co-DoR, gender-balance on the Unit’s Research
 Committee including a female ECR representative), amongst invited speakers, and in the
 employment of REF EQA readers. To support colleagues with caring responsibilities, the Unit
 timetables meetings and research activities during core office hours. We also endeavour to
 provide free childcare facilities at events and conferences we host and the Unit operates a financial
 support scheme for carers returning to work (applied to all colleagues irrespective of gender),
 encouraging returning colleagues to spend the funds on research activities (e.g. one colleague
 was able employ a project RA). The Unit provides ten optional paid ‘keeping in touch’ (KIT) days
 and flexible working hours are provided for all colleagues, including professional support
 colleagues, and we include periods of leave and absence in the qualifying period for research
 sabbatical so not to disadvantage colleagues with caring responsibilities or personal extenuating
 circumstances. Early career researchers have additional workload allowances to undertake
 developmental activities, including training courses. The Unit also supports colleagues (through
 workload allocation) to take on EDI leadership positions at University level e.g. from 2016-19
 Hollingsworth was chair of NU Women (800+ plus members), and Godden Rasul, established
 weekly University-wide writing groups supporting annually 40 women to produce 50 plus outputs
 p/a. In 2019, Hollingsworth was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s EDI champion award which was
 also in recognition of the Unit’s IWL events.


 Postgraduate Research Students
 Since REF2014, the Unit has welcomed 37 PGR students and seen 28 students through to
 completion and award. Our diverse PGR community are recruited from 20+ different countries
 through the same considered approach we take to recruit our staff and as such we have a 60/40
 female/male split. Since REF2014, the Unit has consistently sought to recruit outstanding
 candidates from varied backgrounds with annually funded studentships at UKRI levels from the
 Unit’s own budget and, to expressly encourage interdisciplinary research, a scholarship jointly
 funded with the Institute for Health and Society in the University's Faculty of Medical Sciences.
 The Unit is an active participant and secures regular scholarships through the ESRC-funded
 Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE DTP) and the AHRC-funded
 Northern Bridge Consortium (two in the present REF period). The Unit actively encourages
 graduates from its own taught programmes to pursue a research degree. The majority of students
 on the LLM (by Research) and over 20 per cent of our PhD students are former graduates.
 Committed to sustainable leadership, our Unit policy is for PGR supervisory teams to include an
 ECR as second supervisor, in addition to an experienced researcher as principal academic
 supervisor. This ensures both that ECRs gain the necessary experience to qualify as principal
 supervisors and that innovative approaches to research supervision are introduced alongside
 established practices.

 PGR students are fully involved in the Unit’s environment and research activities, including ‘work
 in progress’ workshops, writing retreats, conferences and seminars. PGR students are
 encouraged to attend conferences and to present their work at research events, to develop key
 skills and build research networks. Students benefit from personal research accounts (£500 PA)
 to support research-related activities and lead in organising a successful research seminar series
 funded by the Unit. To fully prepare PGRs for full-time academic careers, students who wish to
 become involved in teaching take the University’s Introduction to Learning and Teaching in Higher
 Education (leading to Associate Fellow status of the FHEA) as a pre-requisite to their eligibility
 and are offered a general induction by the Unit’s Director of Excellence in Learning and Teaching

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and a module-specific induction by the coordinator for the relevant module. The latter then reviews
 a teaching session and discusses feedback with the PGR student. In addition, all students
 (including those who are not currently teaching) are offered the opportunity to shadow, and
 formally reflect on, the teaching of academic staff.

 In accordance with our impact and engagement strategy, the Unit’s Director of Impact delivers
 regular impact sessions to PGR students, whereby good practices for dissemination and pathways
 for impact are considered in the context of each PhD project. Examples of this includes the third-
 party intervention submitted by one of the Unit’s PGR students (D’Antonio) to the European Court
 of Human Rights. To help the transition from being a PGR student to a post-doctoral researcher,
 the Unit actively encourages PGR students to publish part of their work as part of the PhD project
 (e.g. Mackie Harvard Environmental Law Review 2018; Querton, Netherlands Quarterly of
 Human Rights 2019) or jointly with their supervisors (e.g. Liaw, New Genetics and Society 2019,
 Sawyer, Public Law 2020). Some students also engage in dissemination through media outlets
 during and after their PhD studies (e.g. Nahlawi’s appearances on Channel 4, BBC Breakfast and
 Radio 4 2016/2017).

 Managing completion and transition to independent academics
 The Unit has improved completion rates by strengthening progression monitoring, but also by
 increasing the availability of support for PGR students. Recognising that personal circumstances
 are often an important factor affecting progression, in addition to the other channels of support
 and advice (i.e. supervisors, PGR director, PGR secretary, Faculty Graduate School, University
 Student Wellbeing Service), the Unit has introduced the role of the PGR Pastoral Adviser and
 student take-up of this service shows there is a need for such a role. Where relevant, PGR
 students are encouraged to make use of the University’s parental leave policies to support them
 with family commitments while completing their degrees. As PGR students transition to the writing
 up stages, where necessary, the Unit provides ad hoc additional supervision support by an
 experienced additional supervisor above the normal supervisory arrangements and additional
 financial support from its bespoke write-up fund.

 In 2019, the Unit created a bespoke PGR career advisory group (PGR director, the Unit’s Early
 Career Mentor and Directors of Research), providing assistance to PGRs with developing CVs,
 job applications, funding applications and publication plans. Every two years, the Unit hosts the
 North East Postgraduate Law Forum, a graduate conference organised and run by PGR students.
 The School’s PGR students also provide leadership of the student-led and peer-reviewed North
 East Law Review and act as mentors for UG students on the editorial board. Several students
 have taken up internships during their PhD studies (e.g. D’Antonio, Council of Europe 2019;
 Saeva, European Commission and European Parliament 2018) while some have set up
 businesses with the assistance of the University’s careers service (Lawal 2018).

 Evidencing the strong skills and career progression made by our PhD students, several of the
 Unit’s scholarship holders have gone on to become full-time lecturers at leading UK institutions
 (e.g. Caine, Exeter; Whayman and Mickiewicz, Newcastle and Sayer, University of Law) and
 internationally (e.g. Mackie, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard; Yassen, Erbil University,
 Iraq; Subai, Niger Delta University, Nigeria; Tapaneeyakorn, Naresuan University, Thailand).
 Several graduates have also secured positions outside of academia: in governmental bodies (e.g.
 Aglionby, Natural England; Al-Qatanani, Central Bank of Jordan), NGOs (e.g. Nahlawi, Rethink
 Rebuild Society), and in spin-off companies based on PhD research (Lawal).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit’s research environment is enhanced by its situation in a self-contained School building
 on the main campus where all the academic and support staff offices are located and where most
 of its teaching is delivered. This enables high attendance at research events and creates
 opportunities for sharing and generating ideas and exploring research synergies. The building
 benefits from a stand-alone in-house law library with dedicated and specially trained law librarians,
 allowing colleagues direct and easy in-house access to subject-specialist resources and expertise.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate students have 24-hour access to designated desk and office facilities intended
 exclusively for postgraduate research students. Within the building, the Unit has also developed
 a dedicated ‘Research Hub’ as a physical space aimed at accommodating researchers working
 on collaborative and interdisciplinary projects, visiting scholars, and project PDRAs.

 Whilst the building operates as the main focal point of the Unit’s research environment, all
 colleagues have remote access to all relevant legal and research databases and online resources.
 The Unit also operates in-house research assistance schemes, allowing colleagues to engage
 research assistants throughout the year for specific research projects. These schemes include
 one part-time highly experienced research assistant, who has been with Unit for more than 15
 years (and who has undergone training in qualitative and quantitative research methods and holds
 a PhD), and two schemes which employ undergraduate and postgraduate students to undertake
 research as directed by colleagues, helping students developing research skills for their future
 careers. In particular these schemes allow colleagues returning from parental and carer’s leave or
 those with demanding leadership roles to kickstart research projects and maintain research
 momentum.

 Since REF2014, we have increased our research income by 400%. Our increasingly
 interdisciplinary work has enabled us to broaden our funding portfolio and diversify the range of
 UKRI grants bid, broadened our PI and Co-I base and embedded legal research expertise into
 large interdisciplinary bids. Exemplars of the funded work includes:

    •   The interdisciplinary 3-year project into the past, present and future of urban commons in
        England, focussed to promoting the commons as publicly accountable, open, green,
        spaces vital for culture, health, wellbeing and biodiversity in the metropolitan context
        (‘Wastes and Strays’ AHRC (2019 £887k)) led by Rodgers (PI) with colleagues from
        Newcastle, Exeter, Sheffield and Portsmouth Universities;
    •   The ESRC funded (2018 £200k) Performing Identities project, exploring the impact of
        Brexit on Northern Ireland led by Murray (PI) with colleagues from Durham and
        Birmingham;
    •   The AHRC funded Global Challenges network grant (2019 £45k) led by Farran,
        interrogating the role of customary law in marine resource governance in the plural legal
        systems of the South Pacific islands of Vanuatu, Solomon Islands and Fiji, focusing on
        women's experiences and narratives of customary law;
    •   The AHRC funded Children’s Rights Judgment Network (2015-2017, £35k) with
        Hollingsworth as Co-I;
    •   The EPSRC funded project (2020 £1.2 million) into the potential use of deep surface
        geothermal heat for energy use led by Newcastle University, with Pedersen as Co-I with
        Durham and Glasgow;
    •   The EPSRC (2015 £4 million) funded Next Stage Digital Economy and PETRAS National
        Centre of Excellence for IoT Systems Cybersecurity with Edwards as Co-I;
    •   The interdisciplinary Resilient Dairy Landscapes project with Rodgers as Co-I (2019-2021)
        as part of the £14.5 million cross-government Global Food Security’s ‘Resilience of the UK
        Food System Programme’ with support from BBSRC, ESRC, NERC and Scottish
        Government. The project is examining the payment for ecosystem services at landscape
        scale using ‘blended’ private/public funding models.

 To secure a sustainable research environment, we have also diversified our research income from
 other funders and leading research charities, including:
    • The Wellcome Trust funded network grant (2016 £29k) exploring the regulation of novel
         beings led by Lawrence and Morley;
    • A series of BA/Leverhulme small awards into bespoke research projects, including a
         project examining the regulation of epigenetics (Turkmendag 2019 £10k) and funding to
         cover archival research for the project into interwar juries in the English courts (Crosby
         2020 £5k) and archival research into female jurors in the English Assize Courts in 1920-
         1925 (Crosby 2018 £4k).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The European Council on Refugees and Exiles funded research project into the right to
        asylum by Gil-Bazo (2018 €18k).

 Colleagues in the Unit are also recipients of highly prestigious fellowships, including:
     • The AHRC/ESRC-FCO funded knowledge exchange fellowship, with Farran taking up a
        two year long 0.6FTE appointment at the FCO’s South Pacific desk (2020 £246k);
     • The Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2017 £47k) delivering a socio-legal study of
        wellbeing, law and society (Collier).

 The increase in external grant income reflects a step change in the Unit’s culture and research
 resourcing and evidences the success of its policies for the support and mentoring of research
 active colleagues. As noted in section 2, this includes an internal grant peer-review panel that
 reviews all draft applications on top of the review undertaken by the University’s Grants and
 Contract team and the HaSS Faculty funding office. The peer-review processes include input and
 feedback from Unit and Impact Team in HaSS on impact strategies and pathways and
 dissemination activities of each application. The Unit’s dedicated Research and Engagement
 Support Officer, appointed in 2016, supports colleagues with bid-preparation, manages costings,
 eligibility requirements and provides post-award management support.

 The Unit hosts regular funding workshops and Faculty ‘getting those grants’ and impact workshops
 and continues to make full use of the support infrastructure provided by Newcastle University and
 the HaSS Faculty. This includes Research Funding Development Managers (UK, EU and
 International support offices) who share intelligence, raise awareness about upcoming and
 specific calls, and help colleagues to develop their funding applications. Importantly, the Unit
 actively embeds the expertise and experience harnessed from colleagues serving on external
 funding panels in the internal peer-review mechanisms for grant applications (this includes Smith,
 UKRI International Development; Tang, BA Global Challenges Research Fund; Gil-Bazo, ESRC
 GCRF; Collier ESRC; Murray, Rodgers, and Turkmendag, AHRC; Pedersen, NERC, Clark,
 Hong Kong Research Council).

 We have also adopted a policy ensuring financial reward mechanisms in connection with fully
 economic costed (FEC) grant applications with the view to incentivise grant applications. Under
 this scheme, successful applicants receive a significant portion of the FEC income into their
 Research Support Accounts which can be spent on further research activity. The scheme is
 applied on a scalar basis, depending on the size of the award, with some of the surplus FEC
 income from larger grants going to support PGR research activities. The Unit also benefits from
 an increased range of financial support mechanisms aimed at pump-priming research, including
 impact and engagement activities, which leads to a grant application. At the Unit level, these
 include an Impact Fund (aimed at funding impact activities not limited to REF ICSs), a Unit High
 Risk Research fund (aimed at supporting research which might otherwise not attract external
 funding), and a separate and devolved Research budget managed by the Directors of Research.

 The Unit benefits extensively from financial research support mechanisms from the HaSS Faculty,
 including the HaSS Faculty bid-prep fund (up to £10k for pump-priming), the HaSS Faculty
 Research Fund (HaSS FRF) (up to £4k) (used to pump priming research outputs) as well as
 support from the three HaSS Faculty research institutes (the Institute for Social Science, the
 Humanities Research Institute and the Institute for Creative Arts Practices). In the present REF
 period, colleagues have received £21k in bid-prep support and £11k in research support for
 bespoke projects. Specific examples include support from the HaSS Faculty Impact Fund (FIF)
 for its work into youth justice (Hollingsworth £10k), and to employ Impact Assistants to track and
 gather impact evidence (£6k), from the HaSS FRF for its archival research into the role of female
 jurors (Crosby £4k), and from the Humanities Research Institute for its work on novel beings
 (Morley £5k).

 The Unit has also benefitted from the University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA), having
 secured nine ESRC IAA awards in this REF period (totalling £43k), including for its work on forced
 migration (Gil-Bazo £8k) and its work on Brexit and Northern Ireland (Murray £10k).

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit has a long history of commitment to social justice in the North East and beyond.
 Central to this commitment is our desire to respond to societal needs in a way that delivers
 contributions to society and enriches our research environment.

 External Partnerships and Beneficiaries
 Deeply committed to the University’s Engagement and Place strategy, the Unit actively embeds
 its research in the activities of national and international collaborators through secondments,
 placements, co-produced research, and the delivery of training and internships. We do this
 through a range of mechanisms. By
      • Securing external funding to allow colleagues to take up positions with key research
         beneficiaries,
      • Leveraging wider HaSS Faculty and University support to embed colleagues in relevant
         organisations and,
      • Actively supporting and encouraging secondments and appointments of colleagues to
         positions in industry and government on fractional contracts.

 This approach enabled Smith to be UN Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights in
 Cambodia (2015-2021), shaping the responses by international organisations to the human rights
 abuses in Cambodia. Securing fractional secondments with key beneficiaries of our research
 includes de Mars who took up a 0.2FTE contract with the House of Commons Library from 2017-
 2019, where she undertook research and drafted Commons Library policy briefings.

 The Unit is also the first in the HaSS Faculty to utilise the new Innovation and Knowledge
 Exchange Sabbatical (IKES) scheme launched in 2019, under which Brennan took up paid
 placement with Friends of the Earth Northern Ireland (FoENI). The IKES deepens existing
 relations with FoENI over a six months appointment. It allows FoENI to benefit from Brennan’s
 outstanding research into environmental governance in Northern Ireland and will embed important
 stakeholder experiences into the Unit’s research, generating important impact in the process. The
 Unit’s collaborations with FoENI have been developed and directly nurtured over the years as a
 result of the launch of the EJNI in 2019, also led by Brennan (see section 1). The strength of this
 collaboration is witnessed in Brennan and Pedersen’s contribution to the drafting of the Northern
 Ireland Climate Bill which was tabled before the Northern Ireland Assembly in late 2020.

 Furthering two-way knowledge exchange, the Unit established an Advisory Board (2016)
 constituted of external partners and stakeholders. The Advisory Board, which continues the Unit’s
 commitment to gender justice with a 13 female/8 male membership, serves in part to ensure that
 the Unit’s activities, including research activities, remain relevant and beneficial to a broad range
 of stakeholders. The Unit also actively contributes expertise and knowledge to the governing of
 external organisations by encouraging, through work-load recognition, colleagues to take on
 external engagement activities and to serve on external advisory boards of organisations that
 allow colleagues to shape societal developments relevant to colleagues’ research. This takes
 place locally, nationally and internationally and includes:

  Type               Organisation            Person           Date            Role
  International      UN                      Smith            2015-2021       Special Rapporteur for
  Organisations                                                               Cambodia
  and                European Asylum      Gil-Bazo            2016-present    External Expert
  institutions       Agency (EASO)
                     UN GP20 Advisory     Katselli            2018-present    External Expert
                     Group on internal
                     displacement
  Government         NHS COVID-19 App Edwards                 2020 (April-    Advisor
  Departments        Data Ethics Advisory                     June)
  and Agencies       Board


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and Non           International           Galloway        2019-present    Non-Governmental
  Governmental      Competition                                             Advisor
  Public Bodies     Network
                    Youth Justice Board     Hollingsworth   2019-present    Steering Group
                    Academic Advisory                                       Member
                    Network
  Charities and     Rape Crisis in          Godden-         2016-present    Trustee
  Interest          Tyneside and            Rasul
  Groups            Northumberland
                    Just for Kids Law       Hollingsworth   2016-2019       Trustee
                    Youth Justice Legal     Hollingsworth   2015-present    Advisory Board
                    Centre                                                  Member
                    Children’s Rights       Hollingsworth   2018-present    Advisory Member
                    Alliance for England
                    and Wales Strategic
                    Policy and Litigation
                    group
                    Accreditation and       Clark           2014-present    Chair
                    Validation Panel of
                    Relationships
                    Scotland
                    Open Rights Group       Edwards         2018-present    Member of Advisory
                                                                            Board
                    Legal Profession’s      Collier         2017-present    Member
                    Wellbeing Taskforce
  Legal             Advisory Board of       Collier         2018-present    Member
  Profession        the Spanish Mental
  and               Health Institute of
  Professional      the Legal
  Bodies            Professions
                    Alan Turing Institute   Edwards         2020-2021       Fellow
  Academic          Institute of Brands &   Griffiths       2017-present    Member of Advisory
  Partners and      Innovation at UCL                                       Board
  Institutions
                    Information Law and     Edwards         2015-present    Member of Advisory
                    Policy Centre,                                          Board
                    Institute for
                    Advanced Legal
                    Studies


 Colleagues in the Unit also collaborate with and undertake co-designed/produced research
 commissioned directly by research beneficiaries. Examples include Collier’s work on anxiety and
 well-being among junior lawyers commissioned by Anxiety UK (2019), the ground-breaking work
 by de Mars and Murray on the Common Travel Area commissioned jointly by the Joint Committee
 of the Irish Human Rights and Equality Commission and the Northern Ireland Human Rights
 Commission (2019-2020), and de Cecco’s work on state aid commissioned by the EU
 Commission (2016).

 The Unit actively disseminates its research through open avenues aimed at reaching diverse
 beneficiaries and the wider public directly. Examples include:
    • Bespoke policy briefings presenting research in efficient briefing formats shared directly
        with policy-makers and stakeholders (totalling 16 since 2019). The impact of these is
        evidenced in our ICS (Murray and de Mars ICS and Hollingsworth ICS).
    • Novel, sector-leading portrait exhibition and the biennial events of the Inspirational Women
        of the Law project (2017 and 2019). This interdisciplinary project, a collaboration between

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         colleagues and students in the Unit as well as students in the University’s Fine Art
         department, promoted visibility of diverse role models through highlighting achievements
         of inspirational leading female lawyers through portraits. The exhibition forges links and
         networking opportunities between local schools, women’s organisations, and the legal
         profession and delivers research outputs (Godden-Rasul, Legal Studies 2019).

 Contributions and Collaborations within the Academy
 The excellence and transformative strength of the Unit’s research is often recognised by external
 agencies and societies such as Tyrrell’s monograph, published in 2018, was awarded joint
 runner-up for the 2019 Peter Birks SLS Prize for outstanding scholarship. The strength of the
 Unit’s work on data and privacy has been recognised through Edwards receiving the 2019 annual
 Privacy Papers for Policymakers rewarded by the US-based Future of Privacy Forum as well as
 the prize for the best non-computer science paper at the 2020 annual Association for Computer
 Manufacturing conference. Further evidence of the excellence and wide application of the unit’s
 research can be seen in the extent to which the work of colleagues has been widely translated
 into non-English languages, including Smith’s discipline-shaping work on international human
 rights (translated into Russian, Japanese, Chinese, Burmese, Georgian and Khmer),
 Hollingsworth’s work on children’s rights (translated into Spanish), Ward’s interdisciplinary work
 on Orhan Pamuk translated into Turkish.

 More than a third of research-active colleagues across all levels of experience in the Unit serve
 on editorial boards of leading law and interdisciplinary journals across disciplines and legal fields.
 This includes Godden-Rasul on Feminist Legal Studies, Collier on Social and Legal Studies and
 International Journal of Masculinity Studies, Mullender on the Oxford Journal of Legal Studies,
 Tang on Journal of International Private Law, the Chinese Journal of Comparative law and Editor
 of Conflictsoflaw.net, Ward on Law and Humanities and Law and Literature, Edwards on Internet
 Policy Review and Rodgers (as Editor in Chief) and Pedersen on the Environmental Law Review.

 The Unit actively encourages colleagues to take up visiting positions at other institutions to benefit
 from knowledge exchange and networking activities at world-leading international institutions.
 Since REF2014, over a 1/3 of the Unit’s researchers have held visiting positions at internationally
 excellent institutions. To support these exchanges, the Unit has, since REF2014, developed
 strategic partnerships with Universities across the world, including McGill, UC Davis, Auckland,
 UNSW, the University of Hong Kong, the National University of Singapore, the China University
 of Political Science and Law (CUPL) as well as partners in the EU, including KU Leuven, Pompeu
 Fabra, Copenhagen, Groningen, Stockholm, Oslo and Trento and Verona.

 These international partnerships and mobility arrangements enrich the Unit’s research
 environment by cross pollination of ideas, sharing of best practices, the building of networks and
 often result in concrete research outputs including publications. Examples include:

     •   Tang (Duke University 2017, CUPL, China 2018, Max Planck Institute of Comparative and
         International Private Law 2018)
     •   Collier (ANU 2017)
     •   Gil-Bazo (Emory 2016 and Oxford 2017)
     •   Rodgers (Auckland 2017)
     •   Katselli (Trento 2018)
     •   Turkmendag (Yale 2018 and Oxford 2019)
     •   Mickiewicz and Mullender (Verona 2019 and 2020).

 The benefits from these exchanges also extend to PGR students and examples include Mackie
 (having been a visiting PhD Scholar at Harvard Law School 2018, University of Lapland 2018,
 Tromsø University 2019, and University of Greenland 2019).

 Students as Partners and beneficiaries: Research-led Learning
 The Unit’s research is deeply embedded in our student activities, including in our pro-bono
 activities. The Unit’s research on youth justice (Hollingsworth, Johnstone) and gender violence

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Johnstone) forms the basis for and feeds into the activities undertaken by the Unit’s award-
 winning Street Law Scheme (NUSU Award for Youth Volunteering 2017; Outstanding Contribution
 to the Community in the Pride of Newcastle Awards 2017; Best Pro Bono Scheme, Northern Law
 Awards 2018), which provides legal advice materials aimed at local youth groups through its
 Student Ambassadors. The Unit’s research on social justice also forms the basis for other student
 pro-bono work e.g. the Community Social Justice partnership with North East Law Centre which
 introduces law students first-hand to Kinghan's research on the different tools used by social
 justice lawyers to create social change, as well as her work on the challenges facing the legal aid
 sector; and with Legacare, a local social enterprise and registered charity, which provides legal
 advice and representation to people with terminal illnesses who cannot otherwise afford it; and the
 Unit's research on gender violence (Johnstone) feeds into the development of another pro-bono
 scheme, the National Centre for Domestic Violence McKenzie Friend project.

 To embed our commitment to Law, Innovation and Society in our learning and teaching activities,
 the Unit appointed a Professor of Practice in 2020 (Maharg 0.2FTE February 2020) whose
 research into legal education and innovative technology has shaped understandings of modern
 legal education. The Unit also publishes the North East Law Review, to showcase undergraduate
 student research and provide editorial experience for postgraduate students. The strength of our
 commitment to integrating research into our teaching is evidenced in the prizes awarded to
 colleagues in the Unit, including the 2018 Chris Gale Memorial Prize awarded by the Association
 of Law Teachers Conference to the Unit’s research on legal education (Jowitt and Tyrrell), which
 draws on teaching interventions and in-class research undertaken in the Unit.




                                                                                            Page 17
