Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and Structure

 The School of Psychology at Kent is internationally distinctive for its tradition in social psychology.
 This legacy has remained at the heart of our research as we have consolidated our international
 profile in cognition and neuroscience, forensic, and developmental psychology. This expansion
 across sub-disciplines has been facilitated by significant growth since REF2014 (42 vs. 34 FTE).
 Beyond our category A staff, we have established a vibrant community of researchers that includes
 an increased number of externally funded postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs; 20 new) and
 PD fellows (four new). We have also grown our postgraduate research activity, with 132 new PhD
 registrations, including 32 externally funded and 81 internally funded PhDs, and 83 completions.

 This growth has been supported by a steep year-on-year upward trajectory in average annual
 research income spend over the REF2021 period, including significant increases from EU
 government bodies, UK-based charities, and non-EU industry, commerce and public corporations.
 The number and value of research awards won has grown substantially thanks to mechanisms
 (detailed below) that support areas of long-standing success and have opened up new pathways
 for investigation. During this REF cycle, we have won 64 research grants totalling >£8m, of which
 16 are over £100k, from 34 different sources, including competitively awarded large project grants
 from prestigious funders, such as:

    •   European Research Council grants: Ferguson, Sengupta, Üskül;
    •   ESRC standard grants: Bindemann, Williams;
    •   Leverhulme Trust project grants: Abbot-Smith, Bergström, Bindemann, Ferguson,
        Stoeber, Sutton.

 To further support this growth, we have made significant investments in research infrastructure to
 ensure that all research staff and students have access to a team of seven in-house specialist
 research and technical support staff, new lab spaces and state-of-the-art equipment, including five
 eye-trackers, three EEG systems, four brain stimulation systems, nine virtual reality suites, and a
 mobile laboratory van.

 The success of our distinctive academic community is evident from >1,000 peer-reviewed journal
 articles and 16 authored/edited books produced, as well as >20 prizes awarded to staff and >30
 conferences hosted at Kent during this REF period. Our research has made a significant impact
 on the academic community, attracting >17k citations from 137 different countries over the period
 (retrieved from SciVal); the 2021 Times Higher Education World University Rankings place us 4th
 in the UK for citations and 8th for research.

 Our researchers provide increasingly important leadership in the discipline, through senior roles
 in national and international learned societies and professional bodies that shape the direction of
 research in psychology and neuroscience, including:

    •   Vice President of the British Academy: Abrams;
    •   Vice President of the International Society of Political Psychology: Cichocka;
    •   Secretary of the European Association of Social Psychology: Douglas;
    •   Honorary Secretary of the Experimental Psychology Society: Ferguson.

 In addition, Kent psychologists influence the field as elected members of grant committees and
 learned society committees, and as editors for esteemed international journals (seven Chief
 Editorships, 32 Associate Editorships), such as Psychological Science and Journal of
 Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As our scientific leadership in the discipline has grown, so has public engagement with our
 research and its societal impact (detailed in four impact case studies and below). To maximise
 these opportunities, we have launched a new Psychology Community Research Hub initiative,
 which enables public and professional stakeholders to systematically access our evidence base,
 help shape the questions we ask, and act as co-producers of our research. This includes
 accessible lab space, online resources, and a programme of events for the general public and
 practitioners in specific fields.

 b. Research Strategy Review

 Across our diverse and distinctive research interests, almost every member of our community is
 an experimental psychologist working at the same site with shared facilities. This enables us to
 have a highly focused research strategy that pays attention to the needs of the four specific sub-
 disciplines that form the basis of our research groups. Kent Psychology’s research objectives over
 the assessment period have focused on four priority areas along with strategic initiatives that
 increase our research capacity.

    1. Community and user-focused research

 A key goal is to make our theoretical and empirical research advances more accessible and
 relevant to the public, ensuring user input into the questions we ask and methods we use. Over
 this REF period we have developed several new initiatives to engage more widely with non-
 academic partners, asking research questions that are relevant and more accessible to the
 general public.

 Research staff and students are encouraged to include non-student populations in their research,
 and the School has launched new initiatives to support this:

    •    Enhanced annual fund for PhD student participant payment;
    •    Kent Adult Research Unit community participant database launched in 2014 (now
         subsumed under Community Research Hub);
    •    Impact and engagement seed funding.

 Second, Kent Psychology’s new Community Research Hub was launched in 2019 (details below),
 and provides one of the key pathways that links our academic research with non-academic
 partners and the general public. Through this initiative we have:

     •   Set up a physical space to welcome non-academic partners (in the Woodlands building);
     •   Invited professional stakeholders and members of the public to scrutinise the questions
         we ask by sitting on our research advisory board and ethics panel;
     •   Involved users and participants as co-producers of our research through citizen science
         projects, one of which produced a publication in Memory in 2020;
     •   Launched new lay-accessible webpages that showcase our research activity and
         community outreach events;
     •   Created an events programme including open days, adult education and continuous
         professional development courses, and a public engagement programme that includes
         events combining academic and user groups.

 As a result of these initiatives to enhance our visibility and engagement with non-academic
 partners, we have:

    •    Established access to hard-to-reach populations (e.g. offenders, young families, older
         adults, people with autism, clinical patients, and military veterans);




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Formalised externally funded collaborations with non-academic professionals (e.g.
        orthodontists, neurorehabilitation specialists, personality assessment specialists,
        educators, police);
    •   Won six CASE studentships and three PhD student secondments to Government
        departments, giving PhD students challenging training experiences with external partners.

 In addition to our four impact case studies, our user-focused strategies have facilitated novel
 applied research showing, for example, that:

    •   Across a national sample of 32,000 people, engagement with the arts longitudinally
        promotes both volunteering and charitable donations (Abrams);
    •   Innovative evaluative techniques help to better assess carers’ quality of life (Brown);
    •   Access to gardens benefits dementia patients (Swift);
    •   Vestibular dysfunction singularly predicts long-term neuropsychiatric outcomes in military
        personnel with mild traumatic brain injury (Wilkinson).

    2. Leadership in open science

 As a leading international centre for social psychology, we have responded to the ‘replication crisis’
 in the discipline by leading on significant changes in open science (OS) practice. Internally, this
 can be seen in our new OS policies and opportunities that extend to all research-active staff, and
 in UG and PG education, leading to a culture of transparent research practice. The timeline for
 this initiative has been:

    •   2015: Launched regular postgraduate and staff training workshops and away days
        focusing on OS;
    •   2016: All research outputs (excluding those with publisher embargoes) made available as
        green open access via the Kent Academic Repository; lay-accessible reports published
        online for externally funded research projects;
    •   2017: OS working group established to develop and launch formal guidelines for staff and
        students;
    •   2018: Updated ethics consent forms for open access;
    •   2019: The School joined the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN), launched Kent UKRN
        network, led the establishment of an institutional page on the Open Science Framework
        (OSF), launched a University-wide ReproducibiliTea discussion group, and secured
        network storage for open access materials.

 Our new School OS policy, implemented in 2019, is intended to build capacity in this area and is
 supported by training workshops for staff and research students, requiring that:

    •   All research-active staff engage in one or more OS research/publishing practice (i.e. pre-
        registration, open data, open materials) each academic year: monitored as a discussion
        point in annual research planning meetings;
    •   All PhD students pre-register at least one study during their PhD: monitored as a discussion
        point in annual research student progression meetings;
    •   Advertisements for all research-focused academic posts include OS practices as a
        desirable criterion;
    •   The School provides continual training opportunities for staff and research students on
        state-of-the-art methods and analysis tools (especially those that maximise OS).

 Externally, Kent staff have made significant contributions to OS movements across the discipline
 since 2013, shaping the rigorous standards expected for publication. These external activities
 have helped establish ‘new norms’ for rigour in psychological science, notably in social psychology
 where these issues first came to the fore, and have highlighted how the field might mitigate the
 acute impact of OS issues on early career researchers (ECRs). For example:


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   In their Editorial, grant funding boards and learned society roles, our staff have pioneered
        reform guidelines on OS, including registered reports, statistics checking, and sample
        size/power rationales;
    •   Giner-Sorolla has organised or co-authored editorials and papers on OS and meta-
        science, led conferences/workshops/sandpits on OS challenges and best practice around
        the world, and advised on the 7th edition APA publication manual;
    •   Üskül was invited to contribute to an online panel discussion on open access publishing
        for the Association for Psychological Science;
    •   Ferguson and Williams were awarded an OSF pre-registration Challenge prize in 2018 for
        conducting transparent research with autistic adults.

 The positive impact of these new initiatives can be seen in >50 published research papers that
 included pre-registered studies since 2013 (no pre-registrations were logged in the REF2014
 period), and 51 research projects from Psychology that have been made public on our Institutional
 OSF page. Moreover, an increasing number of our published papers have made their materials,
 data, and analysis scripts open access (~50% of published papers in 2019/20 vs. ~1% in 2013/14),
 showing that our research has become more transparent during this REF cycle.

    3. Increase and diversify external research funding

 The number and value of awards was relatively low in the REF2014 period. We addressed this
 with new mechanisms that prioritise research income, and support staff engaging in funding
 applications.

 In 2016 we hired two new staff who provide in-house professional research support in the
 preparation and management of funded research projects (Aldridge, Oatridge), and formalised an
 internal review process that ensures grant applications receive timely and thorough feedback prior
 to submission (from the Director of Research and at least one experienced grant holder). In 2015
 we restructured our workload model to give all Category A staff at least one full day per week of
 protected time for research and apply additional workload reductions to staff who win research
 grants (ensuring that appropriate teaching relief is provided).

 Funding applications are further incentivised by pump-priming funds that are awarded annually to
 academic and research staff to facilitate research (£1,000 and £400 respectively), a rolling
 application-based Seed Fund for staff conducting proof-of-concept studies to support novel
 approaches in larger funding applications (£86,804 in total awarded), and devolved overheads
 (corresponding to 15% of the project net surplus) for PIs leading research projects that generate
 a surplus beyond the direct costs of the funded research activity. In 2018, the School launched a
 new Extraordinary Resources request scheme, inviting staff to put forward individual proposals for
 funding or resources to support research (e.g. access to increased overheads allowance,
 teaching/administrative relief for a specific research activity, priority lab use, or dedicated
 technical/administrative support). Since 2013, the School has funded eight PDRAs to support the
 development of research activity and funding bids.

 These changes have led to significant growth in the number and value of prestigious grants and
 fellowships awarded for research (e.g. ERC, Leverhulme Trust, ESRC, British Academy,
 Templeton Foundation, Nuffield Foundation, National Science Foundation, Royal Society, Arts
 Council of England, Alzheimer’s Society) and innovation (e.g. Equality and Human Rights
 Commission, Big Lottery, DSTL, Linking Network, and businesses such as international
 personality test publishers). We have achieved a 53% increase in the number and value of funding
 applications per year since 2013 (341 new applications totalling more than £52m), and have
 increased the proportion of staff submitting funding applications as PI in this period (95% vs. 88%
 in REF2014).

    4. Enhance Kent Psychology’s research reputation



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Many key research developments during the period of assessment have occurred at research-
 group level. This specificity helped us achieve a step-change in our research profile by addressing
 the particular needs, strengths and stages of development of each group as well as their
 respective sizes. Four specific objectives were set out for this period of assessment:

     i)   Reinforce our position as a premier international centre of social psychology, working on
          challenging and neglected social issues across diverse demographics and cultures;
     ii) Capitalise on investments in equipment, infrastructure, and staff to develop as a centre of
          cognition and neuroscience, with particular strengths in robust empirical research that
          informs theoretical models of cognition in increasingly realistic contexts;
     iii) Build on the critical mass and successes of the forensic psychology group to develop and
          evaluate interventions for hard-to-reach populations that enhance the safety and wellbeing
          of the general public;
     iv) Increase our capacity to conduct world-leading psychological research beyond our
          traditional strength in social psychology, with distinctive new specialisms such as
          developmental psychology.

 Staff are encouraged to seek unique avenues of research enquiry, not constrained by traditional
 disciplinary boundaries (see 4a). This approach highlights the interdisciplinary character of the
 School, stimulating collaboration across sub-disciplines and career stages, leading to innovative
 approaches to important theoretical and applied problems. Here we detail a sample of
 achievements for each group that demonstrate how we have achieved these objectives (* staff
 appointed since 2013; † early career researcher; ^ staff promoted since 2013).

 Social psychology (17 members: Abrams, Burgmer*†, Brown^, Cichocka^, Dhont*^, Douglas^,
 Everett*†, Giner-Sorolla, Hopthrow^, Randsley de Moura^, Sengupta*, Stoeber, Sutton^, Swift^,
 Travaglino*, Üskül^, Wisman)

 Kent is home to the largest group of social psychologists in the UK, who are internationally
 renowned for their research excellence, particularly in group processes and intergroup relations
 (formalised via the Centre for the Study of Group Processes). Over this REF period we have made
 five strategic new hires to broaden our expertise in social psychology, consolidating existing
 expertise in political, cultural, personality, and moral psychology, and establishing completely new
 areas of investigation such as human-animal relations. This work is uniquely translational in that
 it highlights the role of social psychology in shaping society and the environment (e.g. intentions
 to vote/vaccinate, prosocial driver behaviour, reaching compromise following conflict, or reducing
 prejudice/discrimination), with tangible applications to professional practice. As well as an impact
 case study emerging from this group, highlights include:

 •   Psychometric work showing that 11-plus tests measure the same constructs as national
     curriculum examinations (SATs) at Key Stage 2, and therefore may be unnecessary in
     grammar school selection (Brown);
 •   Experimental work showing that adults value the execution of an idea more than coming up
     with an idea, because they associate the former with more effort (Burgmer);
 •   Longitudinal evidence that common ideological underpinnings predict prejudice towards
     human outgroups (e.g. racism, homophobia) and speciesism (Dhont);
 •   Interventions that increase mortality salience can aid psychological adjustment and personal
     hope (Wisman).

 Cognition and neuroscience (11 members: Azevedo*†, Beck*†, Bergström^, Bindemann^,
 Ferguson^, Javadi*^, Martin*†, Ponari*, Sharma^, Tamè*†, Wilkinson^)

 At the end of the last REF period, this group was poised to build on its expertise in cognition by
 expanding its neuroscience activity thanks to significant investments in infrastructure. This
 objective has been realised in the current REF period with the recruitment of six new Category A
 staff, all with expertise in neuroscientific methods and theory. We have also extended the reach
 of our work with new streams of research that seek to apply cognitive neuroscience theory to

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clinical groups (e.g. rehabilitating brain injury and psychiatric disorders, and understanding social
 cognitive processing in ageing and autistic individuals). In addition, research in this group has
 advanced the discipline by employing increasingly ecologically-valid methods to study cognition
 ‘in the wild’ (using mobile eye-tracking, virtual reality, and portable EEG), complementing the
 tightly controlled, lab-based experimental methods typically employed in cognitive neuroscience
 research. As well as an impact case study emerging from this group, highlights include:

 •   Dissociable and causal roles for the rTPJ in embodied mental rotation and the dmPFC in self-
     other integration, relevant for social cognitive functioning (Martin);
 •   Emotional valence intrinsic to a word’s meaning, and not the learning context, supports the
     acquisition of abstract concepts (Ponari);
 •   Bodily signals of arousal impact socially relevant behaviours, such as the tendency to
     misidentify harmless objects as guns when held by black individuals (Azevedo);
 •   EEG reveals discriminative coding of subjective pain intensity, beyond objective stimulus
     energy (Beck).

 Forensic psychology (Seven members: Alleyne^, Gannon, Ó Ciardha^, Pina^, Storey*, Vasquez^,
 Wood^)

 This grouping was established during the REF2014 period, and since then has consolidated its
 expertise, international reputation, and societal impact. Researchers work extensively with
 national and international partners in police forces, prisons, Government, charities, and mental
 health organisations (formalised via the Centre for Research and Education in Forensic
 Psychology). They are regarded as world leaders in research that informs policy and practice.
 Societal impact has always been at the heart of forensic research at Kent, and we have expanded
 the reach and diversity of this work with new initiatives that address current societal issues (e.g.
 gang culture and violence, revenge porn, animal abuse), and have pioneered the development
 and validation of several novel measures of offender proclivity and treatment programmes. As well
 as two impact case studies emerging from this group, highlights include:

 •   Gang members have poorer levels of mental and emotional health than do comparison non-
     gang adults and youth (Wood);
 •   Dehumanization, including sexual objectification, is a predictor and cause of punitiveness and
     aggression (Vasquez, Pina);
 •   A variety of reaction time and physiological measures can be used to objectively measure
     sexual interest (Ó Ciardha);
 •   Identification of factors related to the perpetrators, victims, and locations of violence that place
     older adults and intimate partners at heightened risk of abuse and homicide (Storey).

 Developmental psychology (Seven members: Abbot-Smith^, Bilgin*†, Cameron^, Kelly^, Kung*†,
 Nyhout*†, Williams^)

 During the REF2014 period we made significant investments in facilities to support psychological
 research with children (including a purpose-built Kent Child Development Unit and local school
 partnerships). We have continued this investment in resources and staffing during the REF2021
 period by hiring three new Category A staff, investing in new state-of-the art equipment to track
 gaze in infants and electrical brain activity in children and adolescents, and funding training in
 assessing atypical development (e.g. Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule), and have
 established a dynamic new research group in developmental psychology. This group is building
 an international reputation for research on how children develop metacognitive and memory skills,
 language, visual attention, and social conventions between infancy and adolescence. Highlights
 include:

 •   Leaving infants to ‘cry it out’ during the first six months is not associated with adverse
     behavioural development or attachment at 18 months (Bilgin);



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Infants in the first year of life show ‘enhanced’ face detection abilities when measured using
     naturalistic stimuli as opposed to artificial visual arrays used in previous studies (Kelly);
 •   Prompting children to reason counterfactually supports the learning of complex science
     concepts and principles of experimental design (Nyhout);
 •   Children who take part in a drama-based role-play intervention are more likely to actively
     intervene in face-to-face and online bullying scenarios (Cameron).

 c. Research Strategy and Objectives

 Building on the successes of the current REF cycle, and a strategy that focuses on the specific
 needs of our four research groups, we have set strategic aims for the next six years to continue
 that emphasis. We focus on four key aims while aiming to expand our cross-disciplinary capacities:

     i)   Stay at the forefront of research in social psychology, extending our methodological
          expertise with new investments in social neuroscience and through collaborations with the
          cognition and neuroscience group;
     ii) Build upon the success of our new developmental psychology research group by investing
          in new staff, infrastructure, and laboratories;
     iii) Capitalise on our growing strengths in studying cognition, development and offending
          behaviours in clinical and atypical populations by establishing a new research centre that
          formalises links with Kent’s new Medical School (opened September 2020) and provides
          resources and support for cross-disciplinary collaborations;
     iv) Widen our cross-disciplinary links through joint appointments across Schools in the
          University. This will be facilitated by the University’s new divisional structure (launched in
          November 2020), which groups complementary disciplines together in order to benefit from
          shared management and professional support structures, and permits closer academic
          links and enhanced specialist support for research activities.

 Over the next six years, we are poised to make significant advances to policy relating to inequality,
 immigration, and international relations through Sengupta’s newly awarded ERC Starting grant,
 examining the social, cognitive, and motivational bases of policy preferences, and the
 consequences of these preferences for individuals’ political behaviour and social structure
 (launching 2021). Üskül’s ERC Consolidator grant, launched in 2019, will establish a new
 understanding of how culture shapes the ability to coordinate with others, reach compromise, and
 offer apologies, thus leading to fundamental social insights into the tension between self-interest
 and collective welfare. Researchers across all research groups will build theory and apply it in
 novel ways to real-world problems, including children’s conversational proficiency (Abbot-Smith),
 consequences of conspiracy theories (Douglas), crime across the lifespan (Gannon), and using
 physical exercise and music to enhance cognition (Javadi).

 As well as supporting further development of our research strengths, these objectives are tailored
 to national and international funding agendas in society, health, and policy. We aim to position
 ourselves to increase the size and complexity of our projects (e.g. through large multi-site centre
 grants), while extending our network of non-academic partners (e.g. through Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships and the Government’s Industrial Strategy) to ensure that our work has wider impact.
 More broadly, we aim to build on our culture of transparency and open research practice across
 the entire School, formalizing our OS guidelines even further by requiring all publications from
 Kent Psychology to include open data (except where ethical, commercial, or security
 considerations prevent this) and increasing the percentage of pre-registered publications.

 d. Impact Strategy Review

 Our heritage as a department of Social and Applied Psychology means that social and economic
 impact has always been a research priority and a core part of our research strategy. As part of
 this, we ensure that applied and user-focused research is given equal status and resources to
 more theoretical and blue-sky projects. We also have a series of mechanisms that researchers
 can access to bring their findings to the attention of relevant practice and professional user groups.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 First, we have longstanding policies and procedures that aim to nurture the research partnerships
 and funding sources that directly address intractable real-world problems or ensure that our
 research reaches non-academic stakeholders. For example, we provide dedicated, accessible
 laboratory facilities for community participants and equipment for field research, specialist support
 for innovation grants, ring-fenced impact generation funds available to all academic staff, and a
 programme of research events for professionals and practitioners. We also have a strong track
 record in attracting CASE-type studentships (six since 2013) and experience in managing complex
 projects sponsored by those organisations that can apply our findings directly to key user groups
 and beneficiaries.

 As a result, many of our researchers work directly with user communities and organisations to
 provide them with the insights that lead to effective interventions or recommendations. Since 2013,
 40% of our research staff have worked in this way, and many of our submitted publications emerge
 from projects of this kind. A few outstanding examples include:

    •   Government and policy communities: such as the Centre for the Study of Group Processes’
        work for the Equality and Human Rights Commission on how prejudice manifests across
        different protected characteristics including ageism;
    •   The criminal justice system: such as the Centre for Research and Education in Forensic
        Psychology’s work on how to manage and treat intractable and challenging types of
        offending, such as sex offending, gang violence, firesetting, and animal abuse (see ICS4.1
        and 4.4);
    •   Business: such as Anna Brown’s ground-breaking work on new psychometric assessment
        scoring methodologies, supported through multiple consultancies with international test
        publishers (see ICS4.2);
    •   Healthcare: such as David Wilkinson’s research on vestibular stimulation to treat
        neurological conditions, such as migraine and Parkinson’s disease, in partnership with US
        medical device company, Scion Neurostim (see ICS4.3).

 Since 2013, we have worked with 67 non-academic stakeholders on research projects that answer
 questions set by the users themselves, including the Anne Frank Trust, the Alzheimer's Society,
 the British Orthodontic Society, the Centre for Ageing Better, Canterbury City Council, the
 Department for Health, Equality and Human Rights Commission, Learning Through Landscapes,
 and the German Federal Employment Agency. We also have formal research partnerships on an
 ongoing basis such as Cameron’s ‘researcher in residence’ post at the educational charity, the
 Linking Network, and a memorandum of understanding with the University of the Third Age.

 Over this REF period, the School and University have provided £47,408 in financial support for
 impact-related activities and have devoted two funded PhD studentships to research that enables
 or leads to impact. The School awards Principal Investigators an additional research allowance
 when they lead research or innovation projects that generate a surplus beyond the direct costs of
 the funded research activity (15% of net surplus). More broadly, staff members have been able to
 apply annually for grants from the Faculty of Social Sciences of up to £5,000 for projects with
 significant impact potential (£150,528 awarded since 2013), and up to £10,000 of funding and PhD
 studentships from Kent Health to support the development of a collaborative research culture
 between the University and health practitioners in Kent (£49,907 awarded since 2013).

 Second, our Community Research Hub initiative invites practitioner and professional stakeholders
 to systematically access our evidence base, help shape the questions we ask, and act as co-
 producers of our research. The Community Research Hub brings together:

    •   Events, such as an annual conference in partnership with the Kent Educational Psychology
        Service, regular twilight sessions for teachers hosted by the Kent Child Development Unit,
        workshops and policy or practitioner briefings to share emerging insights (e.g. sex offender
        treatment protocol metanalysis);


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Dissemination, such as our dedicated websites for education and prejudice-focused
         research findings (providing access to published reports, lay summaries, data sets, and
         other resources);
    •    Continuous professional development programmes, such as twilight sessions on special
         educational needs, adult education programme on forensic psychology, management
         development breakfast events, and accredited forensic psychology courses;
    •    Special populations and participant interest groups, such as autistic spectrum disorder,
         clinical populations, children and older adults;
    •    Non-academic expert advisors, such as honorary researchers, steering groups, critical
         friends, and non-academic collaborators.

 Finally, in recognition of exceptional impact practice, Gannon was awarded the ESRC Outstanding
 Impact in Society prize in 2016 and the BPS Lifetime Contribution to Forensic Psychology in 2019,
 and was shortlisted for the Criminal Justice Alliance Award in 2017. In 2019, our Forensic team
 was nominated for the Grawemeyer Award for Psychology in recognition of its theoretical
 contribution to the psychology of adult deliberate firesetting, and outstanding ability to translate
 this for a wide audience.

 e. Impact Strategy and Objectives

 Over the next six years, the School will continue to develop our theoretically informed impact
 activity, with a key aim being to increase the number of academics generating verifiable
 engagement with non-academic audiences: currently ~50%. We will achieve this by:

    i)   Increasing our activity with non-academic partners, by expanding our Community
         Research Hub (i.e. including research users as reviewers for major funding bids and
         inviting stakeholders to contribute to scientific meetings), and developing new
         collaborations to respond to national and international funding agendas in society, health,
         and policy;
    ii) Improving recognition for impact activity through study leave or impact-related activity,
         supporting staff taking secondments with partners outside academia, and including impact
         potential in hiring strategies;
    iii) Scheduling a training programme in skills in translating research to practice, connecting
         and working with external partners and policy-makers;
    iv) Establishing innovative public outreach activities through new divisional support structures
         that coordinate local events for education.

 2. People

 a. Staff Recruitment Strategy

 Since 2013, our permanent academic staff base has expanded by 24% with the appointment of
 15 early and mid-career academics (see 1b), who have brought new strengths to the School in
 topics including political psychology, moral judgment, pain and sensory perception, gender
 development, and psychosis. Complementing this increase in ECRs, the academic senior
 leadership has been enhanced with numerous internal promotions (nine to Chair; 10 to Reader;
 12 to Senior Lecturer). These new and promoted staff have enabled us to execute our strategy
 (see 1b) to consolidate and expand our international standing in social, cognition and
 neuroscience, and forensic psychology research, as well as establish a new research grouping in
 developmental psychology. All groups now include a range of seniority, gender, and diversity of
 focus, promoting intellectual exchange and supporting different routes for staff development.

 Category A staff work with a growing team of staff on teaching-focused contracts (five permanent
 academic posts), who make vital contributions that support research activity in the School.
 Teaching-focused staff are woven into the School’s research activity through collaborative
 projects, training, and mentorship with research-active staff to ensure that research is central to
 our teaching philosophy.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 During this REF cycle, the School’s research environment has benefited from a significant
 increase in research-only staff; major research grants have created a vibrant community of:

    •   16 externally funded PDRAs and four RAs (funded by ERC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust,
        British Academy);
    •   Four prestigious independent postdoctoral fellowships (funded by Royal Society and
        British Academy Newton Fellowships as well as Turkey’s Scientific and Technical
        Research Council).

 In addition, the School has invested in eight internally funded PDRAs to support the development
 of research activity, funding bids, and championing impact, and has jointly funded a PDRA with
 the NHS (2014-19). All research staff are on fixed-term contracts, due to the nature of funding for
 these positions. Three professional research staff provide in-house support for pre- and post-
 award research activity (two are new posts since 2013), and an expanding team of highly skilled
 technical staff provide support and training for academics and research students (five full-time
 technicians and experimental officers).

 b. Staff Development Strategy

 All staff actively contribute to the School’s strategic direction and planning through fortnightly
 governance meetings, in which all staff (including PDRAs, academics, and professional services)
 discuss current opportunities, issues, and priorities. Decisions made at committee level (e.g.
 Research and Innovation committee) are:

    •   Transparent: minutes are available to all staff;
    •   Open: any staff member can request to attend any meeting and propose agenda items;
    •   Representative: all committees include a balanced mix of genders and academic seniority,
        with a PDRA sitting on every committee to represent ECR interests.

 The School is committed to supporting ECRs as they transition into their first permanent academic
 appointments. The School’s workload allocation model is designed to protect new academics’
 research time by reducing their teaching and administration load by 50% in the first year and 25%
 in the second year. The Head of School (along with the probation supervisor, and Directors of
 Research and Education) is responsible for ECRs’ intellectual and academic development,
 ensuring that they take full advantage of Kent’s professional skills development training, including
 the PGCHE, for which staff receive further teaching relief.

 In addition to the all-staff mentoring scheme, we established a new ECR Coordinator role in 2018
 where a senior academic organises fortnightly workshops to support PDRAs and academics in
 their first two years to balance research commitments alongside educational and administrative
 duties. Topics addressed include applying for research funding, managing a healthy work/life
 balance, understanding the review and editorial process, and time management.

 Research-only staff also benefit from a high level of support, with a probation programme to
 support their career and annual funds to facilitate independent research, impact, and engagement
 activities (see 1b). Probationary supervisors are allocated credits in the workload allocation model
 to ensure that the importance of the role is recognised. ECRs are encouraged to engage with
 research student supervisions early on, initially as part of a PhD supervisory team alongside more
 experienced colleagues, and are prioritised for internal funding to secure their first PhD
 studentship as primary supervisor.

 Grants that were awarded by the Faculty of Social Sciences prioritise ECRs and many features of
 the School’s research infrastructure (e.g. annual research allowance, the volunteer Research
 Experience scheme, shared-access labs) facilitate ECR research activity. These are further
 enhanced by the School’s research group structure, seminar events, and international speakers,
 as well as internal mechanisms such as the peer-review of grant applications and the co-

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision of research students by senior staff. These mechanisms provide diverse opportunities
 for mentoring and supporting our ECR community.

 Supporting career development is a key priority for the School, and this is managed through
 mentoring, probation, annual individual research plans, and study leave, in line with Kent’s equal
 opportunities policy and Academic Career Map. Excellence in research and impact is publicly
 recognised and celebrated through promotions (our in-house School promotion panel is pro-active
 at identifying individuals ready for or approaching promotion, with 31 staff promotions in the REF
 period, and provides transparent support and guidance on applications) and nominations to the
 University prizes for research and innovation (six have been successful in this REF period).

 Research and academic staff at all levels are assigned a mentor: a more senior colleague who
 helps the mentee to focus on strengths and achievements, and to reflect on areas for
 development. The School aims to foster a culture of mentorship whereby mentees meet with their
 mentor at least once a term, but can seek advice from colleagues with particular expertise (e.g.
 relating to a funder/journal, statistical technique) at any time.

 Consistent with the University’s Research and Innovation Strategy, the School implements annual
 individual research plans in which staff members discuss priorities and milestones for the year
 ahead, and reflect on the challenges and successes they have experienced in the current year.
 The focus is on development and accountability, not evaluation or approval, aiming to ensure
 individual-level support for research that is contextualised in the School’s research strategy (as
 detailed in 1b). Meetings are led by the School’s Director of Research and a senior colleague
 (chosen by each staff member), who consider milestones set in agreement with the Head of
 School. Senior technical and administrative staff are also consulted to ensure appropriate support
 is in place for each individual’s goals. Research activity is explicitly credited in our workload
 allocation model; all staff on Education and Research contracts are given a minimum of one full
 day per week of protected time for research and additional workload reductions are applied to staff
 who win research grants to ensure that appropriate teaching relief is provided.

 The School actively applies the University’s Study Leave policy to enable research staff to seize
 opportunities to develop innovative research ideas and initiate new external collaborations through
 research visits (a total of 74 terms of study leave awarded in the period). In addition to University-
 wide support initiatives, the School organises a regular programme of research-focused training
 and away days, such as:

    •   Introduction to linear models in R (2014);
    •   Media workshop (2016);
    •   Innovations in forensic psychology (2017);
    •   Bayesian analysis in social science research (2017);
    •   School research strategy away day (2018);
    •   Open Science away day (2019).

 In addition, the School enables research staff to stay at the cutting edge of research by attending
 specialist external training through our Extraordinary Resources fund. Examples of support in the
 REF period include bespoke training on programming in R, longitudinal data analysis, and
 qualitative data handling.

 c. Research students

 In this REF period, we achieved 132 new PhD registrations, including 22 studentships funded by
 external grants or our ESRC Doctoral Training Centre as well as 77 studentships funded by the
 University. Eighty-three students have completed their PhDs in this REF period, which is a 23%
 increase per year compared to the REF2014 period. This growth reflects a strategy to increase
 internal investment in PhD studentships (which have shown a year-on-year increase since 2013),
 and improved support mechanisms (detailed below).


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have also refined our procedures to ensure that these PhD studentships are allocated in a
 competitive, transparent, School-level process that ensures the best student experience and
 supervision opportunities for staff across all levels and subject areas. Externally funded PhD
 studentships won across the REF period include:

    •   14 x ESRC studentships awarded competitively through our Doctoral Training Centre
        consortium;
    •   6 x ESRC CASE studentships (e.g. Age UK; People United; Anne Frank; Globe Smart
        Kids);
    •   1 x ERC-funded studentship;
    •   2 x Leverhulme studentships funded through separate project grants.

 The School is strategically involved in the ESRC-funded South East Network for Social Sciences
 (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Centre consortium, and has been highly successful in winning funding
 through this scheme. Our students’ training and research is fully supported at the level of the
 School, the Doctoral Training Centre, and the University, and PhD student satisfaction is high
 (averaging at or above 90% on the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, compared to
 ~80% across the discipline).

 All registered PhD students are provided with an office space and computer in the School, and
 hot-desking space is available for students in their continuation year. In 2014, we expanded our
 research student spaces to include additional spaces for quiet reading, spaces to encourage social
 interaction among students, and kitchen facilities.

 Students are required to attend scheduled seminar events, including the School’s Distinguished
 Speaker series, research group meetings, and researcher skill development workshops. Since
 2013, we have taken several steps to improve the quality of the training and experience available
 to our research students, including:

   • A seminar series tailored to the needs of students in each cohort. For example, data
     management for first-year PhD students, publication writing for second-year PhD students,
     and viva training for third-year PhD students;
   • Hands-on workshops to train students in methods or analysis skills. For example, how to
     use the ethics portal, pre-registering research, programming in software such as PsychoPy,
     Matlab, and R, and specialist experimental techniques such as eye-tracking and EEG;
   • Events co-organised through the SeNSS Doctoral Training Centre or Eastern ARC
     consortiums (open to all postgraduates), such as training on Hierarchical Linear Modelling;
   • A Psychology PhD Network that makes recordings of this seminar and workshop content
     available to students at any time.

 We hold an annual postgraduate research conference where prizes, judged by a panel of staff
 and students, are awarded. All students are encouraged to attend and present their research at
 external conferences and have an annual budget of up to £400 per year for this purpose. The
 School has also supported a number of ESRC-funded internships (e.g. Scottish Government,
 Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology), and ESRC, EPS, and BPS-funded international
 research visits (e.g. Harvard, Maryland, Washington State). During this REF period we have
 improved levels of resourcing for research students by awarding all PhD students £375 a year to
 contribute to costs incurred by data collection (e.g. participant payments, or costs for travel to
 hard-to-reach participants), and to fund lab consumables (e.g. for EEG and brain stimulation
 research) through the School budget.

 The success of the training opportunities detailed above is evident in the high levels of research
 productivity and career destinations among our PhD graduates in this REF period. For example:




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    PhD students hold leadership roles within the discipline, such as sitting on committees for
         the British Psychological Society (BPS) and the Association for the Treatment of Sexual
         Abusers, co-editing the UK’s postgraduate psychology journal (PsyPAG);
    •    PhD students act as editors and reviewers for prestigious journals and publishers; e.g.
         Group Processes & Intergroup Relations, Autism Research, Oxford University Press;
    •    PhD students have been awarded 18 Research prizes (e.g. Farhar: 1st prize ESRC three-
         minute thesis video 2016; Gentry: 1st prize BPS cognitive section poster 2016) and >50
         Travel awards (e.g. Barzy: Society for the Neurobiology of Language, Fysh: EPS study
         visit grant, Johnson: Society for Social and Personality Psychology).

 A PhD in Psychology from Kent is an excellent foundation for a research career. Of the 83 PhD
 completions since 2013, 36 are now in lectureships, 19 are working as PDRAs, and 15 hold
 professional psychology jobs (e.g. clinical neuropsychologist, Director of Policing, Spokesperson
 for the Ministry of Public Health).

 d. Equality and Diversity

 Psychology became the first School outside the Faculty of Sciences at the University of Kent to
 establish an Athena SWAN self-assessment team (in 2014), and to receive the Athena SWAN
 Bronze award (in 2015). This Bronze award was renewed in 2018. The School has managed to
 sustain a fair gender balance across all academic staff (45% women), and has achieved significant
 improvements at senior levels (46% of Professors were women in 2020, compared to only 17% in
 2013). We have a strong commitment to EDI principles and actively participate in University
 schemes such as the Aurora programme (five staff members involved since 2013, plus two as
 mentors), which aims to equip a wider range of women with the skills to become future leaders,
 and the Student Success Project, which aims to better understand and promote student equality
 across different groups.

 Our preparations for Athena SWAN have informed our strategy to develop and implement equality
 and diversity initiatives in the School. We distribute surveys every six months to all staff, focusing
 on workload, work/life balance, academic leave, and promotion. We also seek input from research
 students though a separate annual survey, which focuses on student participation, flexible working
 and leave, and their perception of the School’s commitment to diversity. Responses from these
 surveys are generally positive, revealing that 81% of staff agree that the School’s Athena SWAN
 actions are making the School a better environment in which to work and study. However, they
 highlighted three particular challenges regarding equality and diversity that we have addressed as
 detailed below:

    i)   Managing a healthy work/life balance: We have restricted key decision-making meetings
         to core hours (10.00am-4.00pm), created a new ECR coordinator who organises meetings
         for staff to discuss and share ideas on managing work/life balance, monthly coffee
         mornings, and an annual family-friendly social event for all staff to interact and recognise
         the importance of balance.
    ii) Maintaining research alongside competing responsibilities following parental leave: We
         have set a reduced workload target for staff in the first term after parental leave, created
         an internal funding scheme dedicated to parents following leave, and seek to pair staff with
         a mentee who has recent experience of managing the return to research.
    iii) Promotion and equal pay: Annual review processes have been updated to discuss targets
         for all staff with appropriate infrastructure; we run a series of workshops for advanced skills
         development; we formed the School Promotion Panel (that takes a pro-active approach to
         identifying and assisting individuals applying for promotion); and we established a
         mentorship scheme for staff at all levels.

 More broadly, our School is proactive in shaping University LGBT+ policies. One staff member
 was the LGBT Staff Network Chair (2013-15) while two act as LGBT+ role models.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thanks to our social psychology heritage, many of our staff and students conduct research that
 informs equality and diversity issues in important ways. This work is largely conducted within the
 School’s Centre for the Study of Group Processes, which celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2020,
 and has established a world-leading reputation for research in the areas of equality and human
 rights, prejudice, discrimination, social attitudes and social change across the life course.
 Importantly, our research in these areas seeks not only to enhance our understanding of the
 psychological dimensions of these issues, leading to theoretical advances for the discipline, but
 also to develop and test innovative new tools to reduce prejudiced attitudes and behaviours, with
 tangible impacts for professionals and the general public. For example, our research has shown
 that:

 •   Age-based stereotype threat can materially affect older people’s cognitive and physical
     performance (Abrams and Swift);
 •   A model of 'cross-group friendship' in primary schools is effective in predicting attitudes in
     adolescence (Cameron);
 •   Imagined contact with atypical outgroup members that are anti-normative within their group
     can reduce prejudice (Abrams and Travaglino);
 •   Beneficial effects of intergroup contact can extend beyond traditional intergroup relations, for
     example encouraging more environmentally responsible attitudes and behaviour (Dhont and
     Hopthrow).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Research Income

 Over the REF2021 period, we have been awarded grants for research totalling more than £8
 million. This has led to an average annual increase of 48% in the value of research awards and
 6% in the value of research income compared to the REF2014 period, and reflects:

     •   An increase in the annual research income value per FTE from £7,500 in 2013/14 vs.
         £27,000 in 2019/20;
     •   Improved diversity in the range of funders supporting our research activity (25 different
         funders in REF2014 vs. 34 in the REF2021 period);
     •   An increase in the proportion of research staff holding research or innovation grants as PI
         (from 66% in REF2014 to 74% in the REF2021 period);
     •   An increase in the number of mid-career staff winning their first competitive project grant
         (>£100k);
     •   An increase in the number of researchers leading on larger programme grants (>£1m;
         none in REF2014 vs. three awards in the REF2021 period).

 Since August 2013, we have won 64 new research grants, 16 of which are over £100k, from 34
 different sources, including prestigious project grants (e.g. Ferguson’s €1.5m ERC Starting grant
 in 2015, Üskül’s €2m ERC Consolidator grant in 2019, Abrams’ Nuffield Foundation grant in 2020,
 eight Leverhulme Trust grants, and four ESRC grants). These funds have enabled our academic
 staff to remain at the cutting edge of research, by providing funds for research staff, equipment
 and infrastructure, training and participant payment. We have also won awards for innovation
 totalling over £1 million, including from the Big Lottery Fund and the Equality and Human Rights
 Commission.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                                    Total research income per financial year
                                              £1,400,000

                                              £1,200,000


               Research income spent in GBP
                                              £1,000,000

                                               £800,000

                                               £600,000

                                               £400,000

                                               £200,000

                                                     £0
                                                           0    1         2       3       4       5       6       7        8
                                                               2013/14   2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20

 In addition, since September 2018, in line with HMRC’s best practice, the University of Kent
 stopped reporting research income to HESA that is transferred to collaborators in other universities
 and abroad (i.e. a total of £218,833 for this submission). A further 18 research grants have been
 awarded to projects that involve a Kent Psychology researcher as Co-Investigator, meaning that
 the income is managed by a PI at a different institution but Kent colleagues make important
 intellectual contributions to the research activity. For example, Aleksandra Cichocka has been
 awarded more than £600k across four grants from the Polish National Science Centre Opus
 scheme to investigate how (inter)group relations influence political attitudes and behaviours with
 collaborators in Poland.

 b. Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 As a relatively large group of experimental psychologists who work at the same site, we have been
 able to make focused investments on a wide range of infrastructure and facilities. We ensure that
 staff and students are able to maximally benefit from these by committing to a shared access
 policy, where research space and equipment is openly bookable (subject to specific training
 requirements where necessary), all staff can access special populations through our established
 databases (e.g. for child development, adult populations, and clinical groups), and strategic
 decisions about future investments in infrastructure and facilities are made in open, transparent
 committees (see 2b).

 Since 2013, the School had made further strategic investments in research infrastructure to ensure
 that all research staff and students have access to state-of-the-art equipment. We have invested
 significantly in laboratory space and equipment over the REF2021 period, including:

    •   Two eye-trackers with exceptional temporal sensitivity to assess social and cognitive
        processes from infancy to old-age;
    •   Three mobile eye-tracking systems for tracking attention in the real-world;
    •   Three EEG systems for research with older/adolescent participants, sports and sleep;
    •   Four brain stimulation systems, including TMS, tDCS, and vestibular;
    •   Nine virtual reality suites that include eye-tracking and motion tracking to examine
        behaviour in simulated real-world environments;
    •   Six car-parking spaces for community participants.

 We have upgraded and reinvested in behavioural observation laboratories, and developed new
 lab spaces, including a mobile research laboratory van, 30 additional cubicles for behavioural or
 online studies, new flexible spaces for group interaction studies, rooms for clinical assessments,
 a secure forensic room (secured to Ministry of Justice requirements, including encrypted
 computers, card access, and secure locked cabinets), and two clusters of PCs for mass online
 testing.

                                                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have also invested in three additional specialist research and technical support staff. This
 includes two full-time staff to provide professional support for research and enterprise in 2016.
 Their activities include identifying and supporting collaborative funding opportunities with non-
 academic partners, and opening new opportunities for consultancy and impact funding.

 Our specialist laboratories provide a major shared resource to access hard-to-reach populations.
 For example, the Kent Child Development Unit has been expanded to include two eye-trackers to
 study preferential looking and language understanding from six months up, touch-screen
 technology for pre-verbal children, observation suites to examine natural behaviours, two
 reception/kitchen areas to host parents and siblings of participants, dedicated car parking, and
 access to EEG facilities (with new investments in caps to fit young children).

 We have access to local neuropsychological populations, members of the prison population, a
 large autism database, and community-based older participants, as well as a large pool of student
 participants. The School has extensive links with partners who provide access to specialist
 participant groups, including:

      •   Kent and Canterbury hospital, and others in the East Kent Hospital University NHS
          Foundation Trust, including secure units;
      •   Criminal justice agencies, such as the National Offender Management Service, police, fire
          and rescue service, probation, national and international forensic psychology services;
      •   Educational organisations, including local schools and the Kent Educational Psychology
          Service.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a.   Collaborations

 The distinctive character of Kent’s collaborative research rests in the high levels of external
 research partnerships, collaborations with a wide range other academic disciplines, and expertise
 in advanced methods, through which we contribute to a range of collaborative projects. We have
 also achieved notable successes in conducting research projects across different sub-disciplines
 of psychology and attracting externally funded fellowships, both incoming and outgoing. These
 are facilitated by the mechanisms detailed in 1b, and combine to ensure an agile and responsive
 approach to the research challenges we address.

 During this REF period, we have hosted >60 cross-disciplinary events for internal and external
 audiences. These include annual ‘Identity and Belonging’ conferences, which bring together
 academics and those outside academia (e.g. educators, charities, clinical practitioners, and policy
 makers) to consider research and collaboration on topical issues (e.g. refugee crises, gang
 membership, and digital engagement).

 Our external partners range across charitable, public sector, health and commercial organisations.
 Many of these working relationships date back several years, and most are supported by external
 funding, including research grants or contracts, studentships, and consultancy agreements. In
 total, 67 formally constituted collaborations with partners outside academia involving 17 staff have
 taken place during the census period. For example:

      •   Charities: Swift’s collaboration with Living with Landscapes, funded by the Big Lottery, to
          design and evaluate dementia-friendly gardens in care homes;
      •   Public sector: Bindemann’s work with London Metropolitan Police on the accuracy of
          forensic facial examination and fingerprint analysis as well as with Border Force on
          photographic ID;
      •   Healthcare: Cameron’s collaboration with East Kent NHS Trust, funded by the British
          Orthodontic Society, examining the effect of orthodontic treatments on primary
          schoolchildren’s peer relationships;

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Commercial: Brown’s collaboration with several of the world’s biggest personality test
        publishers to improve the scoring and validity of tests used in occupational settings (see
        ICS4.2).

 Our growing culture of cross-disciplinary partnerships has been supported by the launch of three
 new interdisciplinary special interest groups, providing a springboard for new areas of research:

    •   Autism Research at Kent with the Tizard Centre (a specialist unit for learning disability
        research), the School of Arts, the School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research,
        and an NHS neurorehabilitation unit;
    •   Political psychology (with the School of Politics and International Relations);
    •   Human Intergroup and Animal Relations lab (with Sociology).

 Our cross-disciplinary research is evidenced during this REF period by numerous formal external
 collaborations spanning various disciplines, and new internal collaborations that involve
 researchers from different research groups, such as:

    •   Bergström (with Physical Sciences): Leverhulme Trust grant on retrieval-induced updating
        of face memories;
    •   Bindemann (with Economics): British Academy grant on the social impact of Brexit;
    •   Ferguson (with Philosophy): Leverhulme Trust grant on learning from fiction;
    •   Brown (with Social Policy): project on wellbeing of dementia carers funded by the
        Alzheimer’s Society;
    •   Williams (with Drama): British Academy grant exploring humour in autism.

 More than 30% of our papers published in this REF period included a cross-discipline collaborator.
 These cross-disciplinary collaborations have inspired innovative new approaches to our research,
 for example using:

    •   Biological measures of hormone activity as a predictor of autistic traits in children (Kung);
    •   Social psychology interventions on stereotypes and identification to help women reach
        their leadership aspirations (Randsley de Moura);
    •   Mindfulness meditation to reduce stress and burnout among physiotherapists (Sharma);
    •   Theoretical frameworks and longitudinal methods from personality psychology to study
        perfectionism in junior athletes (Stoeber).

 Within the discipline of psychology, we have funded collaborations held with other psychology
 departments, both nationally and internationally, as well as across research groups within the
 School. These include:

    •   Eight external research grants (or contract/consultancy) with other UK departments,
        including Cambridge (Bergström – Leverhulme), York (Bindemann – ESRC and
        Leverhulme), Birkbeck and York (Ferguson – Leverhulme);
    •   Üskül’s ERC project on cultures of honour includes experimental psychologists at
        universities in 12 countries in the Mediterranean region and beyond;
    •   Our visiting researcher programme has brought 17 academics from around the world to
        work alongside their collaborators at Kent, e.g. Konrad Bocian (funded by Polish National
        Agency for Academic Exchange) and Andrea Hildebrandt (funded by the British Academy);
    •   International fellowships, including two Newton Fellowships (via the British Academy and
        Royal Society) and an outgoing Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship for Alleyne.

 During the census period we have produced some ground-breaking papers based on a ‘many
 labs’ approach, involving large teams of international researchers working collaboratively on a
 project. These papers have made significant impact in the field, for example by developing tools
 to improve and document the transparency of research (Giner-Sorolla, Nature Human Behaviour)
 and identifying timely new perspectives for human behaviour researchers to address public health

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 crises (Pina, Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences). An outstanding example
 is Cichocka and Douglas’ 2020 Nature Human Behaviour review on COVID-19, which has already
 been cited >1000 times (Google Scholar) and inspired numerous new empirical projects that seek
 to test its predictions.

 b. Contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Psychology at Kent is distinctive in combining high-profile service to the social sciences and the
 discipline of psychology with a strong tradition of applied research, which is often conducted in
 partnership with user organisations.

    1. Research Base

 Our academics hold management roles across scientific organisations in social, forensic, and
 cognitive psychology. These include high-profile research leadership positions, most notably
 Abrams, who took up the position Vice-President (Social Sciences) of the British Academy in 2018.
 As part of this role, Abrams works with experts across the entire range of disciplines, chairing the
 cross-academy Cohesive Societies group and advocating for the value of the social sciences,
 including psychology, in supporting public policy (e.g. Guardian article). Other members of the
 School also hold leadership positions in learned societies where they help set the agenda for
 research in psychology and shape priorities for funding and dissemination:

    •   Abrams: President of the Society for the Psychological Study for Social Issues (APA
        Division 9);
    •   Cichocka: Vice-President of the International Society of Political Psychology;
    •   Douglas: Secretary of the European Association of Social Psychology;
    •   Ferguson: Honorary Secretary of the Experimental Psychology Society;
    •   Stoeber: Treasurer of the British Society for the Psychology of Individual Differences.

 Other members serve on steering groups and advisory committees for national and international
 scientific associations and groups, including:

    •   Alleyne: Eurogang Network;
    •   Bindemann: British Science Association;
    •   Randsley de Moura: Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues UK;
    •   Üskül: International Association of Cross-Cultural Psychology; International Committee for
        Society for Personality and Social Psychology.

 The School strongly encourages these contributions to the discipline and supports the most time-
 consuming of these activities in a variety of ways, such as teaching reduction, research assistance,
 administrative support, and access to University facilities for learned society staff.

 In addition to these outward-facing roles, our researchers have been recognised in >20 national
 and international awards or honours that recognise the contribution of their individual research
 programmes. While many of these awards go to senior members of the School, we are particularly
 proud that ECRs and PDRAs are amongst those receiving recognition. Examples include:

    •   Abrams: American Psychological Association Distinguished Contribution (Division 9)
        (2016);
    •   Cichocka: European Association of Social Psychology Jos Jasper Medal (2017);
    •   Everett: Society for Personality and Social Psychology Theoretical Innovation (2019);
        European Association of Social Psychology Jos Jasper Medal (2020);
    •   Ferguson: Psychonomic Society Early Career Researcher (2019);
    •   Gannon: ESRC Outstanding Impact in Society (2016);
    •   Nyhout: Society for Text and Discourse Outstanding Young Scientist (2015);
    •   Tamé: CIMeC Young Researcher (2017).

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Reflecting this level of engagement and recognition, >80% of our research staff hold editorship
 roles in journals across social, cognitive, forensic, and developmental psychology, including seven
 editors-in-chief, 32 action/associate editorships, and 18 guest editorships across >50 journals. For
 example:

 Editors-in-chief:
     • Abrams: Group Processes and Intergroup Relations;
     • Douglas: British Journal of Social Psychology;
     • Gannon and Wood: Journal Psychology, Crime & Law;
     • Giner-Sorolla: Journal of Experimental Social Psychology;
     • Pina: Journal of Sexual Aggression;
     • Travaglino: Contention: The Multidisciplinary Journal of Social Protest.

 Action/Associate editorships:
     • Abbot-Smith: First Language;
     • Cichocka: European Journal of Social Psychology;
     • Dhont: European Journal of Personality;
     • Ó Ciardha: Sexual Abuse;
     • Storey: International Journal of Forensic Mental Health;
     • Üskül: Journal of Personality and Social Psychology;
     • Williams: Research in Autism Spectrum Disorder.

 Guest editorships:
    • Alleyne: ‘The Psychology of Animal Abuse’ (2018);
    • Bindemann: ‘Individual Differences in Face Perception and Person Recognition’ (2017);
    • Cameron: ‘Growing Up with Diversity: A Social Psychological Perspective’ (2017).

 Many of our research staff, including ECRs, sit on journal editorial boards (25 editorial board
 memberships across the School, e.g. Cognition; Culture and Brain) and grant panels/boards (e.g.
 British Academy; ESRC; NSF). All our research staff regularly engage in peer reviewing for top
 psychology journals (e.g. Psychological Science, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology,
 Journal of Neuroscience) and major funders (e.g. ERC, ESRC, Leverhulme, MRC, Wellcome).

 Our researchers provide innovative methodological leadership by developing advanced statistical
 or ecologically valid experimental methods as well as contributing to important debates on the
 future of the discipline, such as open science (see 1b). For example:

    •   Abrams and Swift, prejudice survey: Establishing, benchmarking, conducting and
        analysing the Equality and Human Rights Commission’s ‘National barometer of prejudice’;
    •   Brown, unified theory of ipsative data: Discovery of fundamental rules for identifying the
        scale origin in comparative judgements and for computing test information and reliability
        (see ICS4.2);
    •   Bindemann, virtual reality: ESRC grant to develop novel virtual worlds to test forensic face
        examiners, and two papers published on this topic.

 We also make important theoretical contributions to the field through review articles (e.g. Douglas,
 Current Directions in Psychological Science; Dhont, European Review of Social Psychology;
 Everett, Psychological Review; Williams, Neuropsychology Review).

 Our staff contribute to developing postgraduate education as external PhD examiners around the
 world (>100 external PhD examinations), and ensure timely dissemination of their research
 through >30 keynote presentations, and have hosted >30 events at Kent, for example:

    •   EPS meeting (2014);
    •   British Society for the Psychology of Individual Differences conference (2017);

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues conference (2016, 2017);
    •   International Society for Justice Research conference (2016).

    2. Economy and Society

 Our heritage in social psychology and applied research, as well as growing strengths in forensic
 and developmental psychology, and work with hard-to-reach populations using advanced
 experimental methods, means that we produce a robust evidence base that directly informs
 practice and policy across a wide range of sectors and topics. Sections 1.d and 1.e provide an
 overview of the mechanisms we have used to achieve these outcomes, and our impact case
 studies provide detailed examples from our forensic, social, and cognitive psychology groups.
 There are also striking contributions from many other members of the School, and we provide
 some key examples of these below.

 Notably, Abrams, Cameron, and Swift from the Centre for Group Processes have been particularly
 effective in contributing their expertise (individually or collaboratively) to a series of prejudice-
 reduction initiatives in the UK from national policy to local grassroots levels, including:

    •   Four commissioned reports for the Equality and Human Rights Commission between 2016
        and 2018, two Foresight reports for the Government Office for Science (2013, 2015), and
        a Horizon Scanning programme report (2014);
    •   Evidence submitted to the House of Lords’ Select Committee on Intergenerational Fairness
        (2018), the APPG on Intergenerational Connections (2018), and the Kent County Council
        Select Committee on Loneliness and Isolation (2018);
    •   Design or evaluation of prejudice-reduction interventions for educational and community
        organisations, such as: the Anne Frank Trust, the Linking Network, Show Racism the Red
        Card, One Globe Kids, People United, and the British Orthodontic Society;
    •   Formal partnerships on ageism reduction and healthy ageing initiatives with Age UK
        London, the Centre for Ageing Better, the British Medical Association, Age Action Alliance,
        the Campaign to End Loneliness, Living Through Landscapes, and Thanet District Council;
    •   An ongoing partnership with the Kent Educational Psychology Service that has led to three
        annual conferences on the theme of ‘Identity and Belonging’ for 100+ practitioners in:
        migrant and refugee children (2017), gangs (2018), and growing up in a digital age (2019),
        as well as periodic twilight sessions on topics such as autism.

 Other members of the School also address a range of high-profile issues of societal or economic
 importance through media or public engagement and formal research partnerships. Examples
 include:

    •   Douglas is a leading researcher on the psychology of conspiracy theories with high-profile
        contributions to media debates nationally and internationally, such as Radio 4’s Infinite
        Monkey Cage (21/12/2019) and, in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic, interviews with the
        New York Times (8/4/2020) and the Washington Post (19/10/2020), as well as confidential
        advisory roles to public bodies;
    •   Hopthrow and Abrams designed and evaluated an innovative intervention to reduce
        vehicle idling in Canterbury city centre (2018-19);
    •   Pina’s research on the growing problem of ‘revenge porn’ has led to high-profile national
        media reporting (e.g. the Sun and Daily Mail, 3/3/2017; BBC News Online, 21/11/2018),
        as well as invitations from the Ministry of Justice and Facebook to provide expert advice
        on the problem.

 Members of the School have also presented their work at numerous public engagement events
 (e.g. Pint of Science, the University of the Third Age, and the ESRC Festival of Science), and write
 blog posts and articles for popular science magazines (e.g. The Conversation, The Psychologist).




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In conclusion, the vitality of our research environment is evidenced by the steep upward trajectory
 in value and diversity of our research funding, the strength and impact of our publications, our
 expanding network of collaborations, and energetic public and policy engagement. Sustainability
 is evidenced by our strategies that have prioritised investment in long-term research projects and
 objectives, high-quality appointments, and procedures that support the career development of our
 staff and PhD students.




                                                                                            Page 21
