Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 9: Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overall Strategy and Structure

 Physics at Kent is a vibrant community embedded with Chemistry and Forensic Science in the
 interdisciplinary School of Physical Sciences (SPS). For most of the REF2021 period, SPS was
 part of the Faculty of Sciences, becoming part of the new Division of Natural Sciences in autumn
 2020. Following REF2014, Physics expanded significantly, resulting in three well-resourced
 research groups: the Applied Optics Group (AOG); the Centre for Astrophysics and Planetary
 Science (CAPS); and the Physics of Quantum Materials (PQM). SPS also has a small Forensic
 Imaging research group, one staff member from which is included here as part of our policy of
 integrating related, smaller, multidisciplinary fields with their most scientifically relevant discipline.

 The Physics research groups are aligned with the UK’s long-term strategic needs. AOG
 emphasises health care, a key strategic area for the EPSRC. PQM is aligned with quantum
 technologies and advanced materials, again key areas for the EPSRC. CAPS is aligned with the
 themes defined in the STFC roadmaps for astronomy and planetary science. Forensics research
 develops techniques to support societal development and justice.

 Strategic growth has resulted in a large increase in the number of staff submitted (19 FTE) vs.
 REF2014 (5 staff from one research group (CAPS)), comprising 18 staff members, including a
 Royal Society Fellow (a permanent appointment post-fellowship has been agreed), plus one fixed-
 term Leverhulme Fellow. Another Physics staff member conducts research in chemical physics
 and is included in the University’s Chemistry UoA. This growth results from significant strategic
 investment by the University, creating six new research-active Physics positions in the REF2021
 period (two in AOG, three in CAPS, and one in PQM), plus another three new posts in PQM,
 appointed in 2013 as part of the long-term strategy to grow our Physics research base.

 In 2019, Physics undertook a major strategic review, delivering a rolling three-year programme
 focused on: improving quality; interdisciplinarity and networking; having clear scientific and impact
 goals; continuing to increase grant income; and communicating work to stakeholders and public
 audiences. All three of our main research groups will be developed further during the next REF
 period, advancing their current research and moving into new (interdisciplinary) areas. Forensic
 research will also grow, exploiting links with AOG and developing new themes.

 The head of each research group ensures the group implements the strategic plan, developing a
 viable research, enterprise, and innovation portfolio. A high priority is increasing impact in each
 group. The head reports to the School’s Research Committee, which monitors research
 effectiveness. SPS also has a Director of Innovation and Enterprise, who helps staff develop
 enterprise and industrial applications (including grants and contracts).

 Physics benefits greatly from membership of the South-East Physics Network (SEPnet). This has
 helped to coordinate growth in Physics across the region. SEPnet has several research-focused
 strands, including Astrophysics, and Atomic and Condensed Matter, relevant to CAPS and PQM.

 1.2 Objectives

 Our post-REF2014 strategy was to develop CAPS and to grow Physics. This has successfully
 been implemented by:

     •   Growing the three key areas (AOG, CAPS, PQM).



                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Increasing the number of research staff (new positions and attracting fellowships) and PGR
        completions (5 in REF2014; 33.5 in REF2021).
    •   Increasing external funding (excluding income in kind, grant income rose from £1.5m in
        REF2014 to £5.7m in REF2021).
    •   Accessing leading external research facilities; e.g. Diamond (PQM) and major telescopes
        (CAPS).
    •   Developing new collaborations; e.g. European-funded ITNs in optics (AOG), and bringing
        to Kent the EC H2020-funded Europlanet project (CAPS).
    •   Investing in improving internal research facilities; e.g. the CAPS impact laboratory and on-
        campus observatory, both now transnational, networked facilities via Europlanet.
    •   Engaging with SEPnet partners; e.g. via GRADnet, which closely coordinates PhD training
        across SEPnet.

 The current areas of strength have led to the outputs and case studies selected for REF2021.
 Specifically:

 Applied Optics Group (AOG)
 AOG develops advanced optical devices and instruments for imaging and sensing, particularly for
 biomedical applications, and is known internationally for its pioneering work on Optical Coherence
 Tomography (OCT) as both a research and an applied tool (collaborating with domestic and
 international universities, industry, hospitals, etc.). AOG has four staff members (Podoleanu,
 Dobre, Hughes, Bradu), the latter two strategically appointed in 2017. Core areas of expertise
 include:

    •   Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) Technology and Applications (Podoleanu, Bradu,
        Dobre, Hughes).
    •   Endoscopic and Point-of-Care Microscopy (Hughes, Podoleanu).
    •   Functional and Multimodal High Resolution, Non-invasive Measurement and Imaging,
        including Forensic Imaging (Bradu, Dobre, Podoleanu).

 AOG’s principal future aim is to exploit its existing advanced optical systems, applying them in
 areas such as forensic art, document inspection, security and identification, and medical
 applications (linking AOG to the Forensic group and the University’s new Medical School).

 Centre for Astrophysics and Planetary Science (CAPS)
 CAPS has 8 staff members (Burchell, Froebrich, Lowry, Mason, Price, Smith, Urquhart,
 Wozniakiewicz; with Mason, Urquhart, and Wozniakiewicz filling positions created during the
 REF2021 period). CAPS research is aligned with key STFC objectives, and includes:

    •   Planetary Science (Burchell, Lowry, Mason, Price, Wozniakiewicz): covering small solar
        system bodies; hypervelocity impact processes; astrobiology; and astrochemistry; via
        laboratory studies and analysis of telescope/space mission data.
    •   Astrophysics (Froebrich, Smith, Urquhart): including galaxy structure, Young Stellar
        Objects (H2 outflows and variability), massive star formation, and astrophysical fluid
        dynamics. Staff lead or are co-investigators on major international observational
        programmes and conduct theoretical/modelling studies.

 CAPS’ future aims are:

    •   Continued involvement in solar system missions such as Comet Interceptor Mission, Juno,
        Juice, and the NASA/ESA Deep Space Gateway, with ongoing analysis of data from
        Rosetta and Stardust.
    •   Develop a planetary radar programme, including machine-learning methods for data
        analysis, with potential impact applications outside astronomy and planetary science.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Exploit leadership in international Galactic plane surveys and take active roles in ALMA,
        JWST, SKA, UHS, and LSST.

 Physics of Quantum Materials (PQM)
 PQM is a new research group, formed in 2019 from existing staff. It has 7 staff (Carr, Ghosh,
 Möller, Pugh, Quintanilla, Ramos, plus Mountjoy, who is returned in the Chemistry UoA). Möller is
 a Royal Society Fellow (joined 2016). Ghosh (previously a PDRA in the group) is a Leverhulme-
 funded independent researcher (awarded 2020). The group applies experimental, theoretical, and
 computational expertise to probe novel properties of quantum materials, enabling future quantum
 technologies, a key EPSRC strategic objective. PQM was a founder member of the Hubbard
 Theory Consortium, and collaborates with universities and institutes worldwide, including
 Cambridge, Oxford, Paul Scherrer Institute, various Max Planck Institutes, Zhejiang. PQM’s
 current research activities include:

    •   Theory of Quantum Materials (Carr, Ghosh, Möller, Quintanilla): Application of
        computational, field-theoretical, and phenomenological approaches to strong-correlation
        problems, including unconventional superconductors, topological insulators, mesoscopic
        devices, low-dimensional systems, frustrated magnets, quantum Hall systems, and optical
        lattices.
    •   Experimental Condensed Matter Physics (Pugh, Ramos, Mountjoy): Utilisation of large
        central facilities providing neutrons, synchrotron X-rays, and muons, as well as in-house
        low-temperature facilities to investigate magnetic and superconducting materials, quantum
        phase transitions, energy materials, and nano-materials.

 The group’s principal future aim is to conduct research at the interface between Condensed Matter
 Physics and Quantum Technologies, becoming a leading centre for the study of properties of
 quantum materials for application in future quantum technologies, with close integration between
 theoretical/experimental research programmes and industrial needs.

 Forensic Imaging
 The multidisciplinary Forensic Imaging group covers image processing and chemical
 spectroscopy. There are three staff members, Gibson and two Chemists (in the Chemistry UoA).
 Gibson focuses on the design and application of image processing (originally applied in AOG and
 CAPS) and machine learning for novel security and policing technologies. The group’s current
 activities include: forensic facial identification, deep neural networks for robust Raman spectrum
 matching/analysis, detection and tracking of illicit objects in security screening technologies,
 making CAPTCHA systems resilient to deep learning attacks, with recent joint research with AOG
 on document security inspection for non-destructive testing. The group’s future research aims
 include:

    •   Developing an AI-based analysis method for the interpretation of Surface Enhanced
        Raman Spectroscopy data, with Cambridge and the University of Haifa.
    •   Extension of photonics tools to forensic applications (with AOG).
    •   Developing the first facial composite system to use a witness’s brain waves as input, using
        Innovation funding already secured.

 1.3 Impact Development (see also 3.4 and 4.2)
 Each research group has an impact development plan, and all Physics staff annually review their
 work for possible future impact cases. Staff also regularly work with external/industrial partners.
 They hold industrial contracts and host industrial visit/taster days on campus. Physics staff attend
 events off-campus with potential industrial partners, including events organised by Innovate UK.
 Successes include:

 AOG’s research in OCT (Impact Case Study 1) is driven by, and in partnership with, industry and
 external users. It is licensed to industry based on intensive Intellectual Property Rights protection

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by the University. Six new patents have been awarded since REF2014, with a further
 three at the application stage.

 CAPS held contracts from the US and Europe throughout the REF2021 period, and currently has
 an industry-linked PGR co-funded by the University. Citizen science use of the on-campus Beacon
 Observatory (see 4.3) is being developed as a possible future impact case study.

 PQM actively seeks industrial partners (via the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Innovation
 team) to help shape and exploit its work on quantum devices. Members attend national meetings
 such as ‘Developing quantum technologies in the UK – funding, technical challenges and
 commercialisation’ (Westminster Forum, January 2020).

 Forensic staff work with companies and Innovate UK, developing applications of their work, and
 currently have an industry co-funded PhD student. Supported by the University, their work has led
 to technology transfer to a spin-out company (Visionmetric Ltd) and worldwide uptake by law
 enforcement agencies of a facial identification technique developed at Kent (Impact Case Study
 2).

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 The structure and ethos of SPS encourages interdisciplinary research. Research groups share
 specialist equipment and PhD supervision. Group boundaries are loose, permitting cross-group
 involvement; e.g. PQM has several chemists as associate members and Mountjoy works closely
 with Chemical Physics and is being returned in the Chemistry UoA. Staff are encouraged to work
 with other Schools, holding joint grants, PhD studentships, and enterprise projects. Work with
 external partners in industry is specifically encouraged. Examples of internal and external
 interdisciplinary collaboration include:

 AOG
   • Imaging work with the Medway School of Pharmacy, and the Schools of Anthropology and
     Conservation, Computing, and Engineering and Digital Art, leading to joint outputs
     respectively on embryology, photoacoustic, tattoos, GPUs, and wavefront sensing.
   • Actively collaborating with all major medically oriented HEI’s in London: UCL Institute of
     Ophthalmology and Moorfields Eye Hospital (imaging the eye); Imperial (robotics and
     endoscopy imaging of lung); and KCL (medical imaging and networking in the UK on image
     guided therapy), as well as with the NHS: Northwick Park Hospital London (ENT),
     Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (Basal Cell Carcinoma), and East Kent
     Hospitals University Foundation Trust (imaging the eye).

 CAPS
   • Developing a new Machine Learning approach to asteroid shape modelling from planetary
      radar with Computing.
   • Astrobiology experiments include joint PhD supervision and grant-writing with Biosciences.
   • Joint PhD supervision and publications with Mathematics.
   • Several collaborative papers in biology and chemistry journals.

 PQM’s associate membership for other research groups strengthens their access to
 complementary expertise, particularly in theoretical and experimental Chemistry (SPS) and
 quantum computing (Computing). Joint seminars are held with Mathematics.

 1.5 Open Science
 Physics strongly supports open publication of its research. This includes fully Open Access
 journals where appropriate, and placing full publisher versions of manuscripts onto the University’s
 academic repository. University funds pay for gold Open Access. Staff use pre-print servers such
 as arxiv. Our staff work with publishers and our Corporate Communications team, regularly
 developing press releases to accompany new papers, widening the impact of the work. Most staff


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have ORCIDs and make use of ResearchGate etc., improving the reach of their outputs. As well
 as providing access to stored digital, physical data products such as targets in the Impact
 Laboratory are retained and made available on request.
 1.6 Research Integrity
 The training and mentoring of staff and PGRs includes advice on research integrity and ethics. All
 PGRs have a second supervisor, with whom they can discuss such matters, and are regularly
 reminded that they can approach the SPS Director of Graduate Studies if they have concerns.
 SPS has a Research Ethics approval officer, who liaises with the main University committee to
 ensure high standards are maintained. All projects and grant applications have to consider if they
 need ethical approval: assistance is provided on this, and, if it is needed, staff are assisted in
 obtaining approval; e.g. AOG often requires approval for its work on imaging human tissue,
 especially the eye. All our projects and grant applications relating to human participation or use of
 tissue samples are cleared with the Human Participants Committee.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Policy and processes in SPS are guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Except for externally funded fellowships and short-term needs (e.g. maternity leave
 cover), all of the academic positions in Physics are permanent, with flexible and fractional working
 available. Positions are externally advertised, and filled on an open, criteria-driven basis. Most
 permanent staff are on contracts that include research to help generate critical research mass.
 However, three Physics staff (not included in this submission) were hired directly into permanent
 teaching-focused posts. All processes regarding probation, promotion, and study leave apply
 equally to these staff. Taken together, there are 21 permanent Physics staff in SPS. Six were
 appointed during the REF2021 period (five Lecturers and one Professor), and there were five
 promotions: one to Professor, and four to Senior Lecturer.

 Age profile of submission

  Age (years)         <40                  40–50               50–60                >60
  % of submission     16%                  47%                 21%                  16%

 63% of our staff are < 50 years old. Given our recent growth and age profile, extra effort has gone
 into supporting early career staff. The standard University probation procedures are followed (see
 REF5a). In addition, new staff also benefit from:

    •   Reduced teaching workloads in excess of University guidelines (a 66% reduction in year 1
        and a 33% reduction in year 2, vs. the standard 50% and 25%);
    •   A fully funded PhD studentship (with a consumables fund) in their first few years;
    •   Access to all SPS equipment to help kick-start their careers;
    •   Targeted support for travel to conferences and networking events;
    •   Guidance on grant targeting and writing from colleagues.

 After completing probation, staff agree a further five-year plan with the Head of School. Staff are
 not expected to hold senior School administrative roles immediately after probation, giving them
 time to develop their research. Training is provided for a wide range of transferable skills; all staff
 and PDRAs are required to attend at least one activity a year. Study leave of at least 1 term’s relief
 from teaching was taken by four Physics staff in the REF2021 period.

 There are annual appraisals of all staff, including PDRAs and technicians. In addition, given the
 age profile of Physics, research staff also meet annually outside the appraisal process with the
 Head of School and the School Director of Research to discuss their individual research plans
 (IRPs) and career development needs.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff can self-nominate in the annual Promotion round: there are no quotas and staff can apply
 whilst still on probation. Along with teaching and research, promotion criteria include citizenship,
 innovation, and impact activities; e.g. industrial contracts are considered equally with research
 grants. The various declarations about the dangers of journal impact factors, etc. are accepted,
 and staff are invited to build a picture of success across a variety of achievements and measures.
 SPS runs an annual call for staff thinking about promotion to seek assistance and mentoring.
 Given the age profile of the team, particular care is taken to mentor ECRs in advance of promotion.
 For more established staff, during the REF2021 period the Head of School was required to report
 to the Dean of the Faculty that all staff who had not applied for promotion for over five years had
 been interviewed, and their careers explicitly discussed along with potential support for
 development.

 PDRAs are increasingly integrated into structures and policies. Having listened to their feedback,
 they can now apply for promotion irrespective of whether their external funder will provide the
 necessary funds. Two Physics PDRAs have been promoted during the REF period. PDRAs are
 supported to attend conferences and relevant workshops each year. Faculty research seed
 funding was also opened to PDRAs wishing to develop independence (resulting in some awards
 to Physics PDRAs, for networking visits to other labs, a field trip to Scotland to collect rock
 samples, etc.).

 Supporting our staff to achieve career development is central to our staffing strategy. Given the
 age profile, a bespoke future senior leadership course was run in SPS (2019); attendees included
 three female Physicists (one in this submission and two teaching-only). Leadership of two
 research groups (CAPS and PQM) is currently undertaken by relatively junior staff supported by
 more senior colleagues, thus aiding succession planning.

 2.2 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity
 Physics takes EDI very seriously. It participates fully in University-led initiatives, has its own
 equality committee, and is a Juno Practitioner. All SPS staff undergo EDI training, including
 University training such as ‘Valuing Everyone’, and on unconscious bias and mental health issues.
 Senior academic staff undergo training to sit on/chair appointment and promotion panels. SPS
 also annually runs its own internal courses for staff (these being open to PDRAs and PhD
 students). Topics include: Mental Health Awareness; Autism Awareness; Imposter
 Phenomenon/Syndrome; and Unconscious Bias.

 Core working hours (including scheduled meetings) respect family life. There is female
 representation on all committees awarding PhD scholarships, and all PDRA and staff appointment
 panels. SPS academic management posts are appointed through an open call for volunteers, with
 appointments made by a panel and not by a single person.

 During the REF2021 period, maternity leave was taken twice by one Physics staff member
 (supported by a replacement fixed-term post to cover all duties) and once by a PDRA (whose
 fixed-term contract was extended so that she had the same duration of active work as originally
 planned). Paternity leave is available but was not taken. Staff are supported after return to work
 (e.g. one Physics staff member was supported to attend a European workshop to help restart
 research networks after maternity leave). When fixed-term staff are hired (e.g. to provide maternity
 cover), they are provided with appropriate training; e.g. in teaching tools (Moodle), health and
 safety, and mental health.

 All promotion committees are mixed gender. Part-time working and maternity leave are taken into
 full account in the promotion process (one Physics staff member took maternity leave and was
 promoted during the REF period). External invitations are accepted as a measure of success in
 promotion applications, but acceptance of such, or delivery at external events, is not necessary,
 as this may selectively impact staff with children/caring responsibilities. The promotions procedure
 explicitly allows staff to declare (confidentially) if they have health or personal circumstances that
 have adversely impacted their performance. The University monitors promotion success rates by

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gender, ethnicity, etc. At Lecturer to Senior Lecturer level, there is equal performance for
 male/female proportionate to numbers, but there are still more male staff overall. At higher grades,
 the number of female Professors in the Faculty (now the Division) has increased, and in SPS one
 woman was promoted to Professor and another to Reader in the REF period.

 Currently, 24% of the 21 permanent Physics staff are female, but Physics is lagging behind with
 no female Readers or Professors. In Autumn 2020, 55% of final-year MPhys UGs were female.
 To help accelerate change, a Women in Physics group was set up in 2019 to support female
 physicists. It arranges regular meetings, external speakers, and offers mentoring support, careers
 advice, etc. It is open to UG, PGR, PDRAs, and academic staff.

 The physical and mental wellbeing of staff and students is important to SPS, and ‘All staff’ surveys
 monitor these at School level. Occupational Health is available for self-referral, or the Head of
 School can refer staff. Where physical conditions are reported, SPS supports staff by refashioning
 their office/lab/IT to their needs; e.g. some staff suffer from joint pain, so keyboards have been
 changed and their IT use reviewed to rearrange for best use (posture, arm and hand rests, etc.).
 Optician appointments are provided free at a local optician as required.

 SPS has a local team to support students, and there is a central team who help draw up individual
 learning plans (ILPs). We recruit independent of circumstances, and several Physics PGRs had
 ILPs during the REF period. In addition, science PG representatives have had wellbeing as a core
 activity for several years now.

 SPS supports flexible working with an annual reminder to staff to make flexible-working requests,
 most of which relate to childcare. Staff are supported for home working if needed for health
 reasons. SPS does not support presentism; there is no signing in/out during the ‘normal’ working
 day. Work is done where and when required, and can be undertaken remotely if appropriate, at
 times convenient to the worker. SPS has an LBGT+ officer who circulates literature, details of
 meetings and support groups, etc. SPS has several times during the REF2021 period reviewed
 who it invites as external speakers, broadening the range of those invited.

 When selecting outputs and impact case studies for this submission, the University’s Code of
 Practice was strictly adhered to. All staff suggested papers and were asked for impact examples.
 External specialist referees were then asked to grade the papers. This was considered by the local
 REF committee and preliminary selections made. These were communicated to the individuals,
 who were asked to comment, with several changes then made. A review of the distribution of
 selected outputs from female/male staff was then undertaken (to within 1 paper the number of
 selected papers reflects the % of submitted staff who are female). The selection of outputs and
 impact case studies was agreed by a central University committee, which explicitly checked
 processes against the agreed Code of Practice.

 2.3 Achieving Impact and Joining Industry
 Staff are encouraged to develop contacts with industry via centrally organised meetings, bilateral
 contacts, site visits to companies, etc. Interaction with spin-out companies is encouraged, and we
 provide support for Innovate UK applications. Impact and Enterprise work are explicitly recognised
 equally with pure research in promotion criteria and the workload allocation model. In the REF2021
 period, former Forensic group members moved into industry (one academic, one PDRA, and one
 PhD have joined Visionmetric), and Gibson is embedded in the company as Technical Director.
 AOG has helped provide industry across the UK and Europe with staff trained in OCT, with input
 from industry and clinics (via its Marie Curie Doctoral Training Schools, and its own PhD and
 PDRA cohorts). A former CAPS PDRA and PhD now work in the aerospace industry.

 2.4 Research Students

 In autumn 2020, Physics had 28 registered PhD students, with a further 6 in their writing-up year,
 and 6 awaiting examination. Robust recruitment procedures are in place for PhD studentships,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including external advertising for all positions. Women are members of all selection panels; EDI
 training is required, including on unconscious bias. External funders include EPSRC and STFC
 quota awards, Marie Curie (EU), industry, SEPNet, etc. There are also international PhD
 studentships, including a cotutelle studentship jointly with Lille (CAPS).

 A School Board of Graduate Studies (including student representatives) oversees PG matters.
 Each student has a supervisory panel in addition to the primary supervisor (enabling junior staff
 members to gain experience and broadening the links between staff). SEPnet-funded students
 have joint supervisors from another SEPnet institution. The University’s Graduate and Researcher
 College (formerly the Graduate School) implements overall postgraduate strategy and coordinates
 the Researcher Development Programme for postgraduate researchers in line with the
 Researcher Concordat. All Physics PGRs and PDRAs participate in this programme, which is
 mapped onto the four areas in the national Researcher Development Framework, including formal
 research training, career development elements, and structured supervision by the supervisory
 team.

 All new PhD researchers attend a workshop introducing the University's Researcher Development
 Assessment, and start by considering their existing portfolio of skills, as well as the skills that they
 hope to acquire. A full range of workshops is offered, including writing and presentation skills,
 research methods, scientific programming, qualitative methods training, viva training, time
 management, leadership, knowledge exchange, entrepreneurial resources, publishing, and career
 planning.

 PGRs attend weekly research group meetings, give at least one talk per year in their group’s
 seminar series, and are required to attend at least six SPS colloquia in their first year. They must
 also attend the Annual SPS Postgraduate Colloquium, presenting a poster (first year) and talk
 (second year). SEPnet provides workshops and video-conferenced lectures and seminars.
 Research students and staff have had increased opportunity to participate in public engagement
 activities through SEPnet funding for outreach. Physics PhD students are supported to attend
 major international conferences.

 The University operates progression monitoring with online collation of monthly supervisor/student
 meetings, and review points at induction, 3 months, 1 year, 2 years and pre-submission. Reviews
 are carried out by the supervisory team, and the outcomes have to be agreed by both the School
 and Faculty (now Divisional) Directors of Graduate Studies.

 Our PGRs have won various prizes, including the inaugural Pierazzo International Student Award
 2014 (Planetary Science Institute Arizona), Springer Thesis Prize (2016), and Best Student
 Abstract at LPSC (NASA, Houston) 2016. They also win travel/conference bursaries from bodies
 such as Europlanet, the Optical Society of America, and the Hypervelocity Impact Society. Our
 PGRs are supported in forming links to industry; e.g. they attend ‘meet an industrialist’ events run
 by SEPnet and UKRI bodies, and work on projects with industry/spin-out companies (see 2.3).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 University Investment
 During the REF2021 period, the Faculty coordinated University investment, with annual monitoring
 of each School’s research strategy, and ran annual Faculty-wide seed-corn funding competitions
 (circa £70k per annum, with a different main aim each year; e.g. ECR support, forging
 enterprise/industrial links, preparatory work for large grant applications, improving individual
 pieces of work, international travel). Usually, seed-corn grants (approx. £1,000 each) have been
 awarded each year to Physics staff. The Faculty also typically awarded SPS 3-4 University-funded
 PhD studentships each year.

 Major building works in the REF period included updating the SPS building (£3.64m, completed
 2016) and various capital works, including refurbishing existing, and creating new, labs and offices

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (£5.584m). In 2015, the Beacon Observatory was established on-site with £120k of University
 funding, to conduct astronomical research, outreach, and Citizen Science. It featured a new dome
 and weather station, a 17" Astrograph from Plane Wave Instruments with a 4k x 4k CCD, a BVRI-
 Halpha filter set, and a 90 frames per second camera.

 3.2 Grant Income
 Central support for grant writing includes workshops, mentoring schemes, on-campus meetings
 with representatives of funding agencies, circulating details of grant calls, and internal reviews of
 all large grants. Inside research groups, grant brainstorming sessions and internal reviews of
 proposals/submissions are standard. Support also included the Head of School making funds
 available for one (female) staff member to make several visits to a UK university to use facilities
 and work with staff there. Similarly, when another staff member was planning maternity leave, her
 mentor worked with her on a time-critical externally funded project, enabling the project to start on
 schedule on her return. Similar support was given on a time-critical enterprise contract, facilitating
 its successful conclusion.

 Over the REF2021 period, Physics research income (including income in kind) was £7.2m, with
 annual income increasing 46%. Large awards have been secured from major funders, including:

    •   EPSRC: Podoleanu (£429k); Quintanilla (£338k).
    •   BBSRC: £484k (Podoleanu).
    •   STFC: Burchell, Lowry, Price, Wozniakiewicz (£880k and £840k).
    •   National Institute of Health Research: Podoleanu (£178k).
    •   Royal Society: Möller (£307k).
    •   European Commission: Podoleanu (£891k); Price (£247k); Mason (£116k).

 In addition, Mason secured a major EC H2020 award, to run Europlanet 2020-24. This is a 10m
 euro project with the administrative team based at Kent, the University due to receive several
 million euros over the course of the grant. Minor grants (<£100k) have been awarded by the
 Leverhulme Trust, STFC, Royal Society, EPSRC, etc.

 The Physics strategy requires each group to establish a sustainable income stream:

    •   AOG has secured a wide portfolio of major research grants covering basic science (EU-
        ERC Advanced Grant), routes to commercialisation (2 ERC Proof of Concept grants and
        an Innovate UK grant), as well as two Marie Curie Doctoral School ITNs (with major
        industrial components).
    •   CAPS: Mason is Chair/President of the Europlanet-2024 project (2020-24), which supports
        and fosters planetary science activity in 53 institutions in 23 countries. The HQ is in SPS.
    •   CAPS has held an STFC Consolidated grant in Planetary Science throughout the REF
        period, and has also undertaken funded development work for instruments for future
        missions for both ESA and NASA (Burchell and Wozniakiewicz).
    •   PQM members have successfully generated grant income (current funders include the
        Royal Society, EPSRC, and Leverhulme). There are funded links to the University of
        Bristol, the Technische Universität Munich, University of Osaka, and the Diamond Light
        Source, Ltd. Looking ahead, PQM has already secured three highly competitive EPSRC
        New Horizon grants starting in 2021 (Möller, Pugh, Mountjoy).

 3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Physics staff regularly win highly competitive major awards for access to ‘beam-time’ facilities and
 international telescopes. Beam-time awards include those from national laboratories: e.g.
 Diamond Light Source, ISIS Neutron, and Muon Source, as well as international neutron and
 synchrotron radiation facilities; e.g. the Institut Laue-Langevin, European Synchrotron Radiation
 Facility. ESRF use was 6 nights in 2016 and 6 in 2017, total income in kind: £230k. PQM also


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 makes use of national computational facilities, including the Tier2 Computational Hub in Materials
 and Molecular Modelling (T2MMM).

 Telescopes used include: the European Southern Observatory (Chile), UKIRT (Hawaii, USA),
 Gemini North (Hawaii, USA), Isaac Newton Group of Telescope (La Palma, Spain), Liverpool
 Telescope (La Palma, Spain), Palomar Observatory (California, USA), as well as space-based
 facilities, including the Kepler and Spitzer space observatories. Lowry played a leading role in
 several international Large Programmes conducted at the European Southern Observatory,
 directed at understanding the YORP effect on asteroid motion. Urquhart led the science
 exploitation of the ATLASGAL survey and is Co-PI of the SEDIGISM survey (both performed with
 the APEX telescope and completed in 2016 and 2020 respectively, with ~1600 hours telescope
 time provided by Chile, ESO, Sweden, and the Max Planck Group). Urquhart is Co-PI of the APEX
 OGHReS, an ~1400-hour survey of the outer Galactic plane, 2017-22. This is a partnership
 between the MPIfR and ESO, and ESO has allocated 150 hours’ observing time to Urquhart as
 PI. Froebrich has led the international UWISH2(+E) survey since 2009, which resulted in the
 doubling of known Young Stellar Object outflows, allowing them to be studied statistically for the
 first time. There has been a total of over 800 hours’ PI time on UKIRT(UWISH2) and
 APEX(SEDIGISM), and over 2500 hours and 80 nights as PI/co-Is on various surveys and
 projects.

 Throughout the REF period, Physics has sustained and invested in its research infrastructure,
 supported by the University. Equipment purchases in the REF period (value £2.3m) include lasers,
 X-ray diffractometers, a chiller unit, ultra-low temperature freezer, spectrometers (ESR, NMR,
 optical emission), glove boxes, rheometer, grinders and polishers, coaters, 3D printer, a Vytran
 glass processing system (followed by its upgrade), 80 GS/s Oscilloscope, a fast KTN scanning
 system, and an ultrafast camera. Specialised facilities in the research groups are accessible by
 all Physics staff, and include:

    •   AOG operates 10 optics labs, equipped with full-sized vibration-isolation optical tables.
        OCT infrastructure includes several fully functioning systems also available to external
        visitors from academia and industry.
    •   CAPS operates a Light Gas Gun and an on-campus observatory (Beacon Observatory).
        Both are recognised by Europlanet as Trans-National Facilities and are open to annual
        competitions for fully funded visits by overseas academics. CAPS will continue to invest in
        these facilities, developing its enterprise/commercial and outreach activities. Modelling and
        simulations are performed in-house using a computer cluster (50 nodes). CAPS also
        operates two SEMs and a Raman spectrometer.
    •   PQM’s main in-house experimental facility is a unique double-stage adiabatic
        demagnetisation refrigerator (dADR), which enables 4-point resistivity and magnetic
        susceptibility measurements in conditions of high pressure (50 GPa), low-temperature
        (15mK) and high fields (6T). This is complemented with access to shared in-house facilities
        such as diffractometers and a SQUID reaching magnetic fields of 7T, as well as free access
        to a local computer cluster.
    •   Forensics makes use of in-house computing (a GPU cluster) and bench-top and handheld
        Raman systems.

 Physics also borrows specialist equipment. Long-term loans include a large target chamber
 (NASA, $30k), an ultra-high speed camera (another university, ~£250k), sputter coater (Quoram,
 ~£20k). Short-term loans include items such as lasers (from a variety of companies in the US,
 Europe, Japan etc., values include £22k, £88k and £160k), ophthalmic camera (£53k), and a
 spectrometer (Princeton ~£75k).

 3.4 Support for Developing Impact (see also 1.3, 4.2)
 By investing in AOG (including new staff posts) and developing Forensics during the REF period,
 we have supported activity that enables impactful research. Furthermore, after a 2019 strategic
 review, Physics has a clearly articulated goal of increased innovation and knowledge transfer to

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners outside academia, supported by professional advice, contract/patent support, travel
 money, seed-corn funds, etc. Physics maintains a strategy of protecting technology by patents,
 enabling commercialisation and developing future impact. All groups have impact strategies, and
 lab facilities are available equally for impact and pure research. Plans include:

    •   Forensics has been invited (with a spinout company) to submit a Phase 2 Small Business
        Research and Innovation (SBRI) grant, to support a Border Force plan for detection of illicit
        goods in postal items. Broadening the scope of Forensic research with the School of
        Anthropology and Conservation at Kent to develop an insect tracking system for forensic
        entomology, and to quantify and predict the impacts of economic development activities
        on nature. This will utilise our expertise in AI.
    •   AOG, whilst maintaining the current links with academia and industry in UK, is expanding
        its international partners in long-term collaborations with industry in Denmark, Germany,
        Ireland, and Italy, with academia in Denmark, Finland, Germany, Mexico, New Zealand,
        Romania and the USA, and with research centres such as the one in Linz (Austria), as well
        as with two of the Extreme Light Infrastructure sites in Europe (Szeged, Hungary; and
        Bucharest, Romania).
    •   CAPS is expanding its links with the European space industry and ESA with contracts in
        2019 and 2020, and will expand the Beacon Observatory, adding a second robotic
        telescope, enabling permitting more access to citizen scientists.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations and Partnerships
 There is strong institutional support for external partnerships. The School, Faculty (now the
 Division), and University provide funding for travel, joint PhDs with external partners, and cotutelle
 PhD students with European institutions. Of the papers submitted in this REF, 85% have authors
 from >1 institution and 77% have international co-authors. Example of national/international
 collaborations include:

    •   Leadership of Europlanet, a network of over 50 institutions providing an international
        research infrastructure for planetary science.
    •   CAPS staff are part of space missions and various astronomy surveys (see 3.3).
    •   AOG’s partnerships with leading companies such as NKT Photonics (Denmark), Optos UK
        (a division of Nikon), Centervue (Italy), Superlum (Ireland), and universities such as the
        Technical University of Denmark, University of Lübeck, University of Darmstadt, University
        of Tampere, as well as hospitals in the UK, Europe (in Copenhagen), US (the New York
        Ear and Eye Infirmary), and in Romania (the University of Pharmacy and Medicine,
        Timisoara).
    •   PQM has collaborations with co-authors in five continents. Members are embedded within
        a supportive set of networks including the International Institute for Complex Adaptive
        Matter (I2CAM), the Hubbard Theory Consortium, and the South-East Physics Network
        (SEPnet).
    •   Bilateral collaborations with institutions such as Diamond, NASA, ESA, etc.


 4.2 Development of Impact from Research and Contribution beyond Impact Case Studies
 (see also 1.3 and 3.4)
 SPS encourages staff to develop impact. As well as the impact case studies in this REF
 submission, since REF2014 examples include:

    •   AOG: Continuous translation of technology: An OCT system for endoscopy was delivered
        to St Mary’s Hospital (London), supported by Imperial College in 2016, and another system
        to the Hamlyn Centre for Robotics supported by the EPSRC in 2019. A third system was
        sent to Optos plc (Scotland), supported by Innovate UK (2015-17). OCT technology


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        protected by two patents was recently licensed to a manufacturer of ophthalmic diagnostic
        instruments, Centervue (Italy).
    •   CAPS: Industrial work using the light gas gun involves small contracts, circa £15-30k per
        annum; e.g. a joint PhD studentship with a SME funded by a STFC project (GNOSIS) and
        contracts from a US SME (Astroacoustics), which provides materials and sends staff to
        visit each year.
    •   Forensics: Three innovation successes with Visionmetric (Innovate UK grant numbers
        102779, 132200, 131989) to develop and commercialise our deep learning for Raman
        signal processing. The largest of these, Optimisation of high value biopharmaceuticals
        Manufacture using Resonant Raman Observations (project value £741,456), involved 5
        partners, including Biopharma giant Sanofi Genzyme.
    •   Forensics: Won a SBRI competition sponsored by the GovTech Catalyst and Border Force
        to detect illicit goods in postal items. This delivered an automated proof of concept
        detection system based on the YOLO deep learning network mm-wave imaging. The
        results of this work are currently embargoed.
    •   Forensics: First demonstration indicating the feasibility of using a Rapid Serial Visual
        Presentation (RSVP) for Forensic Facial Composite Construction through a behavioural
        study (2018, EPSRC £82,555). This was in collaboration with the School of Computing.
    •   Work with colleagues in Psychology and Computing led to an Innovate UK grant to
        Computing.

 4.3 Public Engagement
 SPS has a dedicated team for Public Outreach, including a Director of Public Engagement and a
 Marketing Officer, who vet all research grants before submission, checking outreach/engagement.
 All SPS academics are given dedicated time in their workload to take part in outreach activities.
 There is an extensive outreach programme taking science to schools and local people, funded
 both internally and via grants from bodies such as STFC, Ogden Trust, IoP, Royal Academy of
 Engineering, and UK Space Agency. Physics-based activities include: operating a portable
 planetarium, explaining space missions (Rosetta), how wind-powered turbines work, space
 explained, and supporting local schools to do astronomy on campus. There is also ‘Space School’,
 an annual three-day residential event on campus, typically hosting 50 young people who attend
 lectures (by internal and external speakers) and do mini-laboratory projects on space subjects
 (20th anniversary session in 2019, suspended in 2020 due to COVID-19).

 As well as frequent school visits, outreach activities are held at public bodies such as the IoP (e.g.
 Burchell was scientist in residence for a day in 2019, part of the IoP’s 50th Anniversary of the Apollo
 lunar landing) and Royal Society (e.g. Lowry was a participant in the Rosetta mission display at
 the 2016 Summer Exhibition). In 2020, SPS won a silver award for excellence in its strategic
 support for public engagement, in the first ever round of awards from the UKRI-funded National
 Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement.

 Citizen Science: Froebrich (CAPS) operates the Beacon Observatory for Kent staff and
 researchers (including UG students), and also for local amateurs and citizen scientists across
 Europe. Meetings and training talks have been organised on and off campus, involving 1,600
 people. Data taken by citizen scientists is used in the Hunting Outbursting Young Stars (HOYS)
 project, led by Froebrich, with ~72 active participants in 11 countries delivering data (over ~31,500
 images so far, worth ~830 hours’ pure exposure time on a 1m telescope). This has been used in
 five published refereed papers, with more in preparation or submission; some include citizen
 scientist co-authors (https://hoys.space/science/). Access to the Beacon Observatory has now
 been expanded as part of the Europlanet telescope network.

 4.4 Developing Future Multidisciplinary Research
 In 2019-20, a successful bid was made for a £250k Wolfson award to purchase a micro-CT
 scanner, with matching co-funding by the University. Podoleanu (AOG) and Burchell (CAPS) were
 Co-Is on the award. The scanner will be housed in an Imaging Centre in the School for

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Anthropology and Conservation, and AOG/CAPS staff will use it when it opens in 2021. The
 Imaging Centre will also be accessible to a variety of external organisations, including
 archaeological trusts, the Kent Police College, and various industrial partners. It will be the only
 facility of its kind in the South-East, providing an opportunity to bring together University
 researchers with professionals and practitioners across many fields.

 We also intend to broaden our activities in the health sector, with AOG taking a leadership role in
 establishing a cross-University research area in ‘Health’. This exploits the opening of our new
 Medical School. AOG is also part of a Wellcome Trust project: Multi-user equipment for surgery
 with 10 co-investigators in the UK at King’s College London (2020-25).

 4.5 Networking and Contribution to the Discipline
 Physics staff are strongly encouraged to network externally and support their discipline. This good
 citizenship is used in promotions, and throughout most of the REF period the Workload Allocation
 Model specifically allocated time for sitting on external panels and committees, etc. Physics staff
 are encouraged to be members or fellows of professional bodies, including IoP, RAS, RSC, APS,
 SPIE, OSA, etc. Physics has hosted externally funded Fellows from the Royal Society,
 Leverhulme, UK Space Agency, and ERC.
 Podoleanu received a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award 2015-20. Mason and
 Podoleanu were named in the top 2% of the world’s scientists in the Stanford list (2020).

 During the REF period, Physics staff sat on various national international panels, including:

    •   EPSRC Prioritisation Panel (Möller, 2017, 2019).
    •   NERC Prioritisation and Fellowship panel (Mason 2015-20).
    •   STFC Astronomy Grants Panel (Burchell 2013–18, and chair of the Planetary Sub-Division
        2016–18).
    •   STFC Solar System Advisory Panel (Lowry 2012–19, Burchell 2019–22).
    •   IOP International Strategy Advisory Committee (Mason, 2015 onwards).
    •   International Commission of Optics (Podoleanu, 2017-21), one of the 8 elected vice-
        presidents.
    •   NASA Cassini and New Frontiers Data Analysis Programme Review Panellist (Lowry).
    •   Access Panels and Scientific Advisory Committee membership of national (Diamond, ISIS,
        XMaS) and international (PSI) beamtime facilities (Quintanilla, Ramos). Ramos is an
        invited member and the champion of the working group for the Diamond II Flagship
        project BERRIES (Bright Environment for X-ray Raman, Resonant Inelastic and Emission
        Spectroscopies) and a member of the Scientific Advisory Committee for the Muon Facility
        at the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI) in Switzerland (2019 onwards).
    •   Scientific Steering Committee for the International Institute for Complex Adaptive Matter
        (ICAM/I2CAM) (Quintanilla).

 Advising International Bodies and Governments
    •   Mason: ESF Review Committee of Portuguese Review of Physics Research Units (Chair
        of the Exact Sciences panel), 2014, and review of Faculties of Physical Science, Life
        Science and Earth Science of the University of Iceland, 2020.
    •   Podoleanu: member of the panel: Evaluation of Research Infrastructures for Inclusion in a
        National Roadmap, the German Council of Science and Humanities (Wissenschaftsrat),
        providing advice to the German Federal Government and the state (Länder) governments
        on the structure and development of higher education and research, 2016.
    •   Podoleanu: 2020, appointed by the Education Ministry in Romania to be one of the 5
        members of the Selection Committee for Physics, selecting members of the National
        Council for accreditation of Higher Education titles, certificates, and diplomas (including
        doctoral titles).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Panel Membership
 Staff have reviewed numerous grant applications and sat on allocation panels; e.g. nationally for
 CRUK, EPSRC, MRC, Royal Society, STFC, UKSA; and internationally for NSF, NASA, ESRF
 (Grenoble), Czech Science Foundation, Estonian Research Council, Finland Academy of Science,
 German Research Foundation, Humboldt Stiftung, Israeli Science Foundation, Irish Research
 Board, National Science Centre, Poland. Membership of panels awarding prizes includes:

    •   Burchell: member of the nominations committee of the American Physical Society Topical
        group on Shock Compression (2014–16) and Barringer Medal Committee of the
        Meteoritical Society (2013–16).
    •   Podoleanu: Chair of the IUPAP Young Scientist Prize in Optics (2017, 2018, 2019, 2021)
        and member of the Michael S. Feld Biophotonics Award Committee, OSA, 2016–17.

 Conference Organisation
 Physics staff regularly sit on committees, act as session chairs, and organise major international
 conferences. Conferences and workshops hosted at Kent in the REF period include:
    •   The 14th Hypervelocity Impact Symposium 2017 (attended by 120 academics with the 522-
        page refereed proceedings published by Elsevier (Burchell, Price, and Wozniakiewicz).
    •   Image Guided Therapies Network meeting, funded by EPSRC with over 100 members
        from academia, medicine and industry, 2018 (Podoleanu).
    •   The 2nd Canterbury Conference on OCT with Emphasis on Broadband Optical Sources,
        2017, proceedings published by SPIE (Podoleanu).
    •   Mason: local Chair of the 2019 International Symposium on Atomic Cluster Collisions.
    •   Möller chaired the EPSRC-funded EMNEQ Focus Workshop: Algorithmic Perspectives on
        Complex Matter in 2019.

 Our staff also organised numerous external meetings, including:

    •   Mason (President of Europlanet), major role in organising recent annual Europlanet
        meetings: Berlin, 2018; Geneva, 2019 (a joint meeting with DPS-US, with over 1,700
        attendees, considered to be the largest ever planetary science meeting in Europe), and
        online in September 2020 (due to COVID-19) with 1,100 participants in 65 countries.
    •   Podoleanu: co-chair ‘International Seminar on Biomaterials and Regenerative Medicine -
        BIOREMED 2017 – Today’s research for tomorrow’s medicine’, Romania (2017), and co-
        chair Fifth Congress of the World Federation for Laser Dentistry and Sixth International
        Conference on Lasers in Medicine, Bucharest (2015).
    •   Quintanilla: chair of the meeting on Unconventional Superconductors: New Paradigms for
        New Materials (Cosener’s House, Abingdon, September 2018).
    •   CAPS members helped organise several one-day specialist meetings in London at the
        Royal Astronomical Society, plus a three-day astronomy workshop (2015).


 Support for Online Meetings during the COVID-19 Pause
 All regular internal meetings moved online to ensure continuity and support for staff during the
 pandemic. Staff in PQM (e.g. Quintanilla) developed guidelines for external bodies on how to run
 meetings online, which were adopted by the International Institute for Complex Adaptive Matter
 for general use. They were used in the Condensed Matter Physics in the City annual conference,
 re-branded ‘in ALL the Cities’ in 2020, one of the most highly attended Condensed Matter Physics
 conferences worldwide that summer (677 participants from 36 countries, with over 500 logged in
 at peak times). Carr and Möller took the leading role developing the online platform for the meeting,
 bringing together a conference portal, live zoom sessions, YouTube channel, and open notice
 board, with 11,000 views of the conference webpage on the PQM website.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Editorial Work
 Physics staff hold editor and associate editor roles on journals including: EPJ Techniques and
 Instrumentation, Int. Journal of Astrobiology, ISRN Biomedical Imaging, Molecular Astrophysics,
 Photonic Sensors-Springer, and Photonics MDPI, and produced special issues of journals such
 as Biomedical Optics Express, Journal of Modern Optics, IOP Journal of Physics C: Condensed
 Matter, and Procedia Engineering.
 Refereeing
 All our staff review papers for journals such as: PRL, Phys. Rev. A, B and X, Nature Physics and
 Nature Comms, Nature Scientific Reports, Optics Express, Optics Letters, A&A, MNRAS, Icarus,
 MAPS, Geochemica et Cosmochemica Acta, and Geophysical Research Letters.
 PGR Training
 AOG organised two Marie Curie training networks that had 20 fully funded PhD positions in
 Europe. Staff have also organised several PhD summer schools, both at Kent and nationally.
 These include: Physics by the Lake (for Condensed Matter PhD students) at Windsor Great Park
 (2016, 2018), and Stirling Univ. (2019); GRADnet workshops on Strong Correlations (2016, 2018)
 and Advanced Materials (2019); and the STFC Astronomy PhD Summer School 2019 (held on
 campus).
 External Visitors
 Research groups have weekly meetings, which include presentations from both internal and
 external speakers (online during the COVID crisis). Distinguished external speakers give SPS
 colloquia; e.g. in 2017, Professor D. Queloz (Nobel Laureate, 2019) and, in 2018, Professor Sir
 Michael Berry. External visitors make research visits for periods from one day or more each year.
 AOG has attracted numerous ECRs and senior scientists such as 9 Erasmus Exchange students
 from the Universities of Lille and Brno, two academic visitors each for a year supported by China
 scholarships, a Marie Curie academic visitor from France for two years, and several other
 researchers from the US, Denmark, Romania, and Italy on shorter visits. CAPS has benefited from
 visits by various UK and US researchers (including the Head of NASA’s Extraterrestrial Samples
 Curatorial Facility) and PhD students.




                                                                                          Page 15
