Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of York
 Unit of Assessment: Chemistry

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 1.1 Context and Structure
 The guiding principle of chemical sciences research at York is that it is of the highest international
 quality and is, moreover, distinctive for both its reach across traditional disciplinary boundaries and
 its impacts on society.

 In this context, research within the Department is structured into nine interdisciplinary themes.
 Each theme has a research strategy (section 1.2), a route for realising impact (section 1.3) and is
 delivered by a diverse academic body (section 2), supported with high-class facilities and sector-
 leading working practices (section 3, IES § 3,19–23). These themes, which are informed by the
 University research strategy (IES § 4,8), are: Archaeological and Paleoenvironmental Chemistry;
 Atmospheric Chemistry; Biological Inorganic Chemistry; Chemical and Structural Biology; Green
 and Sustainable Chemistry; Magnetic Resonance and Hyperpolarisation; Molecular Materials;
 Photochemistry and Spectroscopy; Synthesis, Catalysis and Mechanism. The responsibility for a
 theme’s vitality and future sustainability is overseen by lead members of the theme, usually a
 senior academic. They, in turn, are supported by a Department-wide strategy for the management
 and support of research, including provision of infrastructure and facilities (IES § 39–41).

 This structure was put in place following REF2014 and a subsequent independent external review
 of the Department’s research (IES § 2). In addition, the research strategy laid out in REF2014, ‘to
 develop multidisciplinary chemistry through larger visions’, provided a roadmap for the
 Department’s development in the current REF period—a strategy which has been realised.
 Indeed, since 2014 research in chemistry at York has thrived, as demonstrated by the increasing
 number of papers that appear in the top 10% of citations, growing international collaborations (Fig
 1-1, section 4), and an increase in research funding. The average annual income of £10.1M in the
 current REF period is some 46% higher than the analogous figure for REF2014 (section 3),
 placing York between 5th and 9th (2015–2019) by total annual value of research income amongst
 Russell Group chemistry departments. In accord with the interdisciplinary ethos at York (IES §
 2,4), the breadth of the Department’s research is further evidenced by its position as the top grant-
 holding chemistry department in the UK for NERC and 2nd for BBSRC, alongside a portfolio that
 spans all the science-related research councils.

                        65                                                         75
                                                                                                                   Fig 1-1. Plot of
                                                                                         Outputs in 10% citation




                                                                                                                   number of
 international author




                        60                                                         70                              publications in top
   Percentage with




                                                                                                                   10% of cited papers
                                                                                               percentile




                        55                                                         65                              in the field and % of
                                                                                                                   publications having
                        50                                                         60                              one or more
                                           %outputs with international author                                      international co-
                        45                                                         55                              authors in REF
                                           outputs in 10% citation percentile                                      period (SciVal
                        40                                                         50                              October 2020).
                                                            2018
                             2014


                                    2015


                                             2016


                                                     2017




                                                                    2019


                                                                           2020




                                                                                  Year

 These improvements in research performance were delivered in concert with internationally
 recognised commitments and actions to increase equality, diversity and inclusivity (section 2). The
 Department has held an Athena SWAN Gold Award for fifteen consecutive years and is a beacon
 of good practice for LGBTQ+ and disability matters.



                                                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 As evidenced by the ten international research prizes/awards to research staff over the
 REF2021 period (in addition to 13 RSC prizes, section 4.3), York can now claim globally
 recognised research leadership in archaeological chemistry, structural biology, biological
 inorganic chemistry, atmospheric chemistry, and hyperpolarised NMR; all of which cut across
 the traditional sub-divisions of chemistry.

 Further evidence of the vitality of research:
    •   growth in grant income (section 3), including increases in UKRI funding (annual average
        £4.1M over REF2014 and £6.1M over REF2021) and in EU funding (annual average of
        £0.8M over REF2014 and £1.7M over REF2021);
    •   success in both early career and senior fellowship schemes including ERC (x 4), Ken
        Murray Royal Society Research Professorship, Royal Society Industry Fellows (x 2), RS
        University Research Fellow, RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow, UKRI Future Leader Fellow
        (section 4.3);
    •   six active or emeritus staff who are FRS, two new in REF period: Carpenter, Davies,
        Dodson, Gai, Goodby, Perutz—a 50:50 M:F ratio.

 Thus, following the structural changes and independent review, Chemistry at York in 2020 is
 different to that in 2014. The overarching themes of interdisciplinary working, alongside a
 commitment to equality, have borne fruit in terms of globally leading areas of research, greater
 citations rates, increasing collaborations, growing Research Council grant income, international
 research awards, significant impact case studies, and—most conspicuously—a raising of research
 ambition within the Department.

 1.2 Research Strategy (IES § 18)
 The wide-ranging changes made in 2015 to managing and delivering research led to restructuring
 of the management of research within the Department. The Chair of the Departmental Research
 Committee became deputy Head of Department (dHoD) and an ex-officio member of the
 Department Management Team, while a Research Office was also established, staffed by two
 administrators, to provide detailed research management information for performance monitoring
 and strategy development. These management changes were coupled with a targeted recruitment
 policy for new academic staff (section 2.1). In addition, the research strategy was rewritten to
 include a long-term vision that fostered multidisciplinary research and technology development.
 The resulting strategy, which engaged staff through research theme leaders and research fora,
 has since guided investments, appointments and internal organisation. In addition, retirements
 over the REF period allowed for a critical re-evaluation of research priorities, resulting in conscious
 reductions in some areas of activity. At the same time, other strategic areas were
 grown/refocused through targeted appointments to achieve critical mass (IES § 22).

 The Department’s current research themes are summarised below, along with highlights in the
 current REF period as evidence of a theme’s vitality, the theme’s strategic goals, and leadership in
 research as evidenced by internationally competitive research awards.

 Archaeological and Paleoenvironmental Chemistry
 This group has shown global leadership in geochronology and palaeoproteomics (Penkman, 2017
 Pittcon award), enabling a deeper understanding of biomineralisation, evolution and climate
 (including sea-level) change through development of advanced techniques. By working closely
 with industry and policymakers, this science was used as evidence in the improved decision-
 making associated with the management of historical sites and major infrastructure development.
 Highlights include insights into the evolutionary history of Darwin’s South American ungulates via
 in-depth MS analysis (Thomas-Oates) and resolving the phylogenetic relationships of early
 hominins from dental proteome analysis (Penkman). This research theme grew following York’s
 institutional investment in mass spectrometry (sections 3.2–3.3) and commitments from NERC and
 ERC to a laboratory for amino acid analysis (NEaar – led by Penkman; ERC Consolidator Grant
 2020–2025).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The theme plans to develop and apply analytical tools that provide the chemical understanding of
 the history of human evolution, culture and burial, including environmental markers as indicators of
 climatic and ecological change.

 Atmospheric Chemistry
 During the REF period, research in this theme delivered advances in the understanding of
 emissions and their links to urban and global air pollution, from diesel vehicles and fracking
 through to solvents and consumer products. By combining modelling and field data, work at York
 shed light on how the ocean influences the atmospheres of remote regions (Carpenter FRS 2019,
 ERC Advanced grant 2019–2024) and how natural emissions change ozone and aerosols. York’s
 leadership in instrumentation delivered techniques for trace detection of chemicals as gases and
 in aerosols, from which the rigorous evaluation of low-cost air pollution sensors was pioneered.

 Benefiting from long-term commitments and investment in both people and equipment from NERC
 and DEFRA, the theme’s vision is to maintain its existing leadership in reactive gases chemistry,
 tropospheric observations and modelling, and to grow further research activity in areas related to:
 air pollution exposure and policy (enabled by Moller via a DEFRA Senior Research Fellowship
 starting 2019), optical and sensor-based instrumental techniques (Edwards, ERC Starting Grant
 2019 and proleptic lectureship), non-exhaust electric vehicle emissions (Manfred, NERC
 Advanced Fellowship, 2019–2023), and biogeochemical feedbacks and responses (Carpenter).

 Biological Inorganic Chemistry
 The work of this group is distinctive for its direct study of metal-containing proteins and enzymes,
 using electrochemical/spectroscopic/structural methods combined with advanced protein
 production and isolation techniques. Highlights in the REF period include studies on the
 mechanisms and structures of new copper-containing oxidases (LPMOs) which led to an
 understanding of polysaccharide oxidation by the copper-active sites of LPMOs (Walton, Davies,
 IChemE Global Energy Award, 2016). This work contributes to an impact case study on biofuel
 production. The development of redox-switchable artificial metalloenzymes (ArMs) opened-up new
 methods for the production of ArMs and is underpinning new work into the catalytic potential of
 ArMs in organic transformations (Duhme).

 Strategic aims include integrating siderophore chemistry into new antibiotics, further development
 of ArMs especially towards their redox-switching in catalysis (Duhme), and use of advanced
 spectroscopic and electrochemical techniques to investigate the fundamental copper-oxygen
 intermediates in copper oxygenases (Parkin, Walton).

 Chemical and Structural Biology
 Alongside multiple insights into protein-catalysed organic reactions through structure analysis,
 work within the York Structural Biology Laboratory (YSBL) saw advances made in the
 understanding of the role of saccharides in microbiota and health (reported in three separate
 Nature papers, see REF2), thus cementing the link between gut biochemistry and human
 wellbeing (Davies FRS, RS Davy Medal 2015). Crystallographic computing work completed in
 YSBL continues furthermore to provide the cornerstone of protein structure work carried out
 worldwide (impact case study), and the big-data expertise that underpins this was applied to
 address issues in datasets related to large-scale climate modelling (Cowtan). Biocatalysis is an
 important sub-theme, notably including the discovery of a reductive aminase which is active
 across a range of compounds (Grogan).

 Strategic aims include characterisation and production of enzymes for biocatalysis particularly in
 scale-up processes of relevance to industry, glycoscience (led by Davies, with Fascione and new
 lecturer Willems, ERC Starter Grant), antimicrobials, diagnostic resolved magnetic resonance
 imaging to study drug metabolism (with Kennerley), and computational methods (Agirre, RS-
 URF) and software development (Cowtan). The purchase of a new 200 kV cryo-electron
 microscope augmented by the appointment of Blaza (UKRI FL fellowship, 2020) and the


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 construction of a bespoke building to house high-field NMR with cryoprobe and state-of-the-art
 crystallography facilities (£6M) maintain cutting-edge facilities within YSBL.

 Green and Sustainable Chemistry
 This group has an international reputation in chemistry relating to green catalysis, and
 extraction/processing of chemicals from biomass/waste (North, Green Chemistry Award 2014).
 Highlights include the discovery of abundant-metal catalysts for cyclic carbonate synthesis under
 ambient conditions (North), creation of an evidence-based catalogue of solvents for green
 synthesis (Clark), and the study of lignin-derived polyesters obtained via enzyme-mediated
 catalysis. In accord with its application-led focus, work in this theme has commercial impact. For
 instance, technology for the catalytic synthesis of cyclic carbonates from waste CO2 and epoxides
 was developed and licensed to a Dutch company, Alta Innovations Ltd, which then secured the
 financing needed to design a commercial scale plant. Other impacts include green consultancy
 companies led by entrepreneurial research fellows from within the theme.

 Strategic aims continue to focus on industrial/environmental application, including: sustainable
 solvents, microwave-enhanced biomass processing (MacQuarrie), electrochemical CO2 fixation
 chemistry (North, Parkin), and a green solvent, Cyrene, commercialised by Circa (Clark).

 Magnetic Resonance and Hyperpolarisation
 The York-originated SABRE hyperpolarisation method in 2009 was a breakthrough in the world of
 hyperpolarisation (Duckett, share of Gunther Laukien Award 2020), upon which new
 developments in imaging and hyperpolarisation have continued to be built during the REF period.
 Research work in this theme is conducted in the dedicated Centre for Hyperpolarisation in
 Magnetic Resonance (CHyM) facility, which co-locates fundamental and clinical scientists
 alongside a 3 Tesla MRI human-imaging facility (funded by MRC joint grant, reported under UoA
 4). The appointment of Kennerley into CHyM, a specialist in clinical imaging research, signals the
 Department’s long-term approach to crossing traditional boundaries. A highlight of the REF period
 was the discovery of SABRE-Relay, a method for hyperpolarising a wide range of biochemical
 substrates which opens-up medicinal molecules for potential imaging applications (Duckett).

 Future research directions for this theme include diversification of hyperpolarisation techniques to
 medicinally relevant imaging substrates, development of low-field magnetic resonance capabilities
 for effective polarisation transfer (Halse), and the application of SABRE to studying low
 concentration intermediates in catalytic cycles (Weller).

 Molecular Materials
 Driven in part by investment in two new appointments, Spicer and Avestro (RS-Dorothy Hodgkin
 Fellow and proleptic lectureship), research in this theme focuses on renewable self-assembled,
 self-organised and nanoscale materials, and their application in next-generation technologies,
 from optoelectronics and energy to tissue engineering. These research areas represent an
 evolution of York’s work on liquid crystals (Goodby FRS, Freedericksz Medal of the Russian Liquid
 Crystal Society 2016). Highlights from the REF period include the development of innovative
 multicomponent supramolecular gels (Smith), and a multi-instrumental approach to the study of
 structure and organisation of interfaces in ionic liquid mixtures (Slattery, Bruce).

 Future work will target development of innovative gels and molecular scaffolds for stem cell growth
 and differentiation, with applications in tissue growth and wound healing (Smith, Spicer); the use
 of spectroscopic techniques to probe nanosystems, including the tailored surface properties of
 hydrocarbon/fluorocarbon ionic liquid mixtures, and the synthesis and understanding of -
 conjugated molecular materials with inherent and emergent energy, optical and electronic
 properties (Avestro).

 Photochemistry and Spectroscopy
 York’s long-established international reputation in time-resolved photochemistry and laser
 spectroscopy (Perutz FRS, AAAS fellowship 2015) was strengthened in the REF period by the
 appointment of Hunt, adding capability in 2D infrared spectroscopy. Highlights in the REF period

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 included the use of IR spectroscopy and XPS to study the photocatalytic reduction of CO2 over
 TiO2 (Perutz), and the use of DFT-calculated magnetic shielding contour plots to visualise
 aromaticity (Karadakov). Hunt demonstrated 2D-IR in biomedical applications (patent
 application), collaborating with UCB Biopharma SPRL for drug discovery, and with NPL for
 measurement strategies related to optogenetic protein dynamics.

 Strategic ambitions for the group include the wider use of 2D-IR to investigate species in biological
 applications, spectroscopic studies of catalytic intermediates in metalloenzymes (Hunt, Parkin),
 gas-phase spectroscopy of laser-induced photoproducts important for the development of new
 sunscreens (Dessent), and determining the reaction dynamics of short-lived species relevant to
 environmental monitoring (Dillon, link to Atmospheric Chemistry theme).

 Synthesis, Catalysis and Mechanism
 Building on the Department’s long-established foundations of synthetic organic and organometallic
 chemistry, this theme focuses on developing synthetic methodologies, alongside rigorous
 mechanistic work, and their exploitation in real-world applications. Weller (EPSRC Established
 Career Fellowship), Fairlamb and O’Brien (Royal Society Industrial Fellowships) exemplify this
 approach, with notable links to industry in the REF period (e.g. AstraZeneca, Bayer AG,
 Chemspeed Technologies, Croda, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson-Matthey, Pfizer, Redbrick Molecular,
 SCG Chemicals, Shell, Syngenta). Highlights of work include: time-resolved methods for
 interrogation of organomanganese catalysts for C–H activation (Lynam, Fairlamb), the solvent-
 dependency of hydrogen-bonding vs halogen-bonding in co-crystallisation (Perutz), cascade ring-
 expanding cyclisation processes in synthesis (Unsworth), and fragment-based inhibitors of the
 SARS-CoV2 main protease (section 1.4, O’Brien).

 The theme’s on-going strategy is to solve challenging synthetic and catalytic problems in a
 resource efficient way. The focus will be on novel experimental approaches, e.g. automated
 synthetic chemistry, spectroscopy over wide timescales at RAL (Lynam), solid-state
 transformations (Weller), cascade reactions (Unsworth) combined with theoretical studies (with
 Karadakov), all with a trajectory towards real-world applications. In accord with this strategy, long-
 term relationships with the aforementioned industries are being developed, as are links to other
 departmental themes: Biological Inorganic Chemistry, Hyperpolarisation, Photochemistry and
 Chemical Biology.

 1.3 Impact Strategy (IES § 12)
 As described in the Impact Cases Studies, research impacts at York have emerged largely from
 research themes where there is critical mass of high-quality research activity, sustainable long-
 term funding and where the primary research has on-going engagement with end-user needs. The
 emphasis on integrated multidisciplinary teams in the Department’s research strategy (section 1.2)
 is also, therefore, a cornerstone of the Department’s impact strategy (IES § 12, 49–50).

 In this regard, in order to enhance the translation of the Department’s research into societal
 impact, the co-location of researchers external to the Department/University to work alongside and
 within the research themes is an important aspect of the strategy. For instance, the Wolfson
 Atmospheric Chemistry Laboratories (WACL) houses twelve staff from the UKRI National Centre
 for Atmospheric Science along with joint academic appointments with DEFRA and industry. YSBL
 houses industry-funded researchers via its long-term relationship with Novozymes, and has a
 seconded position from the Collaborative Computational Project for crystallographic software
 (Wilson). The Green Chemistry Centre of Excellence (GCCE) has a dedicated suite for industrial
 engagement, and runs RenewChem, an industry-focussed and industry-informed graduate
 programme. Such co-location of researchers from both within and outside the Department, who
 help inform the Department’s research activities, maximises the translation of research into
 impact.

 As an example, in the area of atmospheric chemistry and climate, a small number of external
 organisations were fostered as key partners, delivering impact across a range of different scientific
 and environmental policy issues. The strategy was to invest resources in developing hard-wired

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relationships and positioning York as a ‘trusted supplier’ of research, advice and evidence. This
 approach included joint academic appointments and meaningful workload allowances for staff who
 take on leadership positions (e.g. with government science advisory groups, advice to Select
 Committees on international scientific assessments, and with the United Nations). Fig 1-2
 illustrates how research interlinks between partners, which underpin three of the impact case
 studies in Atmospheric Chemistry.




 Fig 1-2. Illustration of how individual areas of impact within York atmospheric chemistry research
 link with selected end-user partners.

 The success of this approach when applied to economic impact is also illustrated by the case
 studies relating to crystallographic software and enzymes for industry. In the latter the £billion scale
 of impact is created through a long-standing relationship with Novozymes, who in turn manufacture
 cleaning products and biofuels, involving Unilever and international biorefineries (IES § 45). In the
 case of crystallographic software, the Department invested in the support of facilities and academic
 staff (Agirre RS-URF, Cowtan) whose research underpins the long-term relationship with the
 STFC CCP4 consortium, in turn supporting economic impacts via an international
 academic/industrial group through worldwide software provision. As evidence for the impact of the
 Department’s research in protein science, the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for ‘excellence,
 innovation and public benefit’ was awarded to YSBL in 2020.

 Beyond the work described in the Impact Case Studies, the importance and value of impact is well
 understood throughout the Department. Accordingly, the impact strategy includes practical actions
 that can add value to, and complement, existing research programmes and knowledge exchange
 (KE) activity. To this end, there is a Departmental Impact and KE lead (Lewis) who provides local
 guidance, supported by both departmental and faculty management executives (IES § 49–50).
 Departmental impact activities are complemented by University support provided by the Business
 Development Team (in partnership development, commercialisation and protecting intellectual
 property) and the External Relations Team, offering support through their events team and press
 office for issues such as publicising research and public engagement.

 In this context, the Department’s five impact case studies for REF2021 provide a model for the
 future. Accordingly, the Department’s medium-term strategy is focused on the development of
 new areas of critical mass that can deliver impact in the late 2020s. This approach is exemplified
 by new investments in staff working in Molecular Materials, Green and Sustainable Chemistry and
 Magnetic Resonance and Hyperpolarisation, which are prioritised as research areas having both
 high scientific and impact potential, particularly for clinical applications (sections 1.5, 2.1)


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.4 Response to COVID-19
 Perhaps one of the most vivid examples of the Department’s ‘impact culture’ and its ability to
 translate research into societal benefit, is that Department researchers played prominent roles in
 several COVID-19-related projects (IES § 40, COVID annex).

 1) Work on the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein, a major immunogen implicated in the
 pathology of COVID-19, was initiated by Antson in March 2020, continuing through lockdown. The
 protein materials benefited UK labs and industrial companies, contributing to several studies at
 Universities of Oxford, Sheffield, and Imperial College, including in the testing of healthcare
 workers and contributing to the Oxford vaccine efforts, aiding in the development of new testing
 procedures with industrial partners, Avacta Life Science and Aptamer Group. The work led to a
 joint publication involving ~fifty co-authors, showing a breadth of interdisciplinarity.

 2) Exposure to air quality was identified early in the COVID-19 pandemic as a potential risk factor
 increasing severity of disease and mortality rates. WACL remained open throughout with a small
 staff undertaking critical long-term measurements with Evans providing ten-day pollution risk
 forecasts to DEFRA and PHE. At the request of the DEFRA CSA and Minister of State, Lewis led
 a rapid evidence review on air quality/COVID-19 interactions and presented further evidence at a
 later Environment Food and Rural Affair Select Committee Inquiry. WACL members engaged
 widely with the media and Government on air quality issues during this time (section 4.2).

 3) The spike glycoprotein (S) of SARS-CoV-2 is perhaps the most recognisable feature of the
 coronavirus behind the COVID-19 pandemic. Indeed, many COVID-19 survivors develop
 antibodies that target S. The spike glycoprotein is extensively glycosylated, creating a glycan
 “shield” that helps it evade immune recognition. The different atomic structures of S and its
 glycans, published in 2020, informed the design of many vaccines and antibody treatments
 against COVID-19, including the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine.

 Most structures were validated by Privateer, software produced and maintained by YSBL.
 Privateer ensures that critical carbohydrate components do not contain errors that could potentially
 mislead vaccine or antibody design (evidenced in citations). Since the start of the pandemic, the
 YSBL team (led by Agirre and Cowtan) focused on 1) the automatic cross-linking of structural
 information with glycomics data to ensure the creation of biologically sound glycan structures; 2)
 introduction of native support of Electron Cryo-Microscopy maps; and 3) the creation of a
 standalone version of the software. These developments led to the inclusion of Privateer in the
 validation pipeline of the CCP-EM consortium.

 4) COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, requires effective therapeutics. Shorter-term approaches
 (one to two years) focus on repurposing known drugs and on developing vaccines. A longer-term
 approach (five to ten years) is to use the methods of fragment-based drug discovery to identify
 suitable, small-molecule antiviral therapeutics, by targeting distinct parts of the viral machinery.
 The York 3D Fragment Library (O’Brien, Hubbard) was deployed as part of a fragment screening
 campaign at the Diamond XChem Facility against two COVID-19 proteins (with Walsh/Ahel/von
 Delft, Diamond). In February 2020, a large-scale screen against the SARS-CoV-2 main protease,
 one of two cysteine viral proteases essential for viral replication, identified two York lead
 compounds. These molecules offer structural and reactivity information for on-going structure-
 based drug design against SARS-CoV-2 main protease (public domain in March 2020, the COVID
 MoonShot; fully open-initiative). In May 2020, a screen against the SARS-CoV-2 macrodomain
 enzyme identified four York hit compounds (O’Brien, public domain in July 2020).

 1.5 Strategic Aims
 In addition to a clearly articulated and resourced science strategy (section 1.2), the Department’s
 future success also hinges on people (section 2). To this end, the strategy has been to support
 research areas through targeted senior appointments, and to attract and support future research
 leaders. There has, accordingly, been growth in the numbers of independent research fellows
 (IRFs) (section 2.1) since REF2014. In addition to the recruitment of ECRs, the Department made

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recent strategic appointments into the new research themes: laser spectroscopy, MRI, Cryo-EM,
 glycoscience, organometallic/catalytic chemistry and molecular materials.

 Looking to the future, the well-established themes of Atmospheric Chemistry, Biological Inorganic
 Chemistry, Chemical and Structural Biology continue to thrive, delivering world-leading research
 alongside societal impact. These themes thus provide compelling models as to how this can be
 achieved. In this regard and following this model, ECR appointments during the REF period
 safeguard the future (Blaza, Willems, Agirre in YSBL and Manfred, Edwards in WACL).
 Additionally, over the coming period new appointments within Green and Sustainable Chemistry
 will be made, including the recruitment of a new Director (Clark reduced his fte), offering
 opportunities for new research directions in sustainable industries, low carbon futures, chemical
 engineering and the circular economy. The Department will further strengthen Archaeological and
 Paleoenvironmental Chemistry as a proven enabler of influential, often profoundly interdisciplinary
 research that reaches across science and the humanities.

 Notwithstanding a clear direction of travel for academic appointments, there are many challenges
 ahead, including the effects of the COVID pandemic and the transition period from Brexit. In
 particular, the uncertainty that always exists in re-securing current DTP/CDT funding in a volatile
 UKRI environment is a concern. The Department’s approach therefore has been to diversify the
 funding base for research, especially for PGR students (section 3.1). In particular, this funding
 base includes a focus on philanthropic donations—an area in which the Department has been
 successful through the establishment of a major benefaction for the recruitment and support of
 PGR students (>£1M in REF period) from Dr Tony Wild, a York alumnus (section 3.2). This
 approach to funding, placed alongside the long-term research strategy and cohort of talented and
 young researchers (section 2.1), means the Department is well placed to meet future challenges.

 1.6 Open Research Environment and Ethics
 The Department was an early adopter of open access of research data, driven in large part by the
 existing open cultures. This culture led to a high degree of compliance and, between 2016 and
 2019, >95% of the Department’s outputs were open access. Further, since 2015, 140 datasets
 were deposited to the University data repository in addition to datasets deposited in subject
 domain archives such as the Centre for Environmental Data and Analysis (CEDA), the Protein
 Data Bank, CCDC and NOAA (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration).

 In other examples of making data open access, the Department deposited 360 X-ray single crystal
 structure datasets to the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre; and, over the period from
 2014–2019, 356 datasets were deposited in the Protein Data Bank. The Department’s work in
 open access data, through Cowtan, contributed to University management of research data. In
 particular, the University formed an open research strategy and operations groups within the REF
 period (IES § 16–17), of which Cowtan is a protagonist.

 Sector-leading Practices
 In protein structure research, it is and has been routine practice to deposit experimental X-ray
 data. As such, YSBL also has an archive of processed experimental data back to at least the
 1980s. Additionally, YSBL has retained all unprocessed image data since 1998 – these are made
 available on request to users.

 Penkman co-established the open access aminostratigraphy database kept at NOAA.

 The atmospheric chemistry group at York ensures all data meet all open accessibility and
 metadata requirements, which are deposited with CEDA, a petabyte storage and analysis
 capability offered by STFC. Since 2000, York has made ~70 million atmospheric observations
 publicly available via CEDA, comprising ~1,200 individual datasets, involving 42 different
 instruments. WACL is active in advising global bodies such as the WMO in ensuring long-term
 datasets on global change are also open access, including working to create standards for
 reporting of pollutants such as VOCs and NOx. Research data from the York-led Cape Verde


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Atmospheric Observatory are open access through the UN World Data Centre for Greenhouse
 Gases and as part of the UK data submissions to UNFCCC.

 Research Ethics (IES § 14,29)
 All staff and students are made aware of their ethical responsibilities at the time of recruitment
 and/or upon submitting a research proposal, through university policies. Notwithstanding the clear
 University expectations on research ethics however, the Department also sees this as a matter of
 culture, with engagement and accountability at its heart. As such, the Department adopts
 progressive data sharing procedures (see above). This is coupled with regular open seminars
 across the Department, in which PGR and postdocs are encouraged to speak about results and
 data in an open and friendly atmosphere. These seminars—organised by academic staff—happen
 at group, theme and departmental levels. During the REF period, the Department held several
 research fora specifically dedicated to discussing research ethics.




                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. PEOPLE
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The Department is people-focused. We seek to appoint the best and then retain this talent within a
 supportive and positive culture (IES § 9). Indeed, as might be expected of an Athena SWAN gold
 Department, equality principles inform much of what we do (section 2.3, IES § 24–26, 35–37).
 This approach has borne fruit in terms of staff engagement and also in terms of intra-Departmental
 collaborations. For instance, in the Employee Engagement survey in 2017, 96% of staff said that
 they liked the work they did and that their work was interesting to them, 87% said that colleagues
 cooperated to get work done even if it meant doing something outside the usual activities. 94%
 confirmed that their Manager / Supervisor treated them with respect. Moreover, a 2020 culture
 survey revealed that many felt that the Department is a 'great place to work' (87% of academic,
 research and professional support staff). 90% of academic staff, 92% of professional support staff,
 and 83% of PGRs confirmed an understanding of the Department’s policies in relation to equality;
 these figures underline the emphasis on a supportive, fair and sustainable culture.

 56.8 fte are returned to REF 2021, with a total active headcount of 62 Category A staff. As one of
 the largest UK chemistry departments, the strategy during the REF period was to maintain rather
 than grow academic staff numbers. As such, staff turnover has created most of the new
 opportunities for academic recruitments, by which areas of critical mass identified within the
 research strategy were strengthened (nine appointments in period, see below). The approach was
 twofold: to appoint talented ECRs into lectureships and, where required, established researchers
 into leadership positions. This strategy, alongside best practice in the support of existing staff,
 means that there was an increase in the quality of outputs and income/academic staff fte (section
 1.1) during the REF period, even while transitioning through a period where several of the
 Department’s research leaders (Clark, Gai, Perutz, Taylor, Wilson, Goodby, Hubbard) retired or
 moved to part-time working.

 Academic Appointments in REF period
 Avestro (Molecular Materials; RS-DHF), Blaza (Chemical and Structural Biology; Lecturer),
 Carslaw (0.4 fte, Atmospheric Chemistry; Reader – p/t appointment, also p/t with Ricardo plc),
 Halse (Photochemistry and Spectroscopy; Lecturer), Hunt (Photochemistry and Spectroscopy;
 Professor), Kennerley (CHyM; Lecturer), Spicer (Molecular Materials; Lecturer), Weller
 (Synthesis, Catalysis and Mechanism; Professor), and Willems (Chemical and Structural Biology;
 Lecturer). All except Hunt, Weller and Carslaw are appointed to their first academic post.

 Nine ECRs (section 4.3) were appointed during the REF period, up 60% since REF2014. Part of
 his increase is the result of a new process (led by Halse) for identifying and selecting the
 strongest IRF applicants, as follows. Following an Open Day for interested future ECRs, guidance
 is given on CV and research proposal preparation and formal assessment of fellowship
 applications is then made in consultation with senior academic staff. Promising candidates, who
 are aligned with the research strategy, are selected for submission of bids to fellowship funders,
 and provided with departmental support, including mentoring and matching funds and/or research
 studentship support. All staff applying for fellowships are supported through a funded PhD
 studentship or PDRA provision. New fellows appointed through this process are assigned a
 mentor and hold regular discussions with the HoD during their probationary period (IES § 29). In
 this regard, the Department has an excellent record of moving independent research fellows to
 permanent lectureships (>90%).

 Staff Development
 In addition to the support given to new appointments, all staff are supported in their personal and
 career development via senior academic mentoring of each of six management/teaching sections.
 This management structure deliberately cuts across the research themes. The senior academic,
 labelled as academic group leader (AGL), provides support including enabling internal peer review
 of papers and grant proposals, career development advice including helping to identify key
 training needs. Probation for these staff is conducted by the HoD in consultation with the AGL.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has a rolling programme of research leave for academic staff, in which staff are
 encouraged to spend time at other institutions and use the period to establish new research areas.
 A formal process is in place to oversee research leave applications and outcomes. Over the REF
 period, there were 26 individual periods of research leave, each of approximately ten weeks (IES
 § 23).

 Postdoctoral Researchers
 Postdoctoral researchers are an integral part of the Department’s research effort. As befits the
 Department’s people-centric approach, this group of staff is supported both during their research
 projects and in career development. There is a member of academic staff (Avestro) who is their
 named Champion, who provides bespoke and personal support to PDRAs. For instance, working
 closely with the University’s Research Excellence Training Team, the Department provides
 PDRAs with a training package including access to PGR training programme, the University
 coaching scheme and award-winning Leadership Training (IES § 22, 27–29). In addition, the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is embedded into the
 Department’s Athena SWAN action plan to ensure oversight and proactive monitoring of actions
 by the Equality and Diversity Group (EDG, IES § 35–37).

 All PDRAs are provided with a peer mentor and one-to-one career development support, a
 scheme developed from running a successful pilot for PDRAs in partnership with the institution.
 Importantly for research career development, PDRAs are also offered opportunities to sit on
 departmental committees, to co-supervise undergraduate and postgraduate students related to
 their project, to deliver a small number of tutorials/workshops and to offer their own undergraduate
 summer research projects, enabling professional experience to be gained for next career steps.
 Finally, as part of the Department’s commitment to equality, the HoD works with the EDG to
 monitor the balance of protected characteristics (e.g. gender, race) within the PDRA cohort (IES §
 27–28). As part of its commitment to the careers of its staff, the Department employs a dedicated
 Employability and Diversity Officer who provides one-to-one careers support for all staff and
 students, including specifically for PDRAs, e.g. through networking events and CV workshops.

 Response to COVID-19 (IES § COVID19 annex)
 The COVID-19 crisis brought significant pressure on researchers and research staff. In response,
 during the crisis the Department took a proactive stance towards protecting staff wellbeing, most
 notably though actions towards mental-health support, e.g. mental health fora, stress
 management classes (IES § 25). The Department also worked towards the early reopening of
 research laboratories. At the end of the first lockdown in March 2020 technical staff were
 specifically tasked to open research labs and repurpose teaching labs, allowing a restart of
 research activity in July, albeit at reduced occupancy levels. Access to research labs under
 COVID-secure working arrangements has continued uninterrupted since.

 2.2 Training/Supervision of PGR students (IES § 30–34, section 3.2)
 All PGR students in Chemistry undertake the Innovative Doctoral Training in Chemistry (iDTC)
 programme, which offers the advantages of a cohort-based postgraduate experience to all
 research students studying Chemistry. Students participating in other doctoral training networks
 can also opt into iDTC activities. Graduate training is offered to all students to support the
 development of scientific, transferable and employability skills, and to enhance the research skills
 of each student. This core training is progressive and takes place at appropriate points throughout
 a student's degree programme, with most of the training taking place in Year 1. In conjunction with
 Core training, students select training related to their research area to enhance skills, techniques
 and knowledge. One further distinctive aspect of the iDTC is its focus on supporting international
 PGRs, which includes a bespoke English language course. For PGR students undertaking
 interdisciplinary projects (e.g. in Chemical Biology or Atmospheric Chemistry) tailored training
 across traditional discipline boundaries is provided, e.g. NERC DTPs ACCE, ECORISC and
 PANORAMA, EU ITNs and the BBSRC White Rose Mechanistic Biology DTP.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Integration of PGR Students into the Research Culture
 As in all chemistry departments, PGR students at York are intrinsic to the success of the
 Department’s research and are, therefore, integral to the research cultures of both their immediate
 research groups and the wider department. In terms of the latter, integration and collaboration
 between research groups are fostered through the shared training experience, research seminars
 and group meetings, academic co-supervision, mentoring and other support (e.g. disabilities, well-
 being). In addition, all new PGR students are assigned a mentor from the existing research
 student community. PGR students have local access to state-of-the-art research facilities and
 analytical services – nearly all of which are free at the point of access. Students are also
 allocated a personal consumables and conference budget, the latter enabling network
 development, presentation of their work to a wider audience and learning first-hand of
 international developments. Additional opportunities to present research include regular student-
 led graduate seminars, annual poster competitions and regional seminars.

 The Department earmarks funds to recognise and reward its best PGR researchers. For instance,
 the Kathleen Mary Stott Prize is awarded by an independent panel to final-year PhD students for
 performance in research and involves a prize-winners’ departmental seminar. Recently the
 Department established an Overseas Visiting Scheme which allows York PGR students to visit the
 laboratories of prestigious international research groups (e.g. Borovik and Green groups at the
 University of California, Irvine, USA; Vocadlo group, Simon Fraser University, Canada; ShuLi You
 group, Shanghai, China) as part of their PhD studies.

 Research Student Numbers
 The Department is committed to maintaining PGR numbers via use of internal funds, industrial
 support through matched funding and CASE award schemes (co-funding 25 PhD students since
 2013/14), Marie-Curie training networks, charities and through the philanthropic schemes,
 including the Wild and University overseas scholars schemes (section 3.2). PGR student numbers
 grew from 125 in 2013/14 to 155 in 2017/18, with the number per academic staff/fte growing from
 2.7 to 3.4. Flexibility in these schemes allowed the Department to attract talented PhD students
 from around the world, increasing cultural diversity. Accordingly, specific provision for overseas
 students is made by the Department. For instance, Chemical InterActions, which is led by
 international research students, is a social network for all Chemistry students and staff that runs
 regular social and academic events. International students are also invited to regular informal
 international coffee mornings to assist cohort integration.

 Student Outcomes
 The Department has on-time thesis submission rates (2013–14 starters 82%; 2014–15 starters
 93%; 2015/16 starters 89%), with low withdrawal rates (<5%) and low failure rates over the past
 five years (<3%), resulting in high overall successful outcomes (94% over the REF period).

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 The Department is internationally recognised for its equality work. Most notably, it was the first
 academic department in the UK to hold an Athena SWAN (AS) Gold Award (IES § 37) which it has
 held uninterrupted since 2007.

 Support for people at all stages of their career is a priority and the Department’s proactive EDG
 continues to address all forms of inequality, aiming towards a working environment in which all
 participants can reach their full potential (IES § 19,22–23). Key equality measures for the
 Department include: 1) F and M appointment rates for researchers are equivalent, indicating a
 gender-neutral recruitment process; 2) actions linked to direct appointments and named
 researchers (ECRs) led to substantial improvement in %females recruited via these means (from
 16% for the 2015 AS submission to 46% for 2018). Of note in this context is the lack of gender
 ‘leaky pipeline’ amongst academic staff in the Department. 25% of professors are female (October
 2020) with 28% female total academic staff; 3) eliminating median gender pay gap for professorial
 staff (20% in 2010, <1% in 2018). (IES § 21)


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Activities in REF Period
 The work of the EDG group informs, encourages and supports policies and working practices,
 especially flexible working, informing and influencing institutional guidance (IES § 35–37). In 2018,
 ten research staff (6F, 4M) and ten academic staff (21%; 5F, 5M) were formally working part-time
 including five members of professorial staff (2F, 3M).

 At a functional level, meetings and seminars are all held at family-friendly times and diversity
 training is embedded in the UG and PGR curriculum and during staff induction, which includes a
 workshop on neurodiversity and positive LGBTQ+ actions. The Department introduced specific ‘all
 genders welcome’ toilets; ‘Trans 101’ training for all staff; personal pronoun discussion at initial
 UG supervision meetings and has developed nationally shared pronoun usage guidance. The
 Department provides baby changing facilities and a quiet/prayer room. In addition, there is active
 invitation of female seminar speakers (~40% to 2019) and PGR external examiners (e.g. 35% in
 2016–17), and a well-supported maternity, paternity and adoption leave policy. These
 Departmental guidelines later became institutional policy.

 Ensuring the prominent profile and sustainability of equality practice, in 2015 the Department
 recruited an Employability and Diversity Officer (Jones).

 The Department improved the ethnic diversity of its staff and students, using the philanthropic Wild
 fund (section 3.2) to recruit and retain PGRs from different ethnic backgrounds. Use of the fund
 enabled 79 students to accept postgraduate research positions since its inception, 63 of whom
 have so far graduated of whom 49% are female. At a national level, Dessent led a successful bid
 to the RSC for a project to study the experiences of BAME individuals working in Chemistry.

 Recognition of those with disabilities, which includes academic, technical and support staff, is built
 into the inclusive ethos of the Department (section 2.1). This support directly adds to the research
 endeavour of the Department, and graduate students with significant long-term health issues
 graduated successfully in the REF period. Support is provided by Disability Officers, Perutz and
 Sarju, the former of whom also brings influence to bear nationally as a member of the HE-STEM
 Disability Committee.

 Leadership in Equality and Diversity
 York is a beacon department nationally and internationally, as evidenced by its staff members
 giving numerous invited external presentations over four continents in the REF period. Dessent,
 Jones, Wann and Walton serve on Athena SWAN judging panels. Walton has an international
 reputation for gender equality; he has served on multiple university and governmental panels for
 equality in academia. Smith is noted for his work and public profile around LGBTQ+ issues and
 parental/caring roles, and is an appointed member of the RSC Inclusion and Diversity
 Committee. Matharu is Chair of the University Staff Race Equality Forum. The Department
 specifically credits these activities in its workload model.

 Commensurate with its role as a beacon and in addition to its annual Equality and Diversity
 Lecture, the Department plays host to many seminars and national events focused on equality
 and diversity, e.g. 2016 RSC Joliot Curie Conference, dedicated to supporting the aspirations of
 ECRs, particularly women and those who are underrepresented in academia; the LGBTQ+
 STEMinar 2018; and a two-day celebration of its ten-year anniversary as an AS Gold holder. The
 Department introduced an unconscious bias observer scheme for all stages of the appointment
 processes, which contributed positively to an increase in % female researchers to the
 Department’s highest ever level of 40%. This best practice has been shared widely within the
 academic sector. In accord with the institution’s guidelines, this practice extended to the internal
 REF process, where selection of outputs for submission was monitored against protected
 characteristics including age, disability, ethnicity and gender throughout. No significant evidence
 of bias was found, when grade/seniority of staff members was taken into account. The fraction of
 outputs returned under UoA8 associated with female authors is 16% (cf. %F fte Category A staff
 of 20%).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 3.1 Research Income Overview
 Combined with the structural changes described above (section 1), the Department is active in
 supporting staff to seek funding, for example by implementing a new research workload model
 which specifically encourages bids for funding that enable large-scale science (IES § 38b). In
 this regard, the Department won several multi-institution and/or large research grants in the REF
 period, representing a distinct shift in funding patterns since the last REF exercise. For example:

    •   Large EU consortium bids, for example in sustainable synthetic chemistry (e.g. CHEM21,
        ReSolve, RenewChem) and biocatalysis (e.g. CoEBio3).
    •   EU-funded Synergy award in glycoscience (Davies).
    •   Four European Research Council (ERC) grants; one Advanced, one Consolidator and
        two Starter; competitive personal awards (section 4.3).
    •   Champion (EU) materials chemistry with fifteen academic / industrial partners.
    •   Multi-centre EPRSC grants (Clark).


               REF 2014                           REF 2021
                                                             1%                Research Councils
                  2%
                                                        5%
                                                   5%                          Charities
               8%
          9%                                                                   EU
                                            17%
        12%                                                                    Industry
                            59%                                      60%
         10%                                 12%                               UK government

                                                                               Other




 Fig 3-1. Pie charts of average per annum research income for REF2014 period and REF2021
 period (does not include income-in-kind). Areas of circles reflect total value: REF2014 period
 average annual income is £6.9M pa and REF2021 average is £10.1M pa (not including major
 facility time allocations).

 Overall, during the REF period, the Department’s direct average research income grew by 46%
 compared to the last REF period (Fig 3-1), now placing it in the top-10 of UK Chemistry
 departments. The annual research income per fte rose similarly, and over the REF period is
 £178k per Category A staff, based on 56.8 fte, and >£200k per RE/OFS-funded staff, based on
 45–50 fte. Annual average Research Council, charitable and EU funding grew over the same
 period by 48%, 86% and 108% respectively.

 3.2 Research Infrastructure and Support
 The Department has benefited from an infrastructure programme over the last decade that
 replaced much of the old 1960 CLASP structure, continuing during the current REF period. In
 addition to new buildings for Green and Sustainable Chemistry, Magnetic Resonance and
 Hyperpolarisation, and laboratories for chemical synthesis and materials chemistry reported in the
 last REF submission, in this REF period further investments include:



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1) Capital of >£6M (Wellcome, Wolfson, University of York, BBSRC and philanthropic donations)
 funded a bespoke and integrated facility (551 m2) for protein structure determination, with a new
 200 kV cryo-electron microscope, a new rotating-anode X-ray source and detector for protein
 crystal screening, and high-field NMR spectroscopy with cryo-probe.

 2) WACL, established by the Wolfson Foundation in 2014, expanded in 2018 with funding from
 NERC and the University, adding a further 450 m2 of research space, including an air pollution
 sensors lab, additional PhD space and new computing facilities, making a total of >1200m2 of
 dedicated space for atmospheric chemistry research, the largest of its kind in any university in
 Europe (IES § 40). The most recent £1.5M buildings expansion was further supplemented by a
 £4.3M capital award from NERC for new instruments for air pollution science. Alongside new
 facilities and equipment there were new high-level technical appointments, including an Instrument
 Engineering Manager, High Performance Computing specialist and a Global Modelling Fellow.

 3) Mass spectrometry Orbitrap (x2), for atmospheric chemistry (in WACL, led by Hamilton) and
 CoEMS (>£1.2M, section 3.3). The Orbitrap MS (WACL) has been used to study secondary
 organic aerosol (SOA) formation in the atmosphere, stimulating a new collaboration with the
 Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry (GIG), in China, and has since been incorporated into
 multiple projects studying toxic species in particle pollution supported by UKRI and industry. A
 Synapt G2Si high definition mass spectrometer was funded through a BBSRC ALERT grant
 (Thomas-Oates, Davies).

 4) Infrastructure investments for photochemistry/photophysics (>£500k) include a Ti-sapphire laser
 system which supports enhanced time-resolved spectroscopy capability, spanning UV to mid-IR
 wavelengths and a temporal range covering 100 fs to hours. This facility supports research
 ranging from gas-phase electron diffraction experiments (Wann) to solution-phase photochemistry
 measurements and is complemented by the addition of 2-D IR spectroscopy capability (Hunt).

 5) Upgrade to magnetic resonance facilities (NMR >£800k) and EPR (Q-band Jeol XES-320 EPR
 ~£80k) equipment. The latter investment has provided an enhanced capability in the Biological
 Inorganic Chemistry theme.

 6) EPSRC strategic capital award (£3.25M) of a double aberration-corrected microscope to the
 York-JEOL Nanocentre (section 3.3), now part of the EPSRC SuperSTEM national facility for
 microscopy. Electron Backscatter Diffraction detector for SEM, funded from EPSRC (£250k).

 Interdisciplinary infrastructure and support
 As described above (section 1) interdisciplinary science is a distinguishing feature of York’s
 current research and its research future. To ensure a suitable working environment, therefore, the
 Department has invested in and maintained equipment/infrastructure which allow diverse teams to
 work in one place, including on-site co-working with external organisations. For instance, YSBL
 researchers are housed in dedicated laboratories located in the Biology buildings. Accordingly,
 YSBL researchers maximise the biological context in which they work, particularly in the areas of
 microbiology, glycoscience, tissue engineering, and computational methodology including
 software. Researchers in the Atmospheric Chemistry theme are housed in WACL, another
 dedicated building with labs and office space, accommodating researchers from the Chemistry
 and Environment departments. Researchers in the Green and Sustainable Chemistry theme
 occupy the GCCE and enjoy close links with the Biorenewables Development Centre (a not-for-
 profit University company). The latter of these is a scale-up facility that supports the translation of
 fundamental research in green chemistry into sustainable commercial products. CHyM is a
 dedicated Wellcome-funded building co-located with the York Neuroimaging Centre (part of the
 Medical School and Psychology department). CHyM provides a laboratory equipped to support the
 work of both clinical and chemical scientists, thus facilitating translation into the clinic of the York-
 originated technique of SABRE-polarisation.

 In accord with the department’s research ethos, staff also play central roles in several University
 interdisciplinary initiatives, including the York-JEOL Nanocentre (with Physics and Electronic

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering); the Centre of Excellence in Mass Spectrometry (CoEMS, with Biology); the
 Biophysical Sciences Institute (BPSI, with Physics, Mathematics and Biology); and the scientific
 archaeology research of BioArCh (with Biology and Archaeology). In addition, staff contribute to
 collaborative efforts with the York Plasma Institute (YPI, with Physics) and to partnerships with
 external research partners in academia, industry and government (sections 1.3, 4.1, 4.3).

 Further reflecting the interdisciplinary outlook of research, the Department is part of five Doctoral
 Training Partnerships: BBSRC White Rose DTP, three with NERC (PANORAMA, ACCE,
 ECORISC schemes with multiple Universities), and the EPSRC DTP Mobility Training Pilot. The
 last, which is led from the department, continues the theme of inclusivity within the Department's
 graduate school. It helps UK businesses up-skill their employees (eight PhD studentships
 awarded over two cohorts) and to attract applicants from non-traditional backgrounds.

 The investment in equipment/infrastructure has been accompanied by a commitment to technical
 staff, who are essential contributors to the department’s research (IES § 40, National Technician
 Commitment). In this context, the Department recently completed a partial restructuring of
 technical staff which saw each research laboratory provided with a dedicated research technician
 for the on-going maintenance/management of laboratory facilities and environment. In addition,
 the Department has dedicated administrative support for research, including a departmentally
 funded research office which provides alerts on funding opportunities, support with grant
 applications and provision of management information for the department’s Research Committee.
 The office has a specific remit to support the coordination of large multi-investigator,
 interdisciplinary bids (section 3.1), the growth of which in the REF period has become a hallmark
 of the Department’s interdisciplinary approach.

 Philanthropic Funding
 In a challenging funding context, especially for PGR students, the Department has grown
 additional and sustainable sources of support, distinctively raising £3.8M of direct investment from
 multiple philanthropic sources. Much of this investment comes from 'The Wild Fund', a benefaction
 to the Department from Dr Tony Wild, an alumnus (>£1M in REF period alone). The Fund has
 principally been used to support PGR studentships. Notably, use of the fund is more flexible than
 most UKRI training investments allowing the Department to bring-in talented PhD students from
 around the world, particularly from developing countries (35 PhD students, M:F 4:3, 2014–2020).
 In addition, during the REF period, philanthropic funding also supported two independent
 fellowships, PGR studentships, PDRA positions and a Knowledge Transfer Fellowship (leading to
 a spin-out consultancy). Such funds also underpinned the RenewChem scheme (Green and
 Sustainable Chemistry), departmental contributions to new DTPs, and have provided cutting-edge
 equipment (to WACL from Givaudan).

 3.3 Research Facilities
 The Department enjoys state-of-the-art facilities for its research. Almost all facilities are free at the
 point of use and they are supported by an expert technical staff cohort, many of whom are
 equipment specialists. Facilities include: X-ray diffraction (powder, single crystal and rotating
 anode for proteins), protein production (two dedicated labs), mass spectrometry, NMR, EPR,
 elemental analysis, chromatography, each of which is led by a technical staff member. More
 specialist high-end facilities are also available through other access arrangements. These include
 the Centre of Excellence in Mass Spectrometry (see below, led by Thomas-Oates) offering Qh-
 FT-ICR MS with dual ESI/MALDI sources, Orbitrap with ES, nanospray and APCI sources) and
 ultraflex III. High-field NMR (600 wide bore and 700 MHz equipped with cryoprobe, 400 MHz solid
 state). Protein production and characterisation through the Department of Biology’s Technology
 Facility, offering amongst other services, advanced genomics/proteomics and eukaryotic
 expression. High level microscopy provided by the Nanocentre (SEM with EDX, ultra-high
 resolution (<1 Å) TEM with aberration correction, AFM). Additionally, University-level facilities
 which are extensively used by departmental members, include a 7,500 core cluster for high-speed
 computations (IES § 41). All of these facilities are complemented by in-house glassblowing,
 electronics and mechanical workshops with experienced technical staff, who provide dedicated


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and expert support especially for research carried out in the Photochemistry and Spectroscopy,
 and Synthesis, Catalysis and Mechanism themes.

 3.4 Use of non-UKRI Facilities
 Staff have been successful in winning time on major international facilities: Felix laser laboratory,
 Netherlands (Dessent, £9.5k value); Bragg Institute, Australia (Weller, £14k + £47k value); IDo2
 at ESRF, Grenoble (Shimizu, £28k value); Phoenix XAS at the Swiss Light Source (Duhme,
 £135k value); Guangzhou Institute for Geochemistry, China (Hamilton, £45k value); XMaS facility
 at ESRF Trieste (Fairlamb, £43k value).




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY
 4.1 Research Collaborations
 There is an ethos of departmental collaboration at York, with shared PGR students being the norm
 (currently 70% of PhD students have more than one supervisor). Many examples of research
 collaborations exist within and between research groupings and across the university. Indeed,
 34% of the Department’s outputs returned to REF2021 have two or more co-authors from
 departmental academic staff.

 Regional research collaboration is promoted through the N8 Universities network (including
 EPSRC-funded work) and the White Rose Consortium involving York, Sheffield and Leeds, which
 allocates PGR studentships to research projects involving staff from at least two universities (IES §
 6). Nationally and internationally the Department collaborates across academia as seen in the
 Department’s returned outputs, where 80% have at least one non-York author. Moreover, the
 percentage of all publications that include at least one international author grew over the REF
 period to >60% (Fig 1-1).

 Collaboration and translation of key findings to academic and industrial end-users are aspects of
 many projects e.g. EU networks, knowledge exchange programmes, direct industry funding
 (including CASE schemes), and involvement in Knowledge Transfer Networks/partnerships
 (Moller). The Department actively encourages links to end-users. Examples include Hubbard who
 had a 40% contract with Vernalis during the REF period; Lewis is an NCAS Director, a long-term
 UKRI position which aligns atmospheric chemistry research with Government and industry end-
 users (100% externally funded contract); and the Department has two Royal Society Industrial
 fellows (Fairlamb, O’Brien).

 There are many examples of collaborative research with outside bodies, which include the
 following:

 1) Research on the discovery and dissection of enzymes for biofuels has been conducted by
 Walton and Davies, with Henrissat (CNRS Marseille, France). With techniques ranging from
 phylogenetics to EPR spectroscopy, the York and CNRS teams studied enzymes needed to
 create biofuels from plant wastes or energy crops, leading to an impact case study. The
 collaborative effort was recognised by the Institution of Chemical Engineers Global Energy Award
 (2016), and the RSC’s Rita and John Cornforth Award (2020), the latter of which specifically
 recognises collaborative research.

 2) GCCE participated in Europe’s largest public-private partnership (CHEM21) dedicated to the
 development of manufacturing sustainable pharmaceuticals. The €26.4M (£21.2M) project,
 brought together six pharmaceutical companies, thirteen universities and four small-to-medium
 enterprises from across Europe, to develop sustainable biological and chemical alternatives to
 finite materials. The CHEM21 Metrics Toolkit provided a unified resource to evaluate the
 sustainability of chemical and bio-chemical reactions. A book ‘Green and Sustainable Medicinal
 Chemistry: Methods, Tools and Strategies for the 21st Century Pharmaceutical Industry’ was led
 by Clark. Outputs from the project were shared publicly through an on-line learning platform.

 3) The research in WACL is delivered as a collaboration between NERC and the university.
 NERC, through its centre NCAS, provides resources for the co-location of twelve research staff on
 a long-term basis (ten-year rolling contract ~£1M pa). Collaborative delivery of national capability
 in atmospheric chemistry is enhanced with DEFRA support and engineering consultancy
 (Ricardo), which collaborate on academic appointments (Moller and Carslaw). WACL collaborates
 with other government departments to deliver research on the broader issues of chemical hazard
 detection, with AWE plc for the national nuclear security programme, with Dstl on malicious
 materials detection and with BEIS on UK oil and gas emissions and the impacts of the
 development of shale gas in the UK. The labs have long-term links (via KTPs, and industrially-
 funded fellowships) with two instrument manufacturers, Markes International and Syft

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technologies who have commercialised York research (impact case study), and with Givaudan,
 who have provided support via equipment and multiple contracts for research in chemical
 metrology and indoor air chemistry. These collaborations have underpinned three impact case
 studies.

 4) Renewable Solvents (ReSolve) is a €4.3M (£3.8M) York-led EU project (2017–2020; eleven
 partners from five countries) focused on replacing traditional, fossil-based solvents, with safer bio-
 based ones with high performance in applications and improved toxicity profiles. Two bio-based
 solvents, Cyrene and Cygnet, were developed departmentally, commercialised by Circa, who set-
 up a Yorkshire-based company enabling Cyrene supply internationally.

 4.2 Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society (IES § 18)
 The Department has wide-ranging collaborative research projects with industries, charities and
 government, many of which are exemplified by the Impact Case Studies (Fig 4-1). These ICSs are
 not repeated here, other than to highlight the breadth of impact reported therein:
 academic/commercial (crystallographic software), governmental policy and environmental (WACL
 research) and industry (enzymes). In another indication of the breadth of the Department’s
 interactions with outside bodies, since the last REF period, departmental research has included
 223 collaborative partners from 36 countries over six continents.

          Collaborators by Continent                               Collaborators by Sector
            3% 2% 1%                                                      8% 2%
         5%
                                                                   11%

                              50%                                                   44%
                    39%
                                                                          35%



           Europe              UK                                   Academia          Industry
           Africa              Asia                                 Government        Charity
           North America       South America                        Other



 Fig 4-1. Pie charts of collaborations by continent (left) and by sector (right), as a fraction of
 numbers of projects.

 To achieve this breadth and depth, the Department has put strategies in place to ensure that
 research reaches out beyond higher education. For instance, the departmental research
 committee incentivises PhD studentship bids that grow connections with either industry or major
 science facilities, e.g. STFC. Furthermore, departmental facilities and expertise are made
 available to outside users (local industry, schools, public), often planned as part of the original
 research proposals. Examples of these links from the REF period are as follows:

 1) In Green and Sustainable Chemistry, expertise and equipment are offered to external
 organisations, in particular SMEs, to help them deal with chemical problems and to collaborate on
 joint research projects. These interactions often start as short contract projects but can lead to
 longer-term collaborations. An example of this approach is a small contract feasibility project
 (£14k) with Biome Bioplastics in 2014 where the Department assessed the potential to synthesise
 novel compostable plastic films from lignocellulose-derived monomers. The results led to a
 collaborative project (Innovate UK, 2016–19, £303k to York) and Biome have recently filed a
 patent on this family of new bio-based and bio-degradable polyesters.



                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2) York has a portfolio or activities linked to policy and public engagement. For example, WACL
 houses an NERC Knowledge Exchange Fellow (Moller) who focuses on impact in environmental
 policy and heritage management. Moller’s fellowship (2018–2022) is the result of a long-term
 relationship with DEFRA. During the REF period, this has developed from a role leading the
 secretariat for the Air Quality Expert Group to providing liaison between the UK air quality science
 research community and the DEFRA Air Quality Team, advising them and research councils on
 strategic evidence needs for science and policy. Moller works directly with the Chief Scientific
 Advisor as a DEFRA Senior Fellow, supported by NERC, NCAS, DEFRA and the University,
 providing benefits to all partners, and creating new opportunities for evidence-informed policy and
 science with impact, for example enabling expert input from UK academics to the development of
 the Government Clean Air Strategy.

 3) A Knowledge Exchange Fellowship (High, 2016–2020) engages and collaborates with the non-
 academic stakeholders Historic England and York Archaeological Trust, to maximise the
 translation of research to these bodies. A particular example here is the research carried out in the
 Department on the rapid deterioration of organic remains at the famed Mesolithic site of Star Carr.
 The work highlighted the need for the better use of scientific techniques in understanding when
 and why archaeological sites are at risk.

 Response to COVID-19
 Lewis provided direct advice to Government and SAGE on issues including emergency
 management of crematoria, and worked with the Office for National Statistics, DEFRA and PHE to
 quantify air pollution impacts on UK COVID-19 mortality. Lee engaged with media outlets including
 the BBC, Daily Telegraph, The Economist, Financial Times to provide real-time data visualisation
 of the effects of lockdown on urban nitrogen dioxide. Carslaw provided support to multiple
 government departments linking transport volume changes with pollution and weather data,
 including an early identification of non-linear effects during the lifting of travel restrictions, reported
 in The Guardian (front-page).

 Contributions to Society (IES § 13)
 Departmental staff engage whole-heartedly in outreach activities, with many researchers initiating
 activities both locally and nationally. The Department’s commitment is demonstrated by having a
 long-term Departmental Schools Liaison and Outreach Officer. Distinctively, the Department
 supports CPD activities in science for primary teachers, as well teaching resources from the
 unique Centre for Industry Education Collaboration. Colleagues are encouraged to publicise their
 work, and the University collects annual data, ensuring that outreach is allocated in the
 departmental workload model. Examples include:

 Smith is in demand as a schools' lecturer and influences policy and processes within science,
 particularly regarding diversity. He has a presence on Twitter (>20k followers) and YouTube ,
 using the latter to explain the chemistry of a number of everyday experiences as well as providing
 some more specialised content. Carpenter delivers atmospheric chemistry lectures, including
 recent York research to A-level students (ca 2k students annually; Science Live). Moller, Lee,
 Hamilton and Lewis are all active in promoting debate around contemporary issues associated
 with air pollution, making multiple TV and radio contributions (Radio 2,4,5; World Service; Inside
 Science; The Inquiry; Costing the Earth; Newsnight; Trust Me I’m a Doctor; Channel 4 News), and
 publish regularly though The Conversation, reaching >350k readers in the REF period. All were
 active in 2020 supporting public understanding of the science linking air quality, aerosols and
 COVID-19. Lewis worked with Aardman Animations and broadcaster Marcus Brigstocke to
 produce an animated film on air pollution, released at the 2018 Hay Festival. Cowtan has been an
 advisor on the BBC 4 documentary 'Climate Change by Numbers' and has been active in
 explaining climate science to the public (Hay Festival, National Geographic website, New
 Scientist, BBC World Service, news article in Science).




                                                                                                  Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3 Indicators of Influence
 Prizes
 Almost one third of staff (31%) have received prizes during the REF period. Election of Davies as
 Fellow of Academy of Medical Sciences and award of the Ken Murray Research Professorship,
 and the Fellowship of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) awarded
 to Perutz. Gai’s (FREng 2014) contributions to science were recognised by the Royal honour of
 Dame Commander of the British Empire (DBE) and being elected to a Fellow of the Royal Society
 (2016). Carpenter’s leadership in atmospheric chemistry was recognised by election to a Fellow
 of the Royal Society (2019), a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2018), and the Royal
 Society Rosalind Franklin Award and Lecture (2015).

 RSC Prizes and Awards to Davies (Haworth Memorial Lectureship, 2018, Khorana Prize, 2014),
 Bruce (Peter Day Award, 2014), North (Green Chemistry, 2014), Unsworth (Hickinbottom Award
 2018; RSC/BMOS Young Investigator Award, 2015), 2020), Davies and Walton (Rita and John
 Cornforth Award, 2020), Walton (Joseph Chatt Award, 2016), Penkman (Joseph Black Award,
 2016), Fairlamb (Corday-Morgan Prize, 2016), Carpenter (Tilden Prize, 2017), Clark (Green
 Chemistry Award, 2018). Duckett (Tilden Prize, 2018), Parkin (Roger Parsons Medal and Sir
 Edward Frankland Fellowship, 2019), Weller (EPSRC Established Career Fellowship, 2015.
 Frankland Award 2016).

 Davies was awarded a Royal Society Davy Medal (2015); Davies and Walton received the
 IChemE’s Global Energy Award, 2016, Walton was awarded the 2020 Jubilee Professorship of
 Chalmers University, Thomas-Oates was named British Mass Spectrometry Society Lecturer
 (2019–2021) and Goodby awarded the Freedericksz Medal of the Russian Liquid Crystal Society
 and the Royal Society Royal Medal (2016). Edwards (Nature Research Awards for Global Impact.
 A. Wilkinson was awarded the International Prize of the Slovak Academy of Sciences (2015).
 Penkman was awarded the Blavatnik Award (2020) for Young Scientists. Duckett was co-
 recipient of the Laukien Prize (2020). Industry-facing research was recognised by the awards to
 Goodby (AkzoNobel UK Science Award, 2014), O’Brien and Fairlamb (SCI/industry-sponsored
 prizes for Process Chemistry Research, 2017 and 2019, respectively).

 Panel Memberships
 Staff are influential at UKRI: (Carpenter and Lewis, both NERC Panel Chairs, and Carpenter is a
 member of the Excellence Panel for the Evaluation of NERC Centres 2020 and UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowships Panel Chair), STFC (Lewis, Panel Chair), EPSRC (Duckett and O’Brien,
 Panel Chair), internationally with the Academy of Finland (Lewis, Panel Chair; Lee, Hamilton,
 Bruce). Staff serve regularly as advisors to scientific panels; North is co-Chair to CO2Chem,
 which brings together researchers, industrialists and policymakers from across disciplines to utilise
 carbon dioxide as a feedstock. Lewis served as advisor to the Royal College of Physicians, NPL,
 AWE plc and UKRI and was invited to give evidence to multiple House of Commons Select
 Committees and Ministerial round-tables. Evans was an Advisor to NERC and the Met Office.
 Lewis and Moller are both members of the Natural Hazards Partnership, and chapter authors for
 the Cabinet Office National Risk Assessment. Lewis, Moller and Carslaw are all public
 appointments to the DEFRA Air Quality Expert Group, with Lewis Chair of that group since 2019.
 Carpenter is Chair of the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) Global Atmospheric Watch
 (GAW) Scientific Advisory Group on Reactive Gases, a lead author of the 2014 and 2018
 WMO/United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Scientific Assessments of Ozone
 Depletion and from 2020 a member of the Assessment Scientific Steering Committee. Staff have
 made panel contributions to the national Athena SWAN review group (Walton), EU iNEXT project
 (Wilson), Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, I. P. (FCT) - the Portuguese public funding
 agency (Fairlamb), ERC (Dessent), Hungarian National, Research, Development and Innovation
 Office (Duckett), Israel Science Foundation (Duckett), Wellcome Trust (Antson, Thomas-Oates),
 Ministry of Education Singapore (Clark), Royal Society (Bruce, Davies, Duckett, Fairlamb,
 Perutz, Walton), STFC-Central Laser Facility (Perutz), the Irish Higher Education Authority
 (Walton).


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Current Research Fellowships (* with Proleptic Appointment)
 Antson (Wellcome Trust Senior fellowship, 2nd renewal), Agirre (Royal Society University
 Research Fellow), Mahon (Marie Curie reintegration fellowship, 2019), Avestro* (RS Dorothy
 Hodgkin RF, 2019–2023), Blaza (URKI FL fellowship, 2020), Carpenter (ERC Advanced 2019–
 2024), Davies (Royal Society Ken Murray fellowship), Edwards* (independent funding from
 philanthropic support and then ERC Starting Grant, 2019–2024), High (NERC Knowledge
 Exchange Fellowship, 2016–2020), Moller (NERC Senior Knowledge Exchange Fellowship, 2014–
 2022; DEFRA Senior Fellow, 2019–2022), Manfred (NERC/DfT Independent Research Fellow,
 2019–2023), O’Brien and Fairlamb (Royal Society Industry Fellowships), Penkman (ERC
 Consolidator, 2020–2025), Unsworth* (Leverhulme Trust, 2016–2019; Eleanor Dodson Fellow
 from 2019), James and L. Wilkinson (Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellows, 2019–2021),
 Willems (ERC Starting Grant, 2019–2024).

 Contributions to Learned Societies
 There are 26 entries for council membership, Advisor, Trustee or Chair of a Learned Society, with
 major contributions made to the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Royal Society, and 23 staff
 have been involved in Editorship or Editorial contributions.




                                                                                          Page 22
