Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment 2: Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

    1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1. a. Introductory Synopsis
 The overarching mission of the Centre for Public Health (CPH) in Queen’s University Belfast
 (QUB) is to: Improve the health and well-being of the public at national and international levels
 and reduce inequalities; by advancing knowledge and influencing clinical and public health
 practice, including national and international policies and regulations.

 Highlights for this Unit since REF 2014 are:

       Research grant income has increased by 116% to ~£48M over the assessment period.
       The full-time equivalent (FTE) return has increased by 42%, from 29.6 FTE in REF 2014,
        to 42 FTE in REF 2021.
       The number of female academic staff has increased by 83%.
       CPH is hosted in a medical School which is only the second in the UK to have attracted
        an ATHENA SWAN Gold award.

 We pursue our mission by interacting with academic colleagues, policy and practice partners,
 the UK public and populations beyond, to enhance the practice and policy-relevance of our
 interdisciplinary research (IDR) programmes and international partnerships.

 1. b. Organisational Structure, Size and Context:
 CPH is one of three research centres in the School of Medicine Dentistry and Biomedical
 Sciences (SMDBS), alongside the Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine
 (WWIEM) and the Patrick G Johnston Centre for Cancer Research (PGJCCR). A default culture
 of collaboration, including scope for joint appointments across the centres and Faculty has
 enabled CPH to expand further its reach and influence. Formally, a cross-centre Science Board,
 with rotating membership drawn from senior and early career researchers (ECRs), coordinates
 joint development activities in the School (such as seminar programmes) and thematic interest
 groups that collaborate on major funding initiatives.

 CPH is led by a Director (Kee) and a Senior Management Team drawn from four vibrant research
 groups (described below): Epidemiology and Public Health; Cancer Epidemiology Research;
 Health Services and Global Health Research; and Public Health Nutrition and Metabolism.

 The Public Health Nutrition and Metabolism Group were part of the QUB Panel 2 submission in
 2014. Although part of the QUB Institute for Global Food Security submission to Panel 6, they
 remain integral to the mission of CPH and physically co-located within CPH. Such close
 relationships have consolidated ongoing successful interdisciplinary working and created a
 further bridge for cross-centre collaboration (with the Institute for Global Food Security). This is
 also exemplified by the inclusion of molecular epidemiologists and trialists from WWIEM and
 PGJCC into the UoA2 return, enabling researchers to work across research groups according to
 the cross-cutting research questions that are being pursued. This arrangement facilitates a range
 of interdisciplinary programmes, as well as national and international collaborations and has
 enabled our productivity and impact to increase significantly during this REF period, with our field
 weighted citation impact doubling, the percentage of outputs with international authorship
 increasing by nearly 50% and grant income increasing by 116% over the period.

 Epidemiology and Public Health Group: Co-led by Hunter and McKnight, with Bradley, Busby,
 Cruise, Cunningham, Garcia, Kee, Maguire, Maxwell, McKay, McGuinness, O’Neill, O’Reilly,
 Passmore, and Patterson, who oversee:



                                                                                              Page | 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

          Cohort and population wide epidemiological studies of the social and biological
           determinants of health and health inequalities, with leadership of local cohort
           resources and participation in national and international cohort consortia.
          Big Data infrastructure projects, including leadership of the ESRC’s NI Administrative
           Data Research Centre and co-leadership with Swansea of HDRUK’s Public Health
           theme.
          Complex public health intervention research.

 The group focuses both on upstream and downstream risk factors (including molecular factors)
 for common chronic diseases (such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, kidney failure and
 dementia) as well as on public health interventions and innovative methods. Kee, for example,
 is on the Management Group of the MORGAM and BiomarCarE cohort consortia, while Maxwell
 and McKnight have co-led multiple consortia focussing on the molecular epidemiology of renal
 disease and renal transplantation outcomes including GENIE, WTCCC3 and DNCRI. Patterson
 and McKay have led academic outputs from the EURODIAB and GoDarts consortia, focusing on
 trends in diabetes incidence and its complications, respectively. O’Reilly leads the ADRC in NI,
 and during this REF period mentored and supported Maguire who obtained an MRC
 Methodology Fellowship, leading to a Lectureship and several international partnerships that
 complement the ADRC mission, for example with the University of Helsinki. Working with
 Swansea University and HDRUK, this group also provided the academic leadership for the
 establishment of UKSeRP record linkage platform in NI, enhancing several national investments
 such as the QUB led MRC’s RASP precision medicine initiative for refractory asthma.

 In parallel, responding to a Government priority and funded by the NI Department of Health and
 Social Care (HSC), McGuinness led a population wide record linkage project examining trends
 in dementia diagnoses and then worked alongside the NI Department of Finance’s Innovation
 Laboratory, in charting a complex systems map for future service design for these patients. She
 also provided leadership to the NICOLA cohort’s international collaboration in the NIH funded
 HCAP initiative to harmonise measurement of cognitive change across a number of international
 aging cohorts, while the NICOLA Study’s bio-resource has participated in multiple mega-
 consortia including GIANT, CKDGen, LIFEPATH, GLGC and IAMDGC.

 Hunter (NIHR Fellowship holder) and Bradley have applied novel designs for natural experiment
 evaluations of public health interventions, including the NIHR funded evaluation of the 20mph
 speed zoning in Belfast (leading to Hunter’s role on the NI Department of Infrastructure Advisory
 group); the use of game theory for studying diffusion of social norms in schools in the UK and
 Colombia (funded by MRC, and leading to the roll-out of the Dead Cool smoking prevention
 programme to over 100 schools in NI; and the application of a regression discontinuity design to
 demonstrate the impact of the Department of Health’s campaign for antimicrobial stewardship in
 NI. Garcia joined this complexity science group in 2019 when it became part of the UKPRP
 funded PHASE: The Population Health Agent based Simulation nEtwork, on which Hunter is co-
 investigator. Kee is on the Management Group of one of four NIHR PHR Intervention Responsive
 Study teams (“PHIRST North”) dedicated to working in partnership with local authorities to
 evaluate their priority public health programmes.

 Cancer Epidemiology Research Group: Led by Coleman with Anderson, Bannon, Cardwell,
 Gavin, Hicks, Kunzmann, McMenamin and McShane who work collaboratively with colleagues
 Allott, McMullin and Orr in the PGJCCR. The group has substantial CRUK, NCI and NIHR funding
 that, in addition to core PHA investment in the Northern Ireland Cancer Registry (NICR), supports
 research into the prevention, early detection, prognosis and treatment of cancer. Programmes
 include research on pre-cancerous conditions, gastrointestinal cancer progression and precision
 medicine, as well as internationally recognised expertise in pharmaco-epidemiology, exploring
 the potential for drug re-purposing. The group has an outstanding reputation in training ECRs,
 evident in having hosted five CRUK Population Research Fellowship recipients since 2014
 (including Hicks, McMenamin and McShane), a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (McMenamin),
 an NIHR Fellowship (Cardwell) and the recent CRUK Career Establishment Award to Coleman.


                                                                                            Page | 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The group works very closely with other cancer epidemiologists Allott and Orr in PGJCCR, where
 Coleman is jointly appointed, sharing co-investigator status on research grants, joint supervision
 of postgraduate students and a shared seminar programme. This cross-centre working has
 contributed to the success of >£1M investment to three recent projects awarded to Coleman and
 collaborators in 2019 from CRUK’s newly established Early Detection Research Committee. The
 group’s hosting of the NICR has also enabled international collaborative research, such as
 Bannon and Gavin’s participation in the International Cancer Benchmarking Project, CONCORD
 and EUROCARE. The group has strong collaborative links with Clinical Academic researchers
 such as McMullin who is co-investigator on a 20-site UK/Ireland wide case-control study of
 myeloproliferative neoplasms. Increasingly, the group has worked with our Health Services
 Research and Global Health Group, supported, for example, by Department for the Economy
 networking grants, on research in Angola, Vietnam, Malaysia, Uganda and in the case of
 Mongolia, with an NIHR Global Health Systems and Policy Research Development Award, to
 design better cancer prevention services in LMIC settings.

 Health Services and Global Health Research Group: Led by Donnelly with Azuara-Blanco,
 Chakravarthy, Chan, Clarke, Congdon, Heron, Hogg, Lohfeld, McAneney, McCorry, McKenna,
 O’Neill C, Peto, Virgili and Wright, the group works collaboratively with colleagues Shields and
 Rooney in WWIEM. The group focuses on improving health outcomes and services for people
 with chronic conditions by conducting technology assessments and investigations of need and
 demand on the organisation and delivery of services and their quality and cost-effectiveness.
 There is an emphasis on improving services for older people in particular, eye health, cancer
 care, oral health care, mental health, and palliative care, all of which are underpinned by Clarke’s
 methodology and O’Neill’s health economics research.

 Our eye health care research portfolio, includes Virgili’s leadership of the Cochrane Eyes and
 Vision Group together with NIHR and MRC-funded multicentre trials on eye diseases including
 Azuara-Blanco’s role as Principal Investigator of CHAMP-UK, EAGLE, and GATE,
 Chakravarthy’s role as Principal Investigator of ECHoES and IVAN and Hogg’s role as Principal
 Investigator of MONARCH.

 McKenna and collaborators across England and Wales are conducting an NIHR-funded study
 TOPIC that examines the implementation of NICE guidance on oral health care for people in
 Care homes. Donnelly and McCorry and an international research team were awarded funding
 by Marie Curie to develop a set of research-based and expert-informed indicators for assessing
 quality in palliative services and with colleagues in the QUB School of Psychology via MRC
 PHIND funding, are tailoring and testing ‘acceptance and commitment therapy’ for use with
 stroke survivors who have cognitive impairment, and developing a psychological intervention to
 overcome barriers to walking activity among people with visual impairments.

 An additional focus of the group has been on novel approaches to facilitate service delivery and
 promote service evaluation in low-resource settings. Trials in China led by Congdon, including
 the MRC funded SWISH Trial elucidating the impact of spectacle provision on children’s
 educational outcomes, and the PROSPER and THRIVE trials in India and Bangladesh
 respectively, which together have demonstrated the potential for reading glasses to improve work
 productivity to a greater extent than any previously-studied health intervention. These trials
 support a novel strategy to reduce poverty in service of the first SDG through low-cost glasses
 delivery. Clarke is one of the founders and currently the Research Director for Evidence Aid, an
 international organisation and registered charity in the UK, dedicated to alleviating suffering and
 saving lives by providing the best available evidence on the effectiveness of humanitarian action
 and enabling its use.

 Methodology research permeates all our health services studies, as well as our evidence
 syntheses. There is a focus on improving the efficiency, applicability and use of research and
 reducing research waste. Clarke is a founder of the COMET Initiative which has global reach in
 promoting and facilitating the development of core outcome sets to overcome the widely
 recognised problems of heterogeneity in how outcomes are chosen, measured and reported in

                                                                                              Page | 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 randomised trials and systematic reviews. He is also the Co-ordinating Editor of the Cochrane
 Methodology Review Group and established the SWAT and SWAR initiatives, which are
 coordinated and hosted in CPH to make it easier for people to conduct and report methodology
 studies that are embedded in clinical research studies. Through Clarke’s leadership of the NI
 Clinical Trials Unit, the group works closely with trialists in other centres in the school including
 Shields, McMullin and Rooney. Health economics and policy appraisal are integral parts of most
 studies undertaken by the group. O’Neill C, for example, co-organises (with Cornell University
 and Wisconsin University) a bi-annual Masterclass of international health economics experts that
 is attended by researchers from around the world and he is an expert member of a LSE-Lancet
 Commission on the future of the NHS across the devolved nations of the UK.

 1.c. Research and Impact Strategy:
 With an overall mission to improve the health and well-being of the public at national and
 international levels and to reduce inequalities by advancing knowledge and influencing
 clinical and public health practice, our strategy is to do this by:

          Maximising our competitiveness to attract grant income from major funders such as
           UKRI and NIHR.
          Aligning our focus with their main priorities and those of the Strategic Coordination of
           Health of the Public Research Committee, for example healthy environments, life
           course and aging, and complex systems approaches to public health.
          Ensuring national and global impact.
          Sustaining a vibrant research culture that develops the talents and careers of our
           ECRs and builds enduring international research partnerships.
          Building and sustaining public health research infrastructure including traditional and
           e-cohorts, record linkage infrastructure, methodology expertise and engaged
           partnerships with research users.

 Key Achievements of strategic aims during the assessment period.
 Since the last REF, CPH researchers and their partners obtained funding from key national and
 international initiatives aimed at developing public health trials and clinical research capacity,
 including:

          Renewal of the UKCRC Centre of Excellence for Public Health Research led by Kee
           (£2,989,959), with subsequent follow-on funding as partners in two UKPRP network
           grants.
          Renewal of funding for the ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre for NI led by
           O’Reilly (£1,473,090).
          Funding by HDR-UK of the Swansea University-QUB collaborative HDR-UK research
           programme and a Rutherford Fellowship, with Kee and O’Reilly integral to the public
           health research strategy (£508,132).
          Renewal of funding, led by Kee via ESRC and the Health and Social Research and
           Development Division of the NI Public Health Agency for the Northern Ireland Cohort
           for the Longitudinal Study of Aging (NICOLA Study, part of the DPUK Dementia
           Platform) that is an active contributing partner to an international network of ageing
           studies; (£638,601, with additional support from QUB of £359,015).
          Renewal of funding for the Northern Ireland Longitudinal Study (NILS), led by O’Reilly
           (£469,866); a large-scale data linkage study that includes longitudinal data on NI
           residents from the Census, vital events and health registration datasets, which inter
           alia is being used to explore a wide range of social determinants of public health.
          The Belfast Ophthalmic Image Reading Centre (BORC), led by Peto, is one of the
           largest ophthalmic image analysis centres in the world, supporting national and
           international ophthalmology trials and observational cohorts. Current portfolio funding
           totalling £4,126,898, includes NIHR-funded trials, the UK Biobank, Queen’s Diamond
           Jubilee Trust Fund, the MRC-Newton Awards, European Eye Epidemiology Network,
           the British Council, and the Innovate UK grants.

                                                                                               Page | 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

          Funding from the MRC Network of Hubs for Trials Methodology Research which
           helped to establish the repositories of Studies Within A Trial (SWAT) and Studies
           Within A Review (SWAR); led by Clarke (£128,813).
          Funding from the NI Public Health Agency’s Research and Development Division
           (£150,000 from 2017), to establish and provide the HSC Statistical and Methodological
           Support Service, led by Clarke, to assist clinician researchers across the NI’s HSC
           Trusts in undertaking research that would not be large enough for support from, for
           example, the NIHR programmes.
          Leveraged funding from the PHA R&D (NI) division to establish the Cochrane
           Development, Psychosocial and Learning Problems Group, led by Clarke (£373,950).
          Leveraged funding (£1,009,369 from NI PHA R&D and RoI Health Service Executive),
           as a CPH contribution to setting up the Wellcome Trust-HRB funded Irish Clinical
           Academic Training (ICAT) Programme that is developing a long-term commitment to
           supporting clinical academic researchers (led initially in NI by Maxwell and now
           McGuinness).

 Impact and innovation
 The University’s Social Charter, launched in 2016, provides a platform for demonstrating the
 innovation and creativity of staff and students and the national and global impact of their work,
 and as part of this the University launched an ambitious ‘Engaged Research Action Plan’ (ERP)
 in 2019. This Plan is a core element of the CPH impact strategy (and was initially led by one of
 our UKCRC Centre of Excellence academics), which recognises the need to approach
 engagement as a two-way process, with mutual benefits for all parties involved. An example of
 this two-way engagement for CPH impact is the recent analyses of the NICOLA Cohort, funded
 by an ESRC Impact Accelerator Award that was directly commissioned by and informed the
 Victims Commissioner’s considerations of pensions for victims of the civil unrest “Troubles” in
 NI. The ERP is being delivered through 38 specific actions, which includes:

          Appointing an Engaged Research Officer to project manage implementation.
          Providing a dedicated seed fund to support projects with clear potential for
           engagement with external stakeholders to consolidate existing relationships, or to
           pump-prime opportunities for future external funding.
          Convening an external Engaged Research Advisory Group (with representation from
           CPH), with particular emphasis on sectors with which QUB does not already have
           strong links.
          Funding for staff to attend the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement
           (NCCPE) Academy programmes.
          Establishing a Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) in Research Network, reflecting
           the NHS ‘INVOLVE’ principles. As part of this network, McKenna exemplifies
           approaches widely adopted in CPH, having established the Belfast Older Person’s
           Patient and Public Involvement Group (BELONG) to facilitate meaningful PPI in his
           research studies on oral health.

 Although our UKCRC Centre of Excellence for Public Health Research (NI) already had well
 established formal links with the communities that we served through, for example, membership
 of its Management Executive by the Community Development and Health Network, the QUB
 Engaged Research Plan which gives a greater priority, than previously, to co-production of
 actionable knowledge to support communities locally and at a national level. An early success
 has included our membership of one of the NIHR’s Public Health Interventions Responsive
 Teams (PHIRST-North) assisting local government in evaluation of their public health
 programmes.

 CPH academics are better able to prosecute this engaged research mission, as many work with
 non-academic partners on a variety of local Department of Health-led policy taskforces, such as
 Making Life Better, a regional public health strategy group, while several CPH staff have been
 embedded in the NI COVID taskforces including, for example, Kee and Bradley on the Chief


                                                                                            Page | 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientist’s Pandemic Modelling Group and the Chief Medical Officer’s COVID-19 Strategic
 Intelligence Group. McKnight is a founder member of the NI Rare Disease Stakeholder Group,
 which helped develop the NI rare disease statement of intent, 5-year plan, and is currently
 working on a rare disease strategy for post-2020.

 Our submitted UoA2 Impact Case Studies illustrate how our own impact strategy is bearing fruit.
 For example, the IVAN Trial of treatments for neovascular age-related macular degeneration
 (nAMD) is a landmark trial funded by NIHR and provides clear evidence that the drug
 bevacizumab (Avastin) is a much cheaper, equally effective alternative to ranibizumab (Lucentis)
 for the treatment of this common eye problem. This has led to widespread demand by healthcare
 providers in the UK and internationally to be able to use the cheaper drugs; a decision in the
 High Court of England and Wales to approve this switching; and support for the use of
 bevacizumab in the NICE guidelines in January 2018. An inter-disciplinary example of impact
 from our global health research, the PROSPER Trial, showed how the provision of free
 spectacles brought significant productivity benefits for tea pickers in India, a cost-effective
 measure that has now been widely adopted in the community.

 Main Objectives and Planned Activities for the Next Five Years:
 CPH’s Strategy and Research Plans are developed, in the context of School-level University
 strategic priorities, by our Senior Management Team comprising the Centre Director and Theme
 leads alongside representatives of our ECR community, and the leaders for postgraduate
 research and undergraduate teaching. Our research strategies and plans take account of the
 priorities of major funders and are focused on our specific areas of strength and critical mass,
 underpinned by methodological and health economics research, where there is clear evidence
 of a vibrant and supportive culture for ECRs and recognised international excellence. An
 International Scientific Advisory Board has advised on overall strategic direction on individual
 research streams and on key national and international research initiatives, focusing on areas
 where CPH and our partners can deliver high quality research, and engage with stakeholders for
 long term impact on clinical and public health practice and policy.

 The objectives of CPH are to:

          Harness the added value of interdisciplinary approaches to address questions of
           national and global priority, including, for example, exploiting Big Data science to
           improve population health and personalised medicine.
          Increase our UKRI / NIHR / Wellcome Trust and competitive international grant income
           and the proportion that is secured in sustainable programme grants.
          Expand our postgraduate taught programmes and maximise the number of
           international students enrolling for Masters’ and PhD degrees.
          Mentor our early career scientists to ensure they can attract “blue chip” competitive
           national Fellowships that put them on a path to independence.
          Expand the pipeline for careers in clinical academic medicine by offering the necessary
           mentoring, facilities, and opportunities for national and international leadership
           development across a broad range of specialities, including primary care.

 The Centre’s impact strategy is to catalyse and support effective knowledge exchange (KE)
 across CPH partners (including patients, policymakers, commissioners, practitioners, the Third
 Sector, and the general public), and thus our strategic objectives have been to:

          Increase engagement between academics and relevant stakeholders.
          Highlight and foster opportunities for non-academics to be involved in the research
           process from its initiation to dissemination as demonstrated for example in the cultural
           adaptation of smoking prevention interventions in schools in Bogota and in co-
           authorship of outputs e.g. from a previous MRC PHIND funded project on using social
           media for public health messaging.
          Provide opportunities to build research capacity with non-academic stakeholders, by
           facilitating secondments and training opportunities, as exemplified by invited

                                                                                            Page | 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           secondments for personnel from government departments and the Public Health
           Agency (PHA) and thereby generating collaborative academic outputs.
          Incorporate KE and impact into work planning, including monitoring and evaluation to
           capture impacts.
          Ensure that staff and students have opportunities to develop skills that enable them to
           engage with a wide range of public health stakeholders, as exemplified by one of our
           PhD students being supported with internships at the Institute for Public Health
           (Ireland) and with the Academy of Medical Sciences and upon graduation immediately
           taking up a post with the Economic and Social Research Institute in Dublin.
          Share examples of good practice in KE and impact and identify barriers to the flow of
           knowledge.
          Highlight the work of CPH through a range of different mediums including traditional
           media, social media, podcasts, videos, an example being the bi-lingual podcasts made
           by high school adolescents participating in our MRC funded MECHANISMS study in
           Colombia.
          Ensure that research outputs are easy to access and available in a range of different
           formats e.g. policy briefings and lay summaries.
          Increase the number of staff and students involved in public engagement activities so
           that members of the public are better informed about and engaged in research. Our
           partners for impact also include a range of international NGOs (such as Orbis and
           Evidence Aid) as well as relevant industries with ongoing collaborative agreements
           with, for example, Thermo Fisher, Microsoft, Oxford Nanopore, Hologic and Novartis.

 1.d. Interdisciplinary research
 CPH members represent a variety of disciplines including clinicians with expertise in public
 health, dentistry, and other clinical specialties, trials methodology, epidemiology, statistics,
 health service research, health economics, anthropology, nutrition, and molecular epidemiology.

 The UKCRC Centre of Excellence for Public Health (NI), led from CPH, spearheaded a new
 ethos, and provided an exemplar for QUB in supporting interdisciplinary research (IDR) across
 all Faculties. IDR formed part of the core mission of the UKCRC Centre, resulting in six PhD
 student and 17 post-doctoral researcher appointments (directly funded by UKCRC) during the
 REF period which were all jointly supervised by investigators from different Schools and/or
 Faculties. At a time of considerable financial austerity, QUB honoured its commitment and
 funded nine tenured UKCRC lectureships, all of whom were to extend the IDR programmes; six
 in CPH, two in the Management School, and nine in the Centre for Evidence and Social
 Innovation (CESI). The latter Centre was instigated by one of the senior co-investigators in our
 UKCRC Centre of Excellence, coalescing a large IDR group in social sciences. Kee serves on
 its management Board facilitating ongoing joint working (e.g. shared supervision of early career
 researchers) and a common IDR ethos. Our two UKCRC lecturers in the Management School
 went on to form the Centre for Health Research at the Management School (CHARMS) with an
 overt IDR mission to promote social, behavioural and management science research into issues
 relating to health and other dimensions of human wellbeing.

 QUB operates a number of other targeted internal initiatives to foster emerging IDR
 collaborations, including: the Global Challenge Networking Programme: a series of networking
 events centred on creating new connections, facilitating greater exchange and sharing of ideas,
 fostering deeper cross-disciplinary engagement to underpin new perspectives and to support
 further funder engagement; and a Pump-Priming Fund for IDR offering seed-funding awards of
 up to £30k for collaborative research initiatives that cross disciplinary boundaries and which
 adopt a ‘challenge-led’ focus. An example of how such support has borne fruit is in our AHRC-
 MRC funded grant (£165,416) led by CPH anthropologist Lohfeld, with colleagues in QUB
 Drama, to study “How the arts and story-telling can save lives: the Vietnam breast cancer
 project”.




                                                                                            Page | 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.e. Open Research
 Following the principles of the Concordat on Open Research Data, QUB has established an open
 research data agenda. Thus it has an open access (OA) policy and an OA team that undertakes
 advocacy and training activities, promotes and ensures compliance with sector policies,
 administers block grants, and coordinates engagement with publishers, including the payment
 of OA fees for a number of journals and those from the BioMed Centre suite of publications.
 During the current REF period OA has been embedded as the norm across QUB, with 79% of
 all academic staff (100% in CPH) having completed a mandatory online OA training course. A
 high level of compliance with the OA Policy for REF has also been achieved.

 The OA ethos in CPH is exemplified by Clarke who co-authored the good practice principles for
 sharing individual participant data from publicly funded clinical trials, which were published in
 April 2015. These are endorsed by all major UK funders. Other exemplars of recent good practice
 include, sharing raw data from cohorts and trials with funders e.g. collaborating with potential
 NICOLA cohort users through the Dementia Platforms UK and sharing pseudonymised raw data
 from the NIHR-funded trials with sponsors. We have curated more than 100 genetic datasets
 submitted to online repositories, complemented by our own resources to facilitate data sharing
 and reuse such as CORGI and the recently funded RENGENPECT which was developed as a
 resource to host integrated molecular, environmental, clinical and sociodemographic data for
 renal disease.

 1.f. Research Integrity and Ethics.
 QUB supports the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has established regulations,
 policies and codes of practice to govern and maintain the integrity of research, including the
 University Code of Conduct and Integrity in Research, which all staff and research students in
 CPH adhere to. The University has a research governance, ethics and integrity committee
 chaired by a PVC, whose brief includes a review of research projects that may impact on
 humans, animals, or the environment, across all academic disciplines. Research activity in CPH
 is audited to ensure compliance with legislation and university regulations and policies, and that
 research is being conducted, managed, and reported robustly, ensuring transparency and
 fairness. The University also endorses the Russell Group’s Statement of Cooperation in respect
 of cross-institutional research misconduct allegations.

    2. People

 2.a. Overview of approach
 Across the groups we have 16 academics in the Epidemiology and Public Health Group, 9 in the
 Cancer Epidemiology Research group and 16 in the Heath Services and Global Health group.

 Recruitment to the Centre of Public Health has been strategically focused to build on areas of
 strength, to consolidate expertise in certain areas and to address emergent high priority skills
 gaps. Since 2014, the Health Services Research Group expanded substantially with the transfer
 to CPH in 2015 of HSR researchers (mainly focusing on eye care) who previously had worked
 in another centre in the school. This move also expedited a considerable expansion of research
 in Global Health and the subsequent incorporation of a Chair in Eyes Health Technology
 Assessment, with the recruitment of Virgili from Florence to lead the Cochrane Eyes and Vision
 Group. In addition, we have made two strategic appointments in the field of complexity science,
 an area of significant interest to UKRI and the UK Prevention Research Partnership. Indeed,
 Hunter and Kee are part of the successful first wave of the UKPRP Network on this theme
 (PHASE).

 Following the untimely death-in-post of our previous Director (a cancer epidemiologist), we made
 four lectureship appointments to the Cancer Epidemiology Research group; three securing
 competitive Research Fellowships (Hicks, Kunzmann and McMenamin), with McMenamin also
 securing a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. The subsequent Research Group Lead, Coleman,
 was promoted to a personal Chair when she won a Career Establishment Award from CRUK in
 2018.

                                                                                             Page | 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We anticipate up to six retirements from among our professoriate in the next five years and we
 are aiming to build further capacity in ageing research, data science and health economics; all
 areas ranked as high priority by UKRI.

 The increased investment in staff development across all categories has translated
 into increased staff well-being and satisfaction with the research culture, as documented in the
 University’s 2019 All-Staff Survey, with responses from all CPH staff indicating they believe the
 following:

          97%: that their work was interesting.
          91%: that their work gave them a feeling of personal accomplishment.
          90%: that QUB respects individual differences (cultures, working styles, backgrounds,
           ideas).
          93%: that they have the freedom to work in a way that suits them, as long as the work
           is done.
          93%: that QUB is committed to world class research.
          85%: that were proud to work for QUB.


 2.b. Staffing profile and recruitment.
 The current 42 FTE (48 headcount) cohort comprises: 46% female; 4% non-white ethnic (slightly
 greater than in the NI population) and 18% non-UK, occupying the following academic grades:

          Lecturers:          18
          Senior Lectures:    8
          Readers:            3
          Professors:         19

 2.c. Staff development and career progression
 QUB replaced the previous “Appraisal” system with an annual Personal Development Review in
 2020 which offers much greater agency and flexibility to staff to outline their own ambitions for
 education, research and citizenship, ensuring they are supported to achieve their potential and
 progress to higher academic positions. Within the complement of staff returned as part of this
 UoA, 18% have made academic progression since 2014; of which 11% to Senior Lecturer, 44.5%
 to Reader and 44.5% to Professor and 44% of those who made academic progression were
 female.

 2.d. Early Career Researchers and post docs
 The objectives of our Skills Development training strategy are to:

          Develop highly productive Early Career Researchers (ECRs) who will acquire the skills
           and capabilities being prioritised by UKRI in key shortage areas.
          Support the training of ECRs in achieving scientific independence, impactful research
           and leveraging additional research income in strategic areas.
          Sustain and embed a modus operandi of transdisciplinary working and partnership so
           that ECRs and their mentors espouse novel methodological eclecticism in addressing
           their individual research projects.
          Disseminate the key skills beyond the host Institution.
          Establish infrastructures (including datasets, international partnerships, mentoring
           programmes, and short courses) that will benefit future cadres of ECRs working in
           aligned priority areas.

 The Queen's Fellowship Academy has been designed to provide appropriate development
 support in order to nurture researchers with outstanding potential, including a Fellows Network
 and a bespoke mentoring programme. There are currently 32 Fellows in the Academy from
 across the University, of which four are from CPH (McMenamin, Hicks, Kunzmann and Wright).

                                                                                            Page | 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McMenamin is one of two Fellows who are part of the Fellowship Academy Operations Group
 which informs the plans for the Academy.

 In addition to providing opportunities for tailored specialist training, the ECRs in CPH all have
 access to a programme of generic foundation training. A structured programme, “Enhancing
 Research Practice”, is offered, comprising elements such as “Applying your research to policy
 agendas”, “Researcher Writing Retreats” and “Communicating the impact of your Research”, the
 successful completion of which leads to an Institute of Leadership and Management Level 5
 Certificate. Researchers at all levels who wish to undertake a further education course relevant
 to their career advancement can apply for University funding support. In addition, the University
 has rolled out a tailored Postdoctoral Career Development Programme, while our own Faculty
 established a Postdoctoral Development Centre (FPDC) which offers bespoke training and
 support to postdoctoral researchers in terms of academic and non-academic career
 development. McShane sits on its management committee. This programme provides support
 in skills relevant to career development including, grant writing, publishing, project management,
 mentorship, assisting in PhD supervision, communications, network building and outreach. From
 December 2019, seven postdoctoral Researchers in CPH had assistant PhD supervisor roles
 approved. The FPDC also implemented a Concordat to support the career development of
 researchers’ action plans, which resulted in the University’s HR Excellence in Research Award
 being renewed in 2020.

 The ECRs also have the opportunity to participate in a QUB Excellence in Leadership and
 Management Development Programme to build their research team leadership capability and
 skills around team and project leadership, group dynamics, performance management,
 collaborative working, and recruiting and retaining staff. ECRs also benefit from joining a
 vigorous Postdoc Society within the School, which has representation on School management
 committees and coordinates an independent programme of seminars and training events that
 supplement those offered by CPH and partner schools, including regular contributions to the
 Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series (KESS) Programme with parliamentarians in the NI
 Assembly. A number of our ECRs have been facilitated and funded to take up secondment
 opportunities with our policy and practitioner partners; two, for example, in the Department of
 Finance’s Innovation Laboratory, one in the Academy of Medical Sciences, one with the NI
 Assembly and one in the PHA for NI. In addition, the UKCRC Centre co-funded an ECR to work
 in UC San Francisco as part of her Paul Beeson CARDI Innovation Award. Two others won
 prestigious Health Economics Fellowships from the US National Institutes of Health and were
 supported in their secondments to the Memorial Sloan Kettering Institute in New York, one of
 whom remains in academia while the other is in the Public Health Agency.

 A key aspect of support for tenured staff on their first academic appointment is the Faculty
 Collaboration Seed Fund which is designed to help ECRs establish new research links with
 world-leading programmes related to their research discipline. Funding, up to a maximum of £5K,
 is available for research visits of 1-3 months.

 2.e. Postgraduate Research students:
 Postgraduate research studentships are vital to research development within CPH. The number
 of students who graduated over this REF period, (including MPhil/MD/PhD research students),
 slightly decreased from 94 fte in REF 2014 to 83.54 which is largely attributable to our Public
 Health Nutrition Group being submitted to UoA 6. Our programme for mentoring, evaluating, and
 supporting postgraduate research students, aligned with the researcher concordat, involves a
 requirement by the internal supervisory team for at least 12 formally minuted supervisory
 meetings per year, with the expectation that a detailed written training plan is devised within the
 first three months which is linked to the students’ project plans and timetable alongside an
 appropriate Postgraduate Researcher Development Programme. As well as attending taught
 courses on generic skills such as communication science and medical statistics, postgraduate
 research students are required to present their research orally at a local symposium and attend
 an annual research progress interview. These are conducted by a diverse panel of senior QUB
 academics, which does not include the students’ supervisors and relevant external associate

                                                                                            Page | 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partners, leading in the first year to differentiation to doctoral status when the student will
 demonstrate ownership, understanding and knowledge of their project approximately nine
 months into their work. The School’s Postgraduate Research Committee is responsible for
 supporting and monitoring postgraduate student progression on a formal basis.

 Postgraduate research students are expected to attend the CPH seminar programme, which
 delivers a wide range of research seminars by distinguished visiting researchers. Each research
 group also runs journal clubs and research seminars specific to their research area, to which
 students will contribute. In addition, students are encouraged and supported to attend relevant
 training courses at other institutions and are expected and supported to present their findings at
 national and international conferences for which travel scholarships are available.

 Beyond project specific skills, QUB’s Graduate School offers training in a range of
 complementary skills that helps prepare students to become the next generation of innovators,
 leaders, entrepreneurs, communicators and thinkers. Optional training opportunities include:
 social engagement (e.g. IMPACT), Researcher Plus, and Leadership training, which can lead to
 a Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and Leadership Chartered Management Institute.
 Complementing internal guidance from supervisors and collaborators, careers advice, online
 training resources, and 1-2-1 consultancy are also formally provided by the Graduate School.
 Facilitating inclusivity and maximising productivity, QUB’s Student Guidance Centre offers a
 student wellbeing and disability service, a learning development service and a dedicated careers
 service offering opportunities for short placements or secondments working in local SMEs, the
 Third Sector, data analytical companies, the NHS and the Public Health Agency.

 While there is an established peer-mentoring system in CPH, research students can also take
 part in the SMDBS mentoring scheme, with a trained mentor external to the mentee’s own
 research centre. Female research students and Fellows have the option to take part in a
 University-wide mentoring scheme, run by the QUB Gender Initiative, where they are paired with
 a mentor from a different School.

 In the most recent 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), it was noted that
 the percentage of students who responded agreed that:

           91%: supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to support their project
           90%: received an appropriate level of feedback on their work.
           82%: supervisors helped them to identify their training and development needs.
           89%: had suitable working space.
           82%: had adequate provision of computing resources and facilities.

 2.f. Equality and Diversity
 The University’s Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion team, based in the People and Culture
 Directorate, helps us create a culture that is inclusive at all levels, in every system and process.
 The team are responsible for management of the equality, diversity and inclusion policies of the
 University and provision of training to staff on related issues.

 Section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (“the Act”) requires the University to have due regard
 to the need to promote equality of opportunity. The University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Policy, revised in January 2020 and applying to all staff and students, seeks to provide equality
 of opportunity and treatment to all, regardless of a person’s gender identity/expression (this
 includes Transgender and Non-Binary people); pregnancy or maternity status; marital or civil
 partnership status; whether or not they have dependants (including caring responsibilities);
 religious belief or political opinion; race (including colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins,
 including Irish Travellers); disability; sexual orientation and age. This policy is a statement of
 Queen’s arrangements for fulfilling Section 75 statutory duties. An Annual Progress Report to
 which CPH contributes, summarises how we have discharged our Section 75 statutory duties.
 This is sent to the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland each year and follows its guidance.


                                                                                                Page | 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University provides a comprehensive menu of Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Training for
 all staff, using a blended approach of e-learning and face-to-face sessions. All CPH staff are
 required to complete online Equality and Diversity (E&D) and Unconscious Bias e-learning
 programmes annually. In addition, all new staff receive E&D Training as part of their induction
 process. There is a range of other policies dealing with specific E&D issues including the Bullying
 and Harassment Complaints Procedure, with a number of trained Anti-Harassment Advisors on
 campus, the Disability Action Plan, which is compliant with the Disability Discrimination Act 1995
 and monitored through an annual progress report; and the Trans Equality Policy.

 The University launched its LGBT+ staff network, PRISM, in October 2018. This Network was
 created to provide a welcoming space for LGBT+ employees to meet during work hours, to
 discuss relevant issues, work matters and to plan social events. QUB’s first Black, Asian and
 Minority Ethnic ('BAME') and International Staff Network, known as 'iRise', was launched in June
 2019. It promotes QUB as a welcoming place to work for BAME and International members of
 staff, providing a forum for networking and a means of peer support, while ensuring the interests
 of BAME and International staff are represented to the University. The cultural diversity of the
 PGR student body has also increased so that in this REF cohort 16% of UoA2 students were
 from outside the UK and 10% from outside Europe.

 The SMDBS has its own Gender Equality Office, established in 2010, and Gender Equality is
 firmly embedded in all aspects of the work of the School and all its centres. At a centre level,
 equality diversity and inclusion is a standing item on the agendas of the CPH staff and Senior
 Management Team (SMT) meetings. The SMT is comprised of 6 males and 5 females and of
 the 26 new academics appointed in CPH since 2014, 14 were female. While QUB has polices
 and services to support parents and carers, to increase mental health awareness and to promote
 work life balance, CPH prides itself on its collegiate and inclusive culture, supporting flexible
 working and career breaks as appropriate to individual circumstances. Two members of CPH
 staff sit on the School’s Gender Equality Office Committee, with one of them now heading up the
 implementation of the School’s SWAN Action Plan. CPH operates core meeting hours (10am-
 4pm) for all key business meetings to ensure staff with caring responsibilities, can attend. It also
 monitors the gender breakdown of the seminar programme to ensure female role models are
 visible to staff and students in the Centre.

 The Women’s early Career Academic Network (WeCan), run by the Gender Equality Office,
 holds events throughout the academic year to promote professional and social interactions
 among female academics, provide support and guidance, explore training opportunities for early
 career academics and researchers, and to share strategies for dealing with academic life and
 work-life balance. The fruit borne by CPH’s embrace of these initiatives has included three
 internal promotions of female CPH academics to Chair positions in this cycle.

 Since REF 2014, CPH and the University identified that the dominant area of gender pay gap
 was at professorial level. Action has been taken to halve the professorial gender-pay gap from
 14.5% in 2014 to 8.6% in 2018 through two significant actions:

          The review of Promotions and Professorial Salary Review criteria to ensure that the
           leadership domain encompassed a full range of roles and responsibilities, including
           leadership in SWAN; and a calibration exercise to ensure this was accounted for in
           the promotions process for the professoriate.
          The reduction of the number of points in the professorial scale; staff from CPH were
           involved in developing the consultation with the professoriate and implementing this
           policy.

    3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 The SMDBS, like other Schools in the Faculty, is given an annual research income target, and
 as one of its three research centres, CPH contributes its fte share to this. Of the £48.6M of
 research income during this REF period, UoA2 researchers have secured £10.3M (21%) from

                                                                                             Page | 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UKRI which represents a 133% increase of research council income. NI-based researchers have
 been eligible to apply for some but not all NIHR funding schemes and UoA2 researchers also
 secured £14.59M of income from UK central bodies, local authorities and health bodies over this
 REF cycle; a 74% increase since the last REF return. NI researchers are not eligible to apply
 to the large infrastructure schemes, such as BRU/BRC funding.

 Our own CPH income generating strategy aligns with the core strategic objectives of QUB.
 Therefore, key actions that have been taken over this REF period to support income generation
 are:

          Participating in annual Funder Liaison Group meetings with funders such as the MRC
           and the Wellcome Trust.
          Accessing local seed funding from the University or “Opportunity Led Awards” from
           the HSC Research and Development Division of the PHA. Such funding has enhanced
           several successful applications to the MRC PHIND Scheme.
          Mandatory internal CPH peer review and Faculty peer review of all UKRI grant
           proposals led by ECRs, probationers and staff with less than 7 years’ experience.
          Support from the University for strategic partnerships, including for secondments and
           sabbaticals to better position us for national and international large scale multi-
           institutional initiatives e.g. Congdon with ORBIS, Hunter with the Keck School of
           Medicine, University of Southern California and the Yale Institute of Network Science
           and Lohfeld with the research department of the Eye Hospital at Wenzhou
           Medical College, Wenzhou, China.
          Enhanced training for academic mentors offering peer support for ideas generation
           and encouraging participation in sandpit events for the same purpose. Mini sandpits
           were regular features of the annual retreats of the UKCRC Centre of Excellence and
           Kee subsequently used this learning as a plenary speaker at the 2014 CRUK Sandpit
           for public health intervention development and then chaired the programme for their
           2015 sandpit.

 CPH is based in the Institute of Clinical Sciences (ICS) on the Royal Victoria Hospital campus,
 immediately adjacent to the NI Cancer Registry (directed by Gavin) and the NI CTU (directed by
 Clarke). The Centre Director is supported by a Manager who directs a professional support team
 of 39 ; 10 of which are core funder and 29 are research funded, comprising administrative, clerical
 and technical staff, of whom 12 work in the NI Cancer Registry. Among the support staff are a
 Data Manager and IT Systems Manager and we also have access to the University’s High-
 Performance Computing Centre. Within ICS, we also house the Belfast Ophthalmic Image
 Reading Centre led by Peto and the Administrative Data Research Centre led by O’Reilly. Since
 the 2014 REF, the physical footprint of CPH has doubled and includes a biorepository with
 freezer space for the NICOLA cohort samples and facilities for in-house GWAS/EWAS analysis.

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.a. Academic collaborations and contributions:
 During this REF cycle, CPH academics have been or currently are PIs, Co-Is or Management/
 Advisory Group members of several leading national and international research consortia such
 as, O’Reilly and Kee with the HDRUK, O’Reilly with the ADRC-Network, Kee with the NIHR
 PHIRST, Hunter with the UKPRP PHASE-Network, Clarke with the Cochrane Methods and Virgili
 with the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group. CPH has benefited hugely from QUB support offered
 for such collaborative research. For example, QUB allocated 41 PhD studentships to us that
 were aligned with major collaborative research enterprises across the UK such as the UKCRC
 network of Centres of Excellence and the ADRC, while our contribution to the HDRUK public
 health network benefited from QUB allocating two postdoctoral ECRs to the programme.

 A key aspect of the internationalisation agenda at QUB is to deliver the highest quality research
 that has the potential to make an enduring impact on global development and contribute to the
 delivery of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and UK Aid Agenda. During the assessment

                                                                                            Page | 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period, QUB launched an institutional Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Strategy which
 seeks to build research capacity and capability both in the Global South and in QUB, where it is
 most able to have a lasting impact. In September 2018, QUB was ranked as one of the top 25
 universities in the UK based on the scale of its GCRF funding portfolio and on this basis was
 awarded a UKRI Global Impact Accelerator Award (GIAA). Our own CPH GCRF awards have
 supported our work in Uganda, Angola, Vietnam, and Tanzania.

 QUB also helped CPH establish a Memorandum of Understanding with several partner
 institutions in Vietnam (Hanoi), South Africa, China (Guangzhou), Hyderabad, Singapore, and
 the US (Vanderbilt), including support for travel for academics and students on exchange visits.
 By way of example, QUB supported a £25K investment to establish long-term collaboration in
 cancer epidemiology between CPH and the Vanderbilt Epidemiology Centre, Vanderbilt
 University, USA, which has resulted in a highly productive and synergistic academic
 collaboration. Research visits were made by senior and junior academics, and postdoctoral
 research fellows between the two institutions, in addition to extended exchange visits by PhD
 students. Reciprocal Molecular Cancer Epidemiology Symposia were hosted, in 2014 at QUB,
 including an accompanying grant-writing workshop supported by Cancer Research UK, and in
 2015 at Vanderbilt University. Joint scientific articles have been published and joint grant
 applications have been submitted, including a successful submission to the National Institutes of
 Health.

 4.b. Engagement with non-academic communities
 Several of our senior staff have honorary appointments with our primary local partner, the NI
 PHA or with the Belfast HSC Trust. This relationship is much more than titular, as testified by the
 significant collaborative scientific endeavour that we support, examples of which include:

          Organisation of the annual scientific conference with the PHA (NI) and the Institute for
           Public Health for Ireland, ensuring that the programme is both scientifically innovative
           and relevant to practice.
          Collaboration on focussed high priority topics for our researcher users, such as the
           recent evaluation we conducted for the PHA (and the Department of Finance
           Innovation Laboratory) on a Nudge intervention to reduce anti-biotic prescribing.
          Senior staff in CPH either directly leading key screening services (Peto, for diabetic
           retinopathy screening) or leveraging additional UKRI resources to enhance service
           quality such as through a UKRI fellowship, or who have made important contributions
           to service delivery as in the recent COVID response through membership of the NI
           Chief Medical Officer’s COVID Strategic Intelligence Group (Bradley, Kee), the
           Pandemic Modelling Group (Bradley, Kee), GOG-UK (Bradley), NERVTAG (QCOVID
           subgroup, Kee) and through bespoke locally funded but highly responsive projects on
           behalf of PHA curating and analysing social media data for various COVID-19 and
           COVID-19 vaccine sentiment analyses.

 The NICR led by its Director, Gavin and hosted by CPH, is funded by the PHA, and routinely
 engages with government departments to produce Official Statistics for NI. However, in addition
 to dealing with data and analysis requests, including cluster investigations for the PHA, Gavin,
 as a member of the programme board for the International Cancer Benchmarking Project has
 contributed significantly to driving up standards of cancer care in NI.

 As a further example of how our staff are working collaboratively with our partners to change
 public health practice, we joined with the PHA and secured funding from NIHR to test, in a
 pragmatic real world cluster-randomised trial, the impact of the Roots of Empathy intervention to
 improve social and emotional development of primary school children. This programme has now
 been rolled out to over 100 primary schools in NI. Working with the PHA in areas such as these
 has enriched the research environment by ensuring our ECRs learn that more effective research
 translation begins with asking questions relevant to practice and ensuring that an ethos of co-
 production scaffolds the research journey from beginning to end.


                                                                                            Page | 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Although Public Health in NI remains part of the NHS, working with local authorities is essential
 if we are to address upstream determinants. To that end, Kee launched the NI Public Health
 Research Network to promote evidence co-production and evaluation in the 11 local authorities
 and held the directorship position until 2015. Early lessons from the network subsequently
 informed a multi-institution Health Foundation funded project examining how better to promote
 evidence use in local authorities across the UK and gave us a sound platform to collaborate in
 PHIRST-North.

 4.c. Wider contributions and impact on non-academic world and communities
 All CPH staff, including ECRs, are trained to articulate their research questions and design their
 work to ensure maximal impact on practice, on policy and/or on society. Among the many
 examples, not included among our Impact Case studies are:

          O’Reilly: As lead, worked with the ADRC (NI), for the Department of Agriculture,
           Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA), to use linked data from the Agricultural
           Census and the main Population Census, to gain a better understanding of the health,
           welfare and educational issues affecting farming communities in NI, providing baseline
           evidence of the need for further research targeting and policy outcome monitoring, and
           yielding an estimated saving to DAERA of £350,000.
          Hunter: In her first postdoctoral position and Lectureship in the UKCRC Centre of
           Excellence, helped to coordinate a programme of work (the “PARC” Study) on the
           evaluation of the Connswater Community Greenway (CCG). As part of that work the
           team demonstrated the potential impact on public health and cost effectiveness of
           such investments, and this was subsequently referenced in the Strategic Plans for
           Greenways by the Department for Infrastructure which details plans for a Greenway
           network throughout NI. This CCG evaluation and the training in neighbourhood
           walkability measurement delivered by the QUB team to the City Council was one of
           the subjects of an ITN documentary showcased as exemplary practice at the 2015
           annual meeting in London of the Royal Society of Public Health. Hunter was then
           invited to lead an evidence review on urban green space interventions for
           environmental, health and equity impacts for the WHO Europe and was a member of
           an expert panel which made recommendations for local practitioners and policymakers
           on urban green space in Bonn, Germany, September 2016. The PARC Study is
           included as an exemplar case study in a WHO working paper which was highlighted
           and widely read in The Conversation.

 Among other recent examples of our mission for reach and influence on the wider community
 and economy are our:

          HDRUK investigators’ central role in the Belfast Region City Deal, which is promoting
           a “One Health” agenda, connecting intelligence on environments, livestock, human
           health and whole populations to show how interventions in one domain can lead to
           benefits in another.
          Staff serving on the policy panels of local Charities including Gavin serving on the
           scientific committee of MacMillan (NI), driving their research priorities, and partnering
           with CRUK to compile data for the National Cancer Diagnosis Audit for NI.
          Leadership roles with bodies like Public Health Agency, such as Peto’s leadership of
           the diabetic retinopathy screening service; and our leadership of annual PHA scientific
           conferences.
          Participation in several of the Department of Finance Innovation Laboratory policy
           building workshops including Bradley on antimicrobial resistance; Kee on childhood
           obesity prevention and McGuinness on dementia care.
          Work on nearly 1300 podcasts for Cochrane Reviews (Clarke) which allow patients
           and the public generally to hear about the latest Cochrane evidence.

 Our Centre also catalyses impact outside of academia through interactions with NGOs. For
 example, Hunter is a member of Belfast Heathy Cities Board of Directors, while Congdon serves

                                                                                            Page | 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as Director of Research for the eye health charity Orbis International. Chan has held a similar
 position in the past with the Brien Holden Vision Institute, while Peto works closely with Orbis
 and with the Hong-Kong-based charity Lifeline Express.

 4.d. Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Capacity building was one of the main objectives of our UKCRC Centre of Excellence for Public
 Health Research and across QUB, CPH made nine tenured IDR Public Health Lectureship
 appointments (in different Schools and Faculties), and aside from those directly funded by
 UKCRC, leveraged an additional 40 PhD studentships. CPH also supported secondments for
 staff from NI PHA and other government bodies such as the Department for Communities NI and
 the local equivalent of the Department of Work and Pensions, resulting in joint academic
 publications and, in some cases, supporting their case for Honorary Fellowship of the UK Faculty
 of Public Health (UKCRC Final Report).

 Several senior staff in CPH also hold leadership positions in regional and national training
 programmes, mentoring early career researchers, including junior Post-Foundation Clinicians
 and Academic Clinical Fellows. For example, McGuinness is the NI lead for the Wellcome Trust
 funded Irish Clinical Academic Training Programme, while Cunningham is the lead for the NI
 Deanery Academic Foundation Year 2 programme and Kee the Chair of the NI Deanery’s Public
 Health Training Committee. Responsive to national Global Health priorities and working with
 another of our UKCRC Centre of Excellence partners in the (QUB) Centre for Evidence and
 Social Innovation, we built upon our work with the PHA in NI to secure further NIHR funding for
 a Global Health Research Group for Early Childhood Development for Peace-building (Kee, co-
 investigator), working with UNICEF to develop novel interventions and evaluation capacity in 6
 LMIC settings (Timor-Leste, Kyrgyzstan, Egypt, Tajikistan, Mali and Vietnam).

 Many of our staff have also supported various national and international training initiatives. For
 example, McKay has served as Vice Chair to the EU Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Innovative Training Networks and Individual Fellowship Life Panels (H2020-MSCA-ITN/IF-
 2018/2019/2020), while Kee serves on the Steering Group of the NIHR Training Academy Public
 Health Incubator and sits on the MRC non-clinical Fellowship and the UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship panels.

 4.e. Indicators of wider influence, contributions, and recognition.
 We have encouraged staff at all levels to support and influence the development of our core
 disciplines at national and international level, in ways which we believe have strengthened their
 contribution to science and to policy and practice. Examples include:

 Journal Editorial Board Membership:
        Azuara-Blanco: Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Editorial Board.
        Clarke: Coordinating Editor of the Cochrane Methodology Review Group,
           Coordinating Editor of the James Lind Library, Editor in Chief of the Journal of
           Evidence-Based Medicine and Podcast Editor of the Cochrane Library.
        Coleman: Editorial Board Member of Gastroenterology; British Journal of Cancer.
        Donnelly: Senior Editor BMC Health Services Research.
        Hunter: Associate Editor of the International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and
           Physical Activity.
        McKay: Nature Scientific Reports.
        McKenna: Gerodontology, Associate Editor (McKenna); Journal of Dentistry, Editorial
           Board Member.
        McMenamin and McShane: BMC Cancer, Associate Editors
        McMullin: Editor: Journal of Clinical Pathology
        Peto: Board Member, Royal Society of Medicine.
        Virgili: Coordinating Editor of the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group.




                                                                                           Page | 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National/International funding committees and peer review panels:
       Azuara-Blanca: NIHR-HTA prioritisation Committee 2019.
       Chakravarthy: NIHR-HTA prioritisation Committee 2010-19.
       Clarke: NIHR HTA Methods Group; NIHR HTA General Board 2016-2019 Hunter:
            NIHR PHR Funding Board.
       Coleman: Cancer Research UK Population Research Committee Funding Panel.
       Congdon: British Council for the Prevention of Blindness Review Board
       Kee: MRC Public Health Intervention Development panel, 2013–18; MRC Population
            and Systems Medicine Board, 2011-2015; MRC Better Methods Better Research
            Panel 2020-2023; MRC Fellowships and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Panel,
            2020-2023; MRC Agile COVID Panel 2020/21; DHSC-NIHR Long COVID Panel 2021;
            Department of HSC Policy Research Unit Commissioning panels (COVID
            Recovery/Renewal/Re-Set; Mental Health, Obesity, Health Services Research,
            Cancer Screening), 2016-21; Chair (2014-19) NIHR PHR Programme Funding
            Committee; European Research Council panel (LS7) for “Diagnostic tools, therapies
            and public health” 2015 and 2018.
       McGuinness: Alzheimer’s Society Biomedical Grant Advisory Board.
       McKay: EU Horizon 2020 Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Life panel for H2020-JTI-
            IMI2-2015-01, Topic 2; and SC1-DTH-12-2020: Use of Real-World Data to advance
            research on the management of complex chronic conditions.
       Peto: British Council for the Prevention of Blindness Review Board.
       Shields: Asthma UK National Grants Panel.

 Policy and Practice advisory committees:
        Azuara-Blanco: European Glaucoma Society Guidelines committee (chair); NICE
          glaucoma guidelines NG81 committee; NIHR CRN Glaucoma Clinical Study Group
          (chair).
        Chakravarthy: Chair Royal College of Ophthalmologists AMD guidelines to 2016;
          European AMD Guidelines, European Diabetic Macular Edema Guidelines.
        Garcia: Member of the Scientific Committee of the Brazilian Physical Activity Guidelines
          Development Group (commissioned by Brazilian Ministry of Health); WHO Physical
          Activity Guidelines Development Group.
        Hunter: Member of the WHO Europe expert panel for urban green space interventions
        Kee: Department of Work and Pensions Methods Advisory Group, 2019-2022;
          International Advisory Board of the CRUK / BUPA Prevention Research Initiative, 2014-
          2017; RCUK / Innovate UK Urban Living Partnership Advisory Group, 2016-2018.
        McKenna: Currently the only Dentist holding a NICE Fellowship; Dental Caries
          Guideline Development Group for Developing Better Oral Health, Public Health England
          (2019-2020); Platform for Better Oral Health in Europe (2016-2020); European College
          of Gerodontology, President, 2016-2017.
        McMullin: European Hematology Association: scientific working group MPN: (2014-
          2020); MPN&MPNr-EuroNET (Network of experts in the molecular diagnosis of
          myeloproliferative neoplasms and related diseases); Chair Working group 3: Congenital
          erythrocytosis and hereditary thrombocytosis 2014-2020.
        O’Neill C: National Screening Advisory Committee for Ireland.
        Shields: British Thoracic Society Asthma Guidelines group, Co-chair Pharmacological
          section, to 2016; European Respiratory Society Taskforce: Persistent bacterial
          bronchitis Guidelines Group.

 National /interventional academic consortia, research initiatives:
       Azuara-Blanco: Commonwealth Scholarship Commission.
       Busby: Steering committee for the International Severe Asthma Registry.
       Chakravarthy: Advisor to Retina Network India, 2018.
       Clarke: Chair of the Board of Trustees and Research Director for Evidence Aid.
       Coleman: The International Barrett’s Pathology Working Group.


                                                                                         Page | 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Congdon: Fred Hollows Foundation Diabetic Retinopathy Research and Advisory
          Group; ORBIS International Director of Research.
         Garcia: Co-Chair of the Brazilian Society of Physical Activity and Health’s Public
          Policy Working Group.
         Gavin: International Cancer Benchmarking Project; European Network of Cancer
          registries, Steering Committee (2017-2020)
         Hunter: Co-founder of the Early Career Networks of the Council for Environment and
          Physical Activity (CEPA) and the International Society for Physical Activity and Health.
         Kee: Advisory Board for NIHR School of Public Health; BiomarcaRE consortium
          Management Group.
         McKnight: Executive and Research committee of The Renal Association until 2016;
          International Population Studies Epigenetics and Genomics Working Group; UK
          Genetics Training Leads network, NHS GMC network and GeCIP consortia.
         Peto: Head of the European Vison Institute’s Reading Centre; Vice President of the
          European Association for the Study of Diabetic Eye Complications; Head of Diabetic
          Eye Complications of the European Eye Epidemiology Consortium and a founding
          member of the European Coalition for Vision.




                                                                                          Page | 18
