Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: 14 (Geography and Environmental Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Geography and Environmental Studies at Plymouth are vibrant research areas whose activities
 are coordinated across four interlinked and interdisciplinary thematic research areas that span the
 natural and social sciences:

 (a) Environmental governance;
 (b) Mobility, culture and society;
 (c) Quaternary and Holocene environmental change;
 (d) Catchment and coastal processes.

 Staff in UoA14 are drawn from two Schools: the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental
 Sciences (SoGEES: 23 researchers) and the School of Biological and Marine Science (SoBMS:
 five researchers). In REF2014 29.2 Cat A staff were submitted to UoA17, against a total of 27.2
 FTE within this submission to UoA14. This is a consequence of Politics and International Relations
 research being submitted to UoA21 in REF2021. Only 11 of the 29 staff submitted in REF2014
 are submitted to REF2021, following: retirement of leading researchers within the period, for
 example Roberts and Wilson, both of whom now have emeritus status; progression of some early
 to mid-career staff to more senior roles at other UK and International HEIs; and deliberate
 decisions to build the staff base through appointment and development of early career
 researchers, complementing existing areas of research strength to ensure sustainability in core
 areas. This has supported a more balanced unit profile than in REF2014, particularly in terms of
 gender (46.4% of staff in UoA14 for REF2021 are women, compared with 32% submitted to UoA17
 in REF2014: detail in Section 2: People).

 Within SoGEES, researchers in UoA14 are drawn from the Centre for Research on Environment
 and Society (CeRES: https://tinyurl.com/UoP-CeRES ) and the Biogeochemistry Research
 Centre (BGC: https://tinyurl.com/UoP-BGC ). The researchers in SoBMS are members of the
 Marine and Coastal Policy Research Unit (MarCoPol: https://tinyurl.com/UoP-MarCoPol).
 These Research Centres contribute to the successes of two of the University’s three strategic
 Research Institutes, the Sustainable Earth Institute (SEI) and the Marine Institute (MI). The
 Sustainable Earth Institute promotes new ways of thinking about the future of the world. It brings
 researchers from broad disciplines together with businesses, community groups and individuals
 to develop cutting-edge research and innovative approaches that build resilience to global
 challenges. The SEI links diverse research areas across the University including science,
 engineering, arts, humanities, health, and business. The Marine Institute advances knowledge
 and understanding of our seas and coastlines. Scientists, engineers, policy-makers, and business
 managers of the future are taught. The Marine Institute adds value to individual researchers
 through the interactions of the marine realm with the arts, humanities, and human health. The MI
 is recognised for delivering world-leading marine and maritime research and innovation. It
 provides and communicates evidence to support policy solutions to underpin sustainable use of
 marine resources in the UK and internationally. The supportive Institute structures add value to
 the research that is coordinated and delivered through the UoA14 Research Centres, particularly
 through promoting interdisciplinary working, linking researchers to stakeholders and as a platform
 for communicating cutting-edge research.

 Each Research Centre has an academic leader and a steering group that includes early career
 researchers (ECRs), postgraduate researchers, and the post-doctoral community. The Associate
 Head of School for Research supports the Centre Leads and chairs the School Research
 Committee. In addition, members of the Research Centres sit on the Institute boards and strategy
 groups to ensure integration of Institute and Centre-based activities. Together this group of staff
 work to support, mentor and manage researchers within a supportive, inclusive and dynamic

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research environment. The Research Centres sit within the School organisational structures. As
 a result, the broader research themes (detailed below) incorporate different disciplinary
 approaches, for example, in the area of Environmental Governance, drawing on both natural
 science and social science approaches to environmental stewardship and sustainability.

 Our research strategy in the REF2014 environmental statement had five main objectives:
 1. Delivery of internationally excellent research publications.
 2. Strengthening our contribution to interdisciplinary understandings of environment-society
    linkages as part of the University’s desire to connect disciplines in novel ways.
 3. Enhanced policy-relevant research via stakeholders and funders, and promotion of public
    understanding.
 4. Further expansion of the size and scope of our PhD research training programme, including
    diversification of our intake of national and international research students.
 5. Maintenance of strong external research income, diversification of income streams, and
    expansion of postdoctoral communities.

 We have achieved these objectives by refining and sustaining distinctive thematic research areas
 that have achieved international impact through the generation of new knowledge that makes
 fundamental contributions within and beyond disciplinary boundaries, and knowledge exchange
 and impact activities that bring our research to students, staff, non-academic organisations, and
 other sections of society. Our thematic research areas provide the driving force for our research
 strategy. This has also driven our recruitment strategies (see section 2). We have made distinct
 and clear contributions to knowledge in each of our main research areas (Figure 1), publishing
 >460 outputs that have attracted >7,500 citations, with an overall field-weighted citation index
 (FWCI) of 2.09 within the REF period (source: SciVal, date 20/01/21). Although journal Impact
 Factors are no guarantee of output quality, we have published in the leading journals, including
 Science, Nature Communications, Scientific Reports, Nature Geosciences, Proceedings of the
 National Academy of Sciences, and the leading discipline-specific journals including Progress in
 Human Geography, Transactions of the British Geographers, Marine Policy, Global Change
 Biology, and Quaternary Science Reviews.




 Figure 1: Plymouth UoA14 scholarly outputs arranged by research topics (as defined by SciVal).
 Only top 10% of worldwide topics by prominence shown. Symbols are scaled to number of outputs;
 topics with five or more outputs are labelled (source: SciVal, Jan 2021).

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environmental governance theme (Austen, Bailey, Blake, Essex, Harmer, Hattam, Hooper,
 Glegg, Kelly, Rees, Rodwell, Ward, Wilson G.)

 Research in the Environmental governance theme has made major contributions in three key
 research areas: the governance of marine environments; climate governance and justice in low-
 carbon transitions; and community-level socio-environmental resilience. Rodwell and Rees have
 led research on socio-economic effects of marine protected areas (MPAs) which is now driving
 national and global frameworks for ocean governance. Austen (with Hattam and Hooper) and
 Rees have contributed substantially to research that has enabled the implementation of national,
 European and International marine strategy including the UK Marine and Coastal Access Act, the
 European Marine Strategy Framework Directive and the Convention on Biological Diversity (e.g.
 the Lyme Bay Impact Case Study). Austen has pioneered the Natural Capital Approach for marine
 systems. Bailey and Harmer’s research on climate governance and energy transitions has
 produced the first global analysis of factors shaping the design of national emissions trading
 schemes and Essex has developed new insights on how justice is contested in debates on climate
 and renewable energy policy (e.g. within UKRI awards ES/L015978/1 and ES/N014138/1 see
 section 3). Wilson and Kelly have developed and applied resilience concepts across a range of
 communities, using interdisciplinary frameworks to explore the importance of social and economic
 resilience in conserving underpinning ecosystem services (e.g. soil conservation) in developing
 countries (e.g. UKRI awards NE/P015603/1; NE/R009309/1, see section 3). Post REF2021, the
 goal is to develop further ground-breaking approaches to environmental governance by driving
 new understandings of how to manage the effects of issue-attention cycles on policies affecting
 plastics and climate change, the dynamics of local authority net-zero carbon initiatives,
 reconceptualising conservation-facing initiatives associated with ecological and protective
 bordering (e.g. rewilding, area designation), and ecosystem services and natural capital (e.g.
 through UKRI awards BB/T012560/1 PI Blake, NE/P021107/2 PI Austen and NE/V006428/1 Co-
 I Austen: see section 3). We aim to lead in social-ecological systems research to meet the
 ambitious challenges of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the ‘triple bottom
 line’ of economic development, environmental sustainability, and social inclusion. These directions
 build on our successes between 2014-2021, and emerging ‘wicked challenges’ within
 environmental governance, including collaborations with world-leading research on the wicked
 problem of microplastics being led by Professor Richard Thompson (submitted to UoA7), and the
 ongoing global challenge of socio-economic responses to climatic change.

 Mobility, culture and society theme (Essex, Harmer, Holton, Rech, Seedhouse, Shaw,
 Simpson, Smith, Wilson O., Yarwood, Brigstocke, Tyrrell)

 Within the theme of mobility, culture and society our research has focussed on how people live
 and move together in the contexts of everyday life, societal and environmental change, and
 various cultural and geopolitical events. This is exemplified through multiple strands of work mixing
 theoretical reflection, empirical exploration, and applied research. Research has explored the
 imaginations and realities that circulate around, and legitimate certain visions of, (post-)military
 lives (Yarwood, Rech). We have examined the lived realities of the movements of a host of groups
 and individuals (Brigstocke: artists, Tyrrell: international migrants, Yarwood: military personnel
 and their families, Holton: students) and the impact past and present social formations have on
 them. Shaw, Simpson and Seedhouse have studied everyday transport practices and
 experience in terms of accessibility, infrastructural provision, and sustainable transport planning
 (e.g. the Smart Ticketing Impact Case Study). Yarwood’s research has redefined citizenship from
 focussing on relationships between the state and individuals to encompass everyday performance
 and practice through the voluntary sector and active citizenship. Research has also considered
 individual/community-state relationships in terms of the creation and management of urban
 environments (e.g. Essex) and everyday practices of citizenship. Post REF2021 we will continue
 to explore how mundane, everyday experiences impact on individuals’ relations to place (e.g.
 through consideration of digital mobilities and social inclusion/exclusion) and how the individual
 and communities respond to, and are shaped by, various features of their ‘natural’, built and social
 environment (e.g. through considering how communities live with the daily threat of terrorism:
 UKRI award ES/V01353X/1 to Simpson; modelling dynamic population changes: UKRI award

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ES/T005904/1 to Smith: see section 3). We will also place increasing emphasis on how creative
 practice, artistic expression, and popular culture (e.g. comics, literature, art) is used to explore,
 develop and influence views on environmental issues, through a series of explicitly
 interdisciplinary frameworks led by Harmer and Rech (including critical military studies, creative
 representation through collaboration with Arts at the University, as well as with external partners).

 Quaternary and Holocene environment change theme (Clason, Daley, Fyfe, Mather, Telfer,
 Woodbridge, Roberts, Whitehouse)

 Research on Quaternary and Holocene environment change has made significant advances
 since 2014 in disentangling drivers of major environmental change across continental scales,
 centring especially on the role of human agency in ecosystem dynamics and understanding
 regional and global climate dynamics. Fyfe has published the first quantified estimates of human-
 induced land cover change across the Holocene at continental and national scales in both
 temperate and Mediterranean climate regions of Europe, developed and applied through ground-
 breaking approaches to transforming spatially-extensive, open-access pollen datasets
 (Leverhulme awards RPG-2015-031 and F00568W to Fyfe and Roberts). Woodbridge has
 demonstrated that prehistoric farming communities played a significant role in driving ecological
 change and quantified the relative importance of climate and prehistoric population change.
 Pioneering studies at regional and continental scales have been published on herbivore-plant
 interactions over long time-scales (Whitehouse), and evidencing habitat plasticity over Holocene
 time scales in large mammals (Fyfe and Woodbridge), challenging the role of large grazers as
 ecosystem engineers. Telfer’s work on Quaternary mantle uplift rates has shown that supposedly
 stable continental regions can experience rapid change even far from areas of deglacial rebound.
 Work by Clason on large-scale climate dynamics has included pioneering reconstructions of
 deglaciation of the Bothnian ice stream which demonstrates that marine-terminating ice-streams
 are controlled both by sea-surface and atmospheric temperature. These represent key findings
 for understanding contemporary melting in Antarctica. Palaeoclimatic research involving
 Whitehouse has demonstrated the effects of the Fennoscandinavian ice sheet on broader
 atmospheric circulation patterns through the last glacial-interglacial cycle and on Holocene
 timescales by identifying inter-hemispheric coupling in the climate system through characterising
 periods of rapid climate change in high latitudes. Post REF2021 the focus will be on research that
 links Holocene land use practices and change to wider ecological processes (e.g. biodiversity
 change) to enhance linkages between palaeo- and neo-ecology. This is being done by developing
 collaborative funded projects with national and international organisations (e.g. Leverhulme
 awards RPG-2018-357 and RPG-2019-045 to Fyfe collaborative with archaeologists and
 historians) and continued engagement within international research frameworks (e.g. PAGES
 working groups such as LANDCOVER6K, the TERRANOVA H2020 International Training
 Network by Fyfe, and Woodbridge’s involvement in the ERC Synergy COREX project). Our
 research will contribute to validation of earth system models (ESMs) by formally assessing the
 role of land cover as a driver of regional and continental climatic change. Daley’s work on carbon
 and methane cycling in wetlands over Holocene timescales should deliver research that makes
 fundamental contributions to the field, through novel biogeochemical approaches new biomarkers,
 and integrated environmental DNA.

 Catchment and coastal processes theme (Blake, Clason, Gilvear, Lunt, Mather, Telfer, Downs,
 Iurian)

 Research on catchment and coastal processes encompasses work in both contemporary and
 long-term landform development across Quaternary timescales. Plymouth research has produced
 significant methodological contributions since 2014 across fields such as passive bedload
 monitoring (Downs), sediment sourcing and tracing using radio-isotopic approaches and
 Bayesian sediment mixing models (e.g. through H2020 MSCA award 658863 to Blake and
 Iurian), and automated mapping of geomorphic features, particularly dune systems (Telfer).
 These methodological advances have underpinned leading contributions to knowledge where, for
 example, Telfer led a collaboration with NASA and was the first to map extensive dune systems
 on small planetary bodies to establish the existence and nature of atmospheres on these bodies.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Blake’s work on sediment sourcing and tracing has facilitated major research programmes on
 sustainable soil management within developing countries that has been designed and
 implemented within interdisciplinary frameworks to facilitate the translation of scientific evidence
 into co-designed action to promote resilient communities (e.g. through UKRI awards
 NE/R015597/1, NE/R009309/1 and NE/P015603/1 to Blake). Mather has demonstrated the
 geomorphic potential of catastrophic flooding, with implications for modern dam failures and
 downstream impact. Downs pioneered work on assessing the cumulative impacts of human
 activities on river systems to integrate and extend this sub-field beyond the study of individual
 impacts, and Gilvear has led the design and application of the ecosystem services concept to
 river corridors which is now being applied through national agencies (e.g. Scottish Natural
 Heritage). Post REF2021 research will focus on using the concept of river basin natural capital
 in the global south to enhance socio-ecological resilience to environmental risks, developing
 through ongoing NERC and GCRF-funded projects (e.g. UKRI award BB/T012560/1 to Blake).
 The environmental risks associated with water (in)security in glaciated catchments will be
 assessed by examining fluxes of water-borne contaminants that pose risk to human health (UKRI
 award NE/S013245/1 to Clason). In 2019 Mather and Telfer initiated the first study of plastics
 debris in deserts and will continue to examine this global problem through the next REF cycle.

 The interdisciplinary nature of research activities at Plymouth means that compartmentalising
 our research solely into thematic boxes may be useful for grouping work but can also be
 problematic. For example, natural science research is used to inform societal research on soil
 conservation and community resilience (collaboration between Blake and Kelly), or on socio-
 economic values in marine protection areas (e.g. Lyme Bay Impact Case Study led by Rees and
 supported by natural science research submitted to UoA7). For these reasons, collaboration
 across the natural and social sciences, and within the natural sciences with researchers outside
 our disciplinary fields is critical to the vibrancy and relevance of the research.

 Our strategy is based on collaboration with the strongest researchers in the field, which routinely
 means international collaboration. Over half the UoA14 scholarly outputs include international co-
 authors, and a further quarter include national collaboration (Table 1). For example, our pioneering
 work on interplanetary dune systems was made possible through international collaboration with
 leading NASA scientists (Science paper led by Telfer in 2019). The revelation of long-term human-
 environment relationships in the Mediterranean basin was underpinned by a Plymouth-led multi-
 national collaboration involving geographers, archaeologists and historians from eight
 Mediterranean countries (Holocene 2019 special issue; Roberts and Fyfe PIs on the Leverhulme
 Trust-funded Changing the Face of the Mediterranean project). The work in developing economies
 is co-produced with researchers embedded within leading international institutions, exemplified by
 the work on community resilience and land degradation in east Africa (Plymouth lead institution
 on NERC/GCRF projects, collaborative with the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and
 Technology in Tanzania). Sustaining and extending such interdisciplinary and international
 research is a major post REF2021 objective.

 Table 1: International, national and institutional collaboration within UoA14 scholarly outputs
 (current staff only). FWCI = field-weighted citation index (sources: SciVal Jan 2021).

  Collaboration type                          % outputs Scholarly         Citations      FWCI
                                                        output
  International collaboration                 50.6      236               4,364          2.31
  National collaboration                      25.8      120               1,901          2.14
  Institutional collaboration only            13.5      63                913            1.52
  Single authorship                           10.1      47                411            1.64

 Our research impact strategy is managed through School Research Committee structures, the
 establishment of an Associate Head of School whose remit is Knowledge Exchange, and
 facilitation by the Sustainable Earth Institute and Marine Institute. Our strategy has been three-
 fold. First, the likely impacts of research are considered from the outset in project design. In

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the case of RCUK grant applications, this has been supported through the ‘pathways to impact’
 document, delivered through specific and measurable impact work packages. Stakeholders are
 identified at the project design stage, and pathways to impact co-designed to ensure that research
 is relevant and timely. Blake’s ICS Integrated isotopic approaches for effective soil conservation
 policy demonstrates this approach through careful design of research to ensure impact activities
 (for example, translating research findings to training workshops) are embedded throughout the
 research process.

 Second, we take time to nurture and develop meaningful relationships with stakeholders. This
 is of major benefit within more applied research contexts, with third-stream funders who are
 typically also stakeholders and active participants in the research process. In such cases the
 research framework is co-designed with these external partners to ensure relevance. Rees et al.’s
 ICS on the MPA in Lyme Bay is a clear example of outstanding impact delivered through co-
 design. Central to the success of this research was our long-standing relationships with external
 partners across the marine conservation sector (including the Defra family of policy and science
 teams such as Natural England, and organisations such as the Marine Conservation Society and
 Blue Marine Foundation). Our research in peatland ecosystems services (with contributions from
 Lunt, Whitehouse, Fyfe and Daley) has been co-designed to deliver applied research findings
 for the management of peatland landscapes, involving partners such as Southwest Water, Natural
 England, regional National Parks and Peatland Partnership schemes (e.g. within the Exmoor
 MIRES project, the Upstream Thinking project, and the HLF-funded Isle of Axholme and Hatfield
 Chase Landscape Partnership programme).

 Third, our impact is, by necessity, underpinned by high-quality social and natural science research
 that is communicated beyond the academy. This has enabled major environmental and policy
 impacts, through incorporation of research findings into policy briefings (e.g. citation of
 underpinning marine conservation research in Rees et al.’s ICS within Parliamentary POSTNOTE
 572), or translational activities led by UoA14 researchers through workshops (e.g. Blake’s IAEA
 training workshops to scientists from 22 IAEA member states). In the case of Shaw and
 Seedhouse’s ICS on Smart Ticketing in Great Britain the development of a spin-out company
 from the University ensured a direct route between the research and policy, in part through
 Seedhouse’s expertise and experience in public policy delivery.

 Our approach to supporting the vitality and sustainability of impact from research in UoA14 is to
 ensure that impact activities are appropriately recognised within workload planning, underlining
 the value of this activity to the vibrancy of our research culture. Within UoA14 we actively liaise
 with the University Impacts Officer to optimise the reach of our work. At an institutional level, major
 projects are designed to deliver economic, social, environmental and policy impacts, and UoA14
 researchers play significant roles in these. For example, Rees plays a key role of delivery of impact
 within the SWEEP (South West Partnership for Environment & Economic Prosperity) project
 (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/sweep). We contribute to the Environmental Futures and
 Big Data Impact Lab (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/impact-lab), providing Devon-based
 SMEs access to leading research expertise held within the University of Plymouth and partner
 institutions. Daley leads components of the EDRF-funded AgriTech Cornwall project, with a
 particular emphasis on soil carbon, working with stakeholders across the county.

 Open Research characterises our approach to dissemination and transparency in the practice
 within the unit aiming towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data at the
 UoA level. We are compliant with the University policy on Open Access publication, using
 Symplectic Elements as the Current Research Information System, and PEARL as the University’s
 Research Repository. Journal articles and conference papers published between 1st April 2016
 and 31st March 2018 have been deposited within 90 days of publication. Those accepted for
 publication since 1st April 2018 have been deposited within 90 days of the date of acceptance.
 The University’s Research Data Management Policy considers research data management to
 ensure data integrity, discoverability and reuse is integrated throughout the lifecycle of projects
 www.plymouth.ac.uk/uploads/production/document/path/6/6913/Research_Data_Policy.pdf.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Required data management plans are formally reviewed at the project approval stage by internal
 peer-review, including the time needed and costs. Faculty Ethics Officers (including staff in
 UoA14) considers all ethical issues through the ethical approval process, within the framework of
 the University Ethics Committee, and Wilson chairs the Faculty Ethics Committee. Within UoA14
 we are working towards making both data and novel methodologies (e.g. source code) open
 access through publishing underpinning data and results in supplementary information, depositing
 it through project websites, or using existing World Data Centres which can provide a permanent
 DOI (Table 2).

 Table 2: Examples of open research data in UoA14

  Project                 Open data           Dataset link
                          type
  Deforesting Europe      Results and link    https://doi.pangaea.de/10.1594/PANGAEA.853942
  (2012-15)               to open-source
                          data
  Changing the Face       Results and links   https://doi.pangaea.de/10.1594/PANGAEA.900983
  of the Mediterranean    to open-source
  (2015-19)               data
  Palaeodemographics Underpinning             https://discovery.ucl.ac.uk/id/eprint/10025178/
  and environmental  data and
  change (2017)      methods
  Small planetary         Underpinning        Links to Datasets as SI in published paper
  bodies dunes            data and            https://doi.org/10.1029/2019JE006117
  research                methods
  IMIXSED project         R code and          Code published as SI with link to data in
                          demonstration       publication doi:10.1038/s41598-018-30905-9
                          data
 some
 2. People

  Our strategy for developing talent has been to maintain and recruit outstanding research
 personnel. Our staff recruitment has been driven by strategic appointments to support key
 research areas, largely focusing on the Lecturer level to ensure demographic stability (Table 3).
 Harmer, Rech and Holton have strengthened research in social and cultural geography. Smith
 has strengthened capacity in geo-statistical analysis of big data and quantitative social science
 research. Ward and Kelly have driven interdisciplinary working through interfaces between
 natural- and social-science research. Clason has brought crucial expertise in the cryosphere to
 extend catchment-science research into the higher latitudes. The appointment of Austen at
 Professorial grade brings significant additional leadership and esteem in the area of environmental
 governance and policy, along with associated appointments of Hooper and Hattam on Research
 Fellow contracts.

 Table 3: Profiles of staffing within UoA14, based on grade, age-profile, contract and gender
  Grade                   %          Age group      %              Gender            %
  Professor               29         25-34          12             Female            46
  Ass. Professor          29         35-44          23             Male              54
  Lecturer Grade 8        21         45-54          46             Contract          %
  Research Grade 8        14         55-64          19             Fixed-term        23
  Research Grade 9        7          65+            0              Permanent         77

 Our strong commitment to staff development is reflected in internal promotion successes: six
 promotions to Professor (Blake, Bailey, Fyfe, Mather, Yarwood, Whitehouse), with the first five
 originally appointed at Lecturer level at the University of Plymouth. Four staff have been promoted

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Associate Professor (Telfer, Clason, Daley, Simpson) and two staff promoted to Senior
 Research Fellow positions (Kelly, Rees), reflecting their significant contributions to
 interdisciplinary research programmes in marine conservation and community resilience.
 Woodbridge has made the transition from named researcher on successive funded projects to
 independent researcher status, as PI on multiple funded projects. Our successful internal
 promotions support the University’s Key Strategic Ambition for 2030 to “attract, develop and retain
 excellent staff”.

 Staff development is underpinned by annual personal research plans, which are nested within
 strategic five-year research plans. Personal research plans are reviewed through the PDR process
 and contribute to workload planning and strategic longer-term investment within the Schools. Staff
 also benefit from broader researcher development programmes delivered within SoGEES and
 University research support. At the University level staff are able to participate in the Research
 Springboard programme, a four-day bespoke programme of research development and leadership
 training for female academics. In the last three years four of the submitted staff have participated.
 The University Research and Innovation Directorate also runs a series of research leadership
 workshops. UoA14 staff have also participated in an externally-delivered Research Leadership in
 Science programme (delivered by the Barefoot Partnership). Research-active staff are
 recognised and rewarded for their research achievements through a range of opportunities,
 including access to a competitive 6-month period of sabbatical leave to deliver consolidated
 research activity over and above normal allocated research time. Selection is based on track-
 record of delivery of high-quality research. Ten staff took research leave between 2014-2021
 period. Where research grant income contributes to core costs, 25% of any surplus above direct
 costs is available to the PI/Co-I for legitimate personal research use. In addition, ring-fenced funds
 are available for staff development around research and impact activities (typically £1k per
 member of staff). These funds are automatically granted to ECRs within the first three years of
 appointment, and must be justified for established staff, contingent on track record and clear
 outcomes from the spend. There is a competitive ‘seed-corn’ fund available to staff (up to £5k) to
 pump-prime research projects (recent awards to two female ECRs: Clason and Harmer).
 Workload adjustments are made during an annual planning cycle to reflect the research
 contribution of individual staff and staff on the ‘balanced’ career pathway (i.e. teaching and
 research) have a minimum 40% of their time allocated to research. More broadly, an inclusive and
 mutually-supportive culture of active celebration of research success is led by the Associate
 Heads of School (Research) and Research Centre leads.

 ECRs are mentored through a one-year probationary period, and have access to a longer-term
 voluntary mentoring scheme. In the event of grant applications not being successful, research
 leads within the Research Centres (or the Associate Head of School for Research) support staff
 in re-purposing for alternative sources of support, and encourage critical reflective practice to
 increase the future likelihood of success.

 Our commitment to diversity and equality has been recognised through Bronze Athena SWAN
 awards to both SoGEES and SoBMS. All research-facing activities and events consider diversity
 and equality issues, including the scheduling of events, and the career and gender balance of
 external speakers (and chairs) in seminar series. Our 2014 submission included six professors,
 all of whom were male. Between 2014-2020 two female staff were promoted to professor (Mather,
 Whitehouse) and we appointed Austen to a Chair in Ocean and Society. A key part of our
 planning within and beyond the REF2021 period is to ensure equity of opportunity for all staff,
 including close attention to gender balances within senior staffing while retaining a meritocratic
 approach. The University operates a Women’s Mentoring scheme, with UoA14 staff acting as
 both mentors and participants. UoA14 staff can attend a 4-day University-led researcher
 development ‘Springboard’ course specifically tailored for female ECRs. Our selection of outputs
 for the REF2021 assessment follows the University’s transparent and fair processes, which
 include internal and external review of the quality of outputs, irrespective of seniority or other forms
 of difference between staff. As a result of this process, 47% of outputs are assigned to female
 researchers, who comprise 46% of the staff returned in REF2021.


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our postgraduate research students are pivotal to the research environment, and we have a
 strategic objective to increase postgraduate research student numbers and to produce appropriate
 career development opportunities and training for PGR students. PhD student completions for
 REF2021 are 28. This is a reduction in completions in comparison with REF2014 (40 completions),
 in part a reflection of changes in the allocation of staff to UoA (Politics and International Relations
 staff submitted through UoA21 in REF2021) and the reconfiguration of staff in in UoA14. Our
 increasing focus on interdisciplinary working has resulted in UoA14 researchers (e.g. Lunt,
 Mather, Rees, Rodwell, Telfer, Wilson) co-supervising PGR students contributing to other UoP
 UoAs, notably UoA6 and UoA7, or based in other HEIs (e.g. Fyfe co-supervises three PhD
 students within the TERRANOVA ITN at Toulouse, Uppsala and Bergen). We have secured
 membership of two UKRI doctoral training schemes: the NERC ARIES DTC and ESRC SWDTP
 which will enable further PGR recruitment and leveraged co-funding with industrial partners (such
 as South West Water: two studentships). This has the added benefit of enhanced training,
 networking and employability opportunities through the possibility of placements within host
 organisations. Internally-funded studentships have allowed Plymouth to prioritise research in key
 areas, increasing research capacity within our research themes.

 PGR students are provided with outstanding training and development support. All PhD
 students are assigned a Director of Studies and a second supervisor, while externally-supported
 students engage with funding partners as third supervisors or through placement opportunities.
 Formal interactions follow the protocols of the University Doctoral College: students meet with
 their advisory team at least every 3 months and interactions are recorded and monitored through
 a GRADBOOK system. Annual candidate monitoring is supported by a rigorous upgrade process
 between months 12-15 from commencement. The process requires submission of a substantial
 transfer report and a viva to verify progression and that appropriate support is provided. Progress
 is reviewed by a member of staff who is not associated with the project, and not typically the
 internal examiner. Equality and diversity in assessing PGR outcomes is ensured through Doctoral
 College policies that ensure gender balance within the examination team. PGR students are
 integrated into all Research Centre activities, including thematic discussion groups and seminars,
 and there is PGR representation on the School Research Committee and the steering boards of
 research centres. PGR students have generous access to advanced laboratory facilities, technical
 support and training, dedicated desk space within shared offices, ICT provision, and access to
 extensive electronic and physical library facilities.

 The Doctoral College runs the Researcher Development series and PGR students are encouraged
 to attend training programmes; advanced development training is provided within our research
 community, and through the NERC ARIES DTC and ESRC SWDTC. Within UoA14, our PGR
 community have been supported in the production as lead, or co-author, of over 70 publications
 with UoA14 staff (c.15% of our research outputs). Of our PhD completions, 11 moved to Research
 Fellow positions within HEIs in the UK or overseas (e.g. Rowney to the European Centre for
 Environment and Human Health; Machado to the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; de
 Groot became Group Leader in Energy, Poverty and Development at the University of Cape
 Town), four have obtained lecturing positions in Higher Education (Barnett, Exeter; Fox,
 Brunel; Gall, Plymouth; Abdullah, London School of Science and Technology), and eight hold
 positions within organisations related to their field of research, such as leadership positions in
 international consultancies (Geach: Head of Information Management Service Line at Atkins;
 Wynants: Project Manager at RSK Benelux), and positions in the environment sector (Peckett,
 Marine Impacts Scientist at the JNCC; Friedrich, Programme Officer at the UNEP World
 Conservation Monitoring Centre; Newton, Environment Agency Evidence Specialist; Thompson,
 Senior Hydrologist at SEPA, Whittlesea, Principle Policy Officer, Climate Transitions in Melbourne
 Australia; Clancy, Senior Researcher at one of the UK’s leading animal welfare charities).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Plymouth UoA14 research is enabled through a combination of state-of-the-art facilities and a
 strategy of securing income to support research from a broad spectrum of funding sources (Figure
 2). Our strategy towards income capture and expenditure is based around five approaches. First,

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we lead on major research projects that deliver agenda-setting targeted research with clear
 outputs and societal impacts. Austen’s leadership of the £3.2M GCRF award (NE/P021107/2:
 2020-2022) ‘Building capacity for sustainable interactions with marine ecosystems for health,
 wellbeing, food and livelihoods of coastal communities’ brings together eight international
 institutions to address the challenge of delivery of marine ecosystem services without degradation
 of that environment. Other examples include Blake’s UKRI-funded projects on ‘Socio-ecological
 resilience to soil erosion in East Africa’ (£168k, GCRF 2017-18: NE/P015603/1), soil erosion in
 Latin America (£405k, NERC 2018-20: NE/R015597/1) and ‘Jali Ardhi [Care for the Land]’ (£124,
 NERC 2017-19: NE/R009309/1; £249k BBSRC/NERC 2020-22: BB/T012560/1), which innovated
 interdisciplinary approaches to monitoring soil erosion and measuring community resilience to
 realise stakeholder-led changes to grazing land management in Maasai communities; Roberts
 and Fyfe’s Leverhulme Trust-funded ‘Changing the Face of the Mediterranean’ project (£298k,
 2015-18: RPG-2015-031) which linked prehistoric demographic changes to large scale ecological
 changes across the Mediterranean basin for this first time; Clason’s NERC-funded project
 ‘Integrated upstream and downstream thinking to mitigate water security challenges from Peruvian
 glacier retreat’ (£367k, 2019-22: NE/S013245/1) which will generate an holistic and integrated
 knowledge of the impacts of glacial melt on current and future ecosystem service provision; Fyfe’s
 Leverhulme-funded projects ‘Long-term biodiversity and human land-use change’ (£263k, 2019-
 22: RPG-2018-357) and ‘A landscape transformed: the reclamation of Exmoor Forest’ (£248k,
 2020-22: RPG-2019-045), both of which are making fundamental links between ecological
 processes and human land use practice over decadal to centennial time scales; and Smith’s
 ESRC Secondary Data Initiative-funded project ‘WatPop: estimating seasonal population change’
 (£240k, 2020-22: ES/T005904/1) which will, for the first time, allow us to determine fluctuating
 population dynamics from water metering data.

 Secondly, we embrace a collaborative research approach where our staff use their experience
 and international standing as leaders in their research fields to make significant contributions as
 co-investigators on major research programmes led from other UK and international HEIs or
 research institutions. This is a clear reflection of the international standing of our natural and social
 scientists as recognised leader in their fields of research. Examples of this approach include
 Tyrrell’s ESRC-funded project ‘Here to Stay? Identity, belonging and citizenship among Eastern
 European settled migrant children in the UK’ (lead Strathclyde, £140k to Plymouth, 2015-17:
 ES/M011038/1) which provided unique perspectives on migrant children’s long-term experiences
 of settlement and acculturation in the UK; Whitehouse’s AHRC-funded project ‘Celtic
 Connections and Crannogs’ (lead Southampton, £115k to Plymouth, 2015-18: AH/M005259/1)
 whose results have challenged long-held assumptions of the role of lake settlement sites in later
 prehistory as temporary ‘bolt-holes’ to demonstrate their roles as permanently inhabited sites; Fyfe
 and Woodbridge’s participation in the €10M ERC Synergy COREX grant (lead Gothenburg, £70k
 to Plymouth, 2021-2026); Simpson’s ESRC-funded project ‘Atmospheres of (counter)terrorism in
 European cities’ will take an international, interdisciplinary approach to how terror and security
 threats (and counterterror measures) affect the lived experience of urban public spaces (lead
 Birmingham, £273 to Plymouth, 2021-23: ES/V01353X/1); Bailey’s Norwegian Research Council-
 funded project ‘Designing effective emissions trading’ (lead Fridtjof Nansen Institute, £29k to
 Plymouth, 2014-17) which has produced the first far-reaching cross-national analysis of factors
 shaping the design of national emissions trading schemes and barriers to the creation of globally-
 linked carbon markets to meet international commitments to combat climate change; Bailey’s
 ESRC-funded project ‘Smart eco-cities in Europe and China for a green economy’ (lead King’s
 College London, £18K to Plymouth, 2014-17: ES/L015978/1), which produced major advances in
 understanding of the processes shaping the emerging global phenomenon of smart-green
 urbanism; and Essex’s ESRC-funded project ‘Urban transformations in South Africa through
 codesigning energy services provision pathways’ (lead Exeter, £17k to Plymouth, 2016-19:
 ES/N014138/1) which explored the impact of policy and deregulation of the energy sector in
 townships.

 Thirdly, we use externally-funded Fellowships through national and international schemes to
 increase the capacity and breadth of our research environment and enable early career researcher
 development. These include Iurian’s H2020 MSCA International Fellowship award (2015-17:

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 H2020 award 658863) working with Blake on the ‘Sediment linkage between land, river and sea’
 project, which designed novel toolkit for integrating multiple data sources using an Bayesian
 approach to evaluate the impacts of mine waste pollution; Downs’ European Institutes for
 Advanced Studies (EURIAS) Senior Fellowship with the University of Lyon (2016-17) which
 developed new Bayesian statistical approaches to quantify the cumulative impacts of human
 activities on river systems in the Anthropocene; and de Groot’s NERC Knowledge Exchange
 Fellowship (2014: NE/L014025/1) on ‘Streamlining marine energy consenting processes through
 understanding public attitudes’, which developed core principles for public engagement strategies
 in the design and deployment of marine renewable energy schemes.




 Figure 2: breakdown of research spend by year and source. In recent years there is a greater
 emphasis on UKRI and UK charities (e.g. Leverhulme Trust) away from EU sources.

 Fourthly, we use smaller grants for research development and proof-of-concept for innovative
 projects that form springboards for major interdisciplinary applications. These grants come from
 external sources. As examples, we have had multiple successes with the RGS Environment and
 Society research award (value £15k). Clason and Ward have used this to initiate a natural and
 social science project on co-production of risk maps relating to legacy fallout radionuclides in Arctic
 Sweden (2018-2021); Woodbridge is using RGS funds to initiate the “Improving socio-ecological
 resilience to wildfire in the UK” project (2020-2022), co-produced with the Peak District National
 Park. Mather’s National Geographic-funded project on ‘Catastrophic flooding in the Atacama
 desert’ (£16k, 2016-17) forms the basis for ongoing major grant applications; and Telfer and
 Mather’s GCRF-funded project ‘“African Flowers”: Aeolian plastic pollution in deserts’ (£38k,
 2018-19) will initiate a major study of the scale and challenges of the current global environmental
 crisis posed by plastics. We have further enabled the development of early career researchers
 through the competitive internal GCRF fund, with awards of £58k to Woodbridge (2020: water
 security in the Konya Basin in Turkey) and £73k to Kelly (2018: “Ardhi na Kujifunza”: Land and
 Learning). These projects will form the basis of major collaborative grant applications post-
 REF2021, developed through the capacity building and international networking activities that
 these funds facilitate.

 Fifthly, we support third-stream projects that generate co-produced and applied research
 funded by external, non-academic partners, typically between £10-100k. These projects produce
 research with strong relevance to societal impacts and knowledge exchange. Examples include
 Rees’ WWF-funded ‘Assessment of the ecological coherence of the Marine Protection Areas
 network in the Celtic Seas’ (£28k, 2015); Gilvear’s Scottish Natural Heritage-funded project on

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Mapping river ecosystem services and flows’ (£54k, 2015-2018); Daley’s Southwest Water-
 funded project on ‘Quantifying spatial variability in carbon service delivery (£30k, 2017-2020); and
 Downs and Gilvear’s West Country Rivers-funded work on the effectiveness of gravel
 augmentation for river restoration projects (£38k, 2014-2018).

 Our approach to research grant capture is managed through robust grant preparation and
 support. Research ideas and grants are developed through strategic 5-year research planning,
 supported by annual personal research plans, as described in section 2 (People). In addition,
 researchers are empowered to develop informal grass-roots, interdisciplinary special interest
 groups (SIGs), where, ideas and grants can be formulated, discussed and developed. All external
 grant applications undergo rigorous internal peer review by nominated specialists (typically
 research centre leads and/or colleagues working in most cognate research areas) and includes
 financial scrutiny to ensure the appropriateness of resources requested. The preparation of
 applications is supported by the University of Plymouth’s dedicated research advisors, with
 specialists for different funding sources providing further peer-review and advice on financial and
 legal issues.

 State-of-the-art Infrastructure and facilities support our research environment. Our academics,
 post-doctoral researchers and PhD students are co-housed in a modern office building and have
 access to appropriate levels of IT support (e.g. high-performance computing for the analysis of
 large datasets such as those used in spatial analysis projects). Our research is supported by
 dedicated technical support staff, including three specialist technicians who support laboratory
 and field work, and a GeoMapping unit which includes two cartographers and a geospatial
 specialist. We maintain state-of-the-art survey equipment to support field work and data capture,
 including fixed-wing and quadcopter drones for high-resolution data capture, alongside traditional
 ground-based survey equipment.

 Our laboratories house state-of-the-art equipment in both microscopy and palaeoecological
 research, and for the analysis of sediments to support our catchment and coastal research group.
 We manage the Consolidated Radio-Isotope Facility (CoRIF), which is an ISO-certified research
 centre (ISO9001:2008) directed by Blake. CoRIF includes advanced gamma spectrometers and
 liquid scintillation counters that underpins the use of radionuclides for both internal and external
 research projects. The ISO-certified CoRIF laboratory also includes X-ray fluorescence, a new
 investment within this REF period, for major and minor geochemical analysis for fingerprinting and
 pollution research. Staff in UoA14 also have access to specialist facilities available within
 SoGEES, such as mass spectroscopy (including new investments within this REF period) to
 support sediment fingerprinting research, and organic geochemistry to underpin ongoing research
 on, for example, drivers for carbon cycling within peatland systems, soil carbon, and spectroscopy
 for enhancing taxonomic resolution in microfossil identification. Experimental work, e.g. on
 peatland ecology is facilitated through use of Skardon Garden, the University’s greenhouse
 research facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As described in section 2, UoA14 researchers have led and participated in major collaborative
 and agenda-setting research programmes. As examples, Blake’s leadership of the GCRF-
 funded ‘Jali Ardhi’ project combined the natural and social sciences in a multi-institutional project
 (Plymouth and Exeter), co-designed and delivered with researchers from the Nelson Mandela
 African Institution of Science and Technology in Tanzania. This project is driving major changes
 in the way that soil is managed and used to ensure community resilience and maintenance of vital
 natural capital. that will continue post-REF2021. Austen’s leadership of the GCRF capacity
 building project brings together researchers from Plymouth Marine Laboratory, Exeter, Western
 Philippines University, University of Malaya, National University Jakarta and Hanoi National
 University. The project will drive change in governance in the marine environment post-REF2021.
 Roberts and Fyfe’s ‘Changing the Face of the Mediterranean’ project combined palaeoecology
 and archaeology, drawing together researchers from across the Mediterranean region, producing
 >14 outputs co-authored with >40 international researchers. Our commitment to collaboration is

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further evidenced in Whitehouse and Tyrrell’s contributions to major UKRI-funded research
 programmes described in section 2, both of which are producing significant outputs in high-ranking
 international journals. Bailey’s work on the EU-funded Intelligent Community Energy project
 brings together nine academic, government and business partners from the UK and France to
 explore innovative business and technology models for expanding community and individual
 engagement with smart energy technologies. Bailey’s research on the Norwegian Research
 Council-funded DIFFUSION project combined the expertise of researchers from five universities
 and led to publication of a series of major articles that have informed debates on the reform of
 New Zealand emissions trading scheme. UoA14 staff activity contribute to UKRI peer-review
 colleges (e.g. Whitehouse: AHRC; Fyfe: NERC) and serve as specialist reviews on major UKRI
 programmes (such as the FLF scheme) and as specialist reviewers for international funding
 bodies.

 We have convened and hosted major conferences and shaped broad research direction
 through thematic steering of content at these events. These include the Association for
 Environmental Archaeology annual conference in 2014 (chaired by Fyfe) on ‘Big Data in
 Environmental Archaeology’; the 23rd Annual Population Postgraduate Conference PopFest in
 2015; The British Society for Geomorphology annual conference in 2016 (chaired by Downs); The
 Quaternary Research Association Annual Discussion Meeting in 2018 (chaired by Clason and
 Mills) themed around data-model inter-comparisons in Quaternary Research; and the International
 Conference on Migration and Mobilities in 2018 (chaired by Holton). Staff from UoA14 have also
 been members of organising committees for international congresses, for example Whitehouse
 on the Scientific Organising Committee for the INQUA congresses in 2015 (Nagoya) and 2019
 (Dublin). Researchers, including those in our PGR and postdoctoral communities, convened
 sessions at a broad range of international conferences between 2014-202, including the AGU,
 EGU, INQUA, IPC/IOPC, RGS-IGB, British Ecological Society, European Association of
 Archaeologists, and Political Studies Association.

 UoA staff play pivotal roles in disciplinary associations and learned societies. Gilvear served
 as President of the International Society of River Sciences (2015-18), Whitehouse was President
 of the INQUA Humans and Biosphere Commission (2014-19), Simpson served as Chair of the
 Royal Geographical Society History and Philosophy of Geography Research Group (2014-18),
 and Mather is Deputy Chair of the British Society for Geomorphology. Staff also serve as
 committee members on international associations including: the EU COST Innovations in Climate
 Policy Management Committee (Bailey), International Ambiences Network (Simpson),
 International Association for Sediment Water Science (Blake), and contribute to the management
 of RGS Research Groups including the Social and Cultural Geography and Geographies of
 Children, Youth and Families Research Groups (Holton), the GIS Research Group (Smith) and
 the RGS SW Region Committee (Yarwood and Smith). Contributions to wider societal groups
 including membership of the Great Western Railway advisory board (Shaw) and the SW Regional
 Flood and Coastal Committee (Downs).

 Our wider contributions to the discipline are reflected in shaping the intellectual field through
 editorial roles. Through 2014-20 we have edited or held editorial board memberships of 17
 journals, including Quaternary Science Reviews and Journal of Quaternary Science (Roberts),
 Quaternary International and Journal of Archaeological Science Reports (Whitehouse), Journal
 of Transport Geography and the Journal of Transport Management and Behaviour (Shaw),
 Environment and Planning A and Geography Compass (Bailey), River Research and Application
 (Gilvear), Iberian Geology (Mather) and Aeolian Research (Telfer). All staff engage in regular
 peer-review of journal articles. Staff in UoA14 have undertaken 51 external PhD examinations,
 both overseas (e.g. University of Western Australia, University of New South Wales, National
 University of Singapore, University of Antofagasta in Chile, University of Malta, University of
 Tromsø) and at 26 UK-based HEIs (including University of Oxford, University of St Andrews,
 University of Bristol, University of Leeds, University of Birmingham, Kings College London and
 UCL).



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contributions to the economy and society are highlighted within our submitted Impact Case
 Studies, demonstrating key approaches to developing relationships with beneficiaries of our
 research (Section 1). Our research has delivered broader change, through social, environmental,
 behavioural and decision-making impacts, as well as changes in understanding and awareness
 through public dissemination and engagement activities. The strategic appointment of Austen and
 her team in 2020 provides additional strong leadership in this area, given her breadth of
 contributions reflected in membership of numerous EU and UK governmental advisory groups
 (e.g. the UK Natural Capital Committee, the JNCC, her Chair position on the EU Marine Board
 Working Group on Valuing Marine Ecosystems).

 Yarwood and Kelly’s work on rural dementia has shown the consequences of this debilitating
 disease on farming communities, and their work has contributed to the Alzheimer’s Society
 Dementia Friendly Guide for Rural Communities, and provided evidence to the Prime Minister’s
 Rural Dementia group, delivering social and behavioural impacts. Significant environmental and
 economic impacts are being realised by Bailey’s work within the Intelligent Community Energy
 Project, working towards transferrable models of innovative clean-energy solutions for
 geographically isolated communities. Further environmental impacts will be accrued through both
 the Devon Low Carbon Project (led by Lunt), working with local enterprises to innovate building
 design for low-carbon futures, and our civic contributions to the ongoing climate emergency. Bailey
 is a member of the Devon Climate Emergency Net Zero Task Force. Fyfe’s work on the
 importance of the Historic Environment within cultural ecosystem services in peatlands has
 resulted in behavioural change within large-scale peat restoration projects, resulting in ring-fenced
 funds for archaeological mitigation, and new heritage appointments on decision-making boards.
 Gilvear’s work on ecosystem service delivery, and catchment management, is guiding statutory
 agencies such as the Environment Agency and regional partnerships (e.g. Southwest Rivers
 Trust) in best practice for environmental benefit. We also reach different and diverse audiences
 through our development of citizen science projects. Lunt’s Dartmoor Mires Citizen Science work
 has engaged a broad audience in collection, compilation and analysis of data relating to wetland
 restoration projects. Whitehouse’s Wildscapes project, on Thorne and Hatfield Moors, has run
 multi-day workshops to engage the public in the creation and analysis of palaeoecological data.
 Clason has initiated an UKRI-funded Citizen Science project on mapping glacial change in the
 Peruvian Andes, working with children in secondary education within Peru and the UK.

 Researchers in UoA14 support and promote regional small and medium size enterprises (SMEs),
 and the creation of a low carbon economy, primarily though our research-to-impact frameworks
 such as the SWEEP project (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/sweep)., the Impacts Lab and
 the AgriTech projects, facilitated by the Sustainable Earth Institute, and described in Section 1.
 This ensures our research is reaching broad and diverse audiences, and making civic
 contributions beyond the academy.




                                                                                              Page 14
