Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 18 - Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The Law research group (as submitted to REF2021) comprises 21 persons and is led by 4 full
 professors (see Figure 1). During the review period, the context for research has predominantly
 been one of transition. First, following significant institutional reorganisation across the university,
 the Law research group has transitioned from a discrete Department within the Business School
 in 2014, to a newly formed Department of Humanities and Law in the Faculty of Media and
 Communication in 2019. Secondly, this transition has involved physical relocation from three sites
 across two campuses, to a newly refurbished floor of Weymouth House on the Talbot Campus.
 Thirdly, this is the first time the group has submitted to the Law UoA, rather than being subsumed
 within other disciplinary submissions. In REF2014, researchers in Law were included within
 Geography, Environmental Studies and Archaeology (UoA17), Business and Management
 Studies (UoA19), and Communication, Cultural and Media Studies (UoA36). In this sense, one
 might say that, with its submission to REF2021, the Law research group has come of age.




 Figure 1. UoA18 (Law) Academic Staff

 Research strategy

 Without a formal steer and benchmark from REF2014, a number of ex-Law panel members have
 been employed to read and comment on prospective outputs. These exercises involving robust
 and independent auditing and assessment of the group’s work have made an important
 contribution, not only to group understanding of the REF calibration, but also to the self-belief and
 future direction of the group.

 During the review period, and in line with the institutional statement, there has been a marked
 development of the research culture, most notably, an expansion in the number of Postdoctoral
 Research Assistants (PDRAs) and PhD candidates (PhDs) aligned to the group (see Figure 2);
 and a move to a broader interdisciplinary research environment.



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Diagram to illustrate UoA 18 (Law) Current and Completed PhDs and Supervisors/PDRA

 The following matters have been highlighted as key drivers for research during the review period:

 First, since its inception in 1999, the Centre for Intellectual Property Policy and Management
 (CIPPM) has been an outstanding strength and source of research within the group. Aligning with
 the university’s research focus on helping creative and cultural industries to thrive, CIPPM runs
 regular public lectures, seminars series, workshops and conferences, engaging with a range of
 stakeholders. In the review period, researchers have engaged with theoretical, practical and policy
 issues concerning, for example:, copyright and creative industries (see the work of Borghi, Favale,
 Mendis and Towse); interoperability (Weston); patents and bioprinting (Mimler, Mendis); impact of
 film on copyright (Op den Kamp); regulating internet intermediaries in China (Wei); as well as
 undertaking policy-focused research, as exemplified by the research and impact case-studies on
 IP and 3D printing (Mendis); implementation of a parody exception (Mendis) and mass digitization
 (Borghi). It is anticipated that CIPPM will continue as a major engine of research within the Law
 research group.

 Second, the Centre for Conflict, Rule of Law and Society (CRoLS) was created in 2014. Although
 CRoLS was subsequently disaggregated into new interdisciplinary groups in 2019, it became a
 significant driver and facilitator of research, particularly between 2014-2019. Output themes from
 this Centre have included: cyber conflict, lawfare, and hybrid warfare (Bachmann); post-conflict
 truth and justice (Klinkner and Davis); law, technology, the rule of law and society (Brownsword);
 reproductive health (Wale & Brownsword); human embodiment (Walker); environmental conflict
 (Kang); restorative justice (Lowenstein) and corporate crime (Cronin and Copp).

 Whilst CRoLS fulfilled its aims during its 5-year lifespan, its research themes have been sustained
 and have progressed in various ways. For example, research on ‘conflict resolution’ and
 ‘transitional justice’ has transitioned into a newly created interdisciplinary Centre for the Study of
 Conflict, Emotion and Social Justice. In this context, Klinkner’s animation project ‘It remains to be
 seen: animation of mass grave recovery’ funded under the GCRF in 2020 is evidence of the
 continuation of such interdisciplinary work. Similarly, Wale and Brownsword’s work on
 reproductive health, which began in CRoLS, has been progressed successfully with researchers
 from the Faculty of Health and Social Science. This is further evidenced through Wale’s project
 on fertility which was funded by ACORN in autumn 2019 and which led to the hosting of an
 interdisciplinary conference on ‘Contemporary Issues in Fertility Control’ in November 2019.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These examples reflect the smooth transition and successful continuation of the work which was
 begun in CRoLS and continued through 2014 - present.

 Third, drawing upon existing connections and strengths, and aligning with the university’s research
 focus on challenging misinformation, the group has launched a joint research project (INFOSOC)
 that attempts to map the landscape of contemporary informational interests, and to evaluate a
 range of recognised and putative rights and wrongs associated with modern information societies.
 Recognising the importance of originality and significance in research, and offering all group
 members an opportunity to try out new ideas, as well as to develop existing lines of research, an
 INFOSOC working paper and seminar series was introduced in 2018. A collection of 18 papers,
 co-edited by Borghi and Brownsword, which includes 12 BU contributors, has been proposed to
 Routledge and our expectation is that this work, showcasing research in Law at BU, will be
 published in 2022.

 Fourth, although the Research Centres were expected to serve as major engines of research, they
 have not, and should not, encompass the entire sweep of legal scholarship and research
 undertaken within the group. Crucially, every individual researcher has benefitted from a
 supportive environment, in particular, through the alignment of teaching and research (in
 accordance with the university’s Fusion policy), appraisal, mentoring (especially for early career
 researchers (ECRs) joining after the completion of their PhDs), and the opportunity for research
 leave. In the event, the whole Law research group has been extremely productive, publishing
 about a dozen REF-able books during the period, as well as more than 100 book chapters and
 articles, covering a wide range of subjects from the right to truth to the regulation of 3D printing
 and from corporate crime to the technological disruption of law.

 Fifth, following on from the previous point, the importance of having ‘time out’ for research has
 been recognised in various ways. For example, there has been relief from teaching for staff during
 periods of intense research activity, particularly during critical times for their PhD completions
 leading to subsequent publications including monographs (e.g. Cronin) or journal articles (Wale,
 Weston and Jarman). Furthermore, the research leave scheme has been used to develop
 research networks and outputs with a wider reach and international significance, notably by
 Karanasiou who was a Visiting Scholar at Yale Law School in 2016-17 and by Mendis who was a
 Visiting Scholar at University of Tasmania, Australia and Stanford Law School, University of
 Stanford, USA in 2015-16.

 Sixth, the postgraduate community aligned to the group has been significantly expanded during
 the review period, with 6 PhD completions, a current active portfolio of 10 PhD candidates and 3
 PDRAs/ Research Fellows (see Figure 2). These researchers have been and are encouraged to
 be active members of the Research Centres/Projects, and to make contributions to research
 seminars and other activities across the wider Law community. Notably, postgraduate
 researchers now sit on the editorial board for the Bournemouth University Law Review (BULR) –
 a co-created student/ staff law journal (discussed below).

 Seventh, whilst a supportive infrastructure for the Law research group is a necessary condition for
 success, it is recognised that support is not by itself sufficient. There also needs to be a shared
 sense that research matters, that research can be exciting, and that research can make a
 difference. Throughout the review period, research champions have spread that message; and
 the group has been strengthened by the appointment of early career researchers (such as Kang
 and Walker), reinforcing the overarching message. Submission to UoA18 makes this a credible
 message; and the new Department/ physical location affords an opportunity for renewed focus
 and opportunities for research activity. Further reinforcing existing support, a Funding and
 Interdisciplinary Research Seminar Series (FIRSS) has been created with the central aim of
 providing a space for colleagues to kick-start and strengthen their funding and interdisciplinary
 research journey.

 Eighth, the group offers an open access fund not only to support established senior researchers,
 but also those across the spectrum, including PDRAs and ECRs. This fund is open to any BU

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 author ready to submit a peer-reviewed and accepted article for publication, and who wishes to
 make their output immediately and openly accessible.

 Finally, looking ahead, the outcome of, and feedback from, REF2021 will be critical to the forward
 planning of future research activity. With the transition to a new department, there have been a
 range of opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration with researchers working across the fields
 of media, history, politics and literature. This is likely to contribute to a shift in focus, although we
 anticipate that the group will continue to undertake research on the regulatory impact of
 technological innovation and other global challenges to security, justice, health and the
 environment.

 Impact strategy

 Impactful research, which is a key aspiration of the university’s Fusion philosophy, is a long-
 standing feature of the Law group’s work. For REF2014, CIPPM had at least three eligible impact
 case-studies and, for REF2021, Law had to choose just two impact case-studies from at least four
 extremely eligible studies, including three from CIPPM and an exceptional case-study on the
 governance of post-conflict mass graves (see Section 3A below). The university’s general
 approach to impact has infused the work of the group in the following ways:

 First, the importance of impact has been underlined by an Impact Lead for the university, an Impact
 Officer for each Faculty, an Impact Champion within the Law research group, and by the
 appointment of an Impact PDRA for the Unit. Furthermore, BU’s establishment of an Impact
 Funding Panel has further strengthened the commitment to impact case studies.

 Second, internal funding has been applied to nurture projects that are judged to have longer-term
 impact potential. For example, Klinkner’s AHRC-funded research on guidelines for the protection
 of mass graves, in addition to the impact that it has already had, will make an excellent impact
 case study post REF2021. Similarly, the various strands of Wale’s research on the regulatory
 environment for reproductive health has the potential to generate significant case studies post
 2021.

 Third, the Law research group has facilitated and supported public engagement and knowledge
 transfer in various ways – at parliamentary (Bachmann, Cronin) and governmental (Brownsword,
 Wale and Mendis) levels – and by engaging a wide range of stakeholders. Law group researchers
 have actively contributed to external facing and public engagements (examples include: the
 Festival of Learning, Café Scientifique, Pint of Science, media appearances as well as keynote
 speeches for blue-chip industry clients and government and academic organisations).


 2. People

 The Law research group (as submitted to REF2021) comprises 21 persons: 4 full professors; 1
 associate professor (until 2019); 2 readers/principal academics; 8 senior lecturers; 4 lecturers and
 2 PDRAs/ research fellows (see Figure 1). The gender identity balance in this group is 11 males
 and 10 females.

 Mentoring and Nurturing Staff

 The Law research group is relatively small, comprising some senior colleagues at the
 Professoriate level and up-and-coming researchers within the lecturer and senior lecturer groups
 whilst complemented by mid-career researchers (MCRs) at the Principal Academic levels (see
 Figure 1). In particular, two of the Professoriate, specifically Brownsword and Towse, have held
 distinguished careers outside Bournemouth University, before joining the institution on fractional
 appointments. Their contribution, together with the wider Professoriate, has revolved very much
 around mentorship. There is also the opportunity for ECR/MCRs to undertake research with senior
 researchers across the University (for example, Wale and Rowlands).

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Each staff member is assigned a research mentor. To strengthen this programme, the Law
 research group has an assigned senior colleague (Brownsword) to oversee the mentorship
 scheme with a specific focus on ECR/PDRA development. Brownsword, in collaboration with the
 Heads of Research (Borghi (2015-2017) and Mendis (2017-2019)), hosts regular seminars on
 publishing, academic writing, peer review and career development. The oversight provided by
 Brownsword is then cascaded through the Head of Research through to individual mentors.

 Appointment of New Staff

 During the review period, the Law research group has hired 8 new academic staff members and
 3 PDRAs. The focus has been on the recruitment of ECRs, with appointments centred at that level
 (Akpan, Mimler, Fletcher, Orr, Temvada, Walker, Watt and Whittle). BU’s requirement of a
 doctorate (or completion of a doctorate within a specific period), has meant that all new recruits
 (except 3) hold a doctorate. During the review period, there have also been 4 PhD completions
 by academic staff (Jarman, Cronin, Wale and Weston) with a further three completing their PhD
 externally whilst at BU (Hourani, Yuratich, Watt). The Law research group clearly has the ability
 to attract smart, early career researchers and to nurture their development (for example by
 involving them in research projects and aligning their teaching with their research interests).
 However, a key strategic priority for the next review period must be to retain these colleagues (1
 of the 8 new recruits has left) and build strong and stable research clusters.

 The Law research group also aims to increase the recruitment and retention of Black, Asian and
 Minority Ethnicity (BAME) staff by means of blind shortlisting; advertising vacancies in different
 media; mentoring of BAME staff; and, development for all staff in respect of unconscious bias. The
 department also aims to explore ways to enable the progression of BAME staff through their full
 involvement in research activities, networks, knowledge exchange and engagement in equal
 opportunities.

 Staff Led Initiatives

 4 concrete initiatives have facilitated the development of the Law research group and the research
 culture during the review period:

    -   Bournemouth University Law Review (BULR) launched in 2017 (led by Mendis,
        Temvada and Brownsword) is a unique academic publication based on co-creation and
        one which synthesises participation from students and academics alike. It is designed to
        encourage interest in matters pertaining to law, extending beyond merely that of the
        curriculum to the broad and unique issues arising from the relationship of the law to other
        disciplines, and engages students at all levels from first year all the way to PhD, and staff
        represented in the Editorial Board are drawn from all levels. BULR has also been able to
        secure an impressive advisory board from a range of HE institutions and legal
        professionals. To ensure sustainability of the journal whilst broadening its research
        themes, the journal was opened for publication to staff, particularly ECRs, as well as
        students. The aim of engaging more ECRs in the process, as well as authors, was further
        strengthened by the recruitment of Temvada (ECR) as an Assistant Editor in 2020.
    -   Working Paper Series launched in 2018 together with regular themed seminars (led
        by Wale, Brownsword and Borghi). The initiative combines academic papers with regular
        seminars engaging both staff and students as presenters. It is run under the umbrella of
        ‘Information Society’ – abbreviated to INFOSOC and focuses on all aspects touching upon
        ‘informational rights and wrongs’.
    -   Funding and Interdisciplinary Research Seminar Series (FIRSS) launched in 2019-
        2020 (led by Mendis and Brownsword) which has inter- and multidisciplinarily aims, as well
        as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), at the heart of its focus. The
        facilitators of this seminar series bring together a speaker and a discussant from different
        disciplines thereby providing a platform for inter- and multidisciplinary research and a


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        platform for putting together a funding bid. The seminar series also provides a platform for
        colleagues who have been successful in winning bids to share their successes and outline
        their challenges.
    -   Student Research Assistants – a number of undergraduate and PGR students have had
        the opportunity to undertake short (paid) research projects with academic members of the
        Law Research Group. This has included research activities connected to the INFOSOC,
        Mass Graves projects and addressing TEF and consumer law based interventions.

 Prestigious Awards and Recognition

 During 2018, Klinkner was awarded the highly prestigious AHRC Senior Fellowship Award which
 is currently ongoing. Also, in 2018, Borghi and a team from CIPPM (Mendis, Mimler, Op den Kamp,
 Towse and Weston) were awarded funding from ERASMUS+ to establish the Jean Monnet Centre
 of Excellence for European Intellectual Property and Information Rights.

 During the review period the Law research group has held representation on the University Senate
 (Mendis), Research Funding Panels (Mendis) and Research Ethics Committee (Wale), facilitating
 a critical voice in areas important to research activity across the University.

 In December 2019, Klinkner was appointed as an AHRC Academic Reviewer and continues in
 that role to date.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Law research group, led by the Professoriate, have maintained a trajectory of sustained
 external research income throughout the review period in several ways:

 First, these research awards, mainly collaborative in nature, have included staff at all levels
 (internally), whilst the teams have reflected partnerships at the national, European and
 international levels. This has, in turn, enriched the research environment driven by the research
 centres - CIPPM and CRoLS – as outlined in Sections 1 and 2.

 Second, external research income has been complemented by the group’s strategy to win internal
 grants. This has allowed lecturers and senior lecturers in particular, to gain an insight into writing
 successful grant applications whilst designing research projects and putting together collaborative
 teams.

 Third, new projects have materialised through the award of research income, with PhD candidates
 at the heart of such research. Income for these studentships have been generated through an
 internal competitive process which has either led to fully funded studentships: (Smith (2011-2016);
 (Bosher (2012-2017); (Douilhet (2015-2019); Hong (2015-present); Van den Boom (2016-
 present); Brown (2016-present) and Nwibo Eda (2017-present) or through match-funded
 studentships where staff generate half of the funding from an external body. This has led to one
 studentship (White (2019 -) with a new match-funded studentship due to commence during
 2020/2021 (at the time of writing the candidate is yet to be recruited; a delay caused by Covid-
 19).

 The narrative below, sets out further detail in relation to each of the above research income
 strategies.

    A. Generation of External Income

 Led by the Professoriate, the law research group has generated income of £957,154 during the
 review period.

 The projects led by Borghi, Mendis, Towse, Klinkner and Wei have included collaborative teams
 of senior (Weston) MCRs (Favale) and ECRs (Mimler) together with PDRAs (Smith) and PhDs

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Bosher and Hong). These teams have been complemented by external partners drawn from
 national, European and international academic institutions, practice and industry.

 The income generated through these awarded projects have assisted in developing research in a
 number of areas, with an emphasis on intellectual property (IP) and copyright laws as well as
 human rights law. Accordingly, these multi and interdisciplinary projects combining: copyright and
 cultural heritage, IP and engineering/ science and technology, IP and emerging technologies,
 copyright and computer science as well as human rights and conflict, have focused on research
 into:

    -     copyright and mass digitisation;
    -     copyright education;
    -     copyright and value of the public domain;
    -     copyright and music publishing;
    -     copyright and parody;
    -     implications for intellectual property as a result of emerging technologies (such as Internet
          Protocol Television (IPTV), 3D printing, Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence (AI));
    -     enforcement of intellectual property and regulation of internet intermediaries; and
    -     right to truth and justice with particular focus on mass graves.

 The table below reflects the breakdown of funding throughout the review period, highlighting the
 academic years in which the awards were won, the project leads, number of projects aligned with
 the leads, teams involved, amounts (in GBP) and the funding bodies.
         Year       Project Leads and         Teams          Amount       Funding Bodies
                        Number of                             (GBP)
                    Awarded Projects
                             (x)
      2013-2014         Awarded to        Borghi, Favale,    177,913          European
                         Mendis (3)         Bosher (and                     Commission,
                         Towse (1)            external                   ESRC, RCUK and
                                             partners)                     UK Intellectual
                        Completed                                          Property Office

        2014-2015         Awarded to         Borghi, Bosher,       95,769      AHRC, RCUK, UK
                           Borghi (3)           Sun (and                          Intellectual
                          Mendis (2)            external                        Property Office,
                                                partners)                       Grana Padano
                          Completed

        2015-2016         Awarded to         Favale, Bosher,       53,114          RCUK, UK
                          Mendis (2)          Op den Kamp                          Intellectual
                                              (and external                      Property Office
                          Completed             partners)

        2016-2017         Awarded to          Borghi, Favale       55,364            AHRC
                           Wei (1)

                          Completed

        2017-2018         Awarded to         Mimler, Favale,      382,348       UK Intellectual
                           Borghi (2)          Garanasvili                    Property Office, EU
                          Mendis (2)         (PDRA), Hong,                        Intellectual
                                             (PGR), Mendis,                    Property Office,
                         3 Completed;        Towse, Wei and                        European
                         1 Progressing        Weston (and                        Commission
                                                external
                                                partners)

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     2018-2019          Awarded to           Smith (and        185,751            AHRC
                        Klinkner (1)          external
                                              partners)
                        Progressing

     2019-2020          Awarded to         Favale, Op den      165,767         AHRC, EU
                         Borghi (2)          Kamp (and                         Intellectual
                                              external                       Property Office
                                              partners)


                        Progressing




 Table 1: Selection external research grants awarded in the REF period


 The research developed through these projects has resulted in impact case studies for REF2021,
 most notably, impact case studies on copyright and parody (Mendis) and the right to truth and
 justice and protection of mass graves (Klinkner) whilst impact case studies on copyright and mass
 digitisation (Borghi) and intellectual property implications of 3D printing (Mendis) are being
 developed for the future.

    B. Generation of Internal Income

 Alongside the generation of external income, the law research group, including ECRs and MCRs,
 amongst others, have engaged in seeking internal income to develop various research projects.
 These funds have been made possible through the University’s Fusion Investment Fund (FIF),
 Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), Student Research Assistant (SRA) Fund, Centre for
 Excellence in Learning (CEL) Fund, ACORN Fund and Impact Fund.

 In particular, these have included research into:
     - literature review for mass grave protection (Klinkner, 2014); SRA Fund
     - multi-disciplinary research exploring the IP implications of 3D printing and additive
         manufacturing (Mendis, 2014-2015); FIF
     - developing mass grave guidelines bid development (Klinkner, 2015), SRA Fund
     - conflict transformation through gamification – developing a storyline and game design
         (Klinkner, 2015-2016); FIF
     - developing a joint research project for UoA18 (INFOSOC) which maps the landscape of
         contemporary informational interests, and the ‘rights’ and ‘wrongs’ associated with modern
         information societies (Brownsword & Wale, 2017/ 2018; Wale, 2019); SRA Fund
     - between forensic science and human rights (Klinkner, 2017); SRA Fund
     - addressing TEF and consumer law based interventions (McKeown, Weston, 2017-2018);
         SRA Fund
     - developing an academic, co-created publication (Bournemouth University Law Review)
         synthesising participation from students and academics (Mendis, 2016); CEL Fund
     - interdisciplinary research addressing contemporary issues in fertility control (Wale, 2019);
         ACORN Fund
     - accelerating impact on parody and copyright (Mendis, 2019); Impact Fund; and
     - ‘it remains to be seen’: animation of mass grave recovery (Klinkner, 2020); GCRF Fund.

 The funding generated through these projects led to: external funding (Klinkner, Mendis); joint
 projects cutting across the research interests of UoA18 staff (Wale: INFOSOC; Mendis: BULR);
 peer-reviewed publications (McKeown and Weston, Klinkner, Mendis, Wale and Brownsword); an


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact case study (Mendis, Klinkner) and developing research impact through a project awarded
 in 2019 (Wale).


    C. Generating Income for PhD Candidates

 Research projects which have doctoral candidates at the heart of the research, have been a further
 avenue and motivation for seeking income. Of the 17 doctoral candidates (6 completions, 11
 active) within UoA18, 3 of the completions were fully funded by BU (Smith, Bosher and Douilhet),
 for which the funding was generated through an internal competitive process. Of the remaining 4
 completions, 1 was self-funded and 3 (staff members within the law research group) were funded
 by BU (see section 2).

 Of the 10 active candidates, 4 were fully funded by BU through an internal competitive process
 (Hong, Brown, Nwibo Eda and Van den Boom), whilst 1 candidate was match funded (White)
 through funding from BU and the European Commission. Currently, 4 candidates are self-funded
 / funded through their Governments and were attracted to BU due to the expertise present within
 the group (Alkhemeiri, Al-Naimi, Alobaidli and Pochin). 1 candidate (Hardwick) is a staff member
 within the law research group and is funded by BU (see section 1).

 A further match-funded PhD has been approved which had an original start date of September
 2020, as a result of funding from BU and an industry stakeholder based in Malta. However, due
 to Covid-19, there has been a delay and the start date will now be in the course of academic year
 2020/2021.

 The projects developed, or being developed, through the PhDs are aligned with the expertise of
 the law research group, with particular focus on intellectual property (copyright and mass
 digitisation, copyright and human behaviour), IP and new technologies (such as 3D printing, AI,
 autonomous vehicles and Blockchain; data protection and GDPR); health law (contemporary
 issues in fertility control); human rights law (missing migrants) and international law (conflict and
 hybrid warfare).

 Along with the expertise and trajectory of these specialisms, new areas have also been developed
 with a particular focus on: legal theory (community customary rights in 18th and 19th century
 Britain); company law (reforming corporate fraud regulation in UK; parent and group liability of
 companies) and family law (comparative study of civil partnerships in UK and France).

 Infrastructure and Facilities: Support for Generating Income

 Support for generating income is achieved in a number of ways – at University level, Faculty level
 as well as at Departmental level.

 At the wider University level, BU hosts a regular programme of workshops and drop-in surgeries
 for staff involved in bidding and grant capture. Alongside these opportunities, the University’s
 Research Development and Support (RDS) team works with staff to identify relevant and potential
 bids and supports academics throughout the process. Furthermore, apart from providing guidance
 on presenting and costing proposals, the team also provides specialist advice on matters such as
 public engagement, impact and ethics. This aspect is further strengthened through BU’s
 commitment to establishing the Grants Academy and appointing an external consultant who has
 guided staff on improving grants before submission through 1-2-1 appointments.

 There is further support available at the Departmental level. RDS staff are appointed to each
 department, which has made the process more streamlined and targeted. More recently, in 2019-
 2020, the unit launched the Funding and Interdisciplinary Research Seminar Series (FIRSS) which
 has inter- and multidisciplinarily aims, as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals
 (UNSDGs), at the heart of its focus. Led by the Professoriate (Mendis and Brownsword) the
 seminar series brings together a speaker and a discussant from different disciplines thereby

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing a platform for inter and multidisciplinary research and a platform for putting together a
 funding bid – either internally or to an external funder. The seminar series also provides a platform
 for colleagues who have been successful in winning bids to share their successes and outline their
 challenges.

 The aim of FIRSS is therefore to encourage more staff to engage in grant capture whilst providing
 targeted support for bidding through the experience and expertise of senior colleagues, whilst
 providing connections and networking opportunities for staff to commence the process.

 Infrastructure and Facilities: A New Physical Location

 A newly refurbished floor on Weymouth House was provided for the law research group in
 November 2018. The space houses academic staff as well as PDRAs and PGRs. This is a striking
 departure from the commencement of the review period, when law staff were scattered in three
 locations – Christchurch House Talbot Campus, Weymouth House Talbot Campus and Executive
 Business Centre, Lansdowne Campus.

 Importantly, staff now have easy access to the Law collection in the main library as well as to a
 mini library in Weymouth House including access to various online resources supporting research.
 The new space also provides for a Moot Courtroom which has greatly benefitted law students at
 all levels. Since 2018, the Moot Court Room has been heavily utilised, thereby improving the
 student experience.

 The new physical space also provides meeting rooms and social space. The making available of
 this new space has in turn, become a ‘hub’ for exchanging ideas and developing collaborative
 ideas.

 Whilst the community aspect of the group has been vastly improved through the provision of a
 new physical location, this has also been complemented by digital services. The new VLE system
 (BrightSpace) launched in September 2018, has assisted PhDs to connect with academic staff
 with ease, whilst alerting them to upcoming workshops, events and developmental sessions.

 Bringing together staff and students more closely has also been enabled by the Film Club which
 hosts films with a legal theme. Launched in 2020, the aim is to develop this aspect of community
 into a regular fixture, thereby providing some light hearted engagement amongst staff and
 students, alongside grant capture, co-creation and workshops in general.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Members of the research group have engaged in a wide range of research, educational, and
 policy-focused collaborative activities with partners both UK-based and international, and both
 external to and internal to BU.

 External Collaboration at the European and International Levels

 Externally, much of the international activity has been at the level of the research centres. For
 example, CIPPM has worked extensively with public and private organisations (including the
 European Commission, WIPO, and the Chinese Patent Office) and, in research and education
 projects, its collaborations include those with IViR University of Amsterdam, ASK Bocconi
 University of Milan, and the Berkman Centre for Internet and Society at Harvard University (US).
 Similarly, during its 5-year lifetime, CRoLS established collaborative arrangements with a number
 of partners, including: Stellenbosch University (by way of mutual academic external visiting
 appointments), NATO, the Swedish Ministry of Defence, the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers
 Europe, Brussels (on cyber security and hybrid warfare), Xiamen University (China) (on the
 analysis and data collection of 5G infrastructure development), and the ICMP in The Hague (on
 the mass graves/missing persons project).

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 There are also examples of individual collaboration at the European level, including Brownsword’s
 membership of two core advisory teams for EU-funded projects (BrainTrain and SIENNA) and
 Mendis’ appointment to the Legal Expert Group of the EU Intellectual Property Office.

 Similarly, Mendis’ work on intellectual property and 3D printing has led to policy work for the
 European Commission as well as the EU Intellectual Property Office (alongside the UK Intellectual
 Property Office). In turn, these projects have paved the way for forging strong collaborations with
 academics (Universities of Nottingham, Glasgow, Lapland, Helsinki, Oslo, amongst others),
 practitioners (Nordemann, Germany, Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, Baker & McKenzie LLP,
 Finnegans LLP) and industry stakeholders (Stratasys, Siemens, HP, Museotechniki, Econolyst,
 Added Scientific and Chanel amongst others) who have either acted as co-investigators/sub-
 contractors or Expert Advisory Board members on the projects or have collaborated in expert
 panels organised by BU, as a result of these projects.

 Borghi’s work with cultural heritage institutions since 2015 have led to various partnerships –
 nationally as well as at the European level. Most notably, these have included: project partnerships
 with CREATe, University of Glasgow; IViR, University of Amsterdam; ASK, University of Bocconi,
 Italy; associate partnerships with the University of Reading, British Film Institute; Bibliotheque
 Nationale de Luxembourg and Associazone Italania Editori (AIE).

 As we noted in Section 1, our staff have also taken the opportunity to engage in research
 fellowship schemes in other Universities (Karanasiou at Yale Law School and Mendis at Tasmania
 and Stanford). Notably, Mendis’ collaboration, which commenced in January 2015 with Stanford
 Law School and Tasmania has continued, resulting in an edited collection with Profs. Mark Lemley
 (Stanford) and Matthew Rimmer (QUT, Australia), titled ‘3D Printing and Beyond: Intellectual
 Property and Regulation’ published by Edward Elgar Publishers in 2019.

 Beyond research fellowship schemes, the group has also been successful in forging international
 collaborations through their funded projects.

 For example, Klinkner’s work on mass graves and missing persons has led to a long term
 relationship between BU and the International Commission on Missing Persons (ICMP), which
 was formalised in 2017 through a Memorandum of Understanding. This collaboration has proved
 to be significant and has served to facilitate key research actions, including a funded project (in
 2019), which in turn has led to further collaborations, with representatives from the: International
 Criminal Court, Interpol, International Committee of the Red Cross, Australian Federal Police,
 REDRESS, Argentine Forensic Anthropology Team, Human Rights Commissioner as well as
 academics and the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions,
 forming part of the project as expert participants.

 National Collaboration

 Nationally, while CIPPM collaborated with, among others, the Intellectual Property Office, the
 Cabinet Office, the Authors Licensing Copyright Society and Design and Artists Copyright Society,
 CREATe University of Glasgow, and the IP Regulation Board (for the PGCert in IP Law), CRoLS
 liaised with the Nuffield Council on Bioethics (in connection with the ethics of NIPT) and organised
 an external facing workshop involving speakers from the Council and the UK National Screening
 Committee in 2016.

 At an individual level, members of the group are active within their particular professional
 associations and societies (particularly the SLS and the SLSA) and hold council positions within
 these groups, Mendis, as Convenor of the IP Section at SLS (2018-2020) and Brownsword with
 the Legal Services Board (on its technology and regulation project), chairing the Ethics and
 Governance Council for UK Biobank until 2015, and as member of the Royal Society working party
 on machine learning.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, Klinkner was a Research Visitor at the Bonavero Institute of Human Rights,
 University of Oxford, during Trinity Term 2018. An affiliation with the Bonavero continues through
 Dr Annelen Micus’ (Director of Programmes) involvement in the AHRC funded mass grave
 protection project as a steering group member (alongside Profs. Brownsword, Mendis and
 Mallinder).

 In December 2019, Klinkner was appointed as an AHRC academic reviewer and is continuing in
 this role.

 Also, in 2019, links with Slaughter and May (one of the law firms within the ‘Magic Circle), and a
 local law firm (Kiteleys) were strengthened through their engagement with law staff. For example,
 the collaboration with Slaughter and May has led to a sponsored prize for the Best Student in IP
 Law for 2019-2020 and both Kiteleys and Slaughter and May were involved in giving guest lectures
 to students on developing their careers during 2019-2020.

 Furthermore, the Bournemouth University Law Review (see also Section 2) has attracted an
 Advisory Board consisting not only of academics but also practitioners and the judiciary including
 Sir Richard Arnold, High Court of Justice judge in the Chancery Division. The Advisory Board’s
 engagement, although ‘light-touch’ has led to a successful collaboration which has also included
 a contribution to the Preface in Issue 3.

 Internal Collaboration and Schemes to Generate National and International Collaboration

 Internal to BU itself, in addition to collaborative research within the Department (such as that
 between Cronin and Copp, Klinkner and Davis, Brownsword and Wale, Weston and McKeown),
 members of the research group have taken their lead from the University’s Fusion project by
 engaging in a range of collaborations that are designed to strengthen interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary work. For example, Wale has collaborated with Rowlands (health and social
 care), Lowenstein with Ginige (environment) and Towse brings the perspective of an economist
 into the heart of the group through her work on cultural economics in the creative sector.

 A further initiative for developing collaboration for contributing to the research base was developed
 by CIPPM in 2015. Since then, the Centre has funded a Visiting Research Fellowship Scheme
 which has run very successfully. Led by Borghi and Mendis, the scheme invites applications from
 potential research fellows who are aligned with CIPPM’s research. The research fellowships can
 span between 2 weeks to 2 months. Since its launch in 2015, CIPPM has hosted 15 Research
 Fellows, from 12 countries, spanning 4 continents (Asia, Australasia, America and the EU).

 The fellows are an integral part of the Law research group; they engage in research seminars,
 including the presentation of their research whilst at BU and in some cases, co-publish with
 permanent staff members (Mendis and Santos, January 2020; Mendis, Santos (and Ballardini),
 May 2020). Above all, it has created networking opportunities and collaborations which have
 extended beyond the fellowship, leading to their involvement in research bids and research
 projects thereafter.

 In their different ways, these collaborations contribute to the research base, to economy and
 society. For example, Borghi’s EnDOW research project should ease the orphan works problem
 for cultural heritage institutions. Klinkner’s mass graves project should provide guidelines that will
 accommodate a number of conflicting interests (forensic, familial, historical, and so on). Mendis’
 various reports for the IPO and the European Commission should improve the clarity and quality
 of IP law and its implications for new technologies, and Brownsword’s latest book (Law 3.0) aims
 to put new technologies front and centre in both legal education and the popular understanding of
 law.




                                                                                               Page 12
