Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure
 The University of Leicester’s submission to UoA4 comprises a highly interdisciplinary cohort of
 researchers seeking to understand the workings of the mind, brain and behaviour, and
 pathological mechanisms of neurological disease. Our integration of neuroscience, psychology,
 and clinical research has been made possible by significant strategic investments, prioritising
 organisational and physical proximity between groups, the provision of state-of-the-art facilities,
 and strong links between academics and the NHS, which facilitates the application of our
 research.

 Our diversity is our strength. The close interface between disciplines enables, for example,
 psychologists to work with ophthalmologists to investigate eye movements in people with visual
 impairment, social psychologists to work alongside psychiatrists to understand mental health
 and well-being in BAME populations (i.e. black, Asian, or minority ethnic groups), and
 neuroscientists to work with clinicians to understand causes of vertigo in COVID-19 patients.
 Pulling down interdisciplinary boundaries has led to novel approaches, such as the use of
 zebrafish as a model for retinal development in humans, and locusts as a model for
 understanding the basis of tinnitus and concussion.

 We have invested significantly in state-of the-art facilities, including £42M in the new George
 Davies Centre for Medicine, which created bespoke laboratory space for human behavioural and
 neuroscientific research. Here we work alongside colleagues in the School of Medicine and
 Department of Health Sciences, and teach our students. The Centre is located close to the
 Leicester Royal Infirmary, facilitating links between fundamental research and frontline clinicians,
 helping our research to inform practice and achieve translation. This close proximity between
 fundamental and applied research has helped neuroscientists explore the relationship between
 cerebrovascular function, stroke and cognition alongside clinical cardiovascular specialists that
 test these findings. Similarly, it has enabled vision scientists to work with eye specialists, while
 our approach to facilitating cross-disciplinary interactions and translational research has helped
 our neuroscientists, psychologists, and research psychiatrists work with specialists in psychiatric
 services on neurodegenerative conditions such as Huntington’s, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s
 disease.

 We made significant achievements through 153 external research awards totalling over £20M,
 including more than £10.5M from UK Research Councils. Additionally, we increased our PGR
 completions by 64% – from 148 in REF2014 to 242 in REF2021 – and our BAME PGR
 population increased from 17% to 27% during the REF period, reaching a high of 37% in
 2018/19.

 Parallel investment in people has created 14 new academic posts recruiting nine lecturers and
 five professors. This REF period also saw us promote 13 people to Associate Professor (6
 women) and 5 to Professor (2 women). We also strengthened our early career research by
 appointing two Royal Society University Fellows, an NIHR Research Fellow, and an ESRC
 ‘Future Research Leaders’ Post-doctoral Fellow.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have returned 50 (47 FTE) staff to this UoA4 submission, representing a significant critical
 mass of researchers and an increase of 12.6 FTE from REF2014. Forty sit within one
 department and work closely with 10 key staff from three other departments. As shown in Figure
 1, our research has embraced two broad themes: (1) Neuroscience & Behaviour and (2)
 Psychological, Cognitive, and Sensory Sciences. These divide into five research groups, with
 mechanisms in place to ensure there are flexible interfaces allowing cross-group interactions:




 Figure 1: How expertise flows through our research themes into collaborative research groups.


 The Neuroscience and Behaviour theme focusses on:
   (i)     Understanding the systems neuroscience underlying the function of cells and cell
           assemblies, and memory formation in the hippocampus;
   (ii)    Revealing the neural basis of normal brain function, ageing and neurodegenerative
           disease, including interventions that benefit patients;
   (iii)   Exploring the neurobiology of behaviour ranging from in vivo and in vitro animal
           models (flatworms, snails, insects and rats) to humans.


 The Psychological, Cognitive, and Sensory Sciences theme comprises:
   (i)     Using epidemiological, quantitative/qualitative, and game-theoretic approaches to
           address psychological health and well-being in diverse populations.
   (ii)    Integrating methods from neuroscience, ophthalmology, and psychology to investigate
           sensory processing, from the eye/ear to the brain, in normative and clinical
           populations.


 Research and Impact Strategy
 Guided by strategic decisions following from REF2014, and supported by advice from an

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external review in 2016, our strategy has been to bring together neuroscience and psychology at
 Leicester. In REF2014, we described how we restructured to align these areas. We set out to:
    -   Build on strengths in fundamental neuroscience, cognitive psychology and behaviour,
    -   Adopt and develop new research methods and,
    -   Develop cross-disciplinary links, especially between the University and the NHS

 To achieve these research aims, an build on our impact strategy in REF2014, we set out to:
    -   Enhance our culture of promoting and supporting research translation and enterprise,
    -   Strengthen links between our research and the NHS through new appointments and
        collaborations,
    -   Use university funding and support mechanisms to establish industry partnerships, in line
        with the university enterprise strategy.


 We achieved these aims through the following strategies:
       Integrating neuroscience, ophthalmology, and psychology, along with elements of
        psychiatry, into a single multi-disciplinary research department (Neuroscience,
        Psychology and Behaviour, NPB) in 2015, as part of a College-wide strategic review.
        This ambitious restructuring brought most UoA4 research into one department, with the
        aim of facilitating cross-disciplinary interaction around core research themes, with
        examples including mechanisms and disorders of sensory processing and the neuro-
        genetic basis of neurodegenerative disease. The 2016 College-wide research review
        also recommended strengthening links between fundamental and translational research,
        which resulted in the integration of the previously stand-alone Centre for Systems
        Neuroscience (CSN) into NPB.

        Inspiring interdisciplinarity and optimising research groupings: In 2014 our
        research groups were distributed across departments and spread over the campus. In
        2016, we relocated psychology into the new George Davies building, to ensure our
        researchers are organisationally and physically close, and instituted interdisciplinary
        research groupings to inspire impactful cross-disciplinary interactions e.g. using fish
        models to understand neural mechanisms underlying aggression in people and develop
        therapeutic interventions for conduct disorder. This structure helped UoA4 members
        engage in interdisciplinary research, for example, around ageing and frailty (Maltby) and
        antibiotic over-prescribing (Colman, Krockow). Other initiatives managed by our
        interdisciplinary Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS) included UoA4 members
        leading the cross-university Prison Research Network, focused on health and wellbeing,
        security and organisational culture in prisons (Hatcher, Palmer).

       Establishing novel research methods and techniques: through institutional
        investment in specialist facilities (£90k EEG lab; £50k eye-tracking lab; £50k virtual
        reality mouse lab), the most significant being £16.5M (£12.6M from UoL, £3.9M from WT)
        for our Pre-Clinical Research Facility (PRF). The PRF underpins UOA4 research based
        on animal models and has been crucial to the implementation of innovative methods,
        including use of CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing to create mouse models of human disease
        (Forsythe). Alongside this, we received £1.5M BBSRC funding for dedicated multiphoton
        microscopy to support the development of functional super-resolution microscopy for
        fast, multiphoton imaging in freely moving, living systems (Hartell). We also led the
        application of hand-held OCT for diagnosis of paediatric retinal impairment –

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        underpinning an impact case study (Gottlob, Proudlock, Thomas). These initiatives
        also generated enterprise opportunities (e.g. IP and patents for advanced microscopy).

       Appointing new, and supporting current, staff. Our approach to making strategic
        appointments has driven success. For example, in 2016 we appointed J. Apergis-
        Schoute as lecturer to grow our neurobiology group, who subsequently secured
        Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust funding to apply optogenetics to understanding
        the role of the hypothalamus in regulating food choice. More recently, we appointed
        Arshad as lecturer in the sensory processing group, following which he obtained an NIH
        grant (joint with Johns Hopkins University) to study vestibular migraine, and more recent
        funding to investigate vertigo in long COVID. As described in Section 2, we have a well-
        developed career progression structure, facilitating the promotion of 18 staff (8 female) in
        the REF period.

       Strengthening links with the NHS: As outlined in Section 3, our College -wide strategy
        for fostering collaborations between academics and clinicians has helped strengthen
        links with University Hospitals Leicester (UHL) NHS Trust, and support research
        translation. This is underpinned by joint professorial appointments, which in
        ophthalmology (Gottlob) allow our vision scientists to engage directly with eye-disease
        specialists, supported by dedicated laboratory space in the Ulverscroft eye clinic at
        Leicester Royal Infirmary (LRI). Specialist cardiovascular laboratories at the LRI also
        enable our medical physicists to investigate change in cerebrovascular function because
        of dementia. An appointment in old-age psychiatry (Mukaetova-Ladinska) helped
        establish links with the memory clinic at Leicester General hospital. We also benefit from
        strong links with specialist psychiatric services at Glenfield Hospital, and work closely
        with Mill Lodge Huntington’s Disease and Community Service (Giorgini, Maltby).


       Promoting research translation and enterprise: In line with University strategies
        (described in the IES), UoA4 members established industry partnerships bringing in over
        £8.7M in the REF period. This includes collaborations with pharmaceutical companies to
        develop new therapeutic targets for Huntington’s Disease (Teva Pharmaceuticals) and to
        diagnose and treat visual impairment (Allianz Worldwide Care). As described in Section
        4, it includes work with third-sector organisations, creation of intellectual property,
        including development of software and novel patents (e.g. for advanced microscopy,
        biomarkers of neurodegenerative disease, and technology for developing brain-computer
        interfaces).


       Encouraging an open research environment: In line with the university strategic
        priority of embedding a culture of open research (Institutional Environment Statement
        [IES], section 2.6), we encourage open science methods, including promoting use of
        FigShare (available at Leicester since 2018) as a permanent, open-access repository for
        research outputs that are citable, shareable and discoverable, adhering to FAIR
        principles. The CLS FigShare receives >34K views and >25K downloads monthly. UoA4
        members are required to deposit their research outputs (as final prepublication versions)
        on Figshare within three months of acceptance for publication, where they are made
        available through GREEN OA. The University also administers OA funding from UKRI
        and WT that supports GOLD OA publication, while numerous UoA4 researchers use
        arxiv sites to publish pre-prints. UoA4 researchers hold annual workshops to promote


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        discussion around open science and reproducibility and in 2018, with support from the
        Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WTISSF), UoL hosted a Wellcome
        Trust open research workshop. During the assessment period, 79% of our outputs were
        published open access, compared to the Russell Group average of 63% (SciVal).

       Promoting a culture of research integrity: The University adheres to DORA principles
        (IES, 2.7) and is signatory to the Concordat for Research Integrity (renewed in 2019). In
        2014, we established a working group to review our research code of conduct and
        update our research integrity and ethics training – currently mandatory for PhD students
        and being rolled out to all staff engaged in research.


 UoA research activities and achievements

 Neuroscience & Behaviour Research Theme
 Research in this Theme is conducted in three areas of enquiry:

 1. Systems Neuroscience (3FTE, >£1M income, 47 papers, 89% OA):
 This research-intensive group led by Quian Quiroga conducts research focused on how
 information is represented in neurons, including the development of novel ‘spike-sorting’
 algorithms for analysing complex neural recordings.

 Key Achievements: CSN is known internationally for the discovery of ‘concept cells’ – single
 neurons, primarily in the hippocampus, that fire selectively to stimuli as specific as an individual’s
 face (e.g. Quian Quiroga: Neuron 2015, FWCI 2.39; Curr Biol 2017, FWCI 3.60; Curr Biol 2020,
 FWCI 3.61). This was achieved by pioneering methods for single-neuron recording in humans,
 culminating in the hypothesis that concept neurons are a uniquely human, high-level, feature of
 memory (Quian Quiroga, Trends Cogn Sci 2020). Work by Liu, a strategic appointment in the
 REF period, has pioneered algorithms underpinning use of synthetic retinal implants for the
 visually-impaired. Okun, another strategic appointment, has driven development of methods for
 understanding neuron population dynamics in freely-moving animals (e.g. Okun, Nature 2015,
 FWCI 6.93).

 2. Aging and Neurodegenerative Disease (7.8FTE, >£6.1M income, 181 papers, 73% OA)
 This group integrates expertise in genetics, neuroscience and cardiovascular science to conduct
 fundamental and translational research into the neural basis of normal brain function, stroke and
 neurodegenerative disease, as well as interventions to benefit patient groups.

 Key Achievements: Work by Giorgini, Luthi-Carter, and Kronenberg produced new insights
 into the neurogenetic basis of Huntington’s and Parkinson’s diseases, improving understanding
 of specific aetiologic and neuroprotective mechanisms, and uncovering new therapeutic targets
 (Giorgini, Hum Mol Genet 2015, FWCI 4.33; Giorgini, PNAS 2016, FWCI 2.81; Kronenberg,
 Acta Neuropathol 2018, FWCI 4.33). Other research advanced understanding of the role of sex
 and steroid hormones in ischaemic stroke/cognitive decline (Gibson), autoregulation of cerebral
 haemodynamics in stroke, cognitive decline and Alzheimer’s Disease (Chung, Panerai,
 Mukaetova-Ladinska), and blood biomarkers for dementia (Mukaetova-Ladinska).

 3. Neurobiology of Behaviour (13FTE, >£5M income, 112 papers, 82% OA)
 Using state-of-the-art labs, this interdisciplinary team explores how the nervous system controls
 behaviour in mammalian and insect models. Through these models our neuroscientists,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biologists, and bio-psychologists investigated appetite, food-choice and foraging behaviour, and
 sensory-motor processing, using these as models for addiction and neurodegenerative disease.

 Key Achievements: Work from this group shed new light on use of spatial cues in navigation
 (Buckley), used electrophysiology and optogenetics to reveal the function of the hypothalamus
 in mediating food choice (J. Apergis-Schoute, J Neurosci 2015, FWCI 3.48; J. Apergis-
 Schoute, Cell Rep 2014, FWCI 4.56), and used functional neuroimaging to understand the
 neural basis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (Urcelay, Am J Psychiatry 2015, FWCI 7.34).
 Other work with transgenic rat models helped understand how the mesolimbic system motivates
 behaviour relevant to models of addiction, schizophrenia and psychosis (Gerdjikov, Nat
 Neurosci 2016, FWCI 4.02; Gerdjikov, J Neurosci 2014, FWCI 6.93). Work with zebrafish and
 mouse models helped understand mechanisms mediating motor learning, coordination and
 aggressive behaviour, with translational relevance to conduct disorder in humans (Norton, Nat
 Struct Mol Biol 2018, FWCI 5.16). Research with sponges and comb jellies provided additional
 insights into evolutionary processes, including those underpinning vision (Feuda, Curr Biol 2017,
 FWCI 10.98); while work with locusts provided insights into mechanisms of sensory-motor
 processing and associative learning (Mathieson, Ott, Warren).

 Psychological, Cognitive, and Sensory Sciences Research Theme
 Research in this Theme is conducted in two areas of enquiry:

 4. Psychological Health & Wellbeing (11.8FTE, >£2.3M income, 281 papers, 76% OA)
 This group integrates social, cognitive and developmental psychologists and psychiatrists,
 using epidemiological, quantitative/qualitative, and game-theoretic methods to address
 psychological health and well-being in diverse populations. It also fosters relationships with
 NICE (Johnson), and overseas NGOs (Vostanis; 18 Government and NGO managers in the
 Middle East, Africa, and South America).

 Key Achievements: The group provided trailblazing insights into social/cognitive development of
 children born preterm (ICS 3, Johnson: Psychol Sci 2015, FWCI 2.4; Arch Dis Child 2018,
 FWCI 15.49; J Pediatr 2015, FWCI 3.95), and advanced understanding of the neuro-cognitive
 basis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (A. Apergis-Schoute, Biol Psychiatry 2017, FWCI 6.66;
 Biol Psychiatry 2019, FWCI 6.44). Our epidemiological research identified higher prevalence of
 autism in adults which, in turn, has improved services and changed attitudes (ICS 1, Brugha;
 Psychol Med 2015, FWCI 18.82; Br J Psychiatry 2016, FWCI 5.09). A further ICS (4, Vostanis)
 describes how our research improved the mental health of children experiencing trauma through
 training programmes for health professional and NGOs in LMICS. Other studies produced
 ground-breaking insights into confidence, co-operation and trust in human decision-making
 (Colman, Pulford), achieved timely impact by applying game-theoretic approaches to
 understanding antibiotic over-prescribing (Krockow), and used big data to gain insights into
 mental health and neurodegenerative disease (Maltby and McElroy, J Child Psychol Psychiatry
 2018, FWCI 4.35).

 5. Sensory Processing (11.4FTE, >£5.5M income, 167 papers, 79% OA)
 This group combines electrophysiological, ophthalmological, and psychological approaches to
 improve understanding of human sensory function and visual and auditory impairment, including
 the impact on activities of daily life, benefitting from close links with local NHS hospitals, charities
 focused on improving treatment for, and supporting individuals with, visual impairment, as well as
 significant international collaborations.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Key Achievements: This group has driven understanding of genetic and structural causes, and
 functional consequences, of visual impairment. It pioneered the use of handheld optical
 coherence tomography (OCT) in infants to retinal development normatively and in paediatric
 visual impairment, to improve diagnosis, management, and treatment of disease (ICS 2 Gottlob,
 Proudlock, Thomas; e.g. Brain 2019 and Eur J Hum Genet 2017). The group also furthered
 understanding of ageing and reading strategy effects on mechanisms of eye movement control
 through international collaborations, and pioneering use of co-registration of eye movements and
 EEG to understand the neural basis of these effects (McGowan, Paterson and White, J
 Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci 2018, FWCI 3.19). They also improved understanding of visual
 changes in Alzheimer’s disease and chronic fatigue syndrome (Hutchinson), provided insights
 into vestibular dysfunction and disorders of sensory processing following brain damage and
 disease (Arshad, Lancet 2016, FWCI 5.96), and investigated mechanisms of attention and
 oculomotor control, including for fingerprint recognition and driving (Souto, Barrett). Auditory
 researchers within the group explored the ionic and synaptic basis of information processing in
 the brainstem auditory pathway, advancing understanding of mechanisms of hearing loss and
 tinnitus (Forsythe, Hamann; e.g. J Neurosci 2014).

 UoA future research and impact strategy
 Our future plan is to build on our achievements, in alignment with university and college
 strategies, by focussing on research excellence and strengthening synergies between
 fundamental and translational research, to ensure we achieve economic and societal impact
 from a larger proportion of our excellent research. Specifically, we aim to:
       Focus our research endeavour in key areas of inter-disciplinary enquiry to tackle topics
        that are important to society, including in relation to ageing and neurodegeneration,
        functional vision and sensory impairment, and the psychology of health and wellbeing.
       Achieve greater research translation and societal impact by strengthening our links
        with academic clinicians and the NHS, including in areas of cardiovascular science,
        ophthalmology, and mental health, education services, and relevant third-sector
        organisations (e.g. Ulverscroft Foundation) and industry and to widen our access to
        patient / participant groups to increase our impact.
       Engage pro-actively with issues surrounding equality, diversity and inclusion, by
        mentoring and supporting members of under-represented groups (female, BAME, and
        those who intersect these characteristics) to conduct world-class research and take
        research leadership positions.
       Build on our approach to open science and research integrity, by creating an
        environment that prizes openness and transparency in scientific enquiry, supports the
        discoverability and availability of research findings, and makes available software and
        data for sharing and re-use.



 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In line with the university’s major strategic initiative of Discovering People (described in the IES),
 our strategy is to attract, retain and develop the best researchers by celebrating and recognising
 success while valuing equality and advancing diversity, by:



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Recruiting academic staff who fit strategically within priority areas, with the highest
        potential to achieve research excellence;
       Retaining excellent staff by supporting ECRs to obtain permanent academic positions
        and making emeritus appointments to retain expertise;
       Supporting new and existing staff to realise their potential, through individual mentoring,
        recognising excellence, and supporting career progression;
       Increasing diversity by ensuring appointment and promotion procedures are fair and
        equitable, affording opportunity to under-represented groups.


 UoA4 currently comprises 50 staff (47 FTE): 16 professors (25% female), 4 Readers (25%
 female), 13 Associate Professors (40% female), 14 Lecturers (38% female), and 3 Research
 Fellow ECRs (all male).

 Recruitment strategy
 In line with our staffing strategy, we enhanced our staff by:


       New appointments. We made 14 appointments in the REF period, all leading to
        productive research programmes. For example, although junior appointments, Buckley,
        J. Apergis-Schoute, McCutcheon, and Urcelay obtained funds totalling over £675k to
        research the neurobiology of behaviour.
       Internal appointment of ECRs to permanent academic posts to attract and retain
        talented staff. This includes the appointment of an ESRC postdoctoral fellowship to a
        permanent academic position (McGowan), award of an internally-funded fellowship, and
        subsequent appointment to a permanent position, of a talented ECR (Okun); and the
        commitment of permanent positions to three current ECRs (Feuda, Thomas, Warren).
       Recruiting senior academics to strengthen NHS links. We appointed Kronenberg
        and Mukaetova-Ladinska at professorial level to strengthen links with NHS psychiatric
        services and build research capacity in ageing, neurodegeneration, and dementia. We
        also appointed an NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturer (Thomas) to investigate the genetic
        basic of nystagmus, leading to a further £58k in research awards, and our NIHR Doctoral
        Fellow Rufai (joint with Great Ormond Street Hospital) was awarded £345k to investigate
        retinal development.


 Staff development and retention
 We support staff across all career stages through a well-established mentoring system and
 encourage staff to engage in the Coaching and Mentoring Academy (described in the IES) to
 facilitate career development. There is a thriving informal mentoring system within UoA4. For
 example, Krockow (mentored by McCutcheon) says, ‘He was extremely engaged and
 encouraging, and looked over my CVs and applications… I always felt very well supported in the
 Department and I’m sure this has enabled me to progress in my academic career.’
 Our specific staff development strategies are to:


       Support Early Career Researchers (ECRs) through a dedicated academic lead on
        Early Career Development who reports to CSL Research and Enterprise Committees.
        This lead works closely with Doctoral College and PGR leadership team to organise
        mentorship and training for ECRs and research staff, supporting the implementation of
        the Concordat for Researchers at College-level, and engaging with EDI initiatives. ECRs


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        present their work regularly at monthly research group meetings, and receive
        constructive feedback from peers and senior academics. Bespoke grant writing courses
        and departmentally-run grant development meetings serve to help develop funding
        applications.

       Provide internal seed-corn funding opportunities to support the exploration of new
        ideas and collaborations. This includes dedicated ECR funding via WTISSF) and
        Doctoral College ECR fund. ECRs have used this funding to leverage follow-up support
        from, e.g., Parkinson's UK (Moisoi) and Daphne-Jackson Trust (Asif-Malik). WTISSF
        funding (2017-21) also provided one-year ECR fellowships to Krockow (applying
        decision-making research to antibiotic over-prescribing) and Warren (investigating the
        molecular basis of hearing in locusts).

       Facilitating career progression: Effective staff development is key to our success, and
        achieved through support mechanisms including a buddy system for orienting new staff
        members, and our mentorship scheme. Mentors function independently of line
        managers, advising on research and funding strategy, grant applications, publications,
        and career development, including applying for promotion and engaging in cross-
        disciplinary research. This has supported early-career staff in achieving promotion, e.g.
        Hutchinson, ‘My mentor helped me reflect on how I might use my research in more
        applied areas. This led to my work on to visual ageing and resulted in several well-cited,
        high-impact papers and the successful completion of my first PhD student. These
        outcomes formed a key part of my successful promotion application.'

        We encourage staff to make use of university initiatives, e.g. future leaders training,
        coaching and mentorship, including schemes specifically for women, such as Aurora,
        Calibre programme, and Women Leading with a Purpose (WLP). The VITAL Leadership
        Programme (VLP), designed to equip academics with skills to operate and lead
        strategically and successfully in a competitive environment. For example, Gibson, Luthi-
        Carter, and Maltby’s participation in university Future Leadership Programme equipped
        them to take on leadership roles: Gibson as head of NPB, Luthi-Carter as College ECR
        lead and departmental lead for Athena SWAN; Maltby as departmental research
        director.

        We encourage ECRs to access the University’s Academic Practice Unit, which
        provides research development training including induction, mentoring, and workshops
        on research leadership and management.

        We provide a phased route to retirement, helping staff to continue working with a
        reduced workload before transitioning from full-time work to full-time retirement. Staff
        wishing to work beyond the conventional retirement age continue to make significant
        contributions to research and teaching in an agreed role or emeritus capacity (e.g.
        Colman, Panerai).

       Developing research excellence: All staff create a Personal Research Strategy (PRS)
        and participate in Personal Development Discussions (PDDs) annually. These assess
        research and impact activities for the past year, and plans and training needs for the
        coming year, helping staff to formulate targets and assess these relative to their
        performance. PDDs are undertaken with the departmental head or nominated


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        representative, and clinical academics have joint NHS/University PDDs. We facilitate
        career growth through grant application development and review procedures that assess
        applications >£50k.

       Our promotion structure recognises success and rewards staff for conducting high-
        quality research and achieving impact. To support career development, the University
        launched a Coaching and Mentoring Academy in 2017, and the Academic Career Map
        designed to harmonise and support promotion processes, and narrow gender and BAME
        pay and promotion gaps, by valuing achievements across a range of activities, including
        impact and knowledge exchange, and citizenship. Achievements are celebrated through
        weekly newsletters and all-staff emails, and staff are recommended for awards that
        recognise their contribution to research impact. Our approach to recognising and
        rewarding success was commended in the response to our 2017 Athena SWAN
        application.

       Stimulating Exchange with Business and Enterprise by advertising internal research
        and impact funding schemes via flyers and a weekly newsletter. An excellent example
        from UoA4 was a seed-corn internal award focused on ageing and dementia (Maltby,
        Mukaetova-Ladinska), which facilitated an industrial collaboration with Cerebrum
        Matters Ltd. and a subsequent MRC iCASE studentship to assess benefits of brain-
        training in healthy ageing and dementia.

       Supporting our Technical staff: The university is a signatory to the Technician
        Commitment (2017), indicating the value it gives to ensuring visibility, recognition, career
        development and sustainability for technicians across disciplines. A Steering Group and
        action plan to implement the commitment was established in 2018, to develop
        professional registration pathways for technicians, promote CPD opportunities, and
        implement a mentoring scheme for technical staff. We also participate in the College
        Technician’s Forum, which provides a focus for discussions around career development
        and training. Since 2019 a ‘Technician of the Year’ category is included in the University
        Discovering Excellence Staff Awards to celebrate the contributions of our technical staff.


 Research Students
 UoA4 awarded 242 PhDs in the REF period, supervised by 54 staff (including teaching-focused
 staff), averaging 4.48 students per staff member. Over the REF period, we averaged 63%
 female, and 31% BAME, students. Postgraduate research was supported by regional BBSRC
 and MRC doctoral training programmes (DTP), and collaborative studentships through the
 Midlands ESRC DTP. Our NHS-funded Doctorate in Clinical Psychology (D.Clin.Psy) provided
 clinical and research training to ~14 students per year, with research supervision provided by
 UoA4 members and clinical teaching staff. Since 2013/14, we have offered competitive
 department and college studentships annually to outstanding candidates, and funded doctoral
 research by graduate teaching assistants in the School of Psychology, achieving 22 doctoral
 awards from university funding in the REF period. We also attracted international applicants
 funded by their university or government education departments, with other UK Government
 (e.g. Home Office, NHS), charity and EU (e.g. Marie Curie training networks) funded
 studentships. Figure 2 show the distribution of doctoral completions across funding sources.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                                                  University, 22, 9%
                            International, 27, 11%
                                                                                MRC, 11, 5%

                                                                                 BBSRC, 9, 4%

                                                                                 UK Gov, 6, 2%
                                                                               NIHR BRU, 3 1%
         Other, 58, 24%
                                                                                 Charity, 3, 1%

                                                                                 EPSRC, 2, 1%

                                                                              NERC, 2, 1%
                                        D.Clin.Psy, 98, 41%       EU, 1, 0%


                     Figure 2: Doctoral awards in UoA4 over the REF period.


 Recruitment & funding: Our recruitment process ensures applicants receive fair and equitable
 opportunities. RCUK, charity and College studentships are advertised via University webpages,
 FindaPhD.com, and social media to reach large and diverse audiences. Prospective students
 outline their academic background, intended topic, and potential supervisor. Relevant staff
 discuss proposals informally with applicants to help shape projects, followed by a formal
 interview with a potential supervisor and other staff to mitigate bias. Interviews have gender-
 balanced panels, are held within core hours (10am–4pm), with accessibility arrangements to fit
 applicant needs. Part-time registration is welcomed, in recognition that individuals may have
 commitments that preclude full-time study.

 For studentships awarded through the regional DTPs (described below) BBSRC Midlands
 Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership (MIBTP), and the DTPs, potential supervisor-
 proposed projects are assessed for fit with the DTP remit and advertised via DTP webpages and
 online. Applicants are shortlisted and invited for interview by panels comprising staff from across
 member universities.

 BBSRC Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership (MIBTP): This 4-year
 programme established in 2015 and renewed in 2020 (£20M, 52 students/year), provides broad
 experience of life sciences research, by rotating students across short-duration (12-week)
 projects on different topics in year one, before focusing on the PhD project in years two to four.
 This DTP supported 9 UoA4 projects in the REF period.

 MRC Integrated Midlands Partnership for Biomedical Training (IMPACT): Established in
 2016, this midlands DTP (£3.5M, 14 students/year), supports research around the theme of
 complex disease, including nine UoA4 projects in the REF period.

 Central England NERC Training Alliance (CENTA): This consortium, led by the University of
 Leicester and established in 2013 and renewed in 2019 (£4.9M; 24 students/year), supports


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research around environment and earth science, including genetics and genomic science,
 supporting two UoA4 projects in the REF period.

 ESRC: This consortium of midlands institutions, was established in 2016, and supported two
 collaborative UoA4 research projects in the REF period.

 UOA4 researchers participated in three EU Initial Training Networks (ITNs) during the REF
 period, CINCHRON (Comparative INsect CHRONobiology: €547M to Leicester, which was the
 co-ordinating institution; Rosato as co-lead), LISTEN (Liaison in Scientific Training for European
 auditory Neuroscience: €273K to Leicester), and INTREPID Forensics (Interdisciplinary Training
 and Research Programme for Innovative Doctorates in Forensic Science: €2.9M, with Leicester
 as co-ordinating institution). These ITNs supported studentships supervised by Rosato,
 Forsythe and Barrett, respectively.

 Support, Training, and Supervision of PGR students: PGR support and training is overseen
 by the Doctoral College (IES, 3.3). PGR progress is monitored using an online system (MyPGR)
 to record monthly supervisory meetings and other milestones. Academic and pastoral support is
 provided by departmental postgraduate research tutors. Students are registered initially for one
 year as an advanced postgraduate, after which they can proceed to full PhD status dependent
 on the outcome of a formal probationary review. At the start of their studies, students are
 assigned a supervisory team comprising at least two supervisors, and an independent progress
 review panel (PRP) which reviews progress at the end of years 1 and 2 (of full-time study, with
 equivalent part-time milestones). During the first year (full-time, with part-time equivalent),
 students meet with their supervisors at least monthly, to develop research and training plans.
 Students record these meetings, including content and goals, using MyPGR.

 Within 10 months, the student submits a report including a literature review and research plan,
 having given a seminar outlining their progress and future research plans, and attend a
 probationary review meeting with their PRP. This is a key decision point where the PRP
 recommends progression to a PhD degree, revision and resubmission of the research plan, or
 termination of studies. Full-time students must complete their research within 3 years of
 registration and submit their thesis within 4 years. This structure allows PGRs freedom to
 explore their research interests while simultaneously being supported by their supervisory panel
 and Department.

 DTPs have their own generic training programmes but all students benefit from a broad range of
 training delivered at UoL and partner organisations. Within UoL, the Doctoral College provides a
 comprehensive research skills and career development programme for doctoral and
 postdoctoral researchers. Library services also provide workshops and online training in
 bibliographic methods. For all our research areas, adjacent high-quality office space is provided
 for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers. The timeline for students, regardless of funding
 body, is shown in Figure 3.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




          Figure 3: The PGR training timeline for all students regardless of funding body.


 Integration into the research environment is achieved through departmental seminars, with
 dedicated time for students to interact with speakers, and monthly journal clubs. Independently,
 UoA4 students created a ‘Reproducibilitea Journal Club’ in association with the
 reproducibilitea.org network, hosting discussions of reproducibility in science. Our students
 regularly present work within their research groups, gaining constructive feedback from peers
 and senior staff. Departmental and Graduate school funds are available to support conference
 attendance in addition to studentship funding.

 As described in the IES, postgraduate student satisfaction is high, with Leicester scoring
 higher than sector and Russell group averages in almost all sections of PRES. UoA4 satisfaction
 is especially high (>80%) in relation to quality of supervision and resources.

 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI and the provision of high quality staff support is central to the University’s Strategic Plan
 (IES, 3.1). UoA4 benefits from institutional policies including: Flexible Working policy to
 support staff, including staff with care responsibilities, ill-health or disability, or working towards
 retirement. We offer enhanced schemes for parental leave, regardless of sex or length of
 service, and compassionate leave. We have zero tolerance of bullying or harassment and
 operate a Dignity at Work code of practice to ensure staff are treated with dignity irrespective of
 age, disability, gender or gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership, race, religion or
 belief, sex, or sexual orientation.

 The University has an Equal Opportunities (EO) Policy, an Equalities Unit (with an EO and
 Athena SWAN coordinator), and an EO Committee at which gender equality and EO issues are
 under continual review. In line with this, our on-boarding process for new staff mandates training
 in EDI and unconscious bias at induction, with refresher courses at least every 24 months. UoA4
 has three Diversity champions, who play a vital role in leading and advertising diversity
 initiatives, e.g. in relation to International Women’s day and Black History month.
 CLS holds a silver Athena Swan award, reflecting our commitment to equality. We are proud that

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoL is signed up to the Race Equality Charter and the only UK University partner in the United
 Nations’ ‘HeforShe’ campaign. However, we are not complacent about the need to improve
 gender parity and BAME representation, especially at senior grades. Within UoA4, 32% of staff
 are women, 8% identify as BAME, and 6% are both female and identify as BAME. We recognise
 female, BAME, and those who intersect these characteristics, historically have achieved lower
 levels of research income. To combat this, we provide grant development meetings to support
 idea development, constructive peer review from experienced academics on funder committees
 (BBSRC, ESRC, MRC, Leverhulme Trust), supplemented by expert support from the RED team
 in preparing and costing applications. Our most recent Athena SWAN application (2017) was
 commended for the support for early career research and in aiding staff to develop grant
 applications.

 We are committed to ensuring all staff are fully supported in undertaking research, including
 providing access to facilities by staff with physical disabilities (e.g., lifts and wheelchair access)
 in all research and teaching buildings. Staff are also provided with specialist equipment (e.g.
 standing desks, high-resolution monitors, ergonomic chairs) to support a healthy working
 environment. The university provides support in relation to mental health and wellbeing via a
 24/7 telephone counselling service and face-to-face counselling, and comprehensive
 occupational health provision, including an employee assistance programme (validium.com).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Research income over the REF period totals >£20M, equating to £64k per FTE per annum. The
 major sources of this income are summarised in Figure 4.


                    MRC, £3,884,766 (21%)                  EPSRC, £487,861 (2%)
                                                                                            ESRC,
                                                                                        £870,144 (5%)

                                                                                         Roy Soc/Brit
                                                                                        Acad, £594,995
                                                                                             (3%)

              BBSRC;                                                                    NIHR,
         £5,361,879 (28%)                                                            £538,954 (3%)

                   OTHER,                                                  CHARITY, £4,083,235 (22%)
                £301,736 (2%)
                                                                           EU ,
                                INDUSTRY, £467,085 (2%)                 £2,263,572


             Figure 4: UoA4 research income from external sources over REF period.


 This included more than £10.5M from RCUK and significant NIHR funding, supplemented by
 funding from major UK Charities (e.g. Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust; £3.8M). We also
 benefit from support from smaller charities, including The British Tinnitus Association (£40k),
 Rosetrees Trust (£50k), and Ulverscroft Foundation (>£650k). Overseas funding streams

                                                                                                     Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 included £130k from National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH), and £180k from Visterra Inc. to
 develop innovative antibody-based therapies for patients with hard-to-treat diseases, reflecting
 continuing efforts to diversify our research income streams.

 We attained 153 awards by 54 (49 current at REF return) PIs totalling more than £20M over the
 REF period. Noteworthy awards went to Johnson: >£600k UKRI funding, £200k of EU funding,
 and £280k from Action Medical Research that led to studies into educational achievement
 following premature birth and interventions to support school learning by children born pre-term,
 with results the subject of an ICS (3) and flagship publications (Johnson: Psychol Sci 2015;
 NEJM 2019; Lancet Child Adolesc Health, 2019).

 Gottlob received £770k from UKRI and £700k from UK charities, including ongoing support from
 the Ulverscroft Foundation to facilitate ground-breaking work into the genetics of visual
 disorders, and the novel application of handheld optical coherence tomography to study
 paediatric retinal development, (ICS 2), and published in leading journals in ophthalmology
 (Ophthalmology 2016) neurology (Neurology 2018) and genetics (Hum Mol Genet 2017).

 Projects by Giorgini and Luthi-Carter investigated the genetic, genomic and neural basis of
 degenerative brain disease, including Huntington’s, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases and
 schizophrenia, aimed at developing novel therapeutic interventions. Giorgini’s research is
 supported by large-scale MRC funding (totalling >£2M between Leicester and UCL), NIMH
 ($1.1M), and charity funding from Parkinson’s UK and CHDI Foundation (~£370k), facilitating
 understanding of kynurenine pathway metabolism and RAB GTPases in neurodegenerative
 disorders (Giorgini: Nat Commun 2018; Brain 2017; and PNAS 2016). Luthi-Carter’s work
 benefited > £1M EUFP7 funding as part of a major inter-disciplinary consortium (NEUROACT),
 and industry funding (TEVA Pharmaceuticals), producing highly-cited outputs (Luthi-Carter:
 Brain 2014 and Hum Mol Genet 2014).

 Strategies for generating income
 Mechanisms for attracting research income are structured around annual targets set for the
 Colleges by the University Research & Enterprise Committee (REC). Based on this, each
 College Research & Enterprise Committee (CREC), led by a Dean of Research and including
 departmental research leads, sets departmental targets and reviews performance annually.
 CREC also leads on initiatives to enhance research infrastructure.

 UoA4 employs a range of mechanisms to support staff in developing high-quality grant
 applications. These include Grant Development Meetings, where PIs present funding ideas to
 colleagues for constructive feedback. Alongside this, regular targeted emails from the RED team
 inform staff of opportunities and deadlines. We run regular writing workshops (e.g. ‘WriteNow’)
 and writing ‘boot camps’ to encourage application writing in a collegiate setting, with informal
 feedback from peers and RED staff. RED staff also provide expert support for grant writing,
 MTAs and collaboration agreements.

 ECRs receive specific support in grant and fellowship writing from the Doctoral College and
 RED-run workshops. Success is reflected in nine fellowship award to UoA4 members, including
 NIHR fellowships (Rufai, Patel, Thomas), Royal Society University Fellowships (Warren,
 Feuda), and an ESRC postdoctoral fellowship (McGowan).

 All new appointees receive start-up funding, are prioritised for internal funding, and have a
 reduced teaching load during their probation period. UoL recognises that women receive

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disproportionately less research funding because of structural imbalances in HE. This is
 addressed by providing female staff with targeted support by senior female colleagues, grant
 development staff in RED, and the Senior Women’s Network and Aurora scheme support
 women into leadership roles.

 At University level, key funder working groups are academic-led, centrally-supported groups
 dedicated to each research council, plus Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust and NIHR. They
 build relationships with funders, publicise funding schemes, review applications and support
 fellowship candidates.

 Internal funding opportunities
 Our robust internal peer-reviewed funding mechanisms provided ~£1.46M for UoA4 in the REF
 period, summarised in Figure 5.




           Research Equipment                      MRC Confidence in Concept,
          & Infrastructure Fund,                        £157,633 , 11%
              £750,744 , 51%

                                                             Higher Education Innovation
                                                                Fund, £271,265 , 19%



                                                              WTISSF Funding, £138,870 ,
                                                                         9%
          Other, £89,862 , 6%
                                               International Development Fund,
                                                         £57,278 , 4%


     Figure 5: Breakdown of UOA4 research income from internal sources over REF period.


 Our WTISSF award supported three fellowships in the REF period (Repici, Krockow, Warren).
 Repici investigated cellular functions of DJ-1 – a protein linked to rare forms of Parkinson’s
 disease; Krockow examined health-related decision-making, using ‘Wisdom of Crowds’ to
 reduce diagnostic uncertainty and antibiotic over-prescribing; Warren used electrophysiology
 and gene-editing to identify sound transduction mechanisms in insect auditory neurons, with a
 translational focus on improving understanding of mechanisms of hearing loss across species –
 including humans. WT-ISSF funding supported these fellows to progress their careers: Repici to
 a lectureship (Aston University), Krockow to a lectureship (UoL), and Warren in achieving a
 Royal Society University Research Fellowship at UoL.

 Our research translation is underpinned by interactions with industry. This is supported by the
 Leicester Innovation Hub (a £5.1M programme supported by HEIF, University, and European
 Regional Development Fund; IES, 2.5). Work by Hartell is an exemplar of seed-corn funding
 leading to significant scientific developments. He received £30k from the HEIF-supported Proof

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Concept Fund to develop methods for brain-imaging in freely-moving animals, leading to
 ~£200k equipment funding through REIF, which provided a foundation for a >£1.1M award from
 the BBSRC (2013-18) to establish this technique.

 Internal funding supports interdisciplinary Tiger Teams (£37k), Networks (£105k), 10x10
 Challenge Fund projects (£100K), and interdisciplinary visiting fellowships. These are managed
 by the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS, IES 2.2), which was formed to promote
 and enhance interdisciplinary working. Tiger teams are short-duration, interdisciplinary research
 teams designed to tackle a specific research issue, intended to lead to ongoing collaborations
 and funding applications. As an example, Maltby was awarded Tiger Team and LIAS visiting
 fellowship funding to explore multi-cultural and multi-disciplinary perspectives on adolescent
 mental health, leading to £250k further funding from UK charities to advance these ideas.
 Networks support longer-term interdisciplinary groups, including the Prisons Research Network -
 a cross-college team led by UoA4 members (Hatcher, Palmer, described in section1). Starting
 in 2020, the University 10x10 Challenge fund provided start-up for innovative interdisciplinary
 projects. Uo4 members led two successful applications in this first round of awards to investigate
 ethnic and cultural determinants of healthy cognitive ageing (Maltby, Mukatova-Ladinska), and
 cardiovascular health and cognitive wellbeing (Panerai, Paterson).

 The ESRC awarded UoL a £1M Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) from 2019-2023 to support
 the development of social science impact. This provides small (£2.5k) and larger (£7.5k) grants
 to kickstart impact activities, and other funding to create sustainable partnerships with
 stakeholders. This allowed White and Warrington to assess the impact of speed-reading training
 in education, and Vostanis to improve mental health provision for child refugees and develop
 digital tools to support mental health services in LMICS. It also funded strategic partnerships
 around the protection and care of vulnerable children (Vostanis) and health and wellbeing in
 prisons (Hatcher).

 Research Infrastructure & Facilities
 We benefited from significant institutional investment in infrastructure and facilities to support
 research and scholarship, including ~£28M investment in the David Wilson Library (as described
 in the IES) Completion of the £42M George Davies Centre for Medicine (GDC; IES, 4.2)
 benefited UoA4 directly, by bringing together previously scattered groups as part of a strategic
 plan to strengthen collaborations within and between neuroscience and psychology. This
 ensured none of our researchers is more than a 10-minute walk away from each other. Proximity
 to the Leicester Royal Infirmary (LRI) and specialist state-of-the art, centrally resourced
 facilities in the neighbouring Maurice Shock Building (MSB), Adrian Building, and £12M
 purpose-built Pre-Clinical Research Facility (PRF; IES, 4.3), jointly funded by the Wellcome
 Trust and the University and opened in 2012, provides access for our neuroscience researchers
 to specialist, centrally resourced facilities.

 The PRF provides modern facilities for animal husbandry, state-of-the-art transgenic facilities for
 CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing, surgical and animal behaviour facilities, including for in vivo
 recording, multi-electrode array recording, calcium imaging and multiphoton imaging from
 anaesthetized and awake animals. It supports methods development, such as a novel laboratory
 where mice running on a spherical treadmill perform behavioural tasks in a 360° computer-
 generated, virtual environment while neural activity is recorded in high-resolution using in vivo
 electrophysiological recording and optical imaging (Quian Quiroga). PRF houses containment
 and cryogenic facilities, while staff provide advice and evaluation of animal research ethics. The
 University is committed to 3Rs, employing a stringent local ethical review process, with oversight

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from local and government bodies, to ensure good practice and cost-benefit analysis in research
 with animals.

 Following REF2014, the CSN, led by Quian Quiroga was established as one of 6 University-
 wide research centres to attract world-class researchers. Within the current REF period, we
 made the strategic decision to incorporate CSN into NPB. This helped support the growth of
 CSN (through 2 ECR appointments) and development of ground-breaking research on human
 memory formation, measurement of single-neural responses in the human brain, and novel
 approaches to studying neuronal population dynamics in freely-moving animals. The group
 benefits from laboratory space in the GDC, including high-performance computing, eye-tracking,
 electroencephalography (EEG), and neuro-prosthetics, as well as specialist facilities in the PRF.
 This group has attracted significant funding from The Royal Society and BBSRC (>£400k),
 producing ~50 publications in word-leading journals during the REF period.

 Research in Sensory Processing benefits from specialist infrastructure in the GDC including
 bespoke laboratory space for human behavioural research, and laboratories equipped with
 purpose-built Faraday cages incorporated into the fabric of the building to support EEG
 research. Washroom and shower facilities for human participants are located nearby the EEG
 labs, with adjacent washroom facilities for cleaning apparatus. This laboratory space includes an
 eye-tracking suite and facilities for visual and auditory psychophysics, and a dedicated
 laboratory for co-registration of eye movements and EEG (Barratt, Hutchinson, McGowan,
 Paterson, White, Souto). Equipment and infrastructure was supported by competitive internal
 funding and local charity funding, and underpinned awards from the ESRC and Leverhulme
 Trust (totalling >£1M) during the REF period. This equipment facilitates joint research with a
 brain-training company (Cerebrum Matter Ltd). Another laboratory interfacing EEG and
 transcranial magnetic stimulation was supported by £220k from NIH funding shared with Johns
 Hopkins University to investigate neural mechanisms of spatial disorientation in vestibular
 migraine (Arshad).

 The Ulverscroft Eye Unit, based at the LRI, houses laboratories funded by the Ulverscroft
 Foundation, for eye-tracking, posturography, and ocular coherence tomography in adults and
 children (Gottlob, Proudlock, Thomas). This underpins our interdisciplinary vision science
 research. Other laboratory space at the LRI houses functional transcranial Doppler sonography
 (fTDS) to investigate cerebrovascular function in individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and
 establish new biomarkers for neurodegeneration, supported most recently by Dunhill funding
 (Chung, Mukatova-Ladinska, Panerai).

 Laboratory-based neurophysiology is housed within MSB, with dedicated laboratories for cellular
 and molecular neuroscience (J. Apergis-Schoute, Forsythe, Gerjikov, Hamann, Hartell,
 Luthi-Carter). Shared facilities provide advanced imaging, immunohistochemistry, fluorescence
 imaging and PALM laser microdissection, and facilities for preparation of in vitro brain slices,
 primary tissue culture and cell cultures. Forsythe and Warren laboratories use CRISP/Cas9
 gene editing in mice and locusts, supporting research into potassium channel function and
 mechano-electrical transducer channels in hearing, supported by BBSRC and Royal Society. J.
 Apergis-Schoute, Okun and Gerjikov laboratories use in vivo optogenetic methods and high-
 density silicon probe electrophysiology (Neuropixel) from cortical structures in studies of
 striatum, cognition, motivation, cortical state-change and appetite, supported by Academy of
 Medical Sciences, BBSRC, Leverhulme Trust, and Wellcome Trust. The MSB includes a brain
 tissue bank for dementia research (Mukaetova-Ladinska).


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities for studying genetics, movement, behaviour and electrophysiology in non-vertebrate
 animal models (Drosophila, locusts, planaria, zebrafish) are located in the Adrian Building.
 Drosophila and mammalian cell models underpin our world-class research into molecular
 mechanisms in neurodegeneration (Giorgini). The Drosophila lab also supports world-leading
 research on circadian behaviour (Rosato), in collaboration with Biological Sciences (Kyriacou).
 Specialist facilities support research in insect behaviour (Ott, Mathieson, Warren) and use of
 zebrafish and sticklebacks as models of the genetics of aggressive behaviour, with relevance to
 human psychiatric disorders (McDearmid, Norton).

 Laboratory research is supported by centrally-resourced Core Biotechnology Services (CBS),
 which provides access to technical support and state-of-the-art imaging, electron microscopy,
 genomics, proteomics, flow cytometry, histology and preclinical imaging. CBS supports the
 Midlands Innovation group of Universities, members of which can access the Kit Catalogue of
 available equipment. CBS receives institutional support of ~£1.3M per annum and invested a
 similar amount on new equipment over REF period.

 Technician Support
 Research in the GDC and LRI is supported by centrally-funded specialist technicians with
 expertise in electronics, computer hardware and interfaces and programming, and knowledge of
 eye-tracking and EEG hardware and software. We recognise and value the contribution of our
 technician support and understand the importance of their career development (IES, 4.2). In
 November 2016, a College-wide review highlighted the importance of career development to
 ensure a sustainable workforce, leading to work with the Science Council to support the
 accreditation of research staff.

 The PRF is staffed by centrally-funded, trained animal care technicians focused on providing
 effective husbandry, compassion and care for animals, while enabling high quality research
 outcomes. These staff are essential to laboratory operation and integral to the development of
 specialist facilities. Managerial and administrative staff ensure the PRF operates smoothly and
 research is conducted ethically and fulfils regulatory requirements.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 UoA4 makes a significant contribution to UK and international science, exemplified by the
 recognition given to Quian Quiroga during the REF period. Quian Quiroga was selected as
 one of 10 UK RISE Leaders in Science and Engineering (2014), and subsequently elected
 Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS, 2019), reflecting his world-leading role in the
 discovery of ‘Concept Cells’ or ‘Jennifer Aniston neurons’ - neurons in the human brain that play
 a key role in memory formation.

 We are a highly collaborative unit, as demonstrated by 1108 total outputs in the REF period,
 48% involving international co-authors, and an increasing number with industry co-authors (4%
 average). Our collaborative research led to £3.4M of HEBCI income.

 UoA4 led seven national and five international collaborations in the REF period. Highlights
 include collaborations led by Gottlob, with Harvard and Philadelphia Universities to investigate
 paediatric visual impairment, and a longstanding collaboration, led by Paterson, with Tianjin



                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Normal University (China) to investigate ageing effects on Chinese reading. Paterson receiving
 a Haihe friendship award in recognition of this work.

 During the REF period, UOA4 members were involved in major EU Framework 7 projects to
 understand synaptic function and treat diseases of the nervous system (NEUROACT, Luthi-
 Carter) and to improve insight and treatment in psychiatric disorders (Aggressotype, Norton)
 and as detailed in section 2 UoA4 members participated in three EU ITNs: CINCHRON, LISTEN
 and INTREPID Forensics.

 Collaboration with and contribution to the research base
 Collaboration is vital for interdisciplinarity, and is a core strength of UoA4. We ensure that staff
 are aware of internal funds to facilitate collaborations through regular newsletters. For example,
 four UoA4 members applied successfully for over £57k of competitive International Research
 Development funds (IDF) during this REF period. Funding to Vostanis to work with partners in
 Kenya and South Africa on the resilience of children experiencing trauma, led to collaborations
 with UCL and NHS England to research children’s mental health.

 Other examples include Norton’s contribution to a major multi-site European project
 (‘Aggressotype’), which led to improved treatment for people with ADHD and conduct disorder.
 Norton also collaborated with Radboud University, using zebrafish models to reveal how
 caffeine and sildenafil can selectively reduce aggression, establishing zebrafish as a model for
 drug screening, and identifying signalling pathways that mediate aggression.

 Brugha received >£4M in external funding and built on networks created in REF2014 to
 undertake surveys of adult mental health jointly with the National Centre for Social Research
 (reported as an ICS). Brugha also led a multi-centre investigation of autism prevalence, having
 conducted the first ever large-scale epidemiological survey of adult autism in the UK, leading to
 his appointment to the board of the Department of Health’s National Autism Strategy
 Implementation Team.

 Sustainability
 Sustainability is demonstrated by the ongoing nature of these collaborations, with 29 awards
 continuing beyond 2021. A multi-site collaboration (including Birmingham Children’s and Great
 Ormond Street hospitals) led by Gottlob to understand retinal development is a strong example
 of this sustainability, with ongoing support from the Ulverscroft Foundation, National Eye
 Research Centre, and Academy of Medical Sciences to continue this research for another 24
 months.

 Impact, engagement, and contributions to society
 UoA4 worked collaboratively with numerous industrial partners, including pharmaceutical and
 bio-technology companies (e.g. Calliditas Therapeutics, Teva Pharmaceutical, Allianz Worldwide
 Care) to identify therapeutic targets to combat neurodegenerative disease, and new diagnostic
 methods for paediatric visual impairment. We supported external organisations through contract
 research and IP-licensing, including software development and smart phone applications. We
 developed patents around novel technology and potential therapeutic discoveries, including
 advanced microscopy, portable devices for deep-brain neural recording in patients, brain-
 computer interfaces, ultra-low power wireless technology, blood biomarkers for
 neurodegenerative disease, and adherence to optical treatments for visual impairment. This
 translates as £8.7M to UoA4 through HEBCI, including collaborative research (£3.4M),
 consultancy (£2.8M), contract research (£1.9M), and IP (£43k) in the REF period.

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We also provided training for research users, including annual courses in OCT use and data
 interpretation run by our ophthalmologists to encourage its uptake by clinicians, and conducted
 Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) activities aimed at improving assessment, diagnosis and
 patient outcomes. Our Sensory Processing group also hosted PPI meetings with third-sector
 organisations and older people to facilitate the co-production of ageing research, and our
 forensic psychologists held knowledge exchange events with Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of
 Prisons (Hatcher, Palmer).

 We fully engaged with the agenda around global research challenges. Our World Awareness for
 Children in Trauma project (WACIT) focused on raising awareness of child mental health
 worldwide and establishing a sustainable model of helping children suffering from trauma.
 Vostanis’ work with aid agencies such as Youth Refugee Service (France), Hussaini
 Foundation (Pakistan), and Gallagher Trust (Rwanda) led to long-term positive outcomes for
 children, communities, and economies, informing global policies such as The World Health
 Organization’s 2018 care guidance for asylum-seeking children in the EU. The work resulted in
 Wellcome Trust funding to explore perspectives on anxiety and depression in LMICS, in line with
 their global mental health strategy.

 Public outreach
 UoA4 was a longstanding participant in annual Brain Awareness events, supported by the Dana
 Foundation and British Neuroscience Association. We provided talks and demonstrations on
 brain research to A-Level students and the general public, with over 450 participants annually,
 with highly positive feedback. We contributed to the ESRC Festival of Social Science
 (McGowan, Vostanis), and ‘Pint of Science’ events were organised within UoA4 (Urcelay),
 featuring numerous talks by UoA4 members.

 UoA4 members contributed to public discussion and dissemination of science via local and
 national media. Colman was consultant for BBC4’s ‘The Joy of Winning’ (2018), interviewed on
 Sky One’s ‘Duck Quacks Don’t Echo’ and the Voice of Islam radio about ‘Trust’ (2019), an expert
 witness on Radio 4’s ‘The Moral Maze’, and participated in a panel discussion at the
 Cheltenham Science Festival (2016). Krockow writes a regular blog on decision-making for
 Psychology Today, published numerous media articles (e.g. Leicester Mercury, 2020; The
 Psychologist, 2019; Healthy Magazine, 2019), and gave radio interviews (e.g. ABC Radio
 Melbourne, 2019; BBC Radio 4, 2019) on human decision-making. Staff also contributed articles
 to the ‘The Conversation’.

 Influence and esteem

 Prizes, Awards and Fellowships
 Nine UoA4 members received 10 accolades from learned societies and research councils over
 the REF period, including Quian Quiroga’s selection as a UK RISE Leaders and election as
 Fellow of the AMS.

 Nine research fellowships were awarded to UoA4 member. As described in Section 2, these
 include two Royal Society University Fellowships (Feuda, Warren), ESRC ‘Future Research
 Leaders’ postdoctoral Fellowship (McGowan), NIHR Postdoctoral Fellowship (Thomas). It also
 includes a Dorothy Hodgkin Royal Society Fellowship (J. Apergis-Schoute), and an NIHR
 Fellowship awarded to Jones to develop mechanisms for improving healthcare management.


                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gottlob was awarded the Roger Trimble Medal for distinction in the field of strabismus (2017),
 and an UHL Educator Award (2018). Paterson was awarded a 1000 Talents visiting
 professorship (Tianjin, 2017-2020), and appointed Haihe invited professor (2020). Lambert is
 visiting professor at Kufa University, Iraq, and honorary professor at Hubei University of
 Medicine, China. Quian Quiroga is visiting professor at Peking University.

 Roles in Learned Societies, Government Agencies, Advisory Boards
 Brugha has been the Chair of the WHO Advisory Committee, Schedules for Clinical
 Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN) since 1998. In 2010, he became Board Member of the
 National Autism Strategy Implementation within the Department of Health.
 Johnson is an expert adviser for the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE)
 Centre for Guidelines, and member of the NICE Quality Standard Advisory Committee (QSAC)
 for children and young people born preterm (2015-2018). Her input has influenced clinical
 guidelines, including NICE guidelines on developmental surveillance. She is a member of the
 European Foundation for Care of Newborn Infants expert group, which used evidence from her
 work to develop recommendations for follow-up care of preterm children.

 Jones is member of East Midlands Leadership Academy organisational development network
 (2008-2016), expert advisor to the Health Education England patient safety group (2013-2016)
 and member of East Midlands Learning from Incidents Group (2013-2017). Jones chairs the
 Health Education East Midlands Patient Safety & Human Factors Exchange steering group
 (2017-2018) and is member of the Leicester Improvement and Innovation Patient Safety Unit
 (2015-17). Other significant roles include Gottlob’s position as NIHR lead for Ophthalmology in
 the East Midlands and Medical Advisor for Nystagmus UK, while Hatcher is a member of the
 Ministry of Justice Experts Network.

 Five members of UoA4 contributed to activities of learned societies during the REF period. This
 including appointments to leading roles, such as Giorgini’s position as Chair of the Scientific
 and Bioethics Advisory Committee for the European Huntington’s Disease Network (2016–
 2017). Arshad was council member for the Institute for Quantum Social and Cognitive Science
 (2014-2018). Paterson was conference secretary for the Experimental Psychology Society
 (2015-2018)

 Conference organisation
 During the REF period, UoA4 members organised annual meetings of the WHO Schedules for
 Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (Brugha) and a meeting of the Experimental
 Psychology Society (EPS) in 2018 (Paterson, White). They organised symposia at national and
 international conferences, including the EPS (de Lillo, 2016; Paterson, White, 2018),
 Physiological Society (Forsythe; 2015), Molecular Biology and Evolution annual meeting
 (Feuda; 2019), and Festival of Neurosciences (Hamann, 2019). Young was an organising
 committee member for the International Conference on Monitoring Molecules in Neuroscience
 (2018), and Paterson a member of the international programme committee for the ACM
 Symposium on Eye Tracking Research and Applications (2020), and co-organiser of a British
 Council ‘Researcher Links’ conference in China (2016). Hatcher hosted a British Psychological
 Society seminar series (2018–2019).

 Twenty UoA4 staff gave more than 120 invited conference talks, and a similar number of invited
 seminars, equating to ~2.5 invited talks per FTE over the REF period, indicating our engagement
 with our disciplines. As a flavour of the contributions, J. Apergis-Schoute gave an invited talk at
 a Royal Society conference (London, 2019), Arshad gave a keynote to the Meniere’s Society

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2020), and Brugha gave a keynote to the European Association of Psychiatry conference
 (Vienna, 2018). Forsythe gave keynotes at the Winter Conference on Brain Research
 (Steamboat, 2015), a Society for Neuroscience meeting (Bethesda, 2014) and a meeting of the
 German Neuroscience Association (Goettingen, 2015). Panerai was an invited speaker at the
 European Society of Microcirculation conference (Maastricht, 2019), while Proudlock gave
 invited talks at meetings of the American Nystagmus Network (New Orleans, 2015; Washington
 DC, 2019), and Paterson gave invited talks at the biennial China International Conference on
 Eye Movements (2014, 2016, 2018), and a Rank Symposium on visual processing (Grasmere,
 2015).

 Grant review panels
 Sixteen members of UoA4 contributed to funding bodies as panel chairs or members. Hartell
 was BBSRC Committee A Deputy Chair (2011-12) and Chair (2012-16), BBSRC Committee A
 Co-Chair (2016-17), ALERT 13, 15, 16 Committee Member, and Strategic Lola Committee
 Member (2011-16). Forsythe was an Action on Hearing Loss grant panel member (2018-
 present), and member of a DFG review panel. Matheson was a panel member for NC3Rs
 (2016-current), the Expert Working Group for Impact (2017-current), Training Fellowships (2016-
 current), BBSRC 18ALERT mid-range equipment (2018-current), and BBSRC Panel A (2017-
 current). Previously, Matheson was part of the BBSRC Pool of Experts (2015-2016). Chung
 was a panel member for the British Medical Ultrasound Society Pump Priming award (2018).

 Paterson was a member of the ESRC Peer Review College (2009-2015), and one of only two
 psychologists appointed as a Fellow of the ESRC Peer Review College (2015-2019). He was a
 panel member for ESRC studentship competition in Artificial Intelligence (2018) and panel
 reviewer for the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong (2017-current). Other significant
 contributions include Gibson as an N3CRs panel member, Giorgini as panel member for
 Parkinson’s UK, Gottlob as board member for the Swedish Research Council, and Johnson as
 member of the Scientific Advisory Panel for Action Medical Research UK.
 Over 77% of staff reviewed grant applications for national and international research councils
 and charities, which is high given the large number of ECRs in this submission, underlining the
 contribution of UoA4 to UK and international science.

 Contributions to journals, books and public understanding of science
 Seven staff were editors and 29 associate editors for journals during the REF period. This
 includes deputy editor-in-chief for The Journal of Physiology and associate editor for Hearing
 Research (Forsythe), and editor for Counselling and Psychotherapy Research (Vostanis).
 Associate editor positions are held by Brugha, Lambert, and Pulford for Psychological
 Medicine, British Journal of Anaesthesia, and Judgment and Decision Making, respectively.
 Mukaetova-Ladinska was associate editor for Age and Ageing, Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease,
 Frontiers of Aging Neuroscience, and European Journal of Medicinal Plants. Paterson was
 associate editor for The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, Journal of Research in
 Reading, PLOS ONE, and Frontiers in Psychology.

 UoA4 is represented on editorial boards of multiple peer-reviewed journals, including Journal of
 Huntington's Disease (Giorgini), British Journal of Ophthalmology (Gottlob), Trends in
 Anaesthesia and Critical Care (Lambert), Psychology and Aging (Paterson), and Journal of
 Traumatic Stress (McElroy). Matheson was review editor for Frontiers in Invertebrate
 Physiology. UoA members contribute substantially to the peer review process, reviewing more
 than 320 manuscripts per year; approximately seven manuscripts per FTE per year, which is


                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 again high given the large number of ECRs. Additionally, Brugha is author of The Psychiatry of
 Adult Autism and Asperger Syndrome (Oxford University Press, 2018).

 Contribution to PhD student and ECR training
 Twenty-six staff were external examiners for 55 PhDs in the UK and 46 internationally, including
 The Champalimaud Centre, Lisbon (Okun), University of Karachi, Pakistan (Vostanis), and
 Murdoch University, Australia (Palmer).

 UoA4 contributed to ECR research training internationally. Highlights include a UK-China
 ‘Researcher Links’ Workshop, funded by the British Council/Newton Fund (Paterson, 2016), that
 brought together keyno]te speakers and ECRs from both countries, and included mentoring and
 networking sessions. We also contributed to the international summer school in cognitive
 science at the New Bulgarian University, Sofia (Colman, 2019).

 Statement Summary
 This statement describes the breadth and close integration of neuroscience, psychology and
 psychiatry within our unit, highlighting the diversity and inter-disciplinarity of this work, our
 success in attracting research funding, producing high-quality outputs and achieving economic
 and societal impact, and our commitment to training the next generation of researchers. Our
 research endeavours have benefitted significantly from the institutional provision of new, key
 infrastructure, especially the new GDC building and the PRF, and from targeted internally-
 administered funding in promoting inter-disciplinarity and collaboration with industry. Our
 research benefits from local, national and international collaborations, engagement with
 industrial partners, and the involvement of general public, while our members play important
 roles in maintaining and developing our disciplines in the UK and internationally. We have
 demonstrated the excellence of our research through our publications and societal impact, and
 our strategies for ensuring the sustainability and future success of these endeavours.




                                                                                             Page 24
