Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Institution: University of York



  Unit of assessment: Archaeology (15)




  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  1.1 Context and structure
  The Department of Archaeology has built significantly on its achievements since REF2014 and
  maintained its vitality and sustainability through a major increase in income generation,
  recruitment of high-quality staff and investment in exceptional research infrastructure and facilities.
  We have developed strategies which facilitate impact-orientated, interdisciplinary and
  international research of the highest quality through our strong network of partnerships. Equality,
  diversity and inclusion are at our core and we promote a collegial environment in which staff and
  students feel supported and valued, enabling excellent research to flourish.

  The department has a long-established reputation in Roman, Medieval and Historical
  Archaeology, Digital Archaeology including the Archaeology Data Service (ADS), Field
  Archaeology and Buildings Conservation and Heritage. About 15 years ago we successfully
  diversified into Bioarchaeology, Prehistory and Human Evolution, and from 2016 4 staff from
  the Centre for Anatomical and Human Sciences, based at Hull York Medical School, were
  embedded in the department in a research capacity. More recently the department has diversified
  further into African Archaeology and Experimental Archaeology and Artefact studies. These
  areas form research clusters with many staff working in and across multiple areas.

  The department leads 6 research centres facilitating strong interactions within the department,
  across the University and internationally with a wide range of external partners:

     ●   BioArCh: a collaboration between Biology, Archaeology and Chemistry, bridging the Arts
         and Humanities and Sciences creating a unique concentration of expertise in world-leading
         archaeological science
     ●   Centre for Applied Heritage Studies: draws together researchers from across the
         heritage sector to develop cross-disciplinary and international research collaborations
     ●   Centre for Conservation Studies: leads research in the conservation and management
         of cultural heritage working with key organisations, institutions and professionals



                                                                                                       1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     ●   Centre for Digital Heritage (CDH): brings together researchers from all 3 faculties as well
         as the universities of Aarhus, Leiden, Lund and Uppsala to undertake interdisciplinary
         research in data management, analysis and visualisation
     ●   Centre for Human Palaeoecology and Evolutionary Origins: brings together
         evolutionary anatomy, prehistory, aDNA, biodiversity, psychology, geochronology and
         palaeoenvironmental studies to address human evolution and environmental setting
     ●   York Experimental Archaeology Research (YEAR) Centre: brings together researchers
         working on experimental archaeology, material culture and wellbeing

  The department is a member of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and is a partner in the faculty's
  4 internationally-renowned interdisciplinary period centres: Centre for Medieval Studies, Centre
  for Renaissance and Early Modern Studies, Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies and the
  Centre for Modern Studies.

  We are also a partner in the 10-year, £10m Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity
  (LCAB), funded from 2019 to research neglected societal and biological processes underpinning
  biodiversity gains and losses, and influencing society's response (Institutional Environment
  Statement (IES) 2.11d).

  From the start of this REF cycle we developed a new management structure to support research.
  Research is led by the Chair of Departmental Research Committee (DRC) and impact by the
  Impact Lead. Research operations are supported by a Research Support Team made up of a
  Research Manager and 2 Finance Administrators (we are the only Arts and Humanities
  department at York to invest in research support in this way). Regular meetings support strategy
  and REF:

     ●   DRC: develops the research plans of the department, sets expectations (see 2.1),
         promotes the research culture of the department and ensures all staff contribute to
         fulfilment of the department’s research plans. In our drive for inclusivity, all academic and
         research staff are members and it meets in termly Awaydays
     ●   REQUIP (Research Excellence Quality and Integrity Panel): assesses the quality of REF
         outputs, meets at least once per term (see 2.7)
     ●   Impact meetings: once a term with potential Impact Case Study leads and Research
         Manager
     ●   RMT (Research Management Team): meets at least once per term, composed of Head of
         Department, Chair DRC, Impact Lead and Research Manager to discuss Research and
         Impact strategies, 5-year plans (see 2.1) and management of research

  1.2 Strategic aims for research
  In REF2014 we identified 4 research objectives. We have selected highlights to demonstrate our
  achievements.

  Research Objective 1: To pioneer research into the historic and natural environment, its
  management and sustainability.
  Research income of >£8m facilitated groundbreaking fieldwork and investigations on a global
  scale, using cutting-edge methods and leading, for example, to impacts demonstrated in REF3
  “Stonehenge”. Other research highlights include:

     ●   Researching changes of demography, agricultural production and trade in Sicily through 5
         regimes (ERC-Adv, 2016–21)
     ●   Investigating changes in settlements, religious, commercial and political centres alongside
         cultural and environmental changes in south-west Europe (AHRC 2018–22)
     ●   Contributing archaeological insights in the co-design of agricultural soil erosion mitigation
         in Tanzania and Ethiopia (AHRC/GCRF, 2019–21)




                                                                                                    2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research Objective 2. To be a centre for the interpretation and management of cultural
  heritage around the world.
  Research income of >£1.4m has built capacity and pioneered new methods for interpretation and
  management of cultural heritage leading to impacts around the globe as demonstrated in REF3:
  “Digital Heritage”. Other research highlights include:

     ●   Promoting and protecting marine cultural heritage on the east African coast (AHRC/GCRF,
         2017–20)
     ●   Working with some of the poorest communities in Brazil to show how tangible heritage
         including traditional fish traps are influencing challenges of food security and poverty
         alleviation (British Academy, 2015–16)
     ●   Working with indigenous communities in Ecuador to show how intangible heritage such as
         belief systems offer solutions to development policies that are sensitive to indigenous and
         minority people’s health needs (EC, Schofield, 2016–19)

  Research Objective 3. To develop new methods to make archaeological data as broadly
  accessible as possible.
  Research and consultancy income of >£3.5m has facilitated development of our digital research,
  the impacts of which are demonstrated in REF3 “ADS”. Other research highlights include:

     ●   Producing the widely-acclaimed Roman Rural Settlement database and interactive map-
         based interface (Leverhulme, 2015–17)
     ●   Providing an open access visual database for the Corpus of Anglo-Saxon Stone sculpture
         (AHRC, 2017–21)
     ●   Collaborating across Europe to create a new transnational portal presenting UK data at a
         European level (EC, 2019–23) and bringing archaeologists and data management
         specialists together to create resources setting the agenda for archaeological archiving
         across Europe (COST Association, 2019–23)

  Research Objective 4. To effectively integrate the latest bioscience technologies into
  archaeological science.
  Research income of >£6m has facilitated major methodological breakthroughs in
  bioarchaeological research leading to impacts demonstrated in REF3 “Stonehenge”. Other
  research highlights include:

     ●   Exploring historic human-associated microbiota encased in parchment (British Academy,
         2014–19; EC, 2017–19)
     ●   Using DNA, proteomic and isotope analysis to investigate changes in marine ecosystems
         (EC, 2015–17, 2019–22)
     ●   Applying biomolecular, spectrometric and microscopic techniques to mineralised human
         dental plaque to investigate how past environments impacted human diet and health
         (Wellcome Trust, 2015–17, 2018–21; Philip Leverhulme Prize, 2017–19)

  1.3 Future strategic aims
  Our research foci are well-established and remain broadly similar, but in the context of the
  developing interests of established staff and new appointments our aims for the next 5 years have
  been refined:

  Strategic Aim 1: to conduct pioneering research projects in the historic and natural
  environment. We will continue to develop field projects which deploy innovative techniques to
  answer global challenges. Our strengths in a range of practice from excavation to buildings and
  landscapes provide opportunities to develop projects aligned with our strengths in Human
  Evolution and Prehistory, Roman, Medieval and Historical, and African Archaeology.




                                                                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Strategic Aim 2: to develop and deploy new digital data management, analysis and
  visualisation techniques to interrogate the archaeological record and make archaeological
  data sustainable and accessible. Our strength in digital technologies through the Digital
  Archaeology research cluster is bound closely to ADS and CDH; two foundational centres which
  lead the sector in data archiving and accessibility, analysis and visualisation.

  Strategic Aim 3: to develop new directions in bioarchaeological and biomolecular research
  as leading aspects of archaeological science. Having been a pioneering exponent of new
  methods in biomolecular techniques and their application in a broad range of contexts we will
  continue to develop advances supported by our investment in staff and infrastructure at BioArCh
  (see 3.3).

  Strategic Aim 4: to develop new research into material culture and experimental
  archaeology. This new research aim reflects recent appointments, the development of the
  research cluster in this subject, and investment in new facilities and infrastructure (see 3.3).

  1.4 Strategic objectives for impact
  The department enables the achievement of impact through 5 strategic objectives set out in our
  Impact Strategy.

  Impact Objective 1. To communicate the importance and nature of research impact to all
  staff. Impact is embedded in staff 5-year plans and the University’s progression framework (IES
  3.21) and promoted through tailored events (e.g. Impact Awayday), discussion at DRC, and
  engagement with University-wide events (e.g. termly impact forum).

  Impact Objective 2. To build awareness of the needs of the non-academic community and
  establish and maintain effective relationships with key organisations. We maintain close
  links with the non-academic community through research collaborations and contributions to
  regional, national and international bodies (see 4.1, 4.6). Key organisations are represented on
  our Departmental Advisory Board (see 4.2).

  Impact Objective 3. To support the translation, application and adoption of our research to
  novel areas: to influence individual behaviour, organisational practice and/or policy.
  Academic 5-year plans map out support required. Funding is awarded on a competitive basis from
  internal and external sources.

  Impact Objective 4. To provide support for staff to effectively capture and evaluate impact
  activities. The University provides an impact toolkit comprising resources for the capture and
  evaluation of impact. Support is provided by our Research Manager and Faculty Impact
  Administrator.

  Impact Objective 5. Appropriate documentation of impacts. All impacts are recorded in the
  University’s research information system with evidence collected, indexed and stored in
  accordance with GDPR.

  Our Impact Strategy is reviewed annually by DRC and RMT, enabling us to shape and adapt our
  plans to ensure future vitality and sustainability. Looking forward we will target 3 key areas:

     ●   Public Understanding of the past is essential in shaping the future. We will work with
         collaborators in cultural heritage institutions and the private sector in the UK and
         internationally to provide visitor experiences and resources, making creative use of
         conventional and digital technologies to enhance public understanding of our research for
         diverse audiences.

     ●   Infrastructure: development attendant on national demand for housing and infrastructure
         projects, such as HS2, produce a prodigious amount of new archaeological data. We will

                                                                                                4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         develop new ways of archiving and presenting that data to diverse audiences supporting
         the Open Access and Open Data agendas while working internationally to foster the
         development of digital infrastructure overseas.

     ●   Policy: influencing decision-making at the highest level whether at home or abroad is
         essential for the archaeological resource and for the management of cultural heritage.
         Working within interdisciplinary groups (such as LCAB) we will extend our impacts into
         policy, with a focus on environmental sustainability and resilience.

  Our approach to achieving impact is reflected in REF3.

  In "Stonehenge" we illustrate the value of translating our research for diverse audiences.
  Responding to the needs of users is evident in the provision of teaching resources reflecting the
  introduction of Prehistory into the UK National Curriculum. Influencing organisational practice is
  demonstrated in the pioneering exhibition format influencing decision-making at the site.

  In "ADS" we respond to the needs of the professional sector in its increasing obligations to make
  data available and re-usable. We are influencing organisational policy and practice through the
  extension of the Grey Literature Library and OASIS and maintaining effective relationships with
  key organisations supporting digital archiving worldwide.

  In "Digital heritage" we demonstrate how we support the translation of our innovative digital
  research for the benefit of heritage presentations, such as the use of chatbots to enhance visitor
  engagement at Çatalhöyük. We show how we are influencing individual behaviour and
  organisational practice at heritage sites in Egypt and the UK.

  1.5 Supporting interdisciplinary research
  Our Research Strategy (2013–2023) advocates core disciplinary activity and the encouragement
  of interdisciplinary research as complementary processes, promoting, in particular, the integration
  of science and the humanities. We support engagement with University Research Themes and
  challenge-led interdisciplinary centres (IES 1.4, 4.42–45) through collaborative projects such as
  investigations with Health Sciences into Autism Spectrum Disorder perspectives on the built
  environment, and the origins of healthcare in its social context.

  In the faculty we promote interdisciplinarity through leadership and participation in internationally
  renowned thematic and period-based centres (see 1.1), fostering interdisciplinary research
  partnerships. The Humanities Research Centre (HRC, see 3.3) hosts regular fora, including
  ‘Lightning Rods’, to stimulate new cross-disciplinary research ideas. In the department,
  interdisciplinarity is promoted by mentors, through the promotion of interdisciplinary networks and
  centres, and shared appointments of 5 staff with Environment and Geography and the Hull York
  Medical School.

  Our approach has resulted in significant grant income arising from interdisciplinary research.
  “EUROTAST” a Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN, for example, brought together expertise from,
  amongst others, the Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology (University of Porto),
  Faculty of Legal Medicine (University of Santiago de Compostela) and the Wilberforce Institute for
  the Study of Slavery and Emancipation (University of Hull). Research impact has been
  strengthened by interdisciplinary collaboration (see 4.5) and we have produced significant
  interdisciplinary publications (REF2, see 4.1). Our approach also provides interdisciplinary
  learning for our research students, contributing to the sustainability of the role of archaeology in
  addressing future global challenges. In the REF cycle at least 12% of awards were the result of
  interdisciplinary collaboration.

  New awards promote the sustainability of our interdisciplinary approach over the next 5 years, for
  example, “SEACHANGE” (ERC-Synergy) will explore the impact of major cultural transitions on
  marine ecosystem functioning and biodiversity in collaboration with the Institute of Geosciences


                                                                                                     5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  (Mainz), Life and Environmental Sciences (Exeter), Natural History Museum of Denmark
  (Copenhagen), School of Molecular and Life Sciences (Perth) and the School of Earth and
  Environmental Sciences (Brisbane).

  1.6 Open research environment
  Open Access (OA) is fundamentally important and our focus is on producing rigorous research
  that can be scrutinised and communicated to key stakeholders. Our department is at the forefront
  of championing open science practices in the University; Richards was the founding chair of the
  University’s Research Data Management Group. The department has gone beyond the basic
  professional ethic of accessible archival data by hosting ADS and establishing the first OA
  archaeology journal, Internet Archaeology, nearly 25 years ago. The ADS is the only accredited
  digital repository for heritage data in the UK, and described by the UKRI as: “a world-leading
  digital heritage data archive that has been leading the development of digital preservation
  since 1996.”

  In addition to making use of institutional OA funds, DRC manages an annual budget to fund Author
  Processing Charges and data deposit charges. Articles in Internet Archaeology can be published
  with seamless links to supporting data in ADS. The department has also made extensive use of
  the new OA White Rose University Press (IES 2.16). Star Carr (REF2) was the press’ first
  monograph (over 28,000 views and downloads since 2018 and almost 1000 views within the first
  3 days); now followed by Sheffield Castle (REF2). Meanwhile Landscape and Settlement in the
  Vale of York (REF2) presents major excavations undertaken in advance of York’s Heslington East
  campus in an OA monograph published by the Society of Antiquaries. All three have Open Data
  archives with ADS.

  Within the University, Archaeology is second only to Chemistry in having the largest number of
  data-sets recorded in the York Research Database. Staff are expected to register for ORCIDs,
  and data-sets are provided with DOIs. Our research students are given training in research data
  management and, where appropriate, they are expected to develop Data Management Plans,
  monitored via the Thesis Advisory Panels (see 2.6).

  1.7 Supporting a culture of research integrity
  Our departmental Ethics Committee supports our strong culture of research integrity with
  processes embedded within faculty and University structures and policies (IES 2.14). Data
  collection requires explicit approval; we have integrated guidelines for social media use and
  international collaboration. We work jointly with Biology to ensure rigorous ethical research in
  bioarchaeology. All research funding proposals are subject to ethical review. Our committee is
  supported by the Arts and Humanities Ethics Committee which reports to the University’s
  Academic Ethics Compliance Committee (AECC). It produces an annual ethics return for AECC
  highlighting issues and best practice, analysing results and action plans.

  In pioneering Open Data, open research, and the implementation of the FAIR data principles, the
  University subscribes to the UK Research Integrity Office; we are compliant with the UUK
  Concordat codes of practice on research integrity, principles of good ethical governance and
  research misconduct.




                                                                                                6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Section 2. People

  2.1 Staff development strategy
  The University offers a structured programme for staff development at all career points (IES 3.22).

  All staff undertake departmental induction including training in unconscious bias, equality, diversity
  and GDPR. An online handbook provides detailed guidance and support. All new academic staff
  are placed on a 2-year University probation when progress is monitored and reviewed by their line
  manager twice a year. On completion, staff move to annual Performance and Development
  Reviews (PDRs). All staff have a mentor and may specify gender. Staff are supported through
  PDRs and one-to-one meetings to produce high-quality research outputs, develop grant
  applications and pathways to impact.

  Research expectations are available in our online handbook. Staff can access the requirements
  for all grades enabling them to plan their development. Our expectations were established through
  inclusive discussion at an Awayday and have been adopted by the University as best practice.
  Concurrently, the department introduced 5-year plans, encouraging staff to plan their outputs,
  grant applications, conference participation and impact activities, enabling DRC to provide
  guidance and support. Expectations and 5-year plans feed into PDR, where both long-term and
  12-month objectives are set and reviewed. Administrative roles are assigned by the HoD in
  consultation with staff, and ensuring equality of opportunity. They are reviewed after 3 years.

  Staff career development is aligned with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
  Researchers, leading to the following example initiatives:
      ● 10 days/year (minimum) are made available through our workload model for professional
          development. Resources include the award-winning University Research Excellence
          Training Team (IES 3.32). Nine (7F, 2M) academic staff have completed leadership
          training. Development and training are also provided within the department, e.g. CVs for
          Promotion’, led by Milner who has been recognised for championing female promotion
          across the University.
      ● An academic staff member is our Careers Liaison Officer, chairing a departmental
          committee, planning and providing resources and events in partnership with the careers
          service, including CV workshops for fellows, postdocs and research students
      ● Research Associate status is offered to PhDs and research staff leaving at the end of fixed-
          term contracts to extend access to emails and e-resources as a stepping-stone to career
          development
      ● We seek to retain and develop staff through evolving current roles, mentoring,
          secondments and promotions. Research-related secondments over the REF cycle include:
          Acting Director HRC, Acting Associate Dean for Research, 2 x WRoCAH Directors


                                                                                                      7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  2.2. Staffing and recruitment policy
  We aim to recruit the best research active staff in order to sustain our competitive strength by
  providing a stimulating research environment, underpinned by a commitment to equality, diversity
  and inclusion (Research Strategy 2013–2023).

  In accordance with our Concordat implementation plan our job descriptions now minimise
  unconscious bias and we explicitly consider the gender balance during selection, interview panels
  and informal tours/lunch/meetings with department staff etc. Our EDI values encourage fair,
  transparent and merit-based recruitment (see 2.7). Our policy is to appoint on open contracts
  wherever possible.

  Within this framework we welcome opportunities to appoint junior colleagues who can learn and
  develop their skills and expertise at York. A particular focus in identifying the best candidates who
  can contribute to our long-term research and impact environment is the encouragement of
  externally-funded fellows. In the REF cycle we hosted 32 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual
  Fellows, 3 British Academy Fellows, 1 Wellcome Trust Fellow and 1 Newton Fellow.

  Reflecting the effectiveness of our policy, 4 of our 11 lecturer appointments in the REF cycle (6F,
  5M) were former Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellows. In order to retain a balanced department in
  terms of seniority and contribute new perspectives we have also appointed 2 professors (1F,
  ‘Inspirational Research Leaders’ programme, IES 3.20; 1M). A total of 85.8% of submitted staff
  FTE are on open contracts at the census date (only externally-funded research staff are on fixed-
  term contracts).

  Our appointments have contributed >£2.3m to our research income. They have developed new
  research strengths, opening up collaborations and funding opportunities. The shared appointment
  of Stump (2018) with Environment and Geography allowed us to build our strength in African
  Archaeology and formalise a strategic collaboration. The appointment of Bickle (2014) facilitated
  underpinning research leading to impacts at Stonehenge (REF3).

  Taking into account staff retirements and departures, in this REF cycle our Category A FTE
  (excluding research-only) has increased from 19.6 to 24.8 (Figure 1). Our gender balance
  has remained consistent at c.50%F while our policies for staff development and recruitment
  have led to greater gender balance at senior levels, doubling our number of female professors
  and almost doubling our female senior lecturers through internal promotion, with the aim of
  achieving parity across all grades. Female staff have taken leadership roles including HoD, Deputy
  HoD and have been nominated for membership of University committees, e.g. Academic
  Promotions and Faculty Board. Throughout the REF cycle we have retained a balanced
  demographic in terms of seniority enabling us to provide leadership whilst also planning the
  succession of senior leaders and sustainability of the department through the mentorship of junior
  colleagues.




                                                                                                     8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 1. Category A eligible staff FTE.

  2.3 Support for and integration for individuals at the beginning of their research careers
  All new lecturers, postdocs and fellows undertake induction, probation and the PDR process with
  their PI/mentor (see 2.1) and are eligible to apply for departmental research funding.

  We have created the role of Academic Liaison Officer who holds termly meetings with our
  postdocs and fellows to discuss career development, mentoring, grant support, publications and
  impact strategies. All staff are invited to weekly meetings and new appointees are asked to present
  their research at termly events to which all researchers are invited.

  New lecturers are guaranteed a 600-hour reduction in their teaching load over the course of the
  first three years (300, 200, 100) to allow them to develop their research plans and profiles. In
  addition, they receive a further 50-hour reduction for each new module they develop.

  Postdocs and fellows have made substantial contributions to the success of the department in the
  REF cycle, contributing to >30% of outputs (REF2) and establishing, for example, a botanical
  reference collection and new facilities such as the YEAR Centre (see 3.3).

  2.4. Policy for research leave
  In the REF cycle, research leave was raised to 1 year in 4 for all academic (research and teaching)
  staff, including part-time staff. Flexibility allows staff to spread this time over the 4-year period, or
  to take different terms, where possible. Leave is integrated into individual 5-year plans and PDR
  long-term objectives. A plan of work is submitted to the Research Management Team in advance
  and the mentor has regular catch-up sessions throughout the period. Research leave is also
  supported through external funding and fellowships including a Pro Futura Scientia fellowship
  (Swedish Collegium for Advanced Study, (2015–17), EURIAS Senior Fellowship (2016–17) and
  John Templeton Foundation (2016–17).

  2.5 Recognising and rewarding staff
  The department recognises and rewards staff in its support for promotion (see 2.1–2, 2.7),
  ensuring implementation of the University’s promotions policy (IES 3.21) in relation to equality,
  diversity and inclusion, taking account of e.g. part-time working, caring responsibilities, long-term
  ill-health, inability to travel etc. In the REF cycle 16 staff have been promoted (9F, 7M).

  All successes, whether being shortlisted for a prize, awarded a fellowship, or a new publication,
  are highlighted on our webpage, via social media and in our weekly staff meetings. Staff who have
  published books are offered a book launch. At the end of each term staff who have won grants



                                                                                                         9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  are celebrated in a presentation by the Chair of DRC. All staff receive a reward of 20 hours on the
  workload model for each grant submitted the previous year.

  The department supports and enables its staff to achieve impact from their research through 3
  key mechanisms (see also 1.3):
     ● Time - our workload model provides a 40% allocation for all academic (research and
        teaching) staff to undertake research and impact
     ● Support - the department has established an Impact Lead (who receives 100 hours on the
        workload model), supported by the departmental Research Manager, Arts and Humanities
        Faculty Research Impact Manager and Administrator, and University Impact Manager
     ● Funding - departmental funding complements external and institutional-level funding
        supporting pathways to impact such as the Feast exhibition (REF3 “Stonehenge”) and
        evaluation of the impact of the ADS (REF3 “ADS”)

  2.6 Research students
  We recruit doctoral research students on academic merit, fit to research expertise and aptitude,
  assessed through written work, transcripts and interviews. Since 2016, we have offered 2 Distance
  Learning PhD tracks in Archaeology and in Conservation Studies in response to a demand from
  professionals and international students.

  The department competes for funding from the White Rose College of Arts and Humanities
  (WRoCAH), the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership for the universities of York, Leeds and
  Sheffield. All WRoCAH applications are anonymised and gender specific pronouns removed to
  avoid unconscious bias.

  We have hosted 68 studentships from major funding bodies including 20 funded through
  WRoCAH, 14 Research Council studentships (9 AHRC, 1 EPSRC, 4 NERC), 2 Wellcome-funded
  and 6 through ERC projects. Ten studentships have been awarded through Marie Skłodowska-
  Curie ITNS. Sixteen studentships have been awarded under the AHRC CDA/CDP schemes
  promoting engagement with non-academic partners including York Archaeological Trust (2), City
  of York Council (3), Leeds Museums and Galleries (2), Council for British Archaeology (2), Historic
  England (1), English Heritage (1), British Museum (1), Natural History Museum (3) and National
  Museums Scotland (1).

  All research students are provided with induction and an online handbook. Lecturers who have
  not supervised a PhD to completion are required to co-supervise with an experienced member of
  staff and complete the University’s ‘Being an Effective Supervisor’ tutorial (IES 3.32). Supervisions
  are provided every 4–6 weeks, and recorded in Skillsforge, the University’s online platform for
  supporting student development.

  Every 6 months research students attend a Thesis Advisory Panel (TAP) consisting of chair,
  supervisor, and an independent member, the purpose of which is to discuss progress and training
  needs and to give advice on the direction of research and professional development (IES 3.31).
  Written work is provided in advance and progress assessed. Students complete tutorials on ‘Being
  an Effective Researcher’ and ‘Research Integrity’ before their first TAP and, where relevant,
  produce a data management plan (see 1.5).

  A progression panel, independent of the supervisor(s), reviews progress annually. Year 1 students
  present their research to an audience of staff and peers in a Progression Symposium.

  A total of 79.8 (REF 4a) PhDs have been awarded over the period (only 1% failed progression).

  The department, faculty and University provide support to research students for skills development
  and preparation for their future career in accordance with the Researcher Development
  Framework. All first-year research students complete a Professional Development Plan (PDP)
  underpinned by a Training Needs Analysis. Example training opportunities include:

                                                                                                    10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     ●   Online ‘Employability’ tutorials and tailored employability provision provided by the Careers
         Office including the York Learning and Teaching Award programme
     ●   Resources/training provided by the University’s Research Excellence Training Team
         alongside specialist department training such as CV workshops, presenting research, and
         developing a social media presence (IES 3.32)
     ●   The opportunity to train and work as a Graduate Teaching Assistant and undertake the
         Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
     ●   Gaining experience of presenting research in our weekly Research Forum
     ●   Opportunities/support to apply for external funding as well as 3 departmental funding
         competitions (>£27k awarded): conferences and pump-priming; Open Access Publication;
         and Data Curation
     ●   WRoCAH students are provided with a bespoke training programme, focussed on
         research management, employability and internationalisation

  The HRC also offers an annual programme of training for PGR students across the faculty,
  including giving a conference paper, getting published, applying for project funding, and designing
  and managing questionnaires for research.

  2.7 Equality, diversity and inclusion
  We achieved Athena Swan Bronze at department level in 2018, reflecting a long-standing
  commitment to gender equality, and are aiming for Silver in 2022. The action plan is embedded
  within the processes of all departmental meetings. Feedback from Athena Swan praised existing
  measures, recognising intersectionality and the role of disability and age.

  Since 2013 the departmental Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) committee has met at least
  once a term, led by our Equality Champion, and including student representation. It covers all
  protected characteristics and it serves a dual role: implementing national and University policy
  and driving forward departmental initiatives. It produces an annual EDI survey of all staff and
  students, analysing the anonymised results and action plans are discussed at staff meetings.

  There are many illustrations of departmental implementation of the University’s Equality and
  Diversity in Employment Policy, e.g.:
     ● Development of a Code of Conduct made available in departmental handbooks and
          flagged at induction
     ● Flexible/home working (including pre-Covid) promoting a healthy work-life balance
     ● Ensuring promotions are on merit and not self-promotion, all staff submit CVs for annual
          review. Five staff have been promoted who would otherwise not have applied (4F, 1M).
          Our policy has been rolled out across the faculty as best practice
     ● Supporting parental/caring leave, including research leave for returning staff. Private
          spaces for breast-feeding/expressing have been offered both on campus and in the field
     ● Scheduling committee/research meetings within core hours, ensuring staff with caring
          responsibilities can attend. Individual staff can request restrictions which are 'hard-coded'
          into their timetable
     ● Personal support plans for students and staff including supporting government “Access to
          work” applications and provision of specialist IT equipment
     ● Supporting bottom-up department initiatives including the Archaeology Dyslexia Network,
          Women’s Group, LGBTI Network and Ethnic Diversity Network and University initiatives
          such as the Athena SWAN Forum, INCLUDE and Race Equality Forum, which includes
          two members of the department EDI committee (IES 3.36)
     ● Mental Health training for staff and encouraging wellbeing through the use of the University
          Health Assured employee assistance programme; instituting a policy that departmental
          emails are sent within working hours (staff are asked to use the ‘schedule send’ facility
          during evenings and weekends)
     ● Provision of a prayer room
     ● Provision of an all gender toilet



                                                                                                    11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  The department’s REF submission has been led by REQUIP, comprising the Chair of Research
  Committee, Head of Department, Impact Lead, Athena Swan lead, Research Manager and senior
  staff with substantial experience of publications and impact, including 2 Emeritus Professors: this
  panel comprises 40% women and 36% part-time. Throughout the process REQUIP has monitored
  our submission for all known protected characteristics. Selection has been subject to regular
  equality impact assessments, in accordance with the Code of Practice, overseen by the
  University’s REF Strategy Group. Analysis of the data relating to Category A staff on the census
  date shows a balance by gender of outputs per researcher (1.5F, 1.7M); by age our submission
  includes outputs from researchers across a 50-year age bracket; and by disability an average of
  4 outputs per researcher with a declared disability compared with 1.7 outputs for staff with no
  declared disability.




  Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
  Our Research Strategy is founded on the ethos that all staff have equal access to support for
  research which is monitored by our EDI committee. Grant applications are written into our research
  expectations and staff are required to identify their income generation targets through 5-year
  plans. All staff are encouraged to attend University grant-writing bootcamps. A library of successful
  grant applications is accessible to all staff. During the REF cycle, DRC has established a grant
  review team, comprising senior staff and the Research Manager. Every grant application is
  reviewed by at least 2 reviewers. Mock interviews are also organised for ERC/NERC bids involving
  experienced staff from across the University.

  Internal funding to develop research ideas is awarded on a competitive basis by the University.
  Over £150k has been awarded to the department supporting 14 projects investigating diverse
  subjects including plastic pollution in the Galapagos and medieval wall-paintings in Stratford. DRC
  disburses additional funds, e.g. £3k for pilot fieldwork in Sicily leading to the award of a €2.9m-
  ERC Advanced grant (2016–2021) and all academic staff receive £750/year to prime new
  research activity.

  Research income over the REF cycle was £17.9m (REF4b) compared to £7.6m in REF2014
  and representing a 135% increase (Figure 2). We have the largest research income in the faculty.
  Income/academic FTE reached a high of £151,200 in 2016/17 (source: HESA), second in the UK,
  with an average across the REF cycle of £88,711 reflecting recent staff expansion (Section 2). We
  have a market share of at least 10% of sector research income (minimum 15% of Russell
  Group research income).




                                                                                                    12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 2. Research income REF2014 to REF2021.

  We have continued to excel in the receipt of EU funding representing c.75% of our income (a
  market share of 23.5%; >£13.1m), including £5.7m from the ERC, £5.8m through Marie
  Skłodowska-Curie Actions, 5 ITNs and 1 Researchers’ Night (which has since gone on to be
  funded annually by the University). Our success in EU-funding has generated €11.9m for
  beneficiaries in York-led consortia.

  We have also diversified our portfolio of research income receiving >£1.1m from UK-based
  charities and >£3.2m from BEIS Research Councils and the British Academy. We are now the
  second highest recipient of AHRC funding for Archaeology. Income from grants already
  awarded guarantees a further £8m over the next 5 years.

  More than 50% of the outputs submitted in REF2 are the direct result of external funding and our
  impact case studies (REF3) are underpinned by >£3.6m of external funding.

  3.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion in relation to support for research
  Our proactive approach for income generation (see 3.1) has meant that in the REF cycle our staff
  have submitted 349 grant applications (>£93m). Equality, diversity and inclusion is monitored
  ensuring that all staff are supported to submit applications. Income has been generated by 37
  members of staff representing all genders, over a 50-year age bracket, all career stages (including
  4 AHRC Early Career grants: 3F, 1M) and across all research clusters.

  Grant submissions per FTE remain higher for men but the trend is towards greater parity (Figure
  3); it is of note that 50% of female Category A submitted staff have taken maternity leave in the
  REF cycle. Success rates between genders are broadly equal (28% F, 29% M, Figure 4).
  Where funder rules restrict the number of applications per institution, the department selects
  applications based on merit and strategic fit to our long-term research ambitions. Our fair and
  transparent strategy has led to the award of 2 Philip Leverhulme Prizes to women.




                                                                                                  13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 3. Grant submissions per FTE by gender.




  Figure 4. Grant success rate by gender.

  The department has provided co-funding for 3 PhDs from sub-Saharan Africa, promoting access
  to training that otherwise would have been impossible. We have also awarded additional research
  leave and funding for equipment and proofreading to support staff declaring equality-related
  circumstances.

  3.3 Organisational, operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and
  impact
  Over this REF cycle, the department and University have invested heavily in our Heritage Science
  facilities and staff dedicated to ensuring the vitality of our research environment and sustainability
  of our ambitions and objectives into the future (see 1.3).

  Technical staff
  Over the REF cycle we have invested in technical support with the development of 4 new technical
  posts, taking the total to 9 posts covering laboratories, IT and fieldwork.

  Laboratories
  We have 4 digital, imaging, and computing labs providing infrastructure to facilitate VR
  modelling, 3D multiscale laser imaging, 3D printing, materials testing, microscopy, high-end
  computing and facilities for laser, CT and MRI image segmentation, reconstruction, virtual
  manipulation, morphometrics, finite elements and multibody dynamic analyses. We have a

                                                                                                     14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  dedicated photographic lab which provides access to immersive 360° cameras, an RTI dome,
  professional lighting, accessories and photogrammetry equipment.

  We have a suite of environmental and post-excavation labs (Environmental, Archaeobotanical,
  X-Ray and pXRF, wet and dry materials) offering a range of equipment for the preparation of
  osteological, metallographic, ceramic, and environmental samples, soil thin-sectioning equipment,
  x-radiography machine for osteological and artefact investigation, handheld XRF equipped for
  environmental and metals analysis, magnetic susceptibility equipment, a high temperature furnace
  for preparation of samples for environmental analysis and inverted light, metallographic and
  petrographic microscopes.

  Through over a decade of sustained investment (within this cycle >£1m on equipment), the
  BioArCh facility is a world-class laboratory for archaeological science. A £12m state-of-the-art
  Environment building (opened in 2017), co-locates BioArCh with a range of environmental
  scientists. The facility includes a suite of custom-built laboratories for archaeological chemistry,
  organic residue analysis, stable isotope analysis, microscopy, palaeoproteomic and
  palaeogenomic analysis, including a gas chromatogram and three GC mass spectrometers
  dedicated for the separation and identification of compounds from archaeological artefacts and
  sediments. BioArCh also houses the Light Stable Isotope Facility, the largest of any archaeology
  department globally, with 5 isotope ratio mass spectrometers allowing elemental analysis-IRMS
  of carbon, oxygen, nitrogen and sulphur from organic materials, as well as GC-IRMS of C, H and
  N individual compounds.

  The proteomic researchers have access to York’s Centre of Excellence in Mass Spectrometry
  providing a series of tandem and hybrid mass analysers (e.g. Orbitrap MS, MALDI-TOF/TOF, LC-
  MS/MS, Qh-FT-ICR) with liquid chromatography and MALDI interfaces that have benefited from
  a further £1.5m invested over this REF cycle. These are used for protein sequencing of bone,
  dental calculus and organic residues and peptide mass fingerprinting of bone collagen fragments
  for ZooMS analysis; the latter for which we have semi-automated through the purchase of a
  pipetting robot to increase sample throughput.

  BioArCh also includes a purpose-built palaeogenomic laboratory to recover ancient DNA from
  archaeological and historic specimens. This consists of a UV irradiated lab under positive pressure
  with laminar flow cabinets and facilities for DNA extraction and quantification. There is a separate
  DNA lab for working on modern samples and amplified products with equipment for DNA
  amplification and quantification and a separate lab for sample preparation (with enclosed stations
  for drilling, cutting, grinding, sand-blasting), weighing and an FTIR instrument.

  Since 2018, we have invested >£320k bringing together our Archaeology and Hull York Medical
  School staff in a new facility, PalaeoHub, housing some of the imaging laboratories, our human
  and animal bone collections, plus a new suite of Artefacts and Material Culture laboratories
  including a microscope laboratory for microwear analysis with a new Benchtop SEM equipped
  with EDX.

  Many of these different scientific strands of our research use the York Experimental
  Archaeology Research (YEAR) Centre established in 2015, and officially opened by Ray Mears
  in 2018.




                                                                                                   15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Collections
  We have a large number of specialist collections for our research community and visitors:
      ● A human skeletal assemblage of over 500 skeletons and 60 cremated bone
          assemblages, including a unique palaeopathological reference collection, including rare
          examples of venereal syphilis, tuberculosis and trauma.
      ● One of the most significant zooarchaeological reference resources in the country (plus
          public-facing database online), with almost 2000 specimens from over 550 species, plus
          the Baker veterinary pathology collection of over 150 specimens.
      ● An extensive CT collection of a wide range of fossil and recent hominins and
          mammals, plus historical collections of mammals that include old world monkeys, apes,
          bovids and rodents.
      ● Our environmental labs host extensive botanical reference collections for plant macro
          remains, a herbarium, microscopy slides, and an archaeological reference collection of
          seeds, fruits and wood from archaeological sites in York.
      ● An extensive artefact replica collection covering all periods and a flint microwear
          reference collection developed through experimental work.
      ● We also host material reference collections of: 60 species of plant and animal fibres
          from around the world; plants used as containers; textile processing tools (e.g. looms and
          spindles); over 120 natural and artificial pigments and dyes.

  Fieldwork equipment
  The department is well equipped with a wide range of buildings and landscape survey equipment.
  Over the REF cycle we have invested >£170k in specialist field equipment including a laser
  scanner, 6 Total Stations, 3 GPS units, portable XRF, an electrical resistance unit, magnetic
  susceptibility meter and metal detector, specialist cameras, 2 quadcopters and specialist software
  for processing data.

  Libraries and archives
  As well as the University Library, the King’s Manor library provides specialist collections of books
  and slides on architecture, landscape design, conservation, heritage management, and the
  medieval period and 18th century. The specialist collections at the Borthwick Institute for Archives
  and York Minster Library are used extensively by our researchers.

  Interdisciplinary infrastructure
  The Humanities Research Centre (HRC) is a shared facility with associated staffing providing
  opportunities to engage with and beyond the faculty, hosting networking events, training, and co-
  ordinating interdisciplinary funding bids. Archaeology has also partnered with Chemistry in the
  NERC recognised amino acid geochronology facility driving forward analytical advances in amino
  acid research.

  We have benefited from collaborations with York’s Digital Creativity Labs, a 5-year £18m project
  funded by UKRI, university and external industry partners (IES 2.11). For example, DC Labs
  programmers provided support for our Discovering England’s Burial Spaces project, helping
  develop mobile applications for grave memorial recording by community groups.


                                                                                                   16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  We have used our Digital Heritage facilities extensively to support impact activities, for example
  in the creation of the award-winning Viking VR (see image above), a collaboration between DC
  Labs, CDH and the Yorkshire Museum. This project changed the museum’s exhibition strategy,
  leading to the development of a follow-on VR Dinosaur experience and attracting heritage
  managers from Historic Environment Scotland who wished to learn from the experience.

  Similarly, in Stratford-upon-Avon, we highlighted the potential of surviving antiquarian records to
  inform cutting-edge virtual reconstructions and physical conservation of nationally-significant
  schemes of medieval wall-painting known to Shakespeare. Using computer tablets we provided,
  visitors to the Guild Chapel can now once again see the medieval wall paintings removed by
  Shakespeare’s father.




  Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
  Our success in academic research collaborations is reflected by research connections with 20
  out of 28 University departments, across all 3 faculties, and through this we have been able to
  contribute projects to 5 of the University’s 7 Research Themes (IES 1.4). The department has
  extensive research connections with universities worldwide. The majority of our returned
  outputs demonstrate collaboration with at least one non-York author. The Star Carr project
  exemplifies this, with over 70 specialists contributing to the Star Carr monographs (REF2).

  Support for external collaborations is provided by the University’s Global Engagements and
  Research Knowledge Exchange and Contracts teams and at department level by DRC and the
  recent creation of a Director for Partnerships. Over 30% of the department’s research income
  in this period was the result of collaborative applications: 62.1% with HEIs, 15.3% with charities

                                                                                                       17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  and not-for-profits, 11.8% with government sources and 3.4% other sources. Collaborators are
  spread over 21% of the world’s countries (Figure 5).




  Figure 5. Count of geographic collaborations on UoA applications.

  In the assessment period we have established 16 Memoranda of Understanding including York
  Conservation Trust; Jersey Heritage; Aix Marseille University; Korean National University for
  Cultural Heritage; University of Dar es Salaam; and Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency;
  and made >50 Honorary Research Appointments. The department has awarded >£100k to staff
  and students to attend key conferences, undertake research visits and host >100 national and
  international visitors. A further £124k has been awarded from external sources including the
  AHRC and Newton Fund to host visitors and workshops.

  4.2 Relationships with key research users leading to impact
  Our Department Advisory Board was established in 2012, comprising key stakeholders from the
  public and private sectors. It meets annually but provides advice throughout the year. Part of its
  remit is to share intelligence regarding opportunities and developments that might affect the work
  and research focus of the department, enabling us to respond to the changing priorities of key
  research users. Similarly, our research centres and clusters draw on collaborations with key non-
  academic users in the co-production of research (see 4.1) and our staff provide advice to a range
  of external organisations (see 4.6). For example, Richards leads the COST Action Saving
  European Archaeology from the Digital Dark Age (SEADDA), which is building capacity for digital
  archiving across 31 partner countries, he chairs the working party on access for UK-RIHS, the
  database working group for the PAS (British Museum), and is a board member for Digital Antiquity
  (Arizona State University). Key users advise ADS via its Management Committee, with
  stakeholder representatives drawn from UK archaeology departments, university libraries,
  national heritage agencies and UKRI. Together, these relationships have facilitated the impacts
  highlighted in REF3 “ADS”.

  4.3 Wider contributions to economy and society and engagement with diverse audiences
  Beyond those examples highlighted in REF3, the department has made significant other
  contributions to diverse communities and publics in the UK and overseas.

  Reflecting our research strength in Buildings Conservation and Heritage, Giles’ work with
  Stratford Town Trust and King Edward VI Grammar School directly informed 2 successful HLF
  awards: King Edward VI Grammar School’s £1.4 million ‘Shakespeare’s School’ project and
  Stratford Town Trust’s £100k ‘Death Reawakened’. As a result of Giles’ research and the work
  undertaken in these awards, a new visitor attraction, Shakespeare’s Schoolroom and Guildhall,
  was opened to the public in 2016. In 2017 it won Best Visitor Attraction in Coventry and
  Warwickshire Tourism and Culture Awards and the Sir John Betjeman Award in 2018.




                                                                                                  18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research at Star Carr highlighted the lack of public, and especially local, visibility of the site
  which was deemed by English Heritage to be a matter of considerable concern. To remedy this,
  a key research objective was written into the project design “To identify and implement best
  practice for improving public understanding of the Mesolithic period and Star Carr and to ensure
  long term public benefit”. As a result, since 2014 research at Star Carr led to the creation of
  educational resources, loans boxes, animated reconstructions, videos and films hosted on a
  YouTube channel (>67,426 views), a MOOC (attracting >5000 participants with a course rating
  of 4.8/5 and >350 reviews), >40 public talks, and 4 co-curated museum exhibitions at the
  Yorkshire Museum (x2), Rotunda museum and Cambridge Museum of Archaeology and
  Anthropology attracting >600,000 visitors in total. These activities, as well as many developed
  by others inspired by the project, such as TV and radio programmes, magazine and newspaper
  articles, have led to the site being described by the publicly-contributed Wikipedia as
  “comparable in archaeological importance to Stonehenge”.

                                                      In 2017 one of its now iconic antler
                                                      headdresses took its place alongside
                                                      Avebury Stone Circles and Skara Brae on a
                                                      Royal Mail stamp celebrating Ancient Britain.
                                                      Alongside substantially greater public
                                                      awareness of the site, the research has
                                                      changed the approaches of museum curators
                                                      regarding the display of the Mesolithic and
                                                      been referenced in Parliament, evidencing
                                                      the fragile nature of waterlogged Mesolithic
                                                      sites which may be damaged around
                                                      Stonehenge.

                                                  Research in Field Archaeology methods
  undertaken by Roskams and Morgan led to partnership between American Veterans
  Archaeological Recovery and Breaking Ground Heritage and in 2019 the team worked with
  American and British veterans to recover the remains of American service members who were
  killed when their B-24H Liberator bomber crashed in southern England during World War II.

  Our strength in African Archaeology has led to impacts at Kilwa and Songa Mnara in Tanzania
  where Wynne-Jones has designed bilingual site brochures and produced site details for the
  Tanzanian Wildlife Authority website (http://www.tawa.go.tz/). These provide the only
  informational resources on the archaeology of the sites and incorporate local community voices
  on local understandings and uses of the sites as well as guidance on how to be culturally
  sensitive. They have been distributed and used by nearly 3,000 visitors. In Zanzibar, working
  with local stakeholders Wynne-Jones has supported successful funding applications for a visitor
  centre and secured funding for a podcast designed to showcase Zanzibar’s heritage for the
  180,000 tourists that visit the archipelago each year as well as providing a resource for tour
  guides.

  4.5 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, interdisciplinary research, and
  responsiveness to national and international priorities
  The department has secured major, interdisciplinary research funding enabling us to address
  national and international priorities. For instance, working across Europe, Bailey chaired a 4-
  year international COST Action, working with marine geoscientists, archaeologists, cultural
  heritage managers, government organisations and industrial companies to address the
  research and management of the submerged landscapes of the continental shelf. The network
  included 100 members from 25 states in Europe and led to change in Flemish governmental
  policy and legislation (coming into force in 2014), introducing new legislation in Belgium such
  that, for the first time, heritage is a factor in discussions regarding maritime spatial planning of
  the North Sea. As a result, three wreck sites have already obtained heritage status and >20
  finds have been reported to the receiver of cultural heritage. In its final evaluation report the

                                                                                                         19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Domain Committee of COST with the aid of international peer-reviewers noted that “It would
  not be an exaggeration to say that this COST Action has shifted attitudes to submerged heritage
  in the EU and has had a positive global impact.”

  Research funded by the EC and UK Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) has tackled
  the role of soil erosion exacerbated by weather-related events and climate change as one of
  the most serious threats to current world food production. Through fieldwork in Tanzania and
  Ethiopia we identified previously undocumented soil and water conservation techniques, with
  subsequent recognition of similar practices in southern Europe, South America and the Middle
  East. This led to policy recommendations regarding the co-design of sustainable development
  initiatives that were presented at the British Houses of Parliament in November 2017, and to
  ongoing GCRF-funded projects that are working with agricultural NGOs and local communities
  to define the social, economic and environmental costs and benefits of these local practices.

  4.6 Wider influence, contributions and recognition
  Staff regularly review academic publications and research proposals for a wide range of journals
  and funding bodies around the world. In the assessment period our staff have contributed to over
  40 different editorial boards including editorships of Royal Society Open Science, Medieval
  Archaeology, Mesolithic Miscellany, British Institute in Eastern Africa Monographs, Cambridge
  Monographs in African Archaeology, Geoarchaeology, Emania, and Journal of Conflict
  Archaeology; and Director and Trustee: Internet Archaeology and Antiquity.

  Five members of staff have participated in AHRC and ERC grant review panels and in 2016 Bickle
  received a gold letter from the AHRC for “outstanding contribution to the work of the Peer Review
  College”. Three members of staff have been elected British Academy Fellows (Collins 2017,
  Milner 2019, Carver 2020).

  Our staff and students have been awarded 38 prizes and shortlisted for a further 20. Prizes
  include:
      ● Montgomery (PhD): 'Orgullo de mi Pais' award by the Nicaraguan Embassy in London, for
         his work on Pre-Hispanic Nicaraguan heritage
      ● Khalid al Asmari (PhD): Abdul Rahman Al-Ansari Archaeological Award for Young Saudi
         Archaeologists by the Saudi Commission for Tourism & National Heritage, for his work on
         Arabian Prehistory
      ● Zander (PhD): EAA Student Award for her paper on the Pleistocene-Holocene transition
         in Northern Europe
      ● ADS: Best App at the Heritage in Motion New Multimedia Competition on European
         Heritage for ArchAIDE (2019)
      ● Bailey: Prehistoric Society Europa Prize (2017)
      ● The Star Carr project: Current Archaeology Research Project of the Year (2014 and 2020);
         Best Innovation Prize in the British Archaeological Awards for the Internet Archaeology
         article on the Star Carr Pendant (2016)
      ● Carver: 17th European Heritage Prize of the European Association of Archaeologists
         (2015)

  We have contributed to the vitality of the discipline through >800 conferences and workshops
  and given >500 invited lectures/keynotes worldwide.

  Our staff are invited advisors to or sit on committees of regional and national bodies including the
  Science Museum, English Heritage (Heritage Skills Task Group), NERC (Chair of Life Sciences
  Mass Spectrometry Committee; Panel member), the A303 Scientific Committee advising
  Highways on the proposed road alterations in the Stonehenge environs, and the consultation for
  HS2 Archaeological Impact. We also contribute to international bodies around the globe including
  the Scientific Advisory Board of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History and
  the British Institute in Eastern Africa Governing Council.



                                                                                                    20
