Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
Sheffield Hallam University
Unit of Assessment:
UOA27 - English Language and Literature

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and structure

Research in English at Sheffield Hallam recovers, revises, and retells literary and linguistic
constructions of human identities (and their relationships with non-human entities), to explore the
underpinning narratives of the present, and to actively contribute to shaping narratives of the
future.

Our research encompasses a wide portfolio of literary studies, linguistics and creative writing.
Since 2014 this diversity has been enriched through the development of research in theatre and
performance studies. Each offers distinctive ways of engaging with contemporary intellectual
challenges. These include questions of social justice, and the representation and conceptualisation
of stubbornly persistent inequalities and their basis in gender and sexuality, class, race, and
ability/disability; the activities of reading communities and their historical, contemporary and
emerging narratives in political, national and religious identities; the possibilities of new kinds of
textuality (including through multimodality and digital technologies); and the critical
conceptualisation of our relationships with the environment in a time of climate crisis.

In REF2014, we organised our research across the Unit into three themes: the Historicisation of
Texts and Contexts; Contemporary Creativity; and Discourse Analysis. Framing our research
through these themes enabled colleagues to collaborate across the Unit's disciplinary range. Just
as work across and within English is encouraged, so are collaborations with History, Film Studies,
and other disciplines in the University.

English research takes place under the umbrella of the Humanities Research Centre (HRC), which
promotes ground-breaking international research, applied knowledge and creative practice, across
the subject groups of English, History and Stage & Screen. It provides an essential community of
enquiry for humanities scholars and encourages interdisciplinary connections. It is our main source
of support and finance and fosters connections to key partners in the Sheffield City Region, as well
as nationally and internationally. The HRC is one of four constituent centres in the University's
Culture and Creativity Research Institute (CCRI), through which scholars in the Unit connect to
researchers and research facilities across disciplines.

Research in the Unit is led by a Professor along with four more Professors and six Readers, who,
together with the Head of Humanities (also in the English Unit), provide mentoring and research
leadership to three lecturers, seventeen senior lecturers and three principal lecturers. There are
four ECRs in the Unit and they, along with the SLs, provide sustainability and potential for
intellectual growth in the Unit, which numbers 31.51 FTEs.

1.2 Research strategy

Our research complements and supports the University's mission to ‘transform lives’ (see
Institutional Environment Statement) and is designed to advance knowledge and offer fresh
interpretive perspectives through our five key themes. Our strategy aligns to that of the HRC, and
to the University's commitment to applied knowledge.

1.2.1 Strategic goals in REF2014

We have met or exceeded our key REF2014 strategic goals (in bold).

We have sustained current research productivity by making full use of the alignment between

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff teaching and research, and systems of research leave and support. It has also been
enhanced by fulfilling the next goal.

We have expanded the current staff base, and are submitting 31.51 FTEs instead of the 23
anticipated in REF2014.

Exceeding these two targets has allowed us to publish extensively in our three 2014 themes (the
Historicisation of Texts and Contexts; Contemporary Creativity; and Discourse Analysis) and to
maximise the quality of our outputs.

Researchers working on the Historicisation of Texts and Contexts have produced eight
monographs and substantial collections on Renaissance drama and culture (Anderson, 2017,
2020; Cadman, 2015; L. Hopkins, 2014, 2016, 2017; Steggle, 2014, 2014). Another nine
monographs and editions on literature and culture from the eighteenth to twenty-first centuries
(Earnshaw, 2019; Gibbons [with R. van den Akker & T. Vermeulen], 2017; Goodby, 2017, 2017,
2020; C. Hopkins, 2018; Mundye, 2016; Peace, 2017; Sanchez-Arce, 2020) have also emerged in
this cycle.

Similarly, we have published or performed significant works in the Contemporary Creativity theme,
including fourteen monographs, novels, plays, films scripts, poetry and short story collections
(Battle-Felton, 2019; H. Bell, 2014; Earnshaw, 2016; Earle 2017, 2017; C. Jones, 2015; Naylor,
2017, 2017; O' Callaghan, 2016; Payne 2018, 2019, 2020; Roche-Jacques, 2017).

In Discourse Analysis, enhanced by the appointment of five new staff (Browse, Escott, Gibbons,
Mason and Sayers), we have also significantly expanded our language research into three new
areas: stylistics, language and discrimination, and language and community. Monographs and
edited collections in this theme include nine works (A. Bell, [with A. Ensslin & H. Rustad], 2014;
Browse, 2018; Clark, 2016; Gibbons [with A. Macrae], 2018; Grainger [with S. Mills], 2016; Jones
[with L. Brown], 2014; Mason, 2019; and Peplow, 2016, 2017).

Develop further new work in the three research themes: We have fulfilled our expectations
from REF2014 and we are excited by the new directions we have taken since then, and which are
outlined in the next section.

Maintain staffing strategy and research support for staff at all career stages: We have paid
close attention to career development, and we have established mechanisms to support internal
progression, giving good prospects for high-performing staff. We have been able to support a rapid
progression to Readerships for several colleagues. Our REF2014 target of two new Readers since
2014 has been exceeded, with the promotion of seven English staff to Readerships since 2014
(Anderson, Bell, Gibbons, Grainger, P. Jones, Sanchez-Arce, and Tarlo). Bell and Tarlo have both
since progressed to personal chairs.

Increase grant applications: We have secured seven externally funded grants, with a ten-fold
increase in income compared to REF2014 - see details in Section 3.

Support collaborative work with other HEIs: The Unit funded collaborative work with the
University of Keele to develop grant applications (Drewery's work on May Sinclair), with Leeds
(Tarlo, with J. Tucker on landscape/poetry), and with the University of Salford/the Working-Class
Movement Library (C. Hopkins, impact activity with colleagues from Freiburg, Goldsmiths,
Loughborough and Manchester). We also worked with nine Visiting Professors over the period
from January 2014, whose contribution is further detailed in the 'People' section below.

Recruit to three PhD bursaries per year: We have recruited to three PhD bursaries in most
years and have achieved 21 completions in the period (11 in literature, 6 in language, 3 in creative
writing, 1 in performance), compared with 15 completions in REF2014.

Develop additional inter-disciplinary, collaborative PhD studentships in cultural heritage:

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We benefitted from an additional inter-disciplinary, collaborative North-East Consortium for the Arts
and Humanities (NECAH) PhD studentship, which funded a student studying twins in renaissance
drama and medicine.

1.2.2 Research strategy beyond REF2021

Over the last seven years we have developed our research strategy to ensure its vitality and
sustainability and to reflect further cross-disciplinary scholarship.

In REF2014, we organised our research across the Unit into three themes: the Historicisation of
Texts and Contexts; Contemporary Creativity; and Discourse Analysis. Over the cycle, and partly
in response to REF feedback, we have strengthened the areas of Creative Writing and English
Language. This evolution of the Unit and our research is reflected in our move to five strategic
themes from the three outlined in 2014. They provide a more sustainable approach as we enter the
new cycle. Our five strategic themes are now:

   •   Early Modern Literary Studies
   •   Modern Literature
   •   Stylistics
   •   Language, Literacy and Social Structure
   •   Contemporary Creativity

Early Modern Literary Studies brings together a diverse range of approaches to examine traces
of texts and performance (Anderson, Steggle). We have explored sentiment and eighteenth-
century culture (Peace), uncovered the historical conditions of disability (Anderson), and presented
re-examinations of early modern economic and political philosophy (Cadman Connolly). Unit
research has refined our understanding of the operations of genre (Anderson, Cadman, Connolly,
L. Hopkins, Steggle), and extended our understanding of the scope of early modern literature
through its afterlives in allusion (L. Hopkins, Steggle).

Modern Literature includes researchers interested in the varieties of writing and philosophical
enquiry associated with modernism, modernity, the modern period. We have shed new light on
existentialism (Earnshaw) and metamodernism (Gibbons), and have reappraised and
recontextualised key authors, including May Sinclair (Drewery), Robert Graves (Mundye), Walter
Greenwood (C. Hopkins) and Dylan Thomas (Goodby). We have excavated questions of class,
economic fairness and sites of detention (Bush, Bradley, Earle, Hockenhull-Smith, C. Hopkins,
McPherson); the intersection of these factors with gender (Bush, Dredge, Kramer, Peace); as well
as interrogating notions of nationhood as articulated in diverse texts (Battle-Felton,
MacCrossan, Sánchez-Arce).

Stylistics contributes new stylistic theories, methods and analyses, particularly through cognitive
and empirical research. This includes the development of medium and context specific approaches
to print literature (Gibbons, Mason, Peplow); multimodal and digital literature (A. Bell, Gibbons);
political discourse (Browse); immersive theatre (Gibbons); and educational settings (Escott,
Mason). Our research has resulted in new experimental and naturalistic methods, and new
perspectives on established areas within the English discipline, including the development of
cognitive and empirical insights into narration (A. Bell, Browse, Gibbons), fictionality (A. Bell,
Browse, Gibbons, Mason), immersion (A. Bell, Escott) and intertextuality (Mason).

Language, Literacy and Social Structure critically engages with the way that language encodes,
is influenced by, and constructs institutional, ideological and social structures and identity,
including the roles of gender and sexuality (Clark), social class (Grainger, Jones, Peplow), ethnicity
(Grainger) and regional variation (Sayers). It examines the ways that literacy is used and
represented in educational and social settings, as well as in popular culture and language policy.
This includes variationist (Grainger, Jones, Sayers), ethnographic (Clark, Escott, Peplow), and
cognitive linguistic (Mason, Peplow) research, which critically examines underlying institutional and
ideological structures, including the processes associated with language development, change and

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
standardisation, as well as debates and discussions within English education.

Contemporary Creativity now reflects an increasingly diverse body of interdisciplinary scholars
from English, Creative Writing and Performance. It is already exploring key aspects of social justice
and questions of environmental change. We are grappling with major environmental issues
(Payne, 'Everybody Loses') and considerations of landscape through performance and creative
writing (K. Johnson, Tarlo). We engage with a wide range of questions of social justice, including
C. Jones on terrorism narratives, and Naylor on ‘extraordinary bodies’ and dis/ability. We are
uncovering new ways of thinking about technology as both methodology and concept
(O’Callaghan, Roches-Jacques).

Over the coming cycle, research support for output production will be maintained through the
proven system of regular study leave, funding from the HRC to support research activities, and
peer support for the development of book proposals and drafts, article drafts and grant
applications. We provide specific and targeted resources and mentorship for early career
researchers. All colleagues are entitled to apply for research leave and priority will be given to
those completing major projects intended to result in substantial publications and/or major impact
work, or developing large grant applications, taking account of the timeliness of the research and
the University's REF Code of Practice regarding research time allocations.

As we begin the new cycle, we have four strategic goals:

   1. To continue to enhance the quality of our outputs in our five strategic themes (above) using
      our successful model of research leave and support, mentoring for ECRs and mid-career
      scholars, and by continuing to enhance our staff base [see Section 2].
   2. To build on our success of grant capture over the last seven years and to increase it in the
      future, through a targeted series of projects to address the major challenges allied to our
      themes, and through a programme of planning, mentoring and professional development
      [see Section 1.3 for details].
   3. To continue to embed impact and pathways to impact as integral parts of our individual and
      Unit research agendas, and to fulfil the University’s strategic commitment to applied
      knowledge [see Section 1.4 for details].
   4. To build our external partnerships and collaborations to enhance the vitality and intellectual
      reach of our research, for example through Sheffield Doc/Fest (Sanchez-Arce) and visiting
      professors [see Sections 1.5 and 4].

1.3 Strategy for generating research income

We made notable advances in securing grant income in this cycle. Both A. Bell and Steggle
secured significant Research Council funding, along with a series of smaller awards achieved by
colleagues across the Unit, including from the American National Endowment for the Humanities,
the Leverhulme Trust and the AHRC.

In the next cycle, we expect to build on our success and continue to develop our funding trajectory.
Throughout the cycle we programmed development events (including at each HRC annual
research away-day), at which successful grant winners in the Unit, the HRC, from across the
University, and from other HEIs, have led workshops on how to create successful grant
applications. These workshops have also been attended by staff from the University's Research
and Innovation Services (RIS) who have given technical advice about grant schemes and support
for the process of applying.

We aim to maximise our research income in an increasingly competitive environment by employing
the following approaches:

   •   Provide support to ECRs, and those without a research grant track record, through
       mentoring schemes in the Culture and Creativity Research Institute (CCRI) and through
       bespoke mentoring in the Humanities Research Centre (HRC).

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Enable access to HRC and small external grants to help researchers gain experience, and
       to secure seed-corn funding, in preparation for larger external grant applications. From the
       last cycle a number of colleagues have internal awards with the potential to lead to
       significant external income generation in the next cycle (Escott, Mason, Peplow).
   •   All colleagues to be supported through annual review and mentoring to develop clear,
       longer-term research plans that identify funding streams as well as outputs.
   •   Enhance the use of internal peer review systems in the HRC and CCRI.
   •   Encourage interdisciplinary and collaborative projects that align with the development of our
       research themes through funding network start-ups and collaboration events.

1.4 Impact strategy

In 2014 we developed a detailed impact strategy for the Unit. We have embedded the development
of impact from the beginning of research projects, and use it as a significant factor when recruiting
staff and supporting promotion to readerships and chairs. Potential impact projects were identified
at the beginning of the cycle and were supported with staff time and funding resources. For each
research project with impact potential, up to £3,000 was available annually, as well as further funds
through the HRC's Research Support Request scheme, which supported travel, events, evidence
collection, external speakers and venue hire.

We organised development events at which external experts on impact and practitioners of public
engagement shared their expertise, to help staff identify pathways to impact. These included REF
sub-panel members and lay members, ICS authors from other disciplines at SHU, and impact
project leaders from other HEIs. We attended external training (e.g. at the National Co-ordinating
Centre for Public Engagement). We presented our impact work in progress at annual Humanities
research awaydays, and took part in peer-review workshops in the HRC and across the University.
The aim of this programme was to develop an understanding of impact as core knowledge for all
HRC researchers. In addition, English staff were offered media and social-media training by the
University, and Unit funding was used to enable tailor-made training, including designing external
websites and using Twitter effectively.

As well as strategic use of HRC funding, two projects have been awarded internal University
Creating Knowledge Accelerating Impact funds. The first was 'The Dreaming Methods Digital
Fiction Virtual Museum’ project. Working with the digital storytelling studio One-to-One
Development Trust, it created a proof-of-concept for the world's first immersive 'virtual museum', to
preserve access to pioneering works of digital fiction, originally written in now-obsolete Adobe
Flash software (A. Bell, £6000, 2019). The resulting pilot virtual museum was launched at the Art
House in Wakefield (2019) and profiled at the Electronic Literature Organization conference in
Cork (2019) and the 10th Annual New Media Writing Prize event (2020).

The second project was a field trip to work with members of the Fitties coastal community in
Lincolnshire to refine evidence for the case study: 'Revitalising place through interdisciplinary art
practice at a time of environmental change' (Tarlo, £1760, 2019). In both these cases, the seed
corn funding enabled real impact to be demonstrated. Both projects are Impact Case Studies in
this submission (ICS1 and ICS2). That success gives us confidence to continue with this approach.

Impact strategy beyond REF2021

Our future impact strategy is bound into broader aspects of our research agenda, including a
commitment to expanding our inter-disciplinary collaborations, grant capture and international
partnerships. Our work also builds on what is distinctive about our city – its radicalism, its history of
making, its place in the Yorkshire landscape – and connects to the vibrancy of the city's libraries,
theatres, museums and festivals, one of which (Off the Shelf: Festival of Words) we co-sponsor
and co-curate. Our strategy regards impact as a key result of research and we aim to deliver it in
the following ways.

We will develop coherent research plans covering the REF cycle and revisit them through the

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
annual Performance and Development Review process (PDR). We will support them through
mentoring and the Annual Research Away Day and by embedding impact in the application
process for periods of research leave.

Continuing Impact Case Studies will be reviewed for further support, and we have already begun to
identify potential new ones, which cut across our main research themes. They incorporate the
impact arising from films, plays and stories, including work on Samuel Pepys (connecting
Contemporary Creativity and Early Modern Literature); on American literature and questions of
Race (Contemporary Creativity and Modern Literature); and research which investigates the
language of Parole Board hearings (Language, Literacy and Social Structure).

Other projects underway are situated more squarely within our research themes. Important new
work on the environment (Payne), notably as we approach the UN Global Climate Conference in
November 2021, is also the subject of our impact planning, to ensure its reach and significance are
captured (Contemporary Creativity). Naylor's continuing engagement with the National Theatre is
building a body of evidence of impact. With Humanities Research Centre support, Escott
(Language, Literacy and Social Structure) has developed a partnership between Astrea Academy
Trust, which runs 29 schools across South Yorkshire and Cambridgeshire, and literacy charity
Grimm and Co. (Rotherham), to facilitate creative-writing workshops (Language, Literacy and
Social Structure theme). Resulting ethnographic research data allowed Grimm and Co. to
successfully apply for £150,000 of Paul Hamlyn funding to run further workshops in 10 Astrea
Academy Chain schools in Yorkshire, to help school children engage with reading and writing.

1.5 Interdisciplinary research

As the previous sections suggest, the structures in our Unit place inter- and multi-disciplinary
working at the heart of collaborations between English scholars. We also actively seek out
scholarly collaborations within and beyond the University (see Section 4) in support of the fourth
strand of our research strategy.

The location of English in the Humanities Research Centre fosters close connections with our
Humanities colleagues. This resulted in an interdisciplinary conference ‘Reassessing the Penguin
Specials’ at the University (June 2017), organised by Taylor (History), Professor Chris Hopkins and
the ‘Reading 1900-1950' Group. With colleagues from History and Stage & Screen we were
partners in the 'Human Rights Futures' conference in the University's Helena Kennedy Centre for
International Justice in December 2018 (Cox, Hockenhull-Smith, Sanchez-Arce). Tarlo, working
with documentary film makers in Arts and Media, created six poems from text of their interviews
with adults who were children during the Miners’ Strike, for a newspaper produced as part of “A
share of a pensioner’s Christmas Bonus” exhibition, which launched with poetry reading and talks
at the National Mining Museum in November 2016.

Our work with partners in the University is continuing to produce positive and productive
collaborations. Battle-Felton and Sanchez-Arce are members of the Humanities-led University
Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan (CKIP) research cluster exploring Race and Inequality.
The cluster draws together colleagues from across the University (including Law, Criminology,
Social Policy, Arts and Media) to explore historical and contemporary forms of racism and
inequality, and to actively promote diversity and equality of opportunity in the academy. As we
progress into the next cycle, Peplow (an interactional sociolinguist) has secured CKIP funding
(2020) to support collaborations with a criminologist at Sheffield Hallam (Phillips) and the Parole
Board. Their research will, for the first time, focus on the language used in parole hearings, and will
lead to further collaborations and work with the Parole Board.

1.6 Open research

The Unit has achieved 100% OA compliance for outputs being submitted for REF 2021. The Unit
has supported applications for University gold open access funding, especially for selected
publications with impact potential (A. Bell et al 2019, C. Hopkins 2020, L. Hopkins 2020). We

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
continue to host and resource an open access journal, EMLS (Early Modern Literary Studies,
general editor Cadman), which is published biannually. We also established Marlowe Studies as
an open access journal in 2018 (vol 1 appeared in 2020). Several staff publish original work in
ways aligned to ‘open research’ principles. Clark’s 59-episode podcast series and blog addressed
new ways of thinking about social structure (archived at https://structuredvisions.wordpress.com/).
Payne’s extensive portfolio of performances is widely publicised at https://doppelgangster.com/. C.
Hopkins has published thirty original articles on Walter Greenwood to readers beyond academia
(https://waltergreenwoodnotjustloveonthedole.com/).

1.7 Research integrity

Research ethics and integrity is embedded in our approach to research. All new research projects
require University ethical approval. To supplement University training, all English researchers
receive tailored training and updates at our annual HRC Away Day, and research is a standing
item at our regular Departmental meetings, to promote new developments and opportunities. Staff
are trained and encouraged to act as internal reviewers, including ECRs, as professional
development. Staff contribute to the University ethics process both within English, but also the
wider social sciences and humanities. Four English staff have served as ethics reviewers over the
period (A. Bell, Gibbons, L. Hopkins, Sanchez-Arce). All staff have had access to training on how
to submit ethics applications through the University's online review system and have access to
continuing support for the process.


2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

The key development of incorporating scholars from performance and theatre history into the Unit
since 2014 accords with our ambition to explore the myriad ways in which important narratives can
be embodied, questioned, told and retold.

Over the REF cycle we have seen a series of arrivals and departures, and our staffing cohort with
SRfR at the REF census was as follows:

                                 Men            Women              Total              FTE
 Professors                      3              2                  5                  4.11
 Head of Department              1              0                  1                  1
 Readers                         1              5                  6                  4.8
 Principal Lecturers             0              3                  3                  3
 Senior Lecturers                6              11                 17                 15.6
 Lecturers                       1              2                  3                  3
 Totals                          12             23                 35                 31.51

The Professors and Readers have time allocations for research leadership and they form key parts
of our structures, along with the Head of the Humanities Research Centre, the Head of
Department, and the leaderships of the English and Stage & Screen subject groups. We have a
well-balanced cohort that marries the vitality of ECRs with the experience of senior colleagues. We
have an especially strong group at SL who will grow to provide leadership in the Unit in the
medium term. The Unit has adapted to colleagues departing and being replaced, and we have
been able to develop the reach of our work, particularly in the disciplinary areas of Creative Writing
and English Language.

2.2 Career development

The Humanities Research Centre leads the staff development strategy and provides a CPD
programme appropriate to all Humanities researchers at all career stages. It comprises a year-long
mentoring programme for early career researchers (there are four in this Unit). There are also

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University-wide mentoring schemes, from which Unit staff benefit both as mentors and as mentees.
These include the ASPIRE scheme, originally designed to support increased progression by
women to readerships and chairs, and now extended to all staff and different kinds of career
progression.

The Head of Humanities Research Centre, the Head of Department and the Heads of subjects
ensure that researcher development plays a central part in the annual Performance and
Development Review (PDR). All line-managers have an explicit responsibility to work with
colleagues towards progression. The Unit's approach to researcher development aligns to the
University implementation of the Research Concordat (see Institutional Environment Statement).

To support our development programme, in 2014 we were awarded £29,000 from the University
Strategic Research Investment to fund our 'Early Career Researcher Booster’ scheme, supporting
publication and development for our ECRs. It funded three research assistants who worked on
staff projects and were mentored while they developed their own work. One of them (Cadman) has
since progressed to a full time, permanent academic post in the Unit.

2.3 Staffing and recruitment policy

The English Subject Group, and the Department of Humanities, recruits all new academic staff on
teaching and research contracts and with career-stage appropriate research track records. We aim
to replace departing colleagues and to strengthen our strategic areas. We have made a series of
key new appointments across all areas of our Unit's research. Appointments have been to
consolidate areas of strength in the Early Modern Literary Studies (Anderson, Cadman) and
Modern Literature (Goodby, Kramer, Mundye); in Contemporary Creativity (Battle-Felton, Earle,
Johnson, Roche-Jacques); Stylistics (Browse, Gibbons, Mason); and in Language, Literacy and
Social Structure (Escott, Sayers, Grainger, P. Jones; the latter two transferring from UoA34).

We are committed to supporting all staff in developing high-quality research, impact and public
engagement. The Unit has taken full advantage of progression opportunities in the University and
has a high proportion of professors and readers. All those staff progressed to these senior
research roles during careers at Hallam and they now provide key research leadership and
mentoring.

All staff are integrated in the Unit's research culture and have access to professional development,
with opportunities to progress. The Unit and the University have enabled flexible working for staff
who wished to reduce temporarily or permanently their fractions, for reasons including return from
maternity leave, ongoing caring responsibilities, or the need for flexible work patterns.

2.4 Visiting professors

Visiting Professors are a vital part of the Unit's research, research career development and
external research networks. Each was appointed for a term of three years and took part in a range
of activity with staff and doctoral students, including guest and public lectures, research seminars,
research group mentoring, individual mentoring and feedback on work in progress. Visiting
Professors included Tracey Hill (Bath Spa) and Cora Kaplan (Emerita, Queen Mary, London) for
literature; Paul Kerswill (York) for language; and Jo Shapcott (Royal Holloway), Patrick
McGuinness (Oxford) and Robert Macfarlane (Cambridge) for creative writing. MacFarlane was
subsequently also made an Honorary Doctor of Letters by Sheffield Hallam University in 2019. In
addition, there is a programme of visiting speakers and creative writing master classes which
expand our research connections.

2.5 Research support

All staff in the Unit are entitled to apply for research funding. Through the HRC, research support is
available to fund a range of activities, such as archive and specialised library visits, conference
participation, the hosting of conferences and symposia, and to pay for research assistants, impact

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
activities and collaborative work with other institutions. Staff may also apply for publication
assistance, including the funding of images, permissions and indexing. Annual funding for such
activity and for impact is £52,000, allocated to the Unit in addition to Department of Humanities
support for research leave and research allocations.

All colleagues are entitled to apply for a period of research leave of one semester in each REF
cycle. The sequence of research leaves is determined by an application process, which considers
the needs of individual researchers, and the Unit as a whole, to complete planned research. All
staff with Significant Responsibility for Research (91% of English staff) have an allocation of
research hours under the University Code of Practice. We support colleagues returning to research
with additional development time in work plans, with the expectation that they will also secure
SRfR. The Culture and Creativity Research Institute professional services staff provide support for
a range of research activity, as detailed below.

2.5.1 Impact support

In 2013 colleagues were encouraged to identify potential impact projects arising from their (then)
current or planned research. While the initial work was done in existing research time allocations,
after 2018 an additional 60 hours per year were allocated to the leaders of substantial impact
projects – most notably A. Bell, C. Hopkins, L. Hopkins and Tarlo – three of which have been
submitted as ICS in REF2021. In 2017 the University appointed an impact support officer
specifically to lead impact training, followed by a second such appointment in 2019. The Unit has
benefitted from the resulting monthly impact workshops since then.

The University's professorial and readership criteria were updated in 2014 to include the leadership
and achievement of impact, to recognise the value of such work; and achievements in impact
contributed to successful progression for Unit members in the period (A. Bell and Tarlo were
awarded readerships and then chairs). Impact which is likely to come to maturity over the next
cycle, including work by A. Bell, Battle-Felton, Clark, Escott, Mason, Payne and Tarlo, is also likely
to be prioritised for development funding.

2.6 Research students

Research students are central to our research culture. Their work has contributed in important
ways to the Unit's research strategy: four projects explored renaissance texts (Early Modern), and
seven studied more recent culture and cultural contexts (Modern); two focused on stylistics in
contemporary texts (Stylistics); four on discourse analysis, politeness, and discrimination
(Language, Literacy and Social Structure); and four were practice-based creative writing
projects on contemporary poetry, including two with an interest in environment and one about
performance in female stand-up comedy (Contemporary Creativity).

The University has reacted to the challenges and disruptions caused to PGR students by the
Covid-19 pandemic and has provided a series of additional support measures (see Institutional
Covid Statement).

2.6.1 PGR recruitment, support and progress monitoring

The Department of Humanities has offered three PhD bursaries per year since 2014. These are
awarded on the basis of research quality, strategic fit with supervisory capacity and the Unit’s
research themes. In 2019-20 the bursaries were replaced by Graduate Teaching Assistant roles,
which guarantee higher education teaching development and teaching experience, and are funded
for 3.5 years to allow time for this developmental experience, as well as for completion of the
doctoral thesis. English has been consistently successful in this Humanities doctoral application
process.

The Humanities Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT) is responsible for recruiting new students in
partnership with the Head of Research Degrees in CCRI, the Head of Humanities and the Head of

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the HRC. Admissions criteria align with the QAA and UKBA guidelines. Induction takes place
annually and is supplemented by resources on the Research Student VLE site (Blackboard). PGR
regulations and procedures are managed by the Research Degrees Committee (RDC). The
University Code of Practice for Research Students and Supervisors outlines the quality framework
for managing research degrees, facilitating timely completion and a good student experience. The
Annual Monitoring and Feedback Exercise tracks Research Degree progression through
completion of an on-line questionnaire for students and supervisors, with results being assessed
using annual performance-indicators.

The Research Supervisor Development Programme (co-led by L. Hopkins from this Unit) develops
effective supervision skills and must be completed by all staff who are to supervise PGRs. The
face-to-face workshops are supported by a VLE, while a complementary research-degree
examiner workshop takes place annually. Ten English staff have participated in these courses
since 2014 and we widen the pool of supervisors by including less experienced staff on
supervisory teams.

Student progress is formally monitored at three months for full-time students and six months for
part-time students, and which is independently assessed by two rapporteurs. Progress is checked
through Confirmation of PhD registration at 12 months for full-time students and 24 months for
part-time students. Readiness to proceed is assessed by a 6,000-word progress-report,
supplemented by an oral presentation, again assessed by rapporteurs on behalf of RDC. The
University takes part in the annual Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES).

2.6.2 PGR training

All Humanities research students go through a formal programme of 12 weekly two-hour Research
Methods workshops over their first semester. The workshops end with project presentations,
attended by supervisors and PhD students in their second and third years. Throughout the
teaching year, there is a programme of fortnightly thematic events, addressing topics suggested by
the students, key skills such as presenting and writing conference papers, and stages in the PhD
lifecycle such as the viva examination. Larger, full-day events are held on issues such as careers
and personal development. These events are organised locally in Humanities to provide bespoke
training in our disciplines. Individual skills training needs are identified through the Researcher
Development Framework (RDF) Planner. The Epigeum training package, including a mandatory
ethics module, is available to all PGRs. We have pioneered the use of learning contracts for PhD
students.

All PhD students, however funded, are given an opportunity to develop their teaching skills, initially
by leading a seminar group on a module aligned with their research interest, and then with more
varied teaching as appropriate. All are mentored by the specific Module Leaders, as well as taking
the University ‘Research Students Who Teach’ course. PGR students can apply to the Graduate
School for up to £500 annually to fund research activity such as attendance at conferences or
access to archives. Eight were supported by Humanities bursaries or the GTA scheme, while a
further two had fee waivers over the period of their study.

2.6.3 Postgraduate achievements

Twenty-one doctoral students have successfully completed since August 2013, which represents a
40% increase on REF2014, and exceeds our target for the period. Among those students Riyukta
Raghanuth is now lecturer at New College of the Humanities, London. Joe Ondrak was awarded
the British Association of Contemporary Literary Studies Postgraduate Essay Prize in 2018, for his
essay “Spectres des Monstres: Post-Postmodernism, Hauntology and Creepypasta Narratives as
Digital Fiction”, published in Horror Studies. Louise Powell published in Common People: An
Anthology of Working-Class Voices (2019).




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.6.4 PGR community and interdisciplinarity

Humanities research students meet monthly to research and discuss readings, as well as issues of
common concern. This group is now firmly established and has continued long after the
foundational cohort of students completed their studies. It has its own web presence
(https://postgradgroupshu.wordpress.com/).

PhD students also participate in the wider research activities of the Department of Humanities.
PGR students have taken active roles in English research seminars, including presenting their own
research, and proposing themes and speakers. Since 2018, PGR students have organised their
own multi-panel interdisciplinary research conference. These conferences, supported with funding
from the Graduate School and HRC, have developed the academic leadership skills and scholarly
achievements of our PG students. It is a sign of a well-established postgraduate community that
the task of organising these conferences is both shared and passed on from cohort to cohort.

2.7 Equality, diversity and inclusion

We deploy University policies and processes and mandatory leadership and management training,
to ensure equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) across our research activity. The Department of
Humanities has a dedicated Equality Lead (Anderson) responsible for leading on these initiatives.
Sheffield Hallam is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and runs an initiative called LBGT+ Allies,
which invites any member of staff to become a visible advocate, supporter and friend. The
University is a signatory to the Race Equality Charter and holds a bronze Athena Swan award.

These are issues that stand equally importantly in our research as well as in our institutional
structures. Colleagues work actively on questions of gender (Dredge, Clark), race and inequalities
(Sanchez-Arce, Battle-Felton) and ability/disability (Anderson). We seek to contribute to
understandings of, and debates about, these issues, as well as to implement policies on them.

The HRC Research Support and Research Leave schemes are available to all staff, including
those on fractional contracts. Additional support is available to staff with protected characteristics,
and Unit staff have been involved in leadership development training specifically aimed at BAME
and women (for example, via the University’s ASPIRE mentoring scheme).

The HRC Research Leave scheme allows for postponing research leave due to long-term illness.
Research students have access to University-wide processes for suspension of studies for long-
term illness, and students with reported disabilities or additional learning needs are provided with a
‘learning contract’, which takes account of reasonable adjustments and is agreed with supervisory
teams and PGRT, to enable flexibility including deadline extensions.

The HRC and Department recognises its responsibility to staff and research students who are
carers or returning from parental leave, and effectively deploys University policies covering flexible
working and parental leave. Flexible working has been enabled for research staff in the Unit to
ensure that they can maintain a balance between caring responsibilities and research and
teaching. The Department-wide Research Leave scheme allows for postponing research leave due
to parental leave. Through HRC funding, Unit staff with caring responsibilities are supported to
attend conferences and other necessary travel to support research; for example, research staff
with young children or lone parents have been enabled to travel to conferences with their child via
the usual University booking processes, with guidance from Health and Safety. University support
for open access publication also has specific provision for early career researchers, and those
returning from maternity-leave or long-term illness.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

3.1 Research funding

We have made significant progress in securing external grant revenue. We have been awarded
two larger and several smaller grants in the period since 2014, which amount to a tenfold increase
in research income since REF 2014.

These include our two largest awards:

A. Bell (Stylistics) was PI for the AHRC-funded Reading Digital Fiction project (£203,424,
AH/K004174/1, 2014-2017) collaborating with researchers at Bangor (Wales) and Alberta
(Canada), and external partners across the UK, including art galleries and libraries. The project
investigated how readers cognitively process linguistic, multimodal and interactive features in
digital fiction via four empirical studies, and introduced readers to digital fiction via public
engagement. Events included five exhibitions, 15 workshops, seven lectures and six professional
development sessions, including events at Sheffield Libraries and the National Library of Wales.
The project resulted in four peer-reviewed articles/chapters, which contributed new understandings
of immersion and interactivity in digital fiction, as well as the development of new empirical
research methods for investigating narrative processing across media.

Steggle (Early Modern Literary Studies) is Co-Investigator (with Martin Butler, University of
Leeds) for a project team of 15 scholars who are preparing The Complete Works of John Marston,
one of the most controversial and influential writers of his time (CI, AHRC Oxford UP edition of the
Complete Works of John Marston, £715,662, AH/M0084281, 2015). This vitally important edition
will contain all Marston’s plays, poems and entertainments, critically edited in modern spelling, with
full introductions, collations and commentaries. It will be published by Oxford University Press as a
four-volume print set. An old-spelling text is also being prepared, to appear as part of Oxford
Scholarly Editions Online (OSEO).

Other awards secured across our new research themes include:

Stylistics
A. Bell received research council funding for ‘Being Human: Festival of the Humanities’ digital
reading event (AHRC/SAA, £1,949, 2016).

Language, Literacy and Social Structure
Peplow received AHRC funding for ‘A Critical Review of the Effectiveness of the Therapeutic Use
of Artistic Therapy’ (£28,600, AH/L014343/1, 2014), with researchers in Health at Hallam.

Modern Literature
Drewery was awarded National Endowment for the Humanities funding to prepare a digital genetic
edition of a May Sinclair short story with a complex genealogy ($45,000, RZ-266063, 2019; with
Bowler, Keele and McKnight, Rare Books and Manuscripts Library, University of Pennsylvania).
This contributes to her May Sinclair Critical Editions Project (2022-2028, under contract with
Edinburgh UP), as does her BA/Leverhulme small grant (£7,896, SRG1819\191235, 2019) to fund
an editorial assistant (0.2 FTE for one year).

Contemporary Creativity
Tarlo is supporting the AHRC-funded ‘Hydrospheres’ project (with the Department of Natural and
Built Environment at Hallam), using fiction and poetry to assist in participatory landscape use
decision-making, and co-supervising the attached PhD student. H. Bell was awarded a small grant
(£350) by the Society for Theatre Research to carry out interviews with leading practitioners of
Theatre-in-the-Round, to underpin his work on the first book-length study of this important kind of
British theatre.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have also disbursed significant internal revenue in supporting research in English. The
University has invested £1,274,000 of QR income in the Unit since 2014, including £364,000 to
fund research support such as travel, conference and archive attendance, permissions costs and
indexing. This has been supplemented with substantial resources provided by the Department of
Humanities to support the viability of the research-leave scheme, a key mechanism for sustaining
future research in the Unit.

3.2 Infrastructure

Since University restructuring in 2020, professional services support is provided by the University’s
Research and Innovation Services (RIS). The Humanities Research Centre is supported by the
Culture and Creativity Research Institute team (8 FTE) who provide support for events
organisation, project administration, postgraduate research (student, supervisor and management
support), health and safety, communications and online presence.

Over the cycle the University invested heavily in our area, particularly in creating newly designed
venues (The Performance Lab and The Performance Studio), and in specialist video/audio editing
facilities and recording studios located in Aspect Court on the City Campus. They opened in 2018
and provide vital spaces supporting our Contemporary Creativity theme.

3.3 Library research support

The Library Research Support team has a member with liaison responsibilities for each Research
Institute. The team is also responsible for providing detailed advice and training through its
website, training sessions and individual support. Open access is supported through information
provision and training, support for the use of Elements and SHURA, and access to funding for
publishing in gold OA journals. Unit staff have been supported through funding open access
publication of books and journal articles. Relevant databases include ProQuest One Literature, the
Mass Observation Archive, MLA International Bibliography, Linguistics and Language Behaviour
Abstracts, and Historical Texts. There is an unlimited Document Supply Service.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our commitment to collaboration with other institutions, research networks and scholarly
associations, allied to the rigour of our research and the standing of our colleagues, enables the
Unit to make a sustained and vital contribution to the national and international research base
across our strategic themes. We have contributed to wider society through work reaching beyond
the academy. Outlined below are examples of our collaborations and the contribution made by the
Unit in our specific research themes. Finally, there are examples of our sustained participation in
cultural and intellectual life through research and impact.

4.1 Research collaborations and contribution to the research base

Early Modern
Anderson was a trustee of the British Shakespeare Association 2014-2019 and chair of the Events
Committee 2015-2019, while L. Hopkins is co-editor (with Cartmell, De Montfort; Rutter, Sheffield;
and Greatley-Hirsch, Leeds) of the Association’s journal Shakespeare. She also co-edits two key
research resources, Arden Studies in Early Modern Drama, which published an innovative study of
Early Modern Theatre and the Figure of Disability (2020), and Arden Early Modern Drama Guides,
which has published Critical Readers on fifteen plays since 2014. She has worked with volume
editors from universities in Australia, Britain, France, Greece, Italy and the US. Steggle is a co-
founder and co-general editor, with Knutson and McInnis, of The Lost Plays Database, which gives
unique access to recovery work on lost early modern drama. As a result, in 2015, Steggle was
invited to become a JISC Historical Texts advisory board member. He was also co-organiser (with
Butler, Leeds) of the conference, ‘Authorship and Attribution in Early Modern Drama: John Marston
and Others’ (Birkbeck, 2016), part of their joint work on the Complete Works of John Marston.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Modern Literature
Drewery is general editor of the long-term May Sinclair Critical Editions Project (Edinburgh
University Press) and a co-founder of the May Sinclair Society. Both were initiated by collaboration
with Bowler (Keele), as was her successful application for a National Endowment for the
Humanities Collaborative Award. The funding enabled her to work with the Rare Book and
Manuscript Library at the University of Pennsylvania to produce a digital genetic edition of a May
Sinclair short story. Drewery and Bowler also co-organised the Stream of Consciousness
Centenary Conference at Hallam in April 2018.

Gibbons has been instrumental in the development “metamodern literature” as a research field via
her long-term international collaboration with Timotheus Vermeulen (Oslo) and Robin van der
Akker (Rotterdam), including co-editing Metamodernism: Historicity, Affect, Depth, after
Postmodernism (Rowman & Littlefield, 2017) and the online magazine Notes on Metamodernism
(http://www.metamodernism.com/).

Stylistics
A. Bell was a member of the AHRC-funded Digital Reading Network (AH/K005774/1, 2013-2014)
and worked with Ensslin (Alberta, Canada) and Skains (Bangor) on her AHRC-funded project
Reading Digital Fiction (2014-17), which underpins one of our impact case studies (ICS1). She
also worked with M.L Ryan to co-edit the book Possible Worlds Theory and Contemporary
Narratology (2019), and with Alber (Aarhus, Denmark) on a project entitled ‘What is Post-
Postmodernism?: Fiction in the Digital Age’, which resulted in a special issue of the European
Journal of English Studies (2019).

Gibbons was Secretary for the International Association of Literary Semantics (2011-2017) and is
the Poetics and Linguistics Association (PALA) Ambassador for the Société de Stylistique Anglaise
in France (since 2019).

Language, Literacy and Social Structure
Mason has had a sustained collaboration with Marco Giovanelli (Aston) on projects on reading
practices in schools and their part in the formation of social identities, resulting in co-authored
works including the Language of Literature (Cambridge UP, 2018) and ‘What Do You Think?’ Let
Me Tell You: Discourse about Texts and the Literature Classroom’ (Changing English, 2017).

Escott collaborated with the 2019 ESRC/AHRC ‘Location-Based Virtual Reality (LBVR)
Experiences for Children: Japan-UK Knowledge Exchange Network’ project, working with
videogame developers Dubit and the Royal College of Art on a capacity building trip to Tokyo, to
meet LBVR developers Hashilus, academics at the University of Tokyo and researchers at the
Pokemon Company.

4.2 Public engagement and contribution to society

Engaging local, national and international communities is central to our research ethos. The
strength of our work as scholars, writers and performers has made notable contributions to society,
beyond our impact case studies. Much of this work created pathways to impact through local and
regional relationships with existing organisations, partners and community groups, while others
developed wider national or international reach. In some cases, it builds capacity for impact in the
next cycle.

Since 2017 we have co-sponsored and co-curated Sheffield’s ‘Off the Shelf Festival of Words’, one
the country’s leading literary events. In 2019 Tarlo curated the festival’s Environment theme, and
seven Unit members contributed, together with our Visiting Professor, Patrick McGuinness, in
2020.

Much of our research investigates reading and readers, including how reading practices inform
public opinion (Hopkins, Mason) and social and cultural identities (Battle-Felton, Peplow), as well

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as exploring how reading can be used therapeutically (Hopkins, Peplow) and enabled via digital
technologies (A Bell, Escott). Battle-Felton set up groups and events (face-to-face and online) as
part of her research in building diverse story-telling communities, including African-American
Literary Salons, the Middle Grade Book Club, and the Juneteenth storytelling event, which
attracted 45,000 US and UK attendees or viewers online, and engaged themes of family, freedom,
home and legacy. Escott and Mason work with charities, schools and teachers to support new
authentic and inclusive ways of engaging school students in reading and writing. A. Bell’s work on
understanding and expanding digital reading and preserving digital fiction creates new reading
communities. Through their leadership of literary societies Drewery and Mundye both involve broad
readerships in their research in Modern Literature (see below).

C. Hopkins’ substantial research impact is centred on two reading projects for which he was
academic advisor. Reading 1900-1950 engages contemporary Sheffield readers with
understanding the importance of popular fiction and reading practices in forming public opinion and
perceptions of social identities in the first half of the twentieth century. The second project, Reading
Sheffield, focuses on the reading histories of Sheffield citizens who came to adulthood between
1936 and 1965, collecting and preserving their oral reading histories on its website. Both groups
publish on the web original material from their regular activity. Reading Sheffield has published
transcriptions of 65 of its oral history interviews, together with interpretative articles, while Reading
1900-1950 has published reviews of 284 mainly neglected popular novels (2014-2020).

Contemporary Creativity
Naylor’s plays, which have been performed on stage, screen and radio to notable critical acclaim,
reach wide international audiences. Andrew Kötting’s film Lek and the Dogs (2017), which is
based on her play ‘Ivan and the Dogs’, is currently available on Amazon Prime, and described as a
‘spelling-binding story’ by IMDB. She worked with Extraordinary Bodies, a company ‘integrating
hearing impaired, disabled and non-disabled artists’ on Weighting and What Am I Worth? (2017).
She also collaborated with BBC Radio on adaptations including How to Survive the Roman
Empire: The Letters of Pliny (2016). Her play, The Marxist in Heaven, was commissioned by the
National Theatre and published in their Connections collection for youth theatres and drama
departments in March 2020.

Bush was an invited speaker for In Context: Our Country's Good at the National Theatre (2017)
and at Teacher Insight: My Mother Said I Never Should at Sheffield Theatres. H. Bell's ‘Image
Theatre’ project focussed on the application of theatre practice to social justice, helping
participants in the Venice Biennale (2017) articulate, through performance, their responses to the
work on the drawn experience of refugees by the artist Bryan McCormack in his
Yesterday/Today/Tomorrow artwork project.

In extending our work on the environment, Tarlo contributed to bids to the Arts Council England for
exhibition funding with external partners: Excavations and Estuaries (Outfalls) (£12,000, 2014) and
the Fitties project (£5,500, 2016). Payne is co-director of Doppelgangster theatre company which
through experimental theatre addresses urgent issues, including climate change, forced migration
and corporate power. His play about human extinction, Everybody Loses, submitted as an output,
has been performed in Aberystwyth, Athens, Brisbane, London, Madrid, Paris, Singapore, Sheffield
and Sydney (2017-2019).

Early Modern Literary Studies
Since 2014, Connolly has been academic consultant to 1623 Theatre Company, Derby, which
performs Shakespeare in non-theatrical spaces and seeks to reach new audiences, and led a
Globe Education workshop on ‘The Jew of Malta on the Caroline Stage’ (2016).

L. Hopkins' expertise in early modern literature has led her to work closely in the production of, and
public education and engagement programmes for, key national venues and organisations such as
the Globe Theatre, the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse, Gray’s Inn, and the Sheffield Showroom. Her
work is the basis of one of our three ICS (ICS3).


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Modern Literature
Mundye has played a major role in promoting both scholarship and public interest as President of
the Robert Graves Society since 2014. He founded the Annual Robert Graves Society Lecture
series and is co-editor of Gravesiana (2014–2016). To widen access to the work of the Society he
arranged for the annual lecture to be presented at public events, including Off the Shelf Festival of
Words in 2015 and 2016, when Roger McGough and then Fran Brearton (Director of the Seamus
Heaney Centre for Poetry at Queen’s University Belfast) gave the lecture. Similarly, the third
lecture was given by Professor Paul O’ Prey, Vice Chancellor of Roehampton University, as part of
Wimbledon Bookfest in 2017.

Stylistics
A. Bell was the academic partner on an Arts Council England Collaborative Bid with digital
storytelling studio One-to-One Development Trust (£12,618, 2015), which funded the development
of a digital fiction installation for Bell’s empirical research and public engagement.

Language, Literacy and Social structure
Mason has built an extensive network, including many secondary school teachers, partly through
her twitter feed 'Exploring EngEd' (2185 followers), which supports more authentic and inclusive
ways of engaging school students with reading and texts. She co-authored Studying Fiction: A
Guide for Teachers and Researchers (forthcoming, 2021) which is specifically geared to offer
knowledge-exchange for practising and trainee teachers. She has been invited to speak at
conferences, organised by and for teachers, about her research and its applications within
teaching English at secondary level. Her research appears on the core reading lists for a number
of teacher-training programmes, including those at Universities of Bristol, Leicester, Nottingham,
Staffordshire and Reading. She has acted as a consultant for English for one of the UK’'s leading
exam boards, OCR, and was invited to speak at their 2019 annual conference.

4.3 Contributions to the discipline and markers of esteem

The Unit's overall strategic aim – manifested through our five strategic themes – is to foster the
vitality and sustainability of the discipline at national and international level. We have, in addition to
our publications, impact and public engagement activities, contributed to our respective disciplines
as follows:

4.3.1 Editing

Colleagues across the Unit have made important contributions to scholarship through journal
editorship. Cadman is general editor of the online open access journal Early Modern Literary
Studies (EMLS), which has published eleven issues and some one-hundred articles since 2014. A.
Bell is editor of the ‘Digital Fictions’ Elements Series for Cambridge University Press, and Grainger
is editor-in-chief of the Journal of Politeness Research. Battle-Felton is an editor of the National
Association of Writing in Education (NAWE) Writing in Practice journal. Earle is series editor for
‘Global Perspectives in Comics Studies’ (Routledge), the first series to focus scholarly attention on
comics across world cultures. Anderson is an editorial board member for the Journal of Literary
and Cultural Disability Studies.

4.3.2 Peer review and advisory boards

A. Bell is an AHRC peer-review college member and Grainger a peer reviewer for the ESRC. Unit
members peer review for 56 journals and 15 publishers internationally, including for Bloomsbury,
Cambridge UP, Edinburgh UP, Manchester UP, Methuen Drama, MIT Press, Nebraska UP, Ohio
State UP, Oxford UP, Palgrave and Routledge.

A. Bell was advisory board member for Reading on Screen (AHRC-funded AH/P013716/1, 2017).
She was a judge or selection committee for a number of important prizes including the Electronic
Literature Organization's Marjorie C. Luesebrink Career Achievement Award 2017, and the Perkins
Prize for the International Society for the Study of Narrative in 2016. Gibbons was a member of

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Advisory Board for ‘The Literary in Life: Exploring the Boundaries between Literature and the
Everyday’ (2015-2019, funded by the Academy of Finland). Battle-Felton is a member of the
NAWE committee, a member of the Board of Directors of New Writing North and was 2020 Writer
in Residence for Writing on the Wall.

4.3.3 Plenaries and conferences

Mundye was director of the International Robert Graves Conference (2016 and 2018). Gibbons, A.
Bell and Browse organised the Style and Response conference (Hallam 2016), while Gibbons was
also involved in organising the ‘Addressing the Reader: The Pragmatics of Communication in
Fiction’ conference (Montpellier, 2019). Earnshaw organised panels at the Alcohol and Drugs
Historical Society conference (Utrecht, 2017). C. Hopkins organised ‘The Auden Generation and
After’ conference to mark the fortieth anniversary of Hynes’s book (Hallam, 2017). Tarlo convened
Cross Multi Inter Trans: The Biennial Conference of ASLE-UKI with Land2 and the In the Open
exhibition (both 2017).

In addition, Unit members have given some forty plenaries, along with conference and seminar
papers internationally, in line with our aim to engage globally. Unit members have spoken across
four continents from Abu Dhabi (Gibbons, ‘Charisma, Crisis, Controversy: Multimodal Fiction and
the Spirit of Tahrir Square’, at Charisma of the Book: Global Perspectives for the 21st Century, at
the New York University Abu Dhabi, 2016) to Yerevan (L. Hopkins ‘Armenia, Shakespeare, and
Traffic between East and West’, at the Armenian Shakespeare Association, Yerevan, 2018).

4.3.4 Prizes and Fellowships

Anderson was awarded a Huntington Library Fellowship ($3000, 2018) to work on the dramatist
Thomas Heywood. L. Hopkins won the Ben Jonson Discoveries Award for her essay ‘A Matter of
Life and Death: The Fourth Act in Shakespearean Tragedy’, published in the Ben Jonson Journal
(2015). Steggle won the Hoffman Prize for Distinguished Publication on Marlow (£10,500, 2015),
RSA-TCP Article Prize for Digital Renaissance Research (for ‘EEBO-TCP and the Cruces of
Measure for Measure’, $500, 2015), the biennial Early Theatre prize for best note for "The
'Comedy of a Duke of Ferrara' in 1598" ($200, 2017), and was a funded invitee to the Folger
Institute symposium, Shakespeare's Theatrical Documents, Folger Shakespeare Library (2016).
Mundye and Goodby are both Fellows of the English Association.

Jones was awarded the Sebeok-Love Prize for the best 2017 journal article in Language Sciences
for ‘Language – The Transparent Tool: Reflections on Reflexivity and Instrumentality’. Mason was
awarded the National Association for the Teaching of English (NATE) Terry Furlong Award for
Research for her work on reading in schools (2015). Battle-Felton was a judge for the Jhalak Prize,
designed to promote writing by people of colour resident in and publishing in the UK (2020).

4.3.5 External Examining

Unit members have examined theses in their specialisms at nineteen universities in the UK and
abroad, including at Bangor (2), Birmingham, Bristol (2), Cardiff Metropolitan, De Montfort (2),
Dundee/Scottish Poetry Library, Edgehill, Hull, Kent, Leeds Metropolitan, Liverpool (2), Murdoch,
Northumbria, Nottingham, Oxford (3), Plymouth, Sheffield, Sydney and Western Australia.




                                                                                          Page 17
