Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: 5 – Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of research across the submitted unit

 Summary
 UoA5 sits within the School of Biosciences, which is one of four schools in the College of Life
 and Environmental Sciences (LES) [REF5a, 1]. UoA5 comprises four coalescent, strategic
 themes to which each member of research staff is primarily affiliated. However, collaborations
 extend across themes and units to share facilities, develop new initiatives, and to examine large
 scale scientific questions, often using interdisciplinary approaches. Since 2014 we have:

    •   Recruited 25 new staff, bringing our BAME and gender balance in line with the UK HEI
        national population;
    •   Increased our average annual grant income by 18.7% (including major projects detailed
        in next section);
    •   Invested £46.4M in new research infrastructure, equipment, and facilities, for example,
        the Birmingham Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR), which includes the Northern
        Hemisphere’s only Free Air Carbon Enrichment (FACE) experiment;
    •   Increased funding for doctoral research training through the award of five externally
        funded doctoral training programs;
    •   Produced 1479 Scopus listed outputs with 35,475 citations (24.0/publication) and overall
        field weighted citation of 2.61; building on collaborations with 62 international institutions,
        62% of our outputs have international co-authors;
    •   Established several major commercialisation opportunities, notably two spinout
        companies;
    •   Influenced national and international policy through staff secondments and panel
        memberships of government and non-governmental organisations;
    •   Shaped current and future research agendas (detailed in next section).

 Unit Structure
 Category A submitted staff (60.8 FTE) and research-intensive teaching staff (19 additional staff)
 in UoA5 are structured around four research themes, each led by senior academics:

    •   Microbiology and Infection (M&I)
    •   Plant Sciences and Food Security (PSFS)
    •   Cells and Molecules (C&M)
    •   Biosystems & Environmental Change (BEC)

 Microbiology & Infection (M&I, 23.7 FTE)
 The M&I theme focuses on greater understanding of microbial function for both beneficial
 bacteria and important pathogens. M&I research was strengthened through the creation of the
 cross-College (with Medical and Dental Sciences) Institute of Microbiology and Infection (IMI) in
 2011. This has grown, during the last six years, to become one of the largest groupings of
 microbiologists in Europe, with an outstanding reputation. The cross-disciplinary nature of M&I
 within IMI has been pivotal for attracting high profile researchers (Ballou, Banzhaf, Crouch,
 Frickel, Mercer and Tsai). It has also enabled staff to respond rapidly to infectious disease
 challenges of international concern, including the West Africa Ebola and South American Zika
 outbreaks and, recently, the COVID-19 pandemic (Loman, Quick, Dafforn). Key developments
 since 2014 are:

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The election to FRS of Besra for his pioneering work on Mycobacterium tuberculosis
        cell wall metabolism, joining Busby FRS.
    •   £19.5M research income (BBSRC, MRC, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust).
    •   The appointment of two colleagues as Government Chief Scientific Advisors for
        BEIS (Dafforn) and the Food Standards Agency (May).
    •   Contributed to two spin-out businesses (MicrobesNG (CSO Loman) and Linear
        Diagnostics Ltd (Dafforn)).
    •   Pioneering COVID-19 research as key players in the £20M COVID-19 Genomics UK
        Consortium (COG-UK) (Loman and Quick, a UKRI Future Leaders Fellow), and through
        technology development by Dafforn and Knowles to study COVID-19 Spike protein
        interactions with human receptors and develop the world’s fastest COVID diagnostic
        assay.

 Research from the group is highly influential, with M&I staff contributing to three Impact Case
 Studies (Loman and Dafforn x 2).

 Key future targets are to:

    1. Maximise national and global influence of M&I researchers through development of a
       national Centre;
    2. Build a world class reputation in host:pathogen interactions that links to research in other
       disciplines (e.g. medicine, plant pathology);
    3. Develop strategic industry partnerships and strong translational links to clinical
       practitioners to develop barrier-free translation of research that can be used to benefit
       society.

 Plant Sciences & Food Security (PSFS, 15.2 FTE)
 PSFS theme members investigate the fundamental principles underpinning plant growth,
 development, and environmental interactions, using fundamental and applied approaches, and
 through strategic links with industry. Their work is intrinsically linked to the growing issue of Food
 Security and Climate Change, and directly addresses global research priorities. Investment in
 new staff has enabled the theme to focus on the globally challenging issues of plant pathogens,
 crop breeding and tree and forest responses to climate and pests and diseases. Key
 developments since 2014 are:

    •   Recruitment of 9 new staff, net increase of 7 (59% of total PSFS);
    •   Capture of research income of £9M including UKRI Research ERC starter grants, EU
        multi-partner grants and a Marie Curie ITN grant;
    •   Establishment of the Birmingham Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR) [REF5a,
        4.2.3] to study the impact of climate, pests and pathogens on tree and forest
        performance;
    •   Capture of £2.5M of philanthropic donations to establish tree pathology research
        (Luna Diez, Kettles, Jackson).

 The theme also provides an Impact Case Study (Maxted) who is a global lead on policy
 development for protection of Crop Wild Relatives.

 Key future targets are to:

    1. Ensure sustainability of crop yields in stressful environments to safeguard resilience and
       secure food production;
    2. Work with M&I colleagues to develop host-microbe interaction research;
    3. Extend BIFoR influence and reach for tree and forest policy development.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cells & Molecules (C&M, 13 FTE)
 The C&M theme makes fundamental discoveries in neurogenetics, RNA processing and
 membrane protein biology for the benefit of human health. The theme includes strengths in
 Drosophila research (neurogenetics and RNA processing) and translational work to develop
 novel therapies for leukaemia and lymphoma. Research is further enabled by leadership in
 advanced mass spectrometry for the analysis of biomolecular and chemical structure, and for
 metabolite identification in human aging and diseases. Key developments since 2014 are:

    •   Attracting £12.2M in research income (BBSRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust, Blood
        Cancer UK, BHF, Leverhulme Trust);
    •   Expansion of Advanced Mass Spectrometry Facility led by Cooper, an Advanced
        EPSRC Fellow, through membership of the Rosalind Franklin Institute;
    •   Co-hosting the Phenome Centre Birmingham co-directed by Dunn;
    •   Launching of the REPAIR-MDS clinical trial funded by Blood Cancer UK (£1M) as the
        first ever UK randomised trial for myelodysplastic syndrome patients (Bunce).

 Key future targets are to:

    1. Strengthen neurogenetics research through collaborations with Birmingham’s Institute for
       Mental Health and Centre for Human Brain Health to facilitate translational outcomes;
    2. Enhance research in membrane receptors for therapeutic targeting;
    3. Increase links to pharmaceutical industry by enhancing translational work from their drug
       discovery pipeline.

 Biosystems & Environmental Change (BEC, 8.9 FTE)
 BEC members synthesize pure and translational research to quantify, monitor and mitigate
 against anthropogenic-induced environmental change and damage. The theme’s goal is to
 provide leadership in discovering causal links between environmental change and the functional
 responses of organisms and their ecosystems. Key developments since 2014 are:

    •   £9.1M research income including two NERC Hotspots on adaptive evolution and
        ecological relevance of eDNA in freshwater (£1.9M);
    •   Research/Impact Fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust, the Royal Society and NERC
        (Thorpe (x2), Chappell);
    •   Launch of a new commercial trading division supplying environmental ‘omics facilities
        and expertise, to provide cutting edge services to industry;
    •   Creation of the Environmental Care Consortium (ECC), a new charitable foundation.

 BEC’s research generates substantial public interest, including >£1.3M in media-related
 advertising value equivalent; BEC has also contributed to an Impact Case Study which focuses
 on enhancing the welfare and conservation value of captive Great Apes across the globe
 (Thorpe, Chappell and Myatt).

 Key future targets are to:

    1. Develop a world-leading cross-School partnership for Global Change Biology and
       Sustainability;
    2. Work with ECC to confront global health and justice problems;
    3. Build cross-disciplinary research (e.g. M&I, UoA7/14) to tackle ‘one health’ global
       challenges.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group synergies and influence
 Our future plans are ambitious, focusing on enhancing synergies between research groups in
 UoA5, and more broadly across the University and beyond. We are levering technological
 developments to make advances across the biological science and related disciplines (see
 1.2.1). Importantly, we are now a nexus for large scale research programs that address global
 challenges. An example is the recent award of the UoB’s largest ever EU grant (£19.3M) on
 Precision Toxicology; this combines empirical science and social science disciplines across
 institutions to address both science and policy challenges. This will ensure that the outstanding
 research led by UoA5 translates to real policy and practice changes.

 We have expanded our external influence with increasing numbers of staff holding senior
 positions in science policy (i.e. two Chief Scientific Advisors, Dafforn and May). Our research
 has also had impact in the commercial sector via a successful spinout business (MicrobesNG),
 significant contributions to another (Linear Diagnostics Ltd) and the establishment of a new
 University trading division (Environmental Omics Facility), providing cutting edge genomics to
 industrial partners.

 Research strategy and management
 In 2019, we evolved our Research Strategy (2020-2026) (see 1.2.2). The strategy is based on a
 whole-unit consultation and the University’s research strategy, alongside influences from the
 external research environment. Delivery of the strategy is the responsibility of UoA5’s Research
 Strategy Group (RSG), which reports progress against KPIs to the School Executive Committee.
 The RSG meets monthly and comprises our Heads of Research, Knowledge Transfer, PGR,
 Research Theme leads and mentors, an early-career research representative, and research
 grant/business engagement support from Professional Services; the group has a 5:5 M:F split.

 Our commitment to EDI
 UoA5 actively promotes an inclusive environment that is supportive to all constituents, believing
 that diversity and inclusivity drive innovation, ensuring our research is exciting, creative, and
 pioneering. We strive to ensure that EDI is embedded in all operational and decision-making
 activities, and EDI is a standing agenda item on all School Committees. Our EDI Committee
 (which reports directly to the School Executive Committee) includes academic and professional
 services staff, full and part-time staff, and postgraduate researchers; members represent a
 range of disabilities, ages, ethnicities, religions, and sexual orientations. In the last 5 years, we
 have delivered on our commitment to shortlist equal numbers of F:M applicants for research
 posts (1951 posts in total); this led to 9.7% more females than males being appointed to all
 research posts. Of the total headcount, 14.4% of staff identified as BAME (12.1% did not
 disclose their ethnicity) matching the University-wide figure, and higher than the average in UK
 HEIs (13%).

 1.2 Research objectives

 1.2.1 Achieving the 2014-2021 research objectives
 Since 2014, we have received £46.4M infrastructure investment to develop and sustain a rich,
 vibrant, and agile portfolio of research across all thematic areas. We have 33% more staff,
 increasing our proportions of BAME and female staff in line with the UK average, enabling us to
 grow our research activities. Notably, we have grown UK Research Council funding by >11%
 year-on-year since 2014.

 Our research ethos is one that embraces new technologies and breaks down traditional
 disciplinary boundaries, enabling us to tackle research through a truly multidisciplinary approach.
 These investments have enabled us to fully support this ethos and actively target our five major
 goals set in our REF 2014 submission:


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1.   Enhancement of metabolomics
    2.   Development of imaging as a key technology
    3.   Growth of research in plant sciences and food security
    4.   Growth of drug discovery efforts in microbiology
    5.   Establishment of synthetic biology as a research area

 1. Enhancement of metabolomics
 The Phenome Centre Birmingham was established in 2016 with a £7.1m investment from
 MRC, Industry and UoB [REF5a, 4.4] leveraging a strategic partnership with ThermoFisher
 Scientific of >£1.5M and external collaborations with the Defence Science Technology
 Laboratory and AstraZeneca >£2.5M. The Centre has developed and implemented new data
 algorithms for bioinformatics. The capabilities and strength of the Centre were crucial for the
 award of the £19.3M EU grant in 2020 to Colbourne and Viant, to lead Precision Toxicology in
 Europe. The Centre is established as a trainer of commercial scientists providing a wide range of
 courses both face-to-face and digitally. The appointment of an industry Professor, Professor
 Ruth Roberts (member of the Academy of Toxicological Sciences Board and Society of
 Toxicology Council), was made to increase the group’s interaction with industry and policy
 makers (see point 4).

 2. Development of imaging as a key technology
 Researchers in UoA5 were central to establishing the Centre of Membrane Proteins and
 Receptors (COMPARE) [REF5a, 2.1.5]. COMPARE provides access to state-of-the-art
 microscopes (including light-sheet, dSTORM and PALM instruments) alongside dedicated
 technical and computational support. COMPARE is inherently interdisciplinary, linking up our
 researchers with those in the other STEM-focussed Colleges [REF5a, 1], to develop new
 instrumentation and methods in response to the needs of our researchers. COMPARE has also
 been fundamental in supporting recruitment of staff (e.g. Frickel, Mercer).

 3. Growth of research in plant sciences and food security
 We have invested substantially into plant science research to help with the global effort of
 securing sustainable food production. This includes recruitment of one of the world’s most highly
 cited plant scientists (Foyer) alongside outstanding early career scientists via our highly
 competitive Birmingham Fellows institutional scheme (a recruitment scheme which provided
 proleptic lectureship appointments for outstanding early career staff) [REF5a, 3.4.1] and direct
 appointments. These include Compton & Gibbs who were Birmingham Fellows before REF2014
 and Sanchez-Moran, a BBSRC David Phillips fellow; their seniority and excellence have been
 instrumental in attracting, and supporting, others. Our increasing reputation for plant sciences
 has also attracted external fellowship holders (Labandera (Leverhulme) and Plackett (Royal
 Society URF)).

 Since 2014 we have established BIFoR with UoAs7 and 14, with external investment in
 infrastructure and staff costs, including a £15M philanthropic donation from the JABBS
 foundation, matched by in-kind investment of >£15M by the University [REF5a, 4.2.3].
 BIFoR allows us to challenge experimental paradigms, innovating in interdisciplinary science in
 novel ways to produce outcomes not previously available. We recruited scientists from traditional
 crop science to work with trees (Luna-Diez, Kettles and Busch) and widen expertise in ecology
 and physiology. New staff appointments have been supported by four fellowships, including a
 BBSRC Future Leaders Fellowship, a Royal Society University Research Fellowship, and a
 Leverhulme Independent Fellowship, and six direct appointments. To support this new cohort of
 researchers, we have invested £1.1M in a state-of-the-art Glasshouse facility, with a further
 £1M contribution from the Wolfson Foundation [REF5a, 4.2.3]. We secured £1.04m for the
 Leverhulme Trust-funded Forest Edge doctoral training program, enabling a cohort of 20
 students to have training in high quality interdisciplinary research and, in partnership with


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 agricultural experts at Harper Adams University, to develop applied plant sciences expertise
 through the BBSRC MIBTP DTP.

 4. Growth of drug discovery efforts in microbiology
 Our recruitment of Ruth Roberts (founder of APCONIX) has catalysed the development of drug
 discovery science in UoA5. Ruth Roberts has used her experience to analyse the opportunities
 that exist in UoA5 for drug discovery, establishing a project pipeline and advising academics on
 next steps required to advance projects towards commercial development. This also contributed
 to £800K in funding to establish the Centre for Drug Discovery and Development (CD3),
 including £300K from the Wellcome ISSF and £500K from the University’s Dynamic Investment
 Fund (DIF) [REF5a, 2.1.2]. Ruth Roberts has worked closely with other members of staff to
 establish drug screening in UoA5. The centre is a partnership with Evotec, a large
 multinational drug company that specialises in partnering with research organisations to de-risk
 potential drug leads. A monthly Drug Discovery Club has been established to support lectures
 given by academics and external speakers from the pharmaceutical industry. Dedicated Drug
 Discovery Ambassadors provide support to researchers in developing potential projects that will
 utilise the centre. These activities have led Alderwick to a flagship licensing agreement in
 2019 with a spinout company in China (Legion Pharma) to develop novel TB therapies, whereas
 Dafforn has successfully commercialised novel reagents for use in global drug discovery (see
 REF3).

 5. Establishment of synthetic biology as a research area
 Since 2014 a distinctive research effort in Synthetic Biology, based on materials science, has
 been established between UoA5 and Chemistry and Chemical Engineering. This has been
 supported by an award of £560K from the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory
 (DSTL) to support eight PhD studentships. The outputs from these projects led to an award
 of £400K from the centre for Defence Enterprise to develop novel materials (Mackaskie). The
 UoA has also had significant influence on public policy makers through Dafforn, who was
 Entrepreneur-in-Residence (see REF3) responsible for Synthetic Biology at UK Government
 (BEIS).

 1.2.2 Our 2020-26 research strategy
 We are a key contributor to the University of Birmingham’s strategic objectives for the next 5
 years [REF5a, 2.4]. Our ambition is to become one of the top Biosciences units in the UK, and
 globally, through the attainment of our core goals to:

    •   Be international leaders in the excellence and impact of our research, evidenced by high
        quality publications and impacts.
    •   Be the preferred partner for global academic, industry, and end-user partners in our fields
        of expertise, evidenced by increased co-funding and outputs and an outstanding
        international reputation.
    •   Have staff that are diverse, happy, motivated, successful, and collegiate, ensuring that
        they develop rapidly to their full potential.

 Overarching strategic objectives
 To achieve these goals UoA5 has identified the following overarching objectives that build on the
 strengths and ambitions of our Research Themes (see 1.2.3). These will:

    •   Build an inclusive research culture in which our staff at all career stages:
            o achieve their goals in world class research, irrespective of gender and race;
            o are mentored, encouraged, and celebrated for their achievements;
            o are empowered to be ambitious, entrepreneurial, and multi-disciplinary.
    •   Build a diverse bioscience workforce of the future by recruiting and providing the
        highest quality training to our PGRs and PDRAs.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Harness the importance of technology innovation and multidisciplinary teams in
        future bioscience research.
    •   Embed impact generation in line with the eight guiding principles of the forthcoming
        UUK Knowledge Exchange Concordat as a pillar of our research culture; increasing
        business and end-user engagement; and funding and developing pioneering global
        alliances to address key global challenges.

 1.3 Enabling and facilitation of impact from our research

 We recognise the importance of funding to develop both fundamental and applied sciences,
 leading to demonstrable impact that has economic or societal benefits. To enable this, we use
 the vast enterprise experience of our Head of Knowledge Exchange (Dafforn) and broader
 Research Strategy Group (RSG) along with colleagues in professional services, to promote
 understanding of impact in its widest form from policy and know-how, to new products and
 technologies. UoA5 has successfully utilised >£180,000 of the University’s BBSRC Impact
 Acceleration Account (IAA) plus some funds from a College impact budget (£50-80K annually)
 for activities ranging from commercialisation opportunities (Browning), people exchange
 (Thorpe), and public engagement activity (Hidalgo).

 1.3.1 Impacts on commerce and the economy
 Collaboration with commercial entities
 The commercial impact of our research is supported by a dedicated business engagement
 partner (BEP) [REF5a, 4.1], and the Head of Knowledge Exchange, who reports to the RSG. We
 also use peer-to-peer coaching to increase BE and academics who have been involved in
 commercialisation (e.g. Dafforn, Ruth Roberts, Alderwick) provide lectures on their experiences
 and 1-to-1 advice and guidance. Since REF2014 UoA5 has obtained £1.69M in industry
 income, facilitated by working with 86 industrial partners. This has included 26 iCASE awards
 and industrial PhDs since 2014 (e.g. Borrill, Catoni, Foyer, Gibbs) with businesses including
 both large corporations (e.g. Unilever, AstraZeneca, BASF, Syngenta, Enza Zaden) and SMEs
 (e.g. Domainex, BioBest, RAGT Seeds Ltd, KWS Ltd). Research contracts include research with
 international businesses like Sanofi and NovoNordisk. We have also built strategic relationships
 with ThermoFisher Scientific (worth >£1.5M) to support our development of mass spectrometry.

 Generation of Intellectual property (IP)
 Staff enterprise training is a key element of catalysing the generation of IP. Our staff are
 encouraged to attend the University’s Medici commercialisation training course (five staff have
 completed the course) [REF5a, 2.1.3] and other external courses (four staff have completed the
 BBSRC Enterprise fellowship). We also enter a student team into the BBSRC YES competition
 each year. The commercial impact of our research is supported by the BEP [REF5a, 4.1] and
 the Head of Knowledge Exchange, who reports to the RSG.

 Since August 2013, researchers in UoA5 have filed 41 patents (32 granted), with a license
 income of £89K. Using this IP, researchers have contributed to two spinout businesses. Dafforn
 has licensed three patents to Linear Diagnostics Ltd, a clinical diagnostics business which has
 since raised more than £3M in investment (see REF3). Loman founded MicrobesNG, a microbial
 genome sequencing service, which has customers in more 30 countries (see REF3). Both
 businesses are currently accommodated in the BIOHUB incubator, which is <10 minutes’ walk
 from the School. Our Genomics facility (led by Orsini) has become an independent trading
 division, to offer its unique capabilities commercially. Dafforn has also successfully licensed
 patents on protein encapsulation to a business in the Netherlands, enabling it to sell new
 reagents across the globe (see REF3).




                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.2 Impact on Policy
 Secondments
 As part of our yearly appraisal process, our staff are encouraged to undertake secondments to
 promote mobility of personnel into key roles and ensure our work has the greatest potential to
 influence public policy. For example:

 Professor Tim Dafforn’s secondment to BIS as Entrepreneur-in-Residence for Synthetic Biology
 led to his appointment as Chief Scientific Adviser (CSA) to BIS and then BEIS. His activities (see
 REF3) included a co-authored letter to the Prime Minister, which led to changes in government
 entrepreneurship policy focused on supporting emerging technologies, like Synthetic Biology.
 Our drive to maintain input into policymaking has continued with the appointment of Professor
 Robin May as the CSA for the Food Standards Agency in 2020. Professor Nigel Maxted has
 provided crucial advice to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation influencing both UK and EU
 policies, including the UK Agriculture Bill (see REF3). Professor Susannah Thorpe has advised
 DEFRA on legislation that guides the licensing and regulation of the UK zoo industry, while Dr
 Steve Unwin joined a specialist panel for UNEP GRASP (Great Ape Survival Programme) in
 October 2020 to advise on preventing the next pandemic caused by zoonotic disease.

 Integrating external policy makers into UoA5
 We use our research as evidence to support new policy making and thus interact with people
 and organisations that can facilitate this. For example, as part of the BIFoR establishment,
 Professor Nicola Spence, Chief Plant Health Officer from DEFRA has an honorary position to
 advise on policy implications of the BIFoR work program. We have appointed a range of external
 scientists and experts (e.g. Dr Anna Brown, Head of Tree Health and Contingency, Forest
 Research; Dr Caroline Ayre, Confor) to the BIFoR Advisory Board, helping to shape BIFoR
 activities and strategies, as well as acting as a conduit for disseminating outputs and shaping
 policy. The new Precision Toxicology consortium has a Stakeholder Advisory Group with
 international group members to advise on research activities and disseminate information.
 Members include: European consultant Dr Christopher Portier who previously served as U.S.
 Director of the National Center for Environmental Health at the Centers for Disease Control and
 Prevention and Director of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry U.S., Dr
 Apolline Roger, Chemicals Lead at the London-based NGO ClientEarth, Dr Fiona Sewell,
 Scientific Program Manager, National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of
 Animals in Research (NC3Rs), Professor Maurice Whelan, Head of the Chemicals Safety and
 Alternative Methods Unit of the European Commission Joint Research Centre.

 1.4 Supporting interdisciplinary research

 Our development of interdisciplinary research has been enabled by our involvement in
 leadership of major cross university research institutes:

    •   Institute for Microbiology and Infection with UoA1;
    •   Birmingham Institute of Forest Research with UoAs7 & 14 [REF5a, 4.2.3];
    •   The Phenome Centre Birmingham with UoA1 [REF5a, 4.4];
    •   COMPARE [REF5a, 2.1.5] (see section 3.2);
    •   Ecolaboratory river and pond mesocosm facility as part of a £1.2M investment by the
        University with UoAs7 & 14;
    •   The Henry Wellcome Building for Biomolecular NMR.

 Our recruitment and training of postgraduate students is supported by five major
 multidisciplinary doctoral training centres, BBSRC MIBTP2020, NERC CENTA2, two
 Wellcome programmes (MIDAS and AAMR) and Leverhulme Forest Edge.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MIBTP2020 and CENTA2 involve universities and external partners from across the region, and
 both have successfully renewed and enlarged since 2014.

 At the heart of our Research Strategy is a recognition of the increasing importance of
 interdisciplinary team science in the global research effort. To catalyse the growth in this activity
 we will:

    •   Embed increased inter-theme research into the future aims of our research themes
        (section 1.2.3).
    •   Increase our interdisciplinary links across the University building on key experiences: e.g.
        Precision Toxicology, a collaboration with social science (UoA18); BIFoR collaborations
        on forest research with UoA7 and UoA14; M&I microbiology research via IMI and
        collaborations with UoA1.
    •   Grow our external interdisciplinary and interscholastic activity, by encouraging staff to
        increase their exploitation of existing networks (e.g. CD3, BIFOR, MIBTP2020, CENTA2)
        to develop research programmes. We will encourage more staff into positions of
        influence (via secondments or to join grant panels) and support more staff to take
        advantage of funding schemes that expand their research horizons beyond UoB.

 1.5 Progress towards an open research environment

 The UoB is a signatory recognising the principles of the Concordat on Open Research Data
 [REF5a, 2.2] thus researchers in UoA5 are engaged in ensuring UoA5 has developed an open
 research environment that will transition to a state where research data is made openly available
 for use by others where possible. We will:

    •   Increase awareness and improve staff skills in open research through local
        activities, including sessions at School meetings and away days alongside provision of
        training through the University Library.
    •   Ensure alignment with the Concordat on Open Research Data by signposting our
        staff to specific training to highlight opportunities for open data sharing via subject-
        specific repositories and the UoB Research Portal.
    •   Ensure Open Access to our publications by authorising Green self-archiving of all
        research outputs on the Institutional repository PURE and encouraging the use of Gold
        Open Access publication venues. We also encourage applications to UoB Library funding
        for Gold OA of key papers [REF5a, 2.2]; and support posting of pre-prints in appropriate
        subject-specific repositories such as bioRxiv e.g. UoA5 researchers posted 57 papers on
        bioRxiv in 2017-19 which have subsequently been published in peer review journals.
    •   Encourage our staff to promote their work to non-specialist audiences. Professor
        Alice Roberts (Professor of Public Engagement in Science) has a prominent profile in
        Life Sciences communication in the broadcast media and press. Alice Roberts
        supervises PhD students and lectures to UG students in the School, and oversaw the
        introduction of UoB’s Public Engagement strategy. Many other staff are active in a
        diversity of public communication fora such as Café Scientifique, special events at the
        Thinktank, Birmingham’s biggest science museum), The Big Bang show at the National
        Exhibition Centre and Festival of Science. Our staff make increasing use of social media;
        the recent appointment of a School communications lead (Tomlinson) aims to highlight
        our research. Research carried out by our staff is also highlighted in the Birmingham
        Brief and The Conversation as online fora for communication and commentary on
        research findings.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6. Ensuring a culture of research integrity

 Research integrity and ethical practice are central to all research activity in UoA5 from
 undergraduates through postgraduates to staff. Our research follows the central University Code
 of Practice for Research and University-level ethical review processes. All new research projects
 and postgraduate research projects undergo internal ethical review [REF5a, 2.2]. Two UoA5
 colleagues (first May, now Jackson) chair the University Advisory Group for the Control of
 Biological Hazards to ensure colleagues adopt best practice and work within the appropriate
 legal framework.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy is led by the principles of People and Culture theme of the University’s draft
 2021-25 strategic framework and its commitment to “developing a research culture that
 stimulates and nurtures; is inclusive, equal and diverse and recognises the importance of
 recruitment and induction, through to support progression and retention” [REF5a, 2.4]. Our
 commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity is recognised through the award of UoA5’s
 Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2016, with a new application due for submission in late 2021.

 Through adherence to these values, the UoA5 research population has grown in the last six
 years, with 60.8 FTE (16.1 F:44.7 M) research-active members of staff compared to 42.8 FTE in
 2014. The current percentages of academic staff at each grade are: 33.9% Professor, 8.1%
 Reader, 22.6% Senior Lecturer, 24.2% Lecturer and 11.2% Research Fellow.

 The BAME staff population in UoA5 (14%) includes 13% of Research fellows, 17% of Senior
 Lecturers and 12% of Professors.

 Our staffing strategy has focused on four aims:

    1. Recruitment of new staff to complement and grow areas of international excellence,
       expertise, and critical mass;
    2. Increasing the diversity of our workforce;
    3. Enhancing succession and leadership;
    4. Increasing the number of independently funded research fellows.

 We have focused recruitment to strengthen our international reputation in microbiology and
 infection (8 FTE) and maintain the upward trajectory of our plant sciences theme to a world-class
 reputation, as well as starting the new BIFoR research institute (10 FTE). In these cases,
 recruitment focussed on key strengths to create capacity and capability to tackle large scale
 research problems.
 Our recruitment process aims to maximise diversity by:
     • Mandating unconscious bias training for recruitment panel members and staff more
         widely;
     • Targeting female, BAME and other underrepresented candidates through subject
         networks;
     • Use of gender-neutral language and highlighting support offered to University staff;
     • Contextualising outputs/achievements in relation to career breaks during shortlisting and
         interviews;
     • Only approving shortlists if there is realistic gender balance.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA) [REF5a, 2.2], and we follow its principles in our assessment of academic job applicants.
 During our recruitment processes we highlight our working practices and policies that provide a
 supportive environment for applicants of all backgrounds.

 Equality & Diversity (E&D) training opportunities include training on Unconscious Bias, inclusive
 development, chairing inclusive meetings and being an LGBTQ+ ally [REF5a, 3.4.3]. The regular
 school bulletin has highlighted positive role models around work/life balance and caring, and
 information on events such as Women in Science, Black History Month, and staff LGBT and
 BAME networks.

 The COVID crisis has accelerated our adoption of new technology (e.g. Virtual Conferencing)
 that enables participation by all, thus all meetings can now be accessed remotely.

 2.2 Staff development strategy

 Throughout their career, our staff are provided with opportunities to assess and reflect on their
 current capabilities, develop plans to increase capabilities in areas of need and then action those
 plans. This process is supported by a yearly performance and development review (PDR)
 [REF5a, 3.4.3] for all staff including postdoctoral researchers. New staff arriving in UoA5 on their
 first open academic contract undergo induction and then a probation process that supports their
 career development to future successes.

 2.2.1 Induction and training
 An accepted offer of employment initiates the induction process. All new staff are required to
 attend a University induction day and complete mandatory training [REF5a, 3.4.2]. In addition,
 UoA5 arranges a pre-arrival meeting with the School Head of Operations ensuring that research
 facilities and movement of staff and equipment occur efficiently. Upon arrival, meetings are set
 up with a pre-defined list of people, including the Head of College (HoC), Head of School (HoS)
 and College Directors of Research and Education. At College level, there is an induction
 webpage, which brings together information about College resources and University induction
 into one place.

 2.2.2. Staff probation process
 The probationary period for permanent academic staff at the University is normally 3 years.
 Within the first 8 weeks after arrival the probationer works with the HoS to develop a Probation
 and Personal Development Plan (PPDP) [REF5a, 3.4.3], which is approved by the Head of
 College. Probationers are encouraged to attend relevant courses provided by People and
 Organisational Development (POD), the University staff development unit. At this stage, in
 consultation with the probationer, a mentor will be assigned to act as a guide for the probation
 period. Meetings between the probationer and HoS are then held at regular intervals (typically
 every 6 months) throughout the 3 years of probation to reflect on progress, review, and where
 relevant, modify or add objectives. Every 12 months the PPDP is reviewed by the HoS and HoC.

 2.2.3 The Performance and Development Review (PDR)
 Once through probation, academic staff enter the annual PDR appraisal; PDRs are conducted
 by a team of trained senior staff. All PDR reviewers undertake training and attend refresher
 training every five years. Data from the last three years show that PDR completion levels in
 this UoA are >95% (a few staff are unavailable for review due to leave etc.). The PDR
 discussions include promotion and training, leadership development, and longer-term career
 planning, including flexible and part-time working, career breaks, and succession planning. The
 PDR also captures future research planning, including strategies for research funding
 applications and awards. This includes flagship training schemes provided by the University’s
 POD unit to support transition through career stages. Since 2014, 20 members of UoA5 staff (6

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 females) have participated in these flagship training schemes [REF5a, 3.4.4]. As part of our
 efforts to support increased promotion for female staff, 4 (Borrill, Compton, Cunningham,
 Thorpe) have participated in the national AURORA leadership programme. Once the PDR
 process is complete each case is reviewed by HoS and any issues actioned.

 2.2.4 The promotion process
 Staff are strongly encouraged to consider their promotion strategy during their PDR in June/July.
 Those interested meet with the HoS, who provides advice and assigns an appropriate staff
 member as a mentor. Promotion criteria and decision timelines are clearly described on the HR
 webpage and signposted to all staff. The College also runs annual promotions workshops to
 provide further advice to individuals considering applying for promotion.

 The University is explicitly committed to equality in the promotions process:

    •   Equality guidance documentation available to all staff on the Human Resources
        website;
    •   The career pathways for part-time staff are equivalent to full-time staff;
    •   All staff on promotion panels complete E&D training.

 The current research staff base of 60.8 FTE is 17 females (F) and 45 males (M). Since 2014, 16
 staff were promoted to Senior Lecturer (4 F, 12 M), four to Reader (2 F, 2M) and seven to
 Professor (2 F, 5 M). Given the nature of the 1:2.7 F:M pool ratio, female members of staff have
 been at least as successful as male. For promotions to Reader and Professor success rates for
 female staff have been higher than for male. There has been an improvement in the diversity of
 external recruits; 12 / 25 (48%) staff recruited to UoA5 were female, including 50% of external
 Professor appointments, since 2014.

 Wider evidence of the success in our career development process is that four Biosciences
 staff (two female) have been promoted to senior University leadership roles: Hotchin
 (Director of Postgraduate Research, now (HoS); Minchin (Director of the Birmingham
 International Academy); Myatt (Acting Dean of Liberal Arts and Natural Sciences); Pritchard
 (College Director of Education).

 2.2.5 Specific support for postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs)
 We support the developmental aspirations of PDRAs through alignment to the 2008 Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers recommendations. Our PDRAs are formally
 supported by the Postdoctoral/Early Researcher Career Development and Training (PERCAT)
 Initiative [REF5a, 3.3].

 UoA5 has gender balanced representation on the PERCAT committee (Browning, grade 8 and
 Lee, grade 9: both also sit on the institutional early careers research committee). Our PDRAs
 also influence national PDRA development debates e.g. Lee is an elected member of the UKRI
 working group for Postdoctoral Researchers development.

 2.2.6 Recognition for staff delivering research and impact
 Our workload model calculates research, impact, teaching and administrative load, using
 weightings based on best practice in the UK. Data are gathered on an ongoing basis and inform
 discussions in PDR meetings. Our workload philosophy with respect to research is that where
 new grant or impact activity has been secured, teaching and admin roles are altered accordingly.
 In doing so, we provide ring-fenced time for both research and impact activities. The model also
 includes a standard tariff for citizenship duties and implicit FTE-adjustments for part-time staff
 and is monitored annually for gender bias. Data show that, since the introduction of this model,
 there has been an equitable workload gender balance in UoA5.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In line with the forthcoming Knowledge Exchange Concordat, impact has equal importance to
 frontier research in recognition and reward and is reflected in promotion criteria [REF5a, 3.4.6].
 A clear case of this was the promotion of Thorpe and Loman to Chair based on both excellent
 research and impact (see REF3). We believe that role models are essential for driving culture
 change and staff with expertise in this area provide mentoring and support for those wishing to
 impact society from their research.

 2.2.7 Support for Doctoral Research students
 Doctoral Researchers (DRs) are integral to UoA5’s research strategy. We have a large and
 diverse community of DRs: since the last REF, 79 Home/EU and 69 overseas DRs have
 completed their PhDs, of which more than 50% were female. Submission rates for the last five
 cohorts are 84% with a completion rate of 91%. Approximately 40% of DRs are recruited from
 outside the EU, while 9% of UK DRs are BAME. Since 2014, we have been a partner in 7
 Doctoral Training Grants funded by UKRI, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme (Forest Edge) (88
 DR). A further 30 DRs have been funded via other funding mechanisms including The Darwin
 Trust of Edinburgh (3-4 studentships at UoB p.a. for non-UK students studying for a PhD in
 molecular microbiology) as well as individual NERC and EPSRC studentships. We have also
 secured studentship income from the EU, the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission,
 charities (Wellcome, Bloodwise, BHF, Cancer Research UK) and philanthropic donation. We
 have been awarded 26 iCASE awards with businesses in the UK.

 DRs are supported centrally by the University Graduate School at the Westmere Hub (opened in
 2015 to provide training and a social space for all DRs [REF5a, 3.2]). At a unit level we are
 committed to fully supporting the development of our DRs through alignment with the Graduate
 School’s Researcher Development Framework by:

    1. Providing a 3-person supervisory team for each DR that includes the supervisor, a
       co-supervisor, and an academic advisor whose role is to advise on academic practice
       and progress of the project;
    2. Tracking of student training via Development Needs Analysis (DNA) based on the
       Vitae Researcher Development Framework;
    3. Supporting the international DR population by providing bespoke language support
       through the Birmingham International Academy (BIA);
    4. Mandating monthly meetings between DRs and supervisors to discuss progress that
       is recorded on the University GRS online system;
    5. Making regular supervisor training compulsory.

 DRs are represented on the Biosciences Graduate Research Committee, the College
 Postgraduate Research Committee, chaired by the College academic PGR lead, and through
 this are represented on the University Graduate Research Board. We carry out an annual review
 of PGR provision which includes input from DRs and is overseen by the University Graduate
 Research Board and the University Quality Assurance Committee. DRs edit the internal School
 Newsletter and invite and host external seminar speakers. UoA5 holds an annual Graduate
 Research Symposium, organised by the PGR community with participation from all staff.

 Our DRs play an active part in University life through, for example, ‘3 Minute Thesis’ and
 ‘Images of Research’ competitions run by the DRs (and open to MSc and BSc project students)
 as well as the annual, University-wide Research Poster Conference, which brings together DRs
 from all parts of the University.

 Doctoral Researcher wellbeing is enabled by all DRs having a mentor who is an academic
 member of staff to whom DRs can approach for independent, confidential advice on all aspects
 of their PhD. Our DRs are also supported by a ‘buddy’ scheme in which every new student has a
 senior DR allocated at the beginning of their study. DRs can access the School Student

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellbeing Officer, who is employed by the College to provide pastoral and mental health support
 to members of UoA5. The officer provides a daily drop-in service, as well as services provided
 by the University Student Hub, including Counselling, Wellbeing, Disability, Mental Health and
 Learning Support.

 2.2.8 Support staff
 The final core element of our research population is our support staff. Over the last five years
 our research has been supported by an average of 53 Professional Services staff who are split
 between project specific support and wider support of facilities and infrastructure. The College
 Research Support Office (RSO) comprises a large team that provides the school with a
 dedicated research facilitator (Jasmine Penny). The RSO mobilises a team of staff for larger bids
 that require complex support, working closely with the Development and Alumni Relations Office
 (DARO), EU and International team, Business Engagement and Research Contracts teams to
 put a bespoke package of support around these bids. We also utilise the expertise of the
 Strategic Projects and Partnerships (Life Sciences) team for strategic projects, such as bids to
 establish new Centres (e.g. The Phenome Centre) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (e.g.
 MIBTP). DARO plays a pivotal role in liaising with academics and philanthropists to develop
 projects that utilise donations (e.g. BIFoR). Research activities are also underpinned by a
 number of technical-services staff who organise H&S support, run a stores and workshop for
 bespoke services, and manage logistics for space and facilities. UoB is one of the original
 signatories of the Technician Commitment, a UK wide initiative to promote technicians across
 HEI and develop their skills and careers. Support staff in UoA5 utilise the Technical Academy in
 UoB which allows for skills sharing across the University as well as other institutions, particularly
 across the Midlands [REF5a, 4.4]. The University Wellbeing Service, including a Counselling
 Service, Harassment Advice Service, Employee Disability Service, and a Mediation Service, is
 available to all staff enabling them to make informed decisions about work and personal issues
 [REF5a, 3.4.5].

 2.3 Our commitment to staff and student equality and diversity

 We are committed to enhancing the equality and diversity of the people working in the institution;
 UoA5 holds Athena SWAN Bronze status which was renewed in 2016. The gender profile of
 Biosciences Research Staff is a ratio of 1:2.7 females/males. Analysis of recruitment data and
 focus groups shows no evidence for systematic bias in appointments or promotions. Over the
 last six years we have encouraged gender and BAME equality in appointments and promotions
 explicitly. For example, we are fully supportive of flexible working arrangements. We have staff
 at all levels who have flexible working arrangements, including senior leaders. The Biosciences
 Equality and Diversity Committee monitors the effectiveness of these policies, chaired by a
 Deputy HoS and reporting to the School Executive Committee (SEC). Demographic data is
 actively consulted on all recruitment and promotions decisions, including the composition of
 internal panels and committees. Equality and Diversity and Unconscious Bias training are
 mandatory for all staff involved in recruitment and promotion.

 We also consider staff working patterns and where required, we deploy technological solutions
 to enhance flexibility. All meetings and research seminars occur in family-friendly hours (9:30 –
 16:00). Gender, part-time working, caring responsibilities, and flexible working are central factors
 when SEC allocates tasks to staff. During the last six years the number of women holding a
 Chair has increased from two to eight and the College has appointed its second successive
 female Head of College. Six of the 12 independent ECR fellows appointed since 2016 are
 female.

 Over the last six years we have increased the number of women in prominent senior leadership
 positions in the School e.g. the key roles of Head of Research (Thorpe), Head of Education
 (Lodge), Deputy HoS (Cooper), Head of Admissions (Cull). We aim to ensure equal

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representation on all committees in the School, which has been aided by the growth in female
 staff over the REF period; female committee representation is 47% (H&S) and 43% (Research).
 SEC explicitly considers gender when making these decisions alongside part-time working. For
 example, the current Head of Research is on 0.9FTE contract accommodated through flexibility
 in the meeting schedule and the use of video conferencing. Our success in this effort is
 evidenced by the observation that seven of the twelve committees in UoA5 have female chairs.

 Specific examples of events aimed at supporting women are the Women in Science lunch group
 (led by Luna Diez), BAME, Parent and Carers, Rainbow, and the University-level Women’s
 professor networks. Women in Science lunches are open to all. We also provide funds to assist
 with costs of childcare specifically to enable School Seminar speakers who might not otherwise
 be able to attend.


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Since the REF2014 period, UoA5’s strategy to focus its research to exploit cutting edge
 approaches has yielded a very significant increase in income from a wide variety of sources
 (comparisons are from REF2014 period vs REF2021 period):

     •    An 18.7% increase in average annual research income, from £7.1M p.a. to £8.4M
          p.a.;
     •    A 67% increase in average annual income from the EU, from £0.73M to £1.21M;
     •    A 112.8% increase in UKRI and Royal Society income from £18.7M to £39.8M;
     •    A diversification of funding from new sources e.g. £0.7M funding from non-UK
          charities compared to essentially zero previously.

 This includes 29 awards with other UK universities, 19 with EU collaborators and 23 with
 researchers outside the EU.

 These significant successes have been achieved by providing a support structure for staff grant
 writing enabled by our research support teams [REF5a, 4.2]. These teams provide:

     1.   Research funding intelligence that is targeted at specific researchers;
     2.   Training on bid writing with special focus on ECRs and fellowship writing;
     3.   Support throughout the bid writing process including finance;
     4.   A proof-reading service to ensure bids are of high quality and meet funding criteria.

 In addition, central University teams support larger bids providing strategic support and
 secretariat to large multicentre bids (see 2.2.8 above).

 3.2. Infrastructure

 Over the last six years UoA5 has benefited from £46.4M of investment into research
 infrastructure (from internal funding and UKRI and charitable donations). This includes £5m
 investment to upgrade and refurbish the existing Bioscience estate. Key investments are:

 The Birmingham Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR)
 The centrepiece of BIFoR [REF5a, 4.2.3] is a 20-hectare mature forest site that is a living
 laboratory to study the reaction of forest ecosystems to the combined threats of climate change,
 invasive pests, and diseases. BIFoR has the only Northern Hemisphere Free Air Carbon
 Dioxide Enrichment (FACE) facility. BIFoR is co-led with UoA7 and UoA14 and includes 14

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PIs, 5 PDRAs and 5 DRs in UoA5. Recently the JABBS Foundation donated a further £2M to
 develop tree pathology (Jackson was recruited to lead this new development). BIFoR academics
 currently receive funding from NERC, JABBS, the Woodland Trust, the Wolfson Foundation, the
 Leverhulme Trust, and the John Horseman Trust.

 Centre of Membrane Proteins and Receptors (COMPARE)
 A £10M interdisciplinary imaging centre was created with a joint investment from Birmingham
 and Nottingham [REF5a, 2.1.5]. It provides state of the art imaging facilities including light-sheet,
 dSTORM and PALM instruments. The centre also supports interdisciplinary research projects by
 linking data analytics and instrumentation applications experts and bioscientists.

 The Phenome Centre Birmingham
 This is a multidisciplinary and multisite facility [REF5a, 4.4] linking mass spectrometry in the
 Biosciences building, The Henry Wellcome Centre for Biomolecular Spectroscopy (HWB•NMR)
 and a targeted assay and clinical trials facility in Medical and Dental Sciences. The centre was
 established with £8M from the MRC, £1.7M from four scientific instrument companies (including
 ThermoFisher Scientific) and £0.5M from the University of Birmingham; this included £800K for
 laboratory refurbishment. The collaborative research aims to improve our mechanistic
 understanding of human diseases and ageing, to identify targets for interventions and to provide
 approaches for stratified medicine for prognosis, diagnosis, and treatment.

 Henry Wellcome Centre for Biomolecular Spectroscopy (HWB•NMR)
 This is the largest open access high-field NMR facility in the UK. In 2018, UoB won a £6.5M
 investment from UKRI/EPSRC to host a cutting-edge 1 GHz spectrometer [REF5a, 4.4]. HWB-
 NMR is unique in the UK, both in terms of the highest available field strength (1 GHz) for solution
 phase work, and the line-up of NMR spectrometers available at a single site (600, 800 MHz and
 1 GHz). The open access programme offered by the facility has been financially supported by
 the Wellcome Trust since 2004 and recently has been renewed to 2023 with a £1.5M award over
 5 years.

 The Advanced Mass Spectrometry Facility (AMSF)
 This is located within UoA5 and has received £1.5M from EPSRC and BBSRC and £1.8M
 investment from the University [REF5a, 4.4]. The centre includes a strategic industrial
 partnership with ThermoFisher Scientific who provide benefit-in-kind access to their latest
 instrumentation and software. Cooper, one of very few women to gain an EPSRC Advanced
 Fellowship, directs the AMSF and two specialist scientific officers support the instrumentation
 portfolio. The AMSF develops innovative methods of Mass Spectrometry imaging and
 proteomics and their application to cell signalling, cancer, and tissue repair.

 Birmingham Environmental Research Facility
 The newly developed glasshouse facility [REF5a, 4.2.3], funded through a £1M Wolfson
 Foundation award and £0.2M charitable donation, alongside £1.1M UoB investment, provides a
 series of controlled environmental chambers to study the interactions of plants and biological
 systems with physical and biological environmental stressors. The facility represents an
 interdisciplinary collaboration between staff from UoAs 5, 7 and 14.

 Other institutional facilities
 Researchers in UoA5 are also supported by several institution wide facilities. These include:

     •   MidPlus-Bham, the University’s archive for long term storage of datasets associated with
         published papers
     •   The Birmingham Environment for Academic Research (BEAR) that offers secure data
         storage including collaborative storage (BEAR DataShare)


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   BlueBEAR, a high-performance computing resource comprising of 168 nodes [REF5a,
         4.5], which includes CaStLeS (a computer environment with access to 3 PetaBytes of
         storage) dedicated to the needs of the life sciences.

 3.2 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise used to create impact

 In 2014 the University undertook a root and branch restructure of Impact support. For business
 engagement this meant the establishment of a dedicated business engagement team [REF5a,
 4.1] with partners placed in each College, but with central coordination. The LES College BEP
 supports UoA5 academics throughout the process of establishing and executing a collaboration
 with an industrial partner. This has supported UoA5 to obtain £1.69M in direct industrial income
 as well as in-kind provision (e.g. our strategic relationship with ThermoFisher Scientific which
 underpins the Phenome Centre) over the REF period.

 If research has generated commercialisable IP, then the University’s technology transfer office,
 University of Birmingham Enterprise (UoBE) [REF5a, 4.1], provides help and support to the
 academics. This is complemented by a unit mentoring scheme where academic staff skilled in
 technology transfer, e.g., Dafforn, provide 1:1 support on a researcher’s specific needs to guide
 them through the process. UoBE provides a full suite of support from training via its flagship
 Medici Scheme [REF5a, 2.1.3], through patent filling and licensing, and the establishment and
 growth of a business. Its dedicated spin-out team (that currently supports the business in
 Dafforn’s impact case study) helps academics setup a business and find investors. In many
 cases initial investment is also available through the University’s own seed investment fund. In
 the last six years the University has also established a purpose-built Bio-incubator (The
 BIOHUB) on campus which can house early stage spin-outs and has recently committed to
 constructing the new Birmingham Health Innovation Campus (BHIC) which will provide scale-up
 facilities for emerging businesses from 2023 [REF5a, 4.2.2]. UoA5 are engaged in the BHIC
 through the proposed Birmingham Precision Medicine Centre as well as wider entrepreneurship.

 UoA5 has successfully worked with Development and Alumni Relations Office (DARO) [REF5a,
 4.1] to engage with philanthropic giving from our alumni and charitable trusts to support our
 research impact. This relationship was crucial to facilitate the £17.5M gift that underpins our
 BIFoR institute and provides for support in other areas including our work on Great Ape Welfare.

 3.3 Cross HEIs and shared facilities (UK and overseas)

 Across HEIs, we participate in the Midlands Innovation [REF5a, 2.1.5] regional equipment
 sharing ‘catalogue’, involving UoB and the Universities of Nottingham, Leicester, Warwick,
 Aston, Cranfield, Keele and Loughborough. This structure allows UoA5 to maximise its access to
 equipment while at the same time aligning with the infrastructure usage guidance from UKRI,
 which aims to minimise the wastage of facilities. For example, this provides direct access to high
 specification Cryo-Electron Microscopy Facilities in both Warwick (Tomography) and Leicester
 (Titan Krios) extending cellular and molecular imaging capabilities. Connections with Aston
 University provide access to Lipidomics and membrane protein production facilities to enhance
 UoB facilities.

 3.4 Benefits-in-kind

 Both the Phenome Centre and BMTC (see 4.1) have received more than £1.5M in in-kind
 benefit in terms of instrument loans and service contracts because of strategic links to
 instrument manufacturers.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 Our research collaborations are generated at several levels to enable us to reach our research
 goals. At a unit level we see these collaborations as essential to provide intellectual and
 technical breadth to projects that would not be possible using expertise solely in UoA5 (see
 section 4.4 for multidisciplinary engagement activities).

 4.1 Economy

 Our influence on the economy encompasses both working with existing businesses to increase
 profitability and creating entirely new business collaborations. This includes projects generated
 by industry need and projects based on translation of new research findings. These projects
 together have been worth a cumulative total of £1.69M of income into UoA5 over the last six
 years.

 Our activities with business have a strategic focus around four sectors that best map areas of
 expertise in UoA5 to sectors of R&D spend: Pharmaceutics and Diagnostics, Agriculture,
 Environmental Monitoring and Omics technologies, and the Zoo sectors).

 Over the REF period we have had funded projects with 11 pharmaceutical businesses and a
 diagnostics company including large multinational corporations and SMEs (Dafforn: Sanofi,
 NovoNordisk, Heptares, UCB, Domainex, MSD, AstraZeneca, Lonza), (Alderwick: Signature
 Discovery, Apconix), (Cooper: UCB), and in the Diagnostics sector (Dafforn: Linear Diagnostics
 Ltd, see impact case).

 Our work with the Agricultural Sector has also yielded a significant number of research
 collaborations (Bassel, Gibbs, and Dafforn: Syngenta, LimaGrain, ASB Agri) while our strength
 in omics technologies (environmental and medical) has allowed us to establish projects with the
 consumer products sector (Viant; Unilever).

 Our work on meeting the biological needs of captive apes has also led to significant projects with
 the Zoo Sector (Chappell: Drayton Manor Park) (Thorpe and Chappell: Twycross Zoo, Chester
 Zoo, Paignton Zoo, see impact case).

 One area of industrial collaboration where we have had significant success has been through
 jointly funded DR projects. Since 2014 we have had 26 iCASE awards and industrial PhDs
 with businesses including both large international corporations (e.g. AstraZeneca, Syngenta,
 Unilever) and UK SMEs (e.g. Domainex, Kettle Produce).

 Birmingham Metabolomics Training Centre (BMTC)
 We provide training to industry in metabolomics technology through the BMTC. The centre
 provides introductory courses for researchers new to metabolomics, through advanced hands-on
 learning opportunities. Between 2015 and 2020 BMTC has operated four face-to-face courses
 (typically operated twice each year and of 2-3 days length) and two online courses (typically
 operated twice per year and of 3-4 weeks length) as well as providing a MOOC. This activity has
 provided training that has yielded >£200K in registration fees from:

    •   477 trainees face-to-face and 11,100 trainees through the MOOC;
    •   Scientists from 54 countries and 240 different organisations.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Society

 We believe that the expertise of our staff should have a central place in benefiting wider society.
 We encourage engagement at all levels including direct engagement through the media and
 indirect through engagement with third sector organisations and policy.

 Media
 We are actively involved in public engagement, across a wide range of media. Our staff have
 featured on BBC radio and TV news and current affairs, ITV, and Channel 4. Chappell is an
 external member of the BBC Worldwide Editorial Review Board for BBC Wildlife magazine.
 Reynolds has made several appearances on TV (BBC) and radio (World Service) talking about
 the effects of climate change in the South Atlantic on seabird diet and on species conservation in
 general. Loman’s work to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic has been widely reported
 internationally in the world press, and through TV and radio interviews (several BBC and ITV
 appearances). Orsini’s work on evolution and climate change has been featured on multiple
 media outlets including the BBC and the New York Times. Hayward’s research on insect
 biodiversity and climate change has been featured in over 20 UK and International media
 articles as well as appearances on TV (BBC). Jackson’s research on tree diseases has featured
 in multiple TV and radio interviews. We are establishing long-term commitments to public
 engagement by staff, and by new generations of researchers encouraged by the work of our
 high-profile colleague Alice Roberts in her Professor of Public Engagement in Science role. Our
 staff participate in many public science festivals, including Brain Awareness Week, the British
 Science Festival, ESRC Festival of Science and Big Bang festivals, and the Pint of Science and
 Café Scientifique. UoA5 organises quarterly “Meet the expert” events at Birmingham Thinktank
 (science museum), where staff and PhD students present displays and demonstrations on a
 research topic to a large audience of the general public.

 Third Sector: non-governmental and non-profit-making organisations
 We provide support to third sector organisations to maximise our impact on society. Our staff
 have leadership and advisory positions in such organisations: Bunce was Research Director
 between 2012-15 at Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research (subsequently Bloodwise and now
 Blood Cancer UK); Colbourne leads the Environmental Care Consortium (ECC), a partnership of
 over 100 international science, legal and public health experts and students that confronts the
 global health and justice problems caused by pollution (environmentcareconsortium.org);
 Chappell and Thorpe have worked with two global NGOs (Orangutan Veterinary Advisory Group
 and Pan African Sanctuary Alliance) to promote adoption of evidence-based management of
 apes for both life-long sanctuary care and for rehabilitation and release. Chappell and Thorpe
 have also built partnerships with the major chimpanzee (Ape Action Africa; Chimpfunshi) and
 orangutan (Bornean Orangutan Survival Foundation; Sumatran Orangutan Conservation
 Programme) conservation organisations (funded by grants from NERC and the ARCUS
 Foundation).

 4.3 Public Policy

 Members of UoA5 have been actively influencing policy at both national and international levels.
 Prior to 2014 the activities of the members of UoA5 in this arena had been minimal. Over the last
 five years we have enhanced work in this area including advice to Governments leading to
 significant and sustained success.

 Dafforn was (0.6FTE) CSA and Chief Entrepreneur at the Department of Business Energy and
 Industrial Strategy and was responsible for leading policy developments on Synthetic Biology
 and Student Entrepreneurship (delivered to the Prime Minister), and Entrepreneurship
 environment in England (part of the Government’s Industrial Strategy).


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 May is currently (0.6FTE) CSA to the Food Standards Agency. His role gives him direct
 responsibility over research pertaining to UK food safety and is a central part of science advice
 to the Government Chief Scientific Advisor and DEFRA and Department of Health and Social
 Care Ministers. He works in conjunction with 1200 full-time staff with a budget of around £100M
 per annum.

 Our strengths in genetics (plant and pathogen) are reflected in Loman’s position on the Public
 Health England Whole Genome Sequencing Group and National Sequencing Strategy Advisory
 Group, while Maxted is chair of the IUCN SSC Crop Wild Relative Specialist Group and DEFRA
 UK Plant Genetic Resources Group. Lund sits on the DEFRA Advisory Committee on Releases
 to the Environment (ACRE) and the HSE Scientific Advisory Committee on Genetic
 Manipulation.

 In line with our research strength in plant sciences and food security, Foyer was a panel member
 of the National Centre for Universities and Business Food Economy Task Force and Jackson
 was a senior editor for the DEFRA-funded Action Oak Knowledge Review to synthesise current
 knowledge, identify research gaps and provide the foundations for future research strategy to
 study one of the UK’s most important tree species.

 4.4 Enabling of interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary research is a key focus for UoA5 since 2014 and into the future. To enable this
 activity, we promote a barrier-free working environment encouraging our staff to engage in
 projects across the university. Our Doctoral Training Programmes are all multidisciplinary and
 provide a basis for initiating cross-disciplinary research programmes. Growing these projects is
 further facilitated by University support through the Institute of Advanced Studies [REF5a, 2.3.2],
 Institute of Global Innovation [REF5a, 2.3.3], and the Development and Alumni Relations Office
 [REF5a, 4.1]. These provide targeted funding (to support networking, meetings, and
 interscholastic visits) as well as supporting large scale interdisciplinary grant applications. Our
 involvement in interdisciplinary and interscholastic DR training programmes (see section 1.4)
 ensures the concept of interdisciplinary working is at the heart of the training of our DRs.

 An exemplar of this approach is BIFoR, which was established in 2013 as an interdisciplinary
 centre bringing together UoAs 5, 7 and 14 to create a step-change in UK forest research.

 BIFoR has a significantly wider remit than managing the FACE experiment, driving
 interdisciplinary work considering all aspects of forests and forest management. Projects work
 across UoA7 and UoA14 as evidenced by the £1.04 m Forest Edge initiative providing
 Leverhulme income to 20 PhDs working between the humanities, physical and social sciences –
 seven of 15 studentships allocated to date have a UoA5 researcher as supervisor.

 More recently this approach has led to a £19.3M grant from the EU for Precision Toxicology,
 which brings together scientists in UoA5 and UoA14 with social scientists in the University
 (UoA18) and 10 other institutions across Europe.

 UoA5 is a member of the Midlands Integrative Biosciences Training Partnership, a partnership
 with four other Midlands Universities and the BBSRC; it has an ambitious vision to deliver
 innovative, world class research across the Life Sciences to boost the growing Bioeconomy in
 the Midlands and across the UK. PhD Studentship projects are focused in vital research areas
 such as Sustainable Agriculture and Food, Understanding the Rules of Life, Renewable
 Resources and Clean Growth, and Integrated Understanding of Health and use interdisciplinary
 and quantitative approaches to biology.



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University of Birmingham is a member of the national Alan Turing Institute [REF5a, 2.1.5],
 whose mission is to make advances in data science and artificial intelligence research to tackle
 the biggest challenges in science, society and the economy that ultimately benefit global society.
 Two UoA5 academics (Loman and Orsini) are Turing fellows, working on large scale
 interdisciplinary problems involving ‘big data’. Orsini’s long-term goal is to improve human health
 and wellbeing, prioritising pollutants for mitigation interventions. She is a key partner in the EU
 Precision Toxicology project involving 15 partner organisations in eight countries. Loman
 focuses on the development of state-of-the-art DNA/RNA sequencing technologies and
 bioinformatics methods to tackle major problems in public health and clinical microbiology e.g.
 major partner in virus genomics for surveillance (Ebola in Africa, with Public Health England and
 European Mobile Labs) and the COVID-19 Genomics Consortium (COG-UK) comprising 77
 partners.

 4.5 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

 Researchers in UoA5 respond quickly to acute global needs as evidenced by our response to
 the COVID-19 crisis. Members of our M&I and C&M themes quickly pivoted to provide support in
 instrumentation and personnel to the COVID-19 testing centres in the UK. To enable COVID-19
 work to be accelerated UoA5 prioritised access to the research facilities for all COVID-19
 projects. Building on his work for other major epidemics such as Ebola and Zika, Loman was
 able to rapidly pivot his genomic epidemiology work to encompass COVID-19 and became an
 integral part of the global effort to track the spread of the virus and identify strains (see REF3).

 Within a month of the beginning of lockdown, Dafforn convened an interdisciplinary COVID
 research group that included researchers from academia and industry across the UK to
 coordinate work on the protein aspects of the virus. The group has met regularly to share results
 and reagents and work amongst this group has yielded several research projects funded through
 the UKRI COVID rapid response grant scheme. Dafforn has worked with the NHS and Linear
 Diagnostics Ltd to develop a novel rapid RNA assay system and has been involved in the
 establishment a new Diagnostics spin-out, Luas Diagnostics Ltd. His experience of rapid assay
 development has led to an invitation for membership of the UKRI COVID rapid response grant
 scheme panel.

 4.6 Wider influence and esteem

 Academic Leadership
 Members of UoA5 also put significant effort into supporting the national and international
 knowledge base. We have two Fellows of the Royal Society (Busby, Besra) who are actively
 involved in the UK’s premier science academy. At a national science policy level Dafforn and
 May as Chief Scientific Advisors for Government Departments provide advocacy for their
 disciplines to the highest levels of Government. Dafforn also represents Biosciences on the
 MoD’s highest science advisory board (DSEC).

 Our staff also play prominent roles in funding panels being members of nine council committees
 across BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC and Newton. We also play prominent roles on international
 funding panels including membership of panels in EU, China, Ireland, Czech Republic,
 Denmark, and Finland.

 Our staff are also part of the management of large-scale national facilities including Knowles
 who is a member of the ISIS Neutron and Muon Facility User and Access Committee and
 Diamond Light Source User Committee Member.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our staff hold positions on > 20 editorial boards. These include a number of highly prestigious
 journals including PNAS (Thorpe); Nature Communications (Sanchez-Moran); Journal of Cell
 Science (Heath); Journal of the American Society for Mass Spectrometry (Cooper).

 Activities in learned societies
 Our staff also play roles in leading learned societies that represent leading biosciences
 disciplines. These include: Foyer, Secretary General, European Society of Plant Genetics; Viant
 President, International Metabolomics Society; Busby, Vice-Chair, Biochemical Society; Ruth
 Roberts, Board Member, Academy of Toxicological Sciences; Jackson, Vice President, British
 Society for Plant Pathology.

 Significant Awards during the REF period
 Our successes have been recognised in awards and honours for our staff since 2014:

    •   Fellowship of the Royal Society (FRS) (Besra) in 2019, meaning UoA5 now hosts two
        research active FRS (Besra and Busby) and one emeritus FRS (Michell)
    •   Royal Society of Chemistry Jeremy Knowles Medal/Award (Besra)
    •   Society of Toxicology Founders Award for Outstanding Leadership (Ruth Roberts)
    •   Wolfson Research Merit Award (May)
    •   Biochemical Society Colworth Medal (Grainger)
    •   Rank Prize New Lecturer awards (Borrill and Luna Diez)
    •   EMBO Young Investigator award (Lovering)
    •   Society for Experimental Biology Presidents medal (Gibbs)
    •   The New Phytologist Tansley Medal (Borrill)
    •   Royal Society David Attenborough Award (Alice Roberts)

 Concluding remarks
 We have invested heavily in people, infrastructure, and facilities to create a vibrant and
 supportive environment for biological sciences research. From this, we have secured substantial
 investment from government, industry, charity, and philanthropic donations, which allows us to
 address some of the most complicated, intriguing, critical and urgent scientific issues in the
 world. We demonstrate that our management approach and processes allow for our diverse staff
 to use these opportunities and thrive in our collegial and dynamic unit. As a result, we are
 delivering high impact scientific outputs which translate into crucially important changes that
 benefit our economy and society, and those of countries across the world. We aspire to be
 amongst the top biological science units in the UK and to get there, we will now focus on
 enhancing our inclusive research culture and using technology to drive new discoveries that
 generate impact. Importantly, our ambition is matched by our enthusiasm and dedication to be
 successful because we know that we are delivering research that is valued, and that we will
 continue to do so for future generations.




                                                                                          Page 22
