Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 24

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Unit Context and Structure
The Centre for Human and Applied (formerly “Aerospace”) Physiological Sciences (CHAPS) at
King’s College London (KCL) was formed in 2010. It is a research department within the School of
Basic and Medical Biosciences (BMBS), one of 7 schools making up the Faculty of Life Sciences &
Medicine (FoLSM). The research undertaken is complementary to, and collaborative with, the other
departments within BMBS. CHAPS is based on the Guy’s Campus, and has research groups at the
Waterloo, King’s College Hospital (KCH) and St Thomas’ Hospital campuses. Thus, it is well
positioned to pursue interdisciplinary and translational research within the framework of King’s
Health Partners (KHP); one of eight UK accredited Academic Health Sciences Centres which links
KCL to the local NHS Foundation Trusts.
The overarching strategic research theme of CHAPS has been to increase insight and
understanding into the Functioning and Adaptation of the Human Body in Health and Disease. This
mission is specific to the contexts of exercise and diet, performance in sport, ageing and age-
related diseases, the clinical respiratory environment, and understanding the unique challenges
faced by the human body in the aerospace environment. Our ongoing mechanistic investigations of
the tissues central to human physical performance, coupled with our strengths in integrative
physiology, resulted in CHAPS being returned to the Sport, Exercise, Leisure & Tourism UoA
Panel C in 2014 and 2021.
Research Strategy
Our research strategy aligns closely with King’s Strategic Vision 2029 and the 4 underpinnings of
the university’s research strategy outlined in KCL REF5a. Our environment also aligns strongly
with KCL’s commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), which is embedded in all that we
do.
Over the past 7 years our centre has grown substantially. With both replacements for retirees and
with university investment we have 8 new members of academic staff (3 female/5 male). We have
seen a rise in the number and value of research grants awarded (particularly from UKRI sources),
expanded and enhanced our laboratory facilities and also developed new national and
international research collaborations and partnerships.
In 2014 our research strategy was underpinned by three overlapping research groupings: Muscle
Form & Function, Aerospace Medicine & Physiology, and Movement, Function & Behaviour. Each
of these has evolved, grown and been added to with the formation of our Respiratory Physiology &
Medicine Group (Figure 1). These new research groupings emerged through the restructuring of
FoLSM in 2017/8, targeted academic appointments and affiliation (through formal honorary
contracts) of consultant respiratory physicians, intensivists and anaesthetists within KHP with
aligned research interests.
The strengths of our research environment and strategy are closely aligned with our research-
informed teaching to inspire and develop the next generation of scientists, supporting our future
team and the wider research base. To share our passion and expertise in exercise-related
research, a new undergraduate programme, the BSc in Sport & Exercise Medical Sciences was
launched in 2018 and adds to our portfolio of specialist post-graduate programmes in Human &
Applied Physiology (MSc), Space Physiology & Health (MSc until 2020) and Aerospace
Medicine (PGDip and MSc).
In 2014 we stated that our unique portfolio of expertise in the physiological sciences placed us at
the nexus of mechanistic, applied and translational research in human physiology. We thus
planned to focus on providing further insight, understanding and impact with a combination of
mechanistic investigations into the biology of the key tissues central to exercise and health (e.g.
skeletal and cardiac muscle) and



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                                 integrative physiological studies. The
                                                                 success of our diverse and thriving
                                                                 research environment is evidenced by
                                                                 the total number of publications (>370)
                                                                 and citations (>6000, Scopus) and by
                                                                 the fact that we have published in the
                                                                 world’s leading journals across basic,
                                                                 physiological and clinical sciences e.g.
                                                                 Nature, New England Journal of
                                                                 Medicine, Nature Communications,
                                                                 PNAS, Circulation, Journal of
                                                                 Physiology, Lancet Respiratory
                                                                 Medicine, European Heart Journal.
                                                                 With EDI embedded in our strategy, our
                                                                 research has been undertaken with a
                                                                 clear aim, wherever possible, of
 Figure 1. CHAPS research groupings                              including equal numbers of males and
female participants while encouraging the participation of a wide diversity of individuals. Our
research partnership with St John’s Research Institute in Bangalore involving exercise, metabolism
and muscle function in patients with type 2 diabetes in the Indian population, demonstrates our
commitment to tackling both global health questions and the challenges faced by specific ethnic
groups.
Below briefly summarises the strategy and achievements of our four research themes that
demonstrate how our research environment has enabled both outstanding research and impact.
1) MUSCLE, FORM & FUNCTION comprises three interlinking sub-groups with exercise, ageing
and health as cross-cutting themes. (a) Skeletal Muscle; exercise and ageing. This group has
utilised primary cell culture, animal models, as well as healthy (young and old) humans and patient
populations, extending to critical medicine and muscle diseases. We have used combinations of
state-of-the-art techniques ranging from single-cell RNAseq and molecular biophysics through to
whole-body magnetic resonance imaging, which have produced novel scientific insights into
muscle function, adaptation, repair and understanding muscle disease. (b) Cardiac muscle. This
group has generated new knowledge in fundamental cardiac physiology and cell biology regarding
mechanisms of adaptation, disease, regeneration and repair. This work has involved the
application of fundamental physiological, cellular and molecular techniques and has advanced our
understanding of the myocardial responses to ischaemia, reperfusion, ageing, exercise, damage
and hypertrophy. (c) Drug Control Centre (DCC). This research has continued to explore cutting
edge approaches for the detection of performance enhancing agents in athletes. These include: i)
the novel use of supercritical fluid chromatography-mass spectrometry, ii) strategies for cost
reduction in anti-doping such as dried blood analysis and iii) continuing the world-leading work on
detecting human growth hormone misuse (Impact Case 1).
2) RESPIRATORY PHYSIOLOGY & MEDICINE is now our fastest growing group, enhanced by
the close collaboration with our clinical partners within KHP. Research has focused on broad
aspects of human respiratory physiology from developing new tools to understand mechanisms of
oxygen sensing, through to physiological studies of gas exchange in health, and disease as well as
extreme environments. We have increased our understanding of respiratory control in exercise
and breathlessness in both health and disease and from infancy to old age.
3) AEROSPACE PHYSIOLOGY & MEDICINE interacts closely with the work of the other three
groups and includes collaborations with the Royal Air Force Centre of Aviation Medicine (RAF
CAM), the European Space Agency (ESA) and industry (QinetiQ) as well as with unique
expeditions in extreme environments e.g. Xtreme Everest and White Mars. Our research has
resulted in several important discoveries relating to human performance in the aerospace
environment particularly relating to hypoxia and acceleration (+Gz). With RAF CAM we have
evaluated the incidence of G-induced loss of consciousness (G-LOC) in fast-jet aircrew and
designed and evaluated a new aircrew conditioning programme targeted at improving G tolerance
and reducing the risk of neck injury (Impact Case 2).

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4) MOVEMENT, FUNCTION AND BEHAVIOUR focuses on a bidirectional Body and Mind
approach to investigating and understanding the relationship between physiological function and
human behaviour. Research themes are organised around the global public health issues of long-
term conditions, multimorbidity and frailty, including Parkinson’s disease and vestibular conditions.
We have facilitated interdisciplinary collaborations and applied innovative research methods to
identify physiological / biomechanical mechanisms and processes underlying functional,
behavioural and emotional responses. Our research has aimed to identify effective, evidence-
based assessment methods to predict clinical outcome and management strategies.
Research Integrity
KCL provides clear guidance on best practice led by a dedicated Research Integrity Team working
to RCUK Policy and Guidelines on Governance of Good Research Conduct. A range of activities
including university-wide training for all researchers is provided. At a departmental level, research
integrity is part of our standard working practice. All participant/patient research is rigorously
assessed ethically through the local KCL Research Ethics Committee (REC), the NHS Integrated
Research Application System (IRAS) or with the Ministry of Defence Research Ethics Committee.
One of our staff sits on the KCL REC, whilst another sits on the ESA Medical Board which
considers the medical risk of all research proposals involving ESA astronauts. Our animal studies
are undertaken under stringent UK Home Office Licences and one of our staff is a member of
KCL’s three Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Bodies (AWERBs), Chairperson of the London
AWERB hub and a member of the national Hub Chairs’ network, set up by the government’s
advisory Animals in Science committee to spread good practice between establishments. In
addition, we have our own local Person Designate, responsible for all work that comes under the
auspices of the Human Tissue Act. In all of this we offer bespoke support to staff beginning their
research careers.
The Future
Our strategy for the next 7 years is to capitalise on the strengths of our research environment, to
build on our multi-disciplinary approaches and continue to generate new knowledge and further
insight, whilst enabling outstanding impact across our 4 research domains. We will further develop
international partnerships, including in lower- and middle-income countries. Our success in
delivering on this vision will be facilitated by the prospering research environment that we work
hard to cultivate and evidenced by sustained and collaborative grant funding, publication of outputs
in the leading journals and real-world impact. The world faces the challenges of an ageing
population and one where lifestyle/inactivity related diseases remain prevalent. “Exercise is
medicine”, is being increasingly recognised as a means of health maintenance, disease prevention
and as a treatment modality. This concept is a fundamental driver of our research strategy. Our
combined expertise and thriving research environment put us in a prime position to progress
investigations into the mechanisms which determine the functioning, adaptation and repair of the
skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and respiratory systems. We will move these fields forward by
exploiting new and innovative technologies. These range from single-cell RNAseq and ATACseq,
metabolomics, new imaging technologies which can combine with whole body-integrative
physiology, through to the use of machine learning and virtual reality technologies for
understanding movement disorders. We will build on our military and industrial collaborations
including research on the new state-of-the-art human centrifuge at RAF Cranwell, which opened in
2018. Our growing aerospace medicine group will be at the forefront of physiological and medical
research as the country generates its next generation of fast-jet aircraft. The prospect of space
tourism is becoming ever more realistic, and a clear understanding of the physiological and
medical factors associated with suborbital flight in people who previously would not have made
“astronaut grade” (space tourists) is essential. We will target research in these areas and develop
further collaborations with key stakeholders and relevant commercial organisations.

Research Impact Strategy
Our research is both multi- and inter-disciplinary. We work with a variety of partners; internally,
nationally and internationally and our research has had notable impact over the past 7 years. We
actively support our group in a number of diverse organisational roles outside of KCL that extends
our influence and enables impact well beyond the institution. Beneficiaries have included health

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
service providers and users, policy makers, industry, the military, the aerospace and sporting
communities. Our research will continue to have a wide impact on individuals whether they be
members of the public (particularly older people), patients, elite athletes and those striving to push
forward the frontiers of human endeavour. We have four main pathways to impact which are
outlined below.
i) Impact on drug testing and athlete health (DCC): We continue to have a major global impact
in the field of anti-doping science and have played a significant role in maintaining the integrity of
competitive sports. The rise in tests performed by the DCC (from 8,800 in 2015 to 12,587 in 2018)
has resulted in more athletes taking prohibited substances being caught thus increasing the
confidence of both clean athletes and the public in the fairness of sporting competition. In addition,
the DCC has delivered the anti-doping analysis for major sporting events e.g. Rugby and Cricket
World Cups, and its scientists have worked as international experts at major games around the
globe e.g. The 2019 World Swimming Championships (Moscow), 2016 Olympics (Rio de Janeiro),
2018 Winter Olympics (PyeongChang), 2018 Asian Games (Doha). Due to its standing the DCC
was chosen to manage and deliver the forensic evidence underpinning the WADA Independent
Commission/Report into state-endorsed doping in Russian sport (Impact Case 1).
ii) Impact in the aerospace medicine and science communities: Aviation and space
environments are highly challenging, putting unique stressors on the human body. Aerospace
Medicine is an evolving field with rapidly advancing technologies linked to enhanced performance
capabilities of new fast-jet aircraft and ambitions to take astronauts further into space, along with
the advent of space tourism. Therefore, the importance of understanding the physiological and
medical challenges to the body in space has never been greater. Ongoing studies with RAF CAM
and QinetiQ are evaluating the physiological challenges provided by the increased manoeuvrability
of the UK’s Typhoon, F35B Lightning and future Tempest aircraft. Our collaborative research into
the development of an aircrew conditioning programme has led to an important change in RAF
policy, with the programme now being mandated for all new aircrew entering the training pathway
and has had impact worldwide (Impact Case Study 2). Our research-informed Diploma and MSc
in Aerospace Medicine is responsible for training specialist clinicians in aerospace medicine who
work for military (UK and international) and civilian organisations or privately. This includes training
those taking clinical responsibility for aircrew aboard the Royal Navy’s new aircraft carriers. Our
Professor of Aerospace Medicine (to 2019), David Gradwell, edited the leading textbook in the field
(Ernsting’s Aviation Space Medicine, 5th Edition) and took the lead in establishing “Aviation and
Space Medicine” as a new clinical specialty in the UK. This was added to the General and
Specialist Medical Practice Order in April 2016 and the curriculum subsequently approved by the
GMC in 2016. Our recently appointed Clinical Senior Lecturer (Dr Hodkinson) is the first
Consultant in this specialty to be added to the GMC specialist register. We have pioneered the first
clinics in Aerospace Medicine within the NHS at St Thomas’ Hospital. We are working closely with
the UK Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) to research the impact of members of the public taking
commercial suborbital spaceflights (e.g. Virgin Galactica), to inform the development of CAA policy
and regulations governing these flights.
iii) Impact on clinical practice: We work closely with clinicians, patients and members of the
general public across different sectors. Numerous research projects have been collaborative
ventures between our academics and clinical partners as co-applicants on grants and co-authors
on publications. Our interdisciplinary translational research programmes apply expertise in
physiological measurement to the major public health challenges posed by long-term health
conditions, multimorbidity and frailty. We have pioneered the use of respiratory muscle
electromyography as an index of neural respiratory drive, respiratory disease severity and
exertional breathlessness, establishing reference benchmarks for use in clinical and research
studies cited in European Respiratory Society guidelines. Our respiratory muscle laboratory at
KCH receives tertiary NHS referrals for diagnostic tests from across the UK.
Work in collaboration with critical care explores the clinical effectiveness of novel modes of
respiratory support including Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist and transcutaneous electrical
stimulation of upper airway dilator muscles in obstructive sleep apnoea and has informed
development of novel biomarkers of clinical deterioration and readmission risk (Myotrace
technology, Philips Respironics). Our NIHR-funded research demonstrated the benefits of early

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
integration of respiratory medicine and palliative care to refractory breathlessness in advanced
disease, informing the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) Report and
the American Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline (2017 update). Insights
gained through a unique programme of work exploring the physiology of heroin overdose inform
UK guidelines on clinical management of drug misuse and dependence, the National Expert
Working Group to investigate drug-related deaths in England, and Dame Carol Black’s
Independent Review of Drugs (2020).
Research from the Movement, Function and Behaviour group has developed a validated screening
tool for vestibular disorders in children and a separate tool for identifying visual-induced dizziness
symptoms. These are being used in paediatric clinics in the UK and USA and have been
recommended in several publications for use as part of the screening protocol for childhood
vestibular disorders and have been translated for use in multiple countries. Guidelines for dual-task
exercises in older adults have also been developed and are being adopted by AGILE (the
Professional Network of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy).
Impact on the Covid-19 pandemic: KCL/KHP was at the epicentre of the UK COVID-19
pandemic. Our departmental respiratory physiology research laboratories were redeployed to KCH
for clinical use. In response to the pandemic CHAPS staff have made important clinical (being
redeployed fulltime to the NHS) and research contributions with direct patient impact. i) Dr Jolley
and colleagues developed, designed and delivered a holistic post-COVID respiratory clinic at KCH,
embedding routine assessment of symptoms and physiology of every patient seen. These findings
are now embedded in routine clinical care and referenced in the NICE COVID-19 rapid guideline
"Managing the long-term effects of COVID-19". Dr Jolley is also a local Co-I of the UKRI-funded
PHOSP-COVID post-hospitalisation study. ii) Dr Smith and colleagues at GSTT developed mobile
emergency rapid intubation teams (MERIT) and became the first UK centre to develop combined
MERIT/surgeon tracheostomy teams and publish COVID-19 tracheostomy guidelines. iii) Dr
Formenti co-led an interdisciplinary team of engineers and clinicians from KCL and Oxford
University which pioneered the development of new low-cost ventilators (OxVent). iv) Prof. Ellison-
Hughes and colleagues in China were the first to show intravenously transplanted mesenchymal
stem cells into COVID-19-pneumonia patients to be safe and effective, decreasing hospitalisation
and recovery time. v) Prof. Harridge was an expert panel member/co-author for the Physiological
Society’s report “A National Covid-19 Resilience Programme: Improving the health and wellbeing
of older people during the pandemic”.
iv) Public involvement, engagement and outreach: We are passionate about sharing our
research findings and use our work in a variety of approaches to increase public understanding of
science and inspire the next generation about STEM fields; helping to build access, diversity and
inclusivity in science. In addition to our research being heavily featured by major national and
international broadcasters (BBC, Sky, CNN, CBS,) and newspapers (Washington Post, New York
Times), our staff have contributed to television and radio programmes, made high profile web
media contributions (e.g. “Can exercise reverse the ageing process?”, BBC News) and given
public lectures (TEDx). In collaboration with the International Space School Educational Trust
(ISSET) and Pint of Science we have organised and hosted numerous public events aimed at
promoting our science and aerospace medical science and featured former NASA astronauts. One
particular highlight in 2015 was the organisation of a live link-up to the International Space Station
(ISS) and a Q&A session with astronaut Scott Kelly where over 500 members of the public
attended. For the past 9 years we have worked closely with ISSET in hosting “Mission Discovery”
(MD) at KCL. This is a week-long international summer school for ~250 pupils who work in small
teams to design a scientific experiment to be undertaken on the ISS. MD works in parallel with
several scientific learning opportunities as well as with NASA confidence and team-building
activities. All participants are mentored by current KCL postgraduate students providing
development opportunity for our students, as well as attendees. Under the direction of Dr Keeble
(CHAPS researcher and ISSET Chief Scientist), the best experiment from every programme is
launched to the ISS with 11 experiments launched to date. A further 20 experiments have been
prepared for launch from MD events held internationally e.g. Australia, India, USA, which have
grown out of the success of the KCL model, demonstrating global impact. We have organised and
hosted lectures to children in our partner schools, as well as supporting several Mission X activities
targeted at schools and the general public. As part of our new BSc in Sport & Exercise Medical

                                                                                              Page 5
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences, we hosted “Connecting Science and Performance: Fuelling for Athletes” (in 2019), our
 first annual public event, where coaches and athletes interact with our researchers and leading
 experts to discuss scientific findings that are pertinent to sports performance.

  2. People
Staffing strategy and staff development
CHAPS (headed by Professor Stephen Harridge) comprise a tenured staff of 3 Professors, 3
Readers, 2 Clinical Senior lecturers, 5 Senior Lecturers and 3 Lecturers, eight of whom were
appointed since 2014, a 15% increase in staff numbers since 2013. Staff come from a variety of
backgrounds including physiology, sport and exercise science, medicine, physiotherapy, cell biology
and bioengineering and two who are from the School of Cardiovascular Medicine and Sciences. In
addition to the HEFCE funded staff returned here, our research has benefitted from the work of
Visiting and Emeritus Professors and colleagues in collaborating institutions who hold visiting
appointments from RAF CAM, QinetiQ, ESA and 10 clinical colleagues from within KHP who have
honorary KCL contracts that enhance our impact and contribution to the wider research base. We
currently have 7 externally funded Post-doctoral Research Associates (3 female/4 male,1 BAME) in
CHAPS who are fully supported by the department throughout their time at KCL.
New academic staff are appointed based on their fit within our 4 research groupings and have a
designated affiliation to an academic teaching department in a matrix management structure. New
staff actively engage with our mentoring programme, being assigned an experienced senior
colleague who advises and guides them on all aspects of academic development and career
progression and through the 3-year probationary period. We introduced a career pathway framework
to CHAPS, which clarifies career development and key transition points all the way from MSc student
to Professor, and what milestones should be completed at each career stage. This allows an
individual to identify where they fit within this framework and what is needed to progress to the next
stage. This framework was introduced as a guide in the performance development review (PDR)
process. This occurs annually for all staff and is designed to help steer individuals on their career
path and, for academics, is conducted with the heads of the relevant research and teaching
departments, ensuring a balance of workload regarding research and education. Through Skills
Forge the University provides multiple support and training opportunities for investigators in a range
of areas from post-graduate research (PGR) student supervision to developing leadership skills.
Post-graduate Research students
As with for our PDRAs, the development of the next generation of scientists from PhD level is a top
priority and enabled by the inclusive and positive environment we foster. We average ~22 FTE PhD
students registered at any one time, with a good gender and ethnic balance (Table 1). All PGR
students have graduated within 4 years or part-time equivalent (unless an extension is granted
following a formal review of mitigating circumstances).
                2014        2015         2016        2017         2018      2019       2020
    Total       27.25       22.25        21.5        23.5          21       17.75      18.25
  # Female      16.25       13.75         12          11         11.75      9.25         9
  # BAME         6.5         4.25        4.25          4           4.5      8.25         8
Table 1. Postgraduate research students (FTE) enrolled on doctoral programmes per calendar year
Each student has a first (lead) and second supervisor and our post-graduate co-ordinator (PGC) has
overall responsibility for student welfare in collaboration with the BMBS PGR officer. Students are
monitored and supported through the Faculty’s Thesis Progression Committee (TPC) system,
whereby an independent chair and two independent experts meet with the student and supervisors
every 6 months to review progress and offer guidance and support. This is in addition to individual
meetings and an online system of quarterly progress reports, agreed by students, supervisors and
the PGC. The upgrade from MPhil to PhD registration, normally occurs at 9 months FTE, involves a
written report and formal approval by the TPC. A collaborative and supportive culture is promoted by
having students and researchers located in designated shared offices within the department.
Supported by the department, students and PDRAs run their own journal club and interact closely
with other journal clubs, laboratory meetings and peers from other departments within BMBS and
beyond. Annually, all the students present their work to the Department as an oral presentation and
                                                                                              Page 6
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
at the BMBS PhD symposium; 1st and 2nd year students present a poster and final year students
deliver an oral presentation. All research staff and students are actively encouraged and supported,
wherever possible, to attend and present at national and international meetings and conferences. At
departmental level, training is further facilitated by interaction with our MSc students, whose projects
offer the chance to work alongside and be partly supervised by PDRAs and PGR students, providing
valuable experiences for all. Further training opportunities are provided with PGR students acting as
demonstrators for BSc and MSc practical classes and giving tutorials.
Supporting the PGC at departmental level, and the BMBS PGR officer at school level, is the Centre
for Doctoral Studies at University level. This has responsibility for the student experience across KCL
and provides multiple layers of support ranging from careers advice, access to Royal Literary Fund
Writing Fellows, e-learning support and one-to-one coaching. The Researcher Development Unit
provides a programme of >300 free workshops annually. Training for new PhD supervisors is
compulsory and is provided by half-day sessions that run several times each year. All experienced
supervisors in CHAPS are required to refresh their knowledge and skills at least every 5 years via a
refresher training session.
Promotion of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Our commitment to EDI is embedded in our practice through FoLSM governance, operations and
culture. In 2014 CHAPS secured its own Athena Swan Bronze Award and in 2018 we contributed to
securing a Faculty Athena SWAN Silver Award. We are passionate about the role and importance of
leadership in visibly championing our commitment to EDI principles and to ensuring EDI principles
feed into all decision-making and operations. The Diversity & Inclusion (DDI) Team & Committee
oversee implementation of the Faculty Inclusion Action Plan. Prof. Ellison-Hughes from CHAPS is the
academic lead for DDI for BMBS, chairs the School DDI committee and is responsible for
implementing the EDI action plan across the five centres within BMBS. Having one of our staff in this
senior role further helps ensure that an inclusive environment is fostered.
Awareness of commitment to EDI is high across our Faculty. The 2017 King’s Staff Survey showed
96% of FoLSM staff were aware of our commitment to EDI; 91% agreed we were committed to an
inclusive environment; and 92% agreed we acted fairly, regardless of protected characteristics.
Meanwhile, our BMBS Staff Survey in 2019 showed that 99% were aware of Athena SWAN and 76%
aware of Race Equality Charter Mark. Since 2014, the proportion of staff who are aware and attend
EDI training has increased annually. 81% are aware of Diversity Matters Training, and 62% had
attended unconscious bias or Diversity Matters training. From 2020, it is mandatory for everyone in
BMBS to undertake Diversity Matters training, which includes unconscious bias, bullying and
harassment guidance, and this must be refreshed every 4 years. Our survey showed 76% agreed
that there is a supportive culture within the School/Department. Central to our approach of
mainstreaming an inclusive environment has been the improvement of key transition points for all
employees e.g. reviewing induction content, probation and promotion processes, ensuring that career
progression/promotion are more constructively discussed in the PDR process, and improving
awareness and access to flexible working. Our survey shows an increased proportion of staff taking
up informal flexible working (67%).

Career progression for academics
In the 2019 BMBS staff survey, 62% were aware of career development training, 64% said their line
manager encouraged them to attend and 81% agreed that there are visible female role models of
senior staff in the School/Department. Alongside removing structural barriers, our programme of
activity includes initiatives aimed at promoting career progression for women, particularly within the
academic community. These include mentoring, promotions workshops; opportunities to deputise on
decision-making committees; funds to support return from career breaks and to cover childcare costs
when attending conferences/training, leadership development programmes, and bespoke training.
The accumulated impact from these initiatives is an increase in the proportion of women across the
academic pipeline, with the most notable increase at the Reader level (from 37% in 2013-14 to 44%
in 2016-17). Furthermore, we introduced thematic leadership positions e.g. Academic Lead for
Research & Impact, across our Schools in 2017, as part of our strategy to diversify leadership. As a
result, 52% of these positions are held by women and we will target support for these individuals to
equip them for Faculty leadership positions. Since 2014 CHAPS staff have seen 1 promotion from

                                                                                                Page 7
 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Reader to Professor (female), 3 promotions from Senior Lecturer to Reader (3 male) and 1 promotion
from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (female). For the appointment of new academic staff all shortlisting
and interview panels comprise at least one member of staff from each gender.
Career progression for research staff
In our FoLSM Executive DDI Pledge, we committed explicitly to “taking collective responsibility and
accountability for the development and inclusion of research staff”, and both Vice-Deans for DDI and
Research & Impact have specific responsibility for supporting research staff. BMBS has a research
staff network and runs a successful PDRA mentoring scheme. CHAPS developed and implemented a
bespoke post-doctoral career development model, which provides clear goals with objective-setting
and training opportunities. The model was part of our original departmental Athena Swan Bronze
award action plan and has demonstrated fruition as our post-docs have gone on to obtain university
Lectureships (1 female/2 male, 1 BAME), Senior Scientist positions at the Francis Crick Institute (1
female), independent Fellowships (1 female) as well as forming their own companies in the
biomedicine field (1 male, BAME). This model has been rolled out across BMBS, and together with
the Centre for Research Staff Development has been included in the College-wide research staff
PDR process. PDRAs are represented on School decision-making committees i.e. School DDI
committee. Annually, the PDRAs together with the PhD students organise a career’s day, involving
talks and networking with a diverse range of scientific careers.
Culture
 We are committed to embedding inclusivity across our broader working environment and have
 implemented a number of new initiatives, which include incorporating EDI as a standing item on
 the CHAPS, BMBS and FoLSM Executive Committees; aligning meeting times within core hours
 (10.00-16.00) and running regular staff consultations e.g., surveys and focus groups, to encourage
 feedback on all aspects of our culture and operations. As part of our zero-tolerance policy towards
 bullying and harassment, we run a Confidential Advisors Service for staff and PhD students
 experiencing bullying and harassment. FoLSM are in the process of implementing a Cultural
 Change Initiative, which has used qualitative evidence to improve confidence and capability in role
 modelling, best practice and inclusion and inform a coaching and training programme for
 Leadership. CHAPS has been the driving force behind the implementation of School Holiday
 Activity Camps, where children of KCL staff, aged between 5 and 12 years, can participate in a
 host of activities, including sports, science, arts and crafts. These camps are planned to be held on
 campus, be affordable and to run over the Easter and Summer holidays. These were to be
 introduced in 2020 but were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income: The total value of the grants with CHAPS investigators as a Principal or Co-
 investigator totals ~£9m (Figure 2). We have received funding from a wide range of sources:
 Research Councils (EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, NIHR, UK Space Agency), European (EU Horizon
 2020) and International agencies (World Anti-Doping Agency, US Anti-Doping Agency/Partnership
 for Clean Competition). We have also received funding from Medical Research Charities including:
 Wellcome Trust, Nadace JetBrains Foundation, British Heart Foundation, Heart Research UK,
 Dunhill Medical Foundation and Guy’s & St Thomas’s Charitable Trust. Each year we have been
 awarded at least one of the competitive Each year we have been awarded at least one of the
 competitive PhD studentships funded by the MRC or BBSRC (LIDo) DTPs. We also regularly have
 a number of non-EU government funded PhD students. We have also received in-kind funding to
 support research projects namely RAF/MOD (~£250k), GSK (~£300k).




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                        Infrastructure & Facilities: Our facilities on the Guy’s
                                        campus provide excellent laboratories for human exercise
                                        and whole-body functional studies, as well as for cellular
                                        and molecular investigations as well as studies using
                                        animal models. Additional laboratories are located at King’s
                                        College and St Thomas’ Hospitals and on our Waterloo
                                        Campus.
                                          Whole body human physiology and biomechanics: Our
                                          physiology and biomechanics laboratories have benefited
                                          from a £0.5m investment from the university, which along
                                          with research grant funding, has enabled investment in
                                          state-of-the-art cycle ergometers, metabolic carts, a DEXA
                                          scanner, as well as a new gait laboratory incorporating
                                          cutting-edge integrated force plate and opto-electronic
                                          camera systems. With EU funding we also have a new
state-of-the-art augmented reality system (Holobalance). Our human physiology laboratories are
equipped for a range of in vivo and in vitro studies: cardio-pulmonary exercise testing; motion
analysis and motor control (3D motion analysis, force plates, accelerometers, EMG, double-probe
ultrasound and eye-tracker) systems; cardiovascular function (Finometers, tilt tables, pulse
oximetry, Near Infra-Red spectroscopy); neuromuscular function (isometric, isokinetic and inertial
dynamometry); electrical, magnetic and direct current stimulation, various cognitive test batteries
and ocular/visual function
                                         testing. We have a suite for human tissue sampling and our
                                         Centre is accredited by the Human Tissue Authority. Our
                                         environmental chamber allows for a range of temperatures and
                                         humidities, as well as a normobaric-hypoxic capability up to
                                         17,000ft equivalents. At KCH we have a unique respiratory
                                         physiology research unit which is a comprehensive suite for
                                         respiratory assessments - including respiratory flow, volume
                                         and pressure. This is adjacent to the Chest Unit of the hospital
                                         providing a unique facility for physiological investigations in
                                         respiratory patient populations. For collaborative experimental
                                         work in aerospace physiology and medicine there is ready
    Opening of our new exercise          access to additional facilities with our partners including the
    physiology and biomechanics          short arm centrifuge at ESA, the new state-of-the-art long-arm
    facilities by Olympic Gold           centrifuge opened at RAF Cranwell in 2018, as well as
    Medallist Dame Katherine             hypobaric chambers at RAF Henlow and MOD Boscombe
    Grainger in February 2019.           Down (QinetiQ).
Animal, cellular & molecular: Our laboratories house advanced analytical tools and equipment
for research on the biology of cardiac and muscle tissue, stem cell biology and molecular
physiology. These include new cell culture facilities, Thermo Scientific™ Shandon™ Cytospin®,
nanodrop spectrophoto-meter, RNAscope in situ hybridization, fluorescence plate reader, immuno-
magnetic bead cell sorting, qRT-PCR, Western Blotting, Chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHiP),
bright field, fluorescence and confocal microscopy. We utilise analytical flow cytometers and cell
sorters (BD FACS Aria II and CytomationMoFlo) and for small animal mechanistic studies have
purpose-built procedure rooms with equipment for behavioural and conditioning studies. These
include rodent exercise training systems; motorised treadmills coupled with metabolic analysis
capabilities. There are two suites with surgical tables and dissecting microscopes, including
induction of myocardial infarction and denervation for muscle damage-regeneration studies. These
suites house high-resolution rodent ultrasound and Pressure Volume systems. Advanced
experimental tools include retrograde perfusion/Langendorf systems for temperature and pressure-
controlled retrograde perfusion of buffers and enzymes through the coronary tree of different
animal models.
Mass Spectrometry and Proteomics: The DCC was key in establishing the Mass Spectrometry
Facility (MSF) at King’s which enables research and analysis, both qualitative and quantitative, of

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
small molecules and larger biomolecules. Instruments include liquid chromatography (LC) coupled
tandem MS, LC coupled high resolution MS, LC coupled tandem high-resolution MS, gas
chromatography coupled MS, Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation - Time of Flight MS and
Inductively Coupled Plasma MS. The small molecule applications include substance identification
from complex matrices, profiling and metabolomics, metabolite identification and quantification.
The proteomics platform provides services from the simplest protein identification to very complex
large-scale biomarker discovery and verification studies in a wide range of biological matrices. The
MSF is further underpinned by the facilities of the DCC, which has a wide array of gas
chromatography and liquid chromatography coupled simple, high resolution and tandem mass
spectrometers.
Laser microdissection (LMD: CHAPS PIs Ellison-Hughes and Ochala were part of a Wellcome
Trust multi-user equipment grant awarded for a Zeiss PALM Laser Microdissection/Tweezers
system. This state-of-the-art instrument enables high precision selection, manipulation and
extraction of cells, sub-cellular structures and particles from tissue and cultures. The ability of LMD
to select specific cells or sub-cellular structures is enhanced by using infrared laser-based optical
trap and tweezers. These tools permit manipulation of skeletal muscle and cardiac cells or particles
for extraction, in addition to moving cells, beads or particles in live tissues, without damage, for
measuring tissue stiffness or flow. Extracted samples are processed for downstream quantification
using genomics, transcriptomics, microarrays, next generation sequencing, biochips, or
proteomics. This allows users to correlate precisely ‘upstream’ measurements such as imaging of
cells or physiological readouts with molecular characterisation.
Other excellent KCL core research facilities utilised by CHAPS researchers include:
NIKON Microscopy Imaging Centre: This is one of only 8 worldwide centres and provides cutting
edge microscopy and imaging equipment including: A1R Si Confocal, A1R Multiphoton, AZ100
Multizoom, Biostation IM-Q, Inverted Spinning Disk, N-SIM Super Resolution, N-STORM Super
Resolution microscopes and two Eclipse Ti-E Live Cell Imaging Systems. Magnetic Resonance
and PET Imaging: We have access to 1.5T and 3T GE Signa HDx Twin Speed MRI scanners.
Within the Preclinical Imaging Unit there is an Agilent 7T horizontal MR scanner fully equipped to
study various aspects of disease including anatomical, metabolic, functional and experimental
models. The KCL Imaging Scanning facility also includes Bioscan Mediso nanoSPECT/CT and
nanoPET/CT scanners as well as two prototype magnetic-field compatible single slice PET
scanners (for both 9.4T and 3T MR systems), which enable simultaneous acquisition of PET scans
and MRI images/spectra from either small animals or isolated perfused organs. NMR Facility:
With support from the Wellcome Trust new 800MHz (18.8 T) and 600 MHz (14.1 T) spectrometers
were added to the NMR Facility in 2017 for high-resolution and high-throughput applications.
Genomic facilities: These comprise equipment and services to cover all aspects of genomics
research, including transcriptomic and gene expression projects using microarray technology and
SNP Genotyping, as well as NGS technology.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Research collaborations, networks and partnerships:
Local & Regional: CHAPS actively collaborates with local colleagues within other departments in
BMBS (Randall Centre for Molecular Biophysics, Department of Medical & Molecular Genetics and
the Centre for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine), with other schools within FoLSM
(Cardiovascular Medicine & Sciences, Biomedical Engineering & Imaging Sciences, Immunology &
Microbial Sciences) as well as other Faculties (Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology &
Neuroscience). In 2016 Professor Harridge and Dr Siow (Cardiovascular Medicine & Sciences)
formed a cross-faculty multidisciplinary consortium of investigators which brings together
scholarship and research in ageing (Ageing Research at King’s, ARK). With support from Unilever
and King’s Together funding, ARK was established to bring together scholarship, research
activities and enhance academic and industry collaboration in ageing research. This research
spans basic mechanisms of the biology of ageing, human and exercise physiology, through to
clinical translation and the socio-economic impact of ageing. We have hosted numerous events to
foster research networking and develop partnerships within King’s, the Research Councils,
research charities, other academic institutions and industrial partners and have held multiple

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international keynote lectures that have been open to the public. ARK has 16 global academic
partners and is a founding member of the UK All Party Parliamentary Group for Longevity, hosting
the launch of their National Strategy for Healthier Longer Lives in February 2020 (Keynote address
by Rt Hon Matt Hancock MP, Secretary of State for Health and Social Care). A further networking
and strategic initiative has been the formation of a Respiratory Medicine and Science which brings
together clinicians and basic scientists involved in respiratory research, hosting regular meetings to
promote collaborative research. This has included activities relating to the recent merger of KHP
with the Royal Brompton Hospital.
National: We have extensive and numerous collaborations with scientists within the fields of
translational and basic mechanistic research, as well as exercise science, in the UK. These include
Imperial College London, University College London, the Universities of Birmingham, Nottingham,
Oxford and Cambridge. Our staff contribute to national esteemed bodies, particularly The
Physiological Society, the Royal College of Physicians and the UK Space Life & Biomedical
Sciences Association - we were a founding member of the latter. We have an ongoing partnership
with the RAF Centre of Aviation Medicine, both in research and the delivery of academic
programmes in aerospace medicine and research designed to tackle specific physiological/medical
and operational requirements in the RAF. Military staff have undertaken PhDs within our Centre,
as have staff from QinetiQ. With QinetiQ there is bilateral activity with many of our MSc and PhD
students undertaking careers there. We have also had research activity in collaboration with
industrial partners including GSK (BBSRC industrial partner award, GSK Human Performance Lab)
and Smith & Nephew (ventilator manufacture). Our expertise is frequently called upon by the
Physiological Society in numerous contributions to their scientific outreach and policy initiatives
including Expert Group membership, and Scientific Advisors (e.g. “Growing Older, Better” policy
document, “What is Sport and Exercise Science”? Animation, Covid-19 updates).
International: Our network of international research collaborations and partnerships is extensive.
We have active joint research projects with scientists and institutions across the world. These
include the Mayo Clinic; the Universities of California Davis, Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania, MIT
(USA), McMaster University (Canada); University of Sydney (Australia); St John’s Medical College
(India); University of Graz (Austria); Magna Graecia University, University of Campania Luigi
Vanvitelli (Italy); Tokyo Women’s Medical University, Nagoya University (Japan); University
Medical Center Utrecht (The Netherlands); Guangzhou Medical University (China); Uppsala
University (Sweden). With ESA and the German Space Agency DLR (Cologne) we have had a
number of collaborative projects with the Crew Medical Support Office in regard to novel exercise
interventions for optimising astronaut health and safety. CHAPS staff are also members of the
NASA GeneLab consortium and ESA’s Space-Omics Topical Team.
Our staff contribute substantially to the wider research base both nationally and internationally
though editorships, invited high profile conference presentations, research committees, learned
societies and organisation of prestigious scientific meetings and symposia as well as public
outreach as summarised below.
Editorships
CHAPS staff have senior editing roles in journals pertinent to our wide-ranging research interests.
Since 2012 Prof Harridge has served as the Editor-in-Chief of one of the leading journals in its field
(Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports). Our staff serve and have served as
senior/review or associate editors on many of the leading journals including: Journal of Physiology;
Experimental Physiology; Extreme Physiology & Medicine; Frontiers in Physiology, BMC Molecular
and Cell Biology, Frontiers Medical Technology, Scientific Reports; Stem Cells International.
Conferences
CHAPS researchers have international reputations in their field and are often invited,
keynote/plenary speakers at national and international conferences, meetings and symposia.
Notable lectures have included: European College of Sports Science, Malmö 2015 (Harridge);
Biomedical Basic of Elite Performance II, Nottingham 2016 (Harridge). “John Lane Oration” at the
Australasian Society of Aerospace Medicine, Australia 2019 (Smith); “Kevin Dolan Memorial
Lecture”, Institute of Animal Technology's Annual Congress, UK 2017 (Keeble). “Sport science in
the 100-year-old Finland” Finland 2017 (Harridge); “Doctors Updates”, Val d'Isère 2017 (Harridge);


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Biology of Aging Symposium: Advances in therapeutic approaches to extend healthspan, USA
2017 (Ellison-Hughes); Dyspnea 2018, Montreal, Canada (Jolley); Barcelona FC Inaugural Sports
Nutrition seminar series, on “Protein nutrition for recovery in professional football’ 2018 (Witard);
European Respiratory Society International Congress, Paris, 2018 (Jolley); Life at the Limits 2019,
Physiological Society, Portsmouth 2019 (Clark); 2nd International Biomedical Health Annual
Conference (UNESCO), China 2019 (Ellison-Hughes); International Sport and Exercise Nutrition
Conference, Newcastle 2019 (Witard); Royal Society of Medicine, London 2020 (Witard);
International Symposium on Geriatric Care, Taiwan 2019 (Harridge); 4th Guangzhou International
Conference on Respiratory Disease, China 2019 (Jolley).
In addition, we are invited frequently to be session chairs and panel experts and have been on the
organising committees for international meetings including the 63rd International Congress of
Aviation and Space Medicine, Oxford: 2015 and “Muscles and movement: a memorial meeting to
celebrate the life and work of Professor Roger Woledge”, London 2016.
Contribution to grant awarding bodies, learned societies and policy
CHAPS researchers act as reviewers for all the major UK grant awarding bodies as well as
internationally including the MRC, BBSRC, EPSRC, The Wellcome Trust, British Heart Foundation
and the EU Framework 2020. Prof Shattock serves on the BHF Chairs and Programme Grants
Committees.
Aside from being active members of learned societies involved in promoting and disseminating
research findings, our staff have a number of key roles within different organisations. Professor
Gradwell was President of the Aerospace Medical Association (ASMA, 2016-2018) and President-
elect of the Scientific Committee of the International Academy of Aviation & Space Medicine
(2019). Prof Ellison-Hughes is an Executive member of UNESCO’s ‘Anti-Aging and Disease
Prevention’ Committee (2019-). Dr Formenti has been Trustee & Director, Council member, of the
Publications Committee and of the Education and Public Engagement and Policy committee of The
Physiological Society (2016-2020) and member of the Board of the General Assembly of
International Union of Physiological Sciences. Dr Pavlou was Vice-chair, Chair & Research
Officer, Association of Chartered Physiotherapists Interested in Vestibular Rehabilitation and was a
member of Advisory Group for the Department of Health publication “Provision of Adult Balance
Services: a good practice guide”. Dr Smith is a member of the Scientific Program Committee and
Science and Technology Committees (Deputy Chair since 2018) of ASMA. Dr Rafferty serves as
Chair for the Association for Respiratory Technology & Physiology Working Group on Respiratory
Muscle and was a member of the American Thoracic Society workshop and co-author of the report
“Evaluation of respiratory mechanics & function in the paediatric and neonatal ITU”. Dr Witard co-
authored the IAAF Consensus Statement 2019 on “Nutrition for Athletics”. Prof Harridge
represented the Royal Society of Biology and Physiological Society as a speaker at the
Parliamentary Links Day in 2019 and was co-author of the Physiological Society’s report “Growing
Older, Better”, highlighting physiology’s role in meeting the UK Government’s target of “at least five
extra healthy, independent years of life by 2035”.
Advisory Boards
CHAPS staff serve/have served on a number of advisory boards and trial steering committees
including: Prof Ellison-Hughes: Project REMAIN; The Netherlands Heart Foundation, 2016-2020;
Executive Board member of CARE-MI consortium EU FP7 (to 2015); MONACO clinical trial
(Chair). Prof Harridge: MRC Arthritis Research UK Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research
(2018-).
National and International recognition
Our research contribution has been recognised both nationally and internationally through
prestigious prizes and awards. These include recognition of the work done by the DCC who were
awarded the Partnership for Clean Competition’s Outstanding Scientific Contribution to Anti-Doping
Research award in 2017 with former Director Prof. David Cowan winning the prestigious Larry D.
Bowers award for his contribution to the advancement of anti-doping science over his career. Dr
Tom Smith was winner of the 2019 Eric Liljencrantz Award from ASMA honouring research
excellence in aerospace medicine and was elected as an Academician of the International
Academy of Aviation and Space Medicine. Dr James Clark was awarded the Otto Hutter Prize by

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Physiological Society in 2019. Dr Federici Formenti and the OxVent team have been
recognised with the "Small Idea, Big Impact: Global Challenge” award from the Institution of
Engineering and Technology and the “Collaborate to Innovate 2020 COVID-19 response” award
from the Engineer for their work on the development of a low-cost ventilator. “Ernsting’s Aviation
Space Medicine” (5th Edition), edited by Prof Gradwell won the British Medical Association’s
(BMA) Book of the Year award (Medicine Category) in 2017 and Dr Caroline Jolley was nominated
as a BMA Role Model for Women in Academic Medicine in 2020.




                                                                                          Page 13
